Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations") are affected by both internal and external events, such as changes in claims handling procedures, inflation, judicial trends and legislative changes, among others. The impact of many of these items on ultimate costs for claims and claim adjustment expenses is difficult to estimate. Reserve estimation difficulties also differ significantly by product line due to differences in the underlying insurance contract (e.g., claims made versus occurrence), claim complexity, the volume of claims, the potential severity of individual claims, the determination of the occurrence date for a claim, and reporting lags (the time between the occurrence of the insured event and when it is actually reported to the insurer). Informed judgment is applied throughout the process. The Company derives estimates for unreported claims and development on reported claims principally from actuarial analyses of historical patterns of loss development by accident year for each type of exposure and business unit. Similarly, the Company derives estimates of unpaid loss adjustment expenses principally from actuarial analyses of historical development patterns of the relationship of loss adjustment expenses to losses for each line of business and type of exposure. For a description of the Companys reserving methods for asbestos and environmental claims, see "Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Asbestos Claims and Litigation," and " Environmental Claims and Litigation." Discounting The claims and claim adjustment expense reserves for most long term disability payments under workers compensation insurance and workers compensation excess insurance, which totaled $2.16 billion and $2.25 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, were discounted to the present value of estimated future payments using a rate of 5% at both December 31, 2009 and 2008. Claims and Claim Adjustment Expense Development Table The table that follows sets forth the year end reserves from 1999 through 2009 and the subsequent changes in those reserves, presented on a historical basis. The original estimates, cumulative amounts paid and re estimated reserves in the table for the years 1999 through 2003 have not been restated to reflect the acquisition of The St. Paul Companies, Inc. (SPC) in 2004. The table includes SPC reserves beginning at December 31, 2004. 24 Table of Contents In addition, the original estimates, cumulative amounts paid and re estimated reserves in the table for the years 1999 to 2000 have not been restated to reflect the acquisition of Northland and Commercial Guaranty Casualty. Beginning in 2001, the table includes the reserve activity of Northland and Commercial Guaranty Casualty. The data in the table is presented in accordance with reporting requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Care must be taken to avoid misinterpretation by those unfamiliar with this information or familiar with other data commonly reported by the insurance industry. The data in the table is not accident year data, but rather a display of 1999 to 2009 year end reserves and the subsequent changes in those reserves. For instance, the "cumulative deficiency (redundancy)" shown in the table for each year represents the aggregate amount by which original estimates of reserves as of that year end have changed in subsequent years. Accordingly, the cumulative deficiency for a year relates only to reserves at that year end and those amounts are not additive. Expressed another way, if the original reserves at the end of 1999 included $4 million for a loss that is finally paid in 2005 for $5 million, the $1 million deficiency (the excess of the actual payment of $5 million over the original estimate of $4 million) would be included in the cumulative deficiencies in each of the years 1999 to 2004 shown in the accompanying table. Various factors may distort the re estimated reserves and cumulative deficiency or redundancy shown in the table. For example, a substantial portion of the cumulative deficiencies shown in the table arise from claims on policies written prior to the mid 1980s involving liability exposures such as asbestos and environmental claims. In the post 1984 period, the Company has developed more stringent underwriting standards and policy exclusions and has significantly contracted or terminated the writing of these risks. See "Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Asbestos Claims and Litigation," and " Environmental Claims and Litigation." General conditions and trends that have affected the development of these liabilities in the past will not necessarily recur in the future. Other factors that affect the data in the table include the discounting of certain reserves (as discussed above) and the use of retrospectively rated insurance policies. For example, reserves for long term disability payments under workers compensation insurance and workers compensation excess insurance (tabular reserves) are discounted to reflect the time value of money. Apparent deficiencies will continue to occur as the discount on these workers compensation reserves is accreted at the appropriate interest rates. Also, a portion of National Accounts business is underwritten with retrospectively rated insurance policies in which the ultimate loss experience is primarily borne by the insured. For this business, increases in loss experience result in an increase in reserves and an offsetting increase in amounts recoverable from insureds. Likewise, decreases in loss experience result in a decrease in reserves and an offsetting decrease in amounts recoverable from these insureds. The amounts recoverable on these retrospectively rated policies mitigate the impact of the cumulative deficiencies or redundancies on the Companys earnings but are not reflected in the table. Because of these and other factors, it is difficult to develop a meaningful extrapolation of estimated future redundancies or deficiencies in loss reserves from the data in the table. 25  Table of Contents (at December 31, in millions) 1999 2000 2001(a) 2002(a) 2003(a) 2004(a)(b)(c) 2005(a)(b)(c) 2006(a)(b)(c) 2007(a)(b)(c) 2008(a)(b)(c) 2009(a)(b)(c) Reserves for claims and claim adjustment expense originally estimated $ 19,983 $ 19,435 $ 20,197 $ 23,268 $ 24,055 $ 41,446 $ 42,895 $ 42,844 $ 43,098 $ 41,312 $ 40,941 Cumulative amounts paid as of One year later 4,082 4,374 5,018 5,170 4,651 8,871 8,632 7,417 8,146 7,519 Two years later 6,957 7,517 8,745 8,319 8,686 14,666 13,837 13,181 12,798 Three years later 9,324 10,218 11,149 11,312 11,541 18,733 18,466 16,545 Four years later 11,493 12,000 13,402 13,548 13,708 22,514 21,025 Five years later 12,911 13,603 15,115 15,229 15,574 24,572 Six years later 14,172 14,958 16,473 16,836 16,624 Seven years later 15,301 16,063 17,877 17,738 Eight years later 16,206 17,283 18,662 Nine years later 17,194 17,945 Ten years later 17,799 Reserves re estimated as of One year later 19,736 19,394 23,228 23,658 24,222 41,706 42,466 42,172 41,373 39,863 Two years later 19,600 22,233 24,083 24,592 25,272 42,565 42,311 40,837 39,925 Three years later 22,302 22,778 25,062 25,553 26,042 42,940 41,692 39,739 Four years later 22,612 23,871 25,953 26,288 26,501 43,148 40,855 Five years later 23,591 24,872 26,670 26,731 26,803 42,655 Six years later 24,559 25,521 27,179 27,055 26,619 Seven years later 25,114 26,039 27,556 27,022 Eight years later 25,664 26,364 27,580 Nine years later 25,917 26,380 Ten years later 26,013 Cumulative deficiency (redundancy)(a)(b) 6,030 6,945 7,383 3,754 2,564 1,209 (2,040 ) (3,105 ) (3,173 ) (1,449 ) Gross liability end of year $ 28,854 $ 28,312 $ 30,617 $ 33,628 $ 34,474 $ 58,984 $ 61,007 $ 59,202 $ 57,619 $ 54,646 $ 53,054 Reinsurance recoverables 8,871 8,877 10,420 10,360 10,419 17,538 18,112 16,358 14,521 13,334 12,113 Net liability end of year $ 19,983 $ 19,435 $ 20,197 $ 23,268 $ 24,055 $ 41,446 $ 42,895 $ 42,844 $ 43,098 $ 41,312 $ 40,941 Gross re estimated liability latest $ 36,106 $ 37,297 $ 40,061 $ 38,843 $ 37,592 $ 60,347 $ 58,906 $ 55,478 $ 54,140 $ 52,888 Re estimated reinsurance recoverables latest 10,093 10,917 12,481 11,821 10,973 17,692 18,051 15,739 14,215 13,025 Net re estimated liability latest $ 26,013 $ 26,380 $ 27,580 $ 27,022 $ 26,619 $ 42,655 $ 40,855 $ 39,739 $ 39,925 $ 39,863 Gross cumulative deficiency (redundancy) $ 7,252 $ 8,985 $ 9,444 $ 5,215 $ 3,118 $ 1,363 $ (2,101 ) $ (3,724 ) $ (3,479 ) $ (1,758 ) Included in the cumulative deficiency (redundancy) by year is the following impact of unfavorable prior year reserve development related to asbestos and environmental claims and claim adjustment expenses, in millions: Asbestos 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Gross $ 5,968 $ 5,781 $ 5,503 $ 1,843 $ 1,818 $ 1,285 $ 451 $ 254 $ 255 $ 185 Net $ 4,450 $ 4,400 $ 4,216 $ 1,271 $ 1,247 $ 1,242 $ 411 $ 255 $ 255 $ 185 Environmental 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Gross $ 986 $ 911 $ 856 $ 702 $ 643 $ 477 $ 460 $ 352 $ 170 $ 85 Net $ 934 $ 870 $ 827 $ 677 $ 618 $ 490 $ 460 $ 340 $ 155 $ 70 (a)Includes reserves of the subsidiaries of Jupiter Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries and Commercial Guaranty Lloyds Insurance Company, which were acquired from Citigroup on October 1, 2001. Also includes reserves of Commercial Guaranty Casualty Insurance Company, which was contributed to TPC by Citigroup on October 3, 2001. At December 31, 2001, these gross reserves were $867 million, and net reserves were $633 million. (b)For years prior to 2004, excludes SPC reserves, which were acquired on April 1, 2004. Accordingly, the reserve development (net reserves for claims and claim adjustment expense re estimated as of subsequent years less net reserves recorded at the end of the year, as originally estimated) for years prior to 2004 relates only to losses recorded by TPC and does not include reserve development recorded by SPC. For 2004 and subsequent years, includes SPC reserves and subsequent development recorded by SPC. At December 31, 2004, SPC gross reserves were $23,274 million, and net reserves were $15,959 million. (c)In December 2008, the Company completed the sale of Unionamerica Holdings Limited (Unionamerica), which comprised its United Kingdom (U.K.) based runoff insurance and reinsurance businesses. (Unionamerica was acquired in 2004 as part of the merger of SPC and TPC.) Immediately before the sale, the claims and claim adjustment expense reserves of Unionamerica totaled $790 million. As a result of the sale, those obligations ceased being the responsibility of the Company and its affiliates. The sale is reflected in the table as a reduction in December 31, 2008 net reserves of $790 million and as a $790 million increase in paid losses for each of the years 2004 through 2007 to reflect the transfer (payment) of the reserves to the buyer, resulting in no impact to incurred losses. 26 Table of Contents Reserves on Statutory Accounting Basis At December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, claims and claim adjustment expense reserves (net of reinsurance) shown in the preceding table, which are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP reserves), were $18 million higher, $5 million higher and $30 million higher, respectively, than those reported in the Companys respective annual reports filed with insurance regulators, which are prepared in accordance with statutory accounting practices (statutory reserves). The differences between GAAP and statutory reserves are primarily due to the differences in GAAP and statutory accounting for two items, (1) fees associated with billing of required reimbursements under large deductible business, and (2) the accounting for retroactive reinsurance. For large deductible business, the Company pays the deductible portion of a casualty insurance claim and then seeks reimbursement from the insured, plus a fee. This fee is reported as fee income for GAAP reporting, but as an offset to claim expenses paid for statutory reporting. Retroactive reinsurance balances result from reinsurance placed to cover losses on insured events occurring prior to the inception of a reinsurance contract. For GAAP reporting, retroactive reinsurance balances are included in reinsurance recoverables and result in lower net reserve amounts. Statutory accounting practices require retroactive reinsurance balances to be recorded in other liabilities as contra liabilities rather than in loss reserves. Asbestos and Environmental Claims Asbestos and environmental claims are segregated from other claims and are handled separately by the Companys Special Liability Group, a separate unit staffed by dedicated legal, claim, finance and engineering professionals. For additional information on asbestos and environmental claims, see "Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Asbestos Claims and Litigation" and " Environmental Claims and Litigation." INTERCOMPANY REINSURANCE POOLING ARRANGEMENTS Most of the Companys insurance subsidiaries are members of an intercompany property and casualty reinsurance pooling arrangement. Pooling arrangements permit the participating companies to rely on the capacity of the entire pools capital and surplus rather than just on its own capital and surplus. Under such arrangements, the members share substantially all insurance business that is written and allocate the combined premiums, losses and expenses. Effective January 1, 2009, Seaboard Surety Company was merged into Travelers C&S Company of America. Prior to that merger, Seaboard Surety Company was 90% reinsured by The Travelers Indemnity Company, a member of the Travelers Reinsurance Pool. RATINGS Ratings are an important factor in setting the Companys competitive position in the insurance industry. The Company receives ratings from the following major rating agencies: A.M. Best Company (A.M. Best), Fitch Ratings (Fitch), Moodys Investors Service (Moodys) and Standard & Poors Corp. (S&P). Rating agencies typically issue two types of ratings: claims paying (or financial strength) ratings which assess an insurers ability to meet its financial obligations to policyholders and debt ratings which assess a companys prospects for repaying its debts and assist lenders in setting interest rates and terms for a companys short and long term borrowing needs. Agency ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold any security, and they may be revised or withdrawn at any time by the rating agency. Each agencys rating should be evaluated independently of any other agencys rating. The system and the number of rating categories can vary widely from rating agency to rating agency. Customers usually focus on claims paying ratings, while creditors focus on debt ratings. Investors use both to evaluate a companys overall financial strength. The ratings issued on the Company or its subsidiaries by any of 27 Table of Contents these agencies are announced publicly and are available on the Companys website and from the agencies. The Companys insurance operations could be negatively impacted by a downgrade in one or more of the Companys claims paying or debt ratings. If this were to occur, the Company could experience a reduced demand for certain products in certain markets. Additionally, the Companys ability to access the capital markets could be impacted by a downgrade in one or more of the Companys debt ratings. If this were to occur, the Company could incur higher borrowing costs. Claims Paying Ratings The following table summarizes the current claims paying (or financial strength) ratings of the Travelers Reinsurance Pool, Travelers C&S Co. of America, Travelers Personal single state companies, Travelers C&S Co. of Europe, Ltd., Travelers Guarantee Company of Canada and Travelers Insurance Company Limited as of February 18, 2010. The table also presents S&Ps Lloyds Syndicate Assessment rating for Travelers Syndicate Management Syndicate 5000. The table presents the position of each rating in the applicable agencys rating scale. A.M. Best Moodys S&P Fitch Travelers Reinsurance Pool(a)(b) A+ (2nd of 16 ) Aa2 (3rd of 21 ) AA (4th of 21 ) AA (3rd of 21 ) Travelers C&S Co. of America A+ (2nd of 16 ) Aa2 (3rd of 21 ) AA (4th of 21 ) AA (3rd of 21 ) First Floridian Auto and Home Ins. Co. A (4th of 16 ) AA (3rd of 21 ) First Trenton Indemnity Company A (3rd of 16 ) AA (3rd of 21 ) The Premier Insurance Company of Massachusetts A (3rd of 16 ) Travelers C&S Co. of Europe, Ltd. A+ (2nd of 16 ) Aa2 (3rd of 21 ) AA (4th of 21 ) Travelers Guarantee Company of Canada A+ (2nd of 16 ) Travelers Insurance Company Limited A (3rd of 16 ) Travelers Syndicate Management Limited Syndicate 5000 3 (9th of 15 ) (a)The Travelers Reinsurance Pool consists of: The Travelers Indemnity Company, The Charter Oak Fire Insurance Company, The Phoenix Insurance Company, The Travelers Indemnity Company of Connecticut, The Travelers Indemnity Company of America, Travelers Property Casualty Company of America, Travelers Commercial Casualty Company, TravCo Insurance Company, The Travelers Home and Marine Insurance Company, Travelers Casualty and Surety Company, Northland Insurance Company, Northfield Insurance Company, Northland Casualty Company, American Equity Specialty Insurance Company, The Standard Fire Insurance Company, The Automobile Insurance Company of Hartford, Connecticut, Travelers Casualty Insurance Company of America, Farmington Casualty Company, Travelers Commercial Insurance Company, Travelers Casualty Company of Connecticut, Travelers Property Casualty Insurance Company, Travelers Personal Security Insurance Company, Travelers Personal Insurance Company, Travelers Excess and Surplus Lines Company, St. Paul Fire and Marine Insurance Company, St. Paul Surplus Lines Insurance Company, Athena Assurance Company, St. Paul Protective Insurance Company, St. Paul Medical Liability Insurance Company, St. Paul Guardian Insurance Company, St. Paul Mercury Insurance Company, Fidelity and Guaranty Insurance Underwriters, Inc., Discover Property & Casualty Insurance Company, Discover Specialty Insurance Company and United States Fidelity and Guaranty Company. (b)The following affiliated companies are 100% reinsured by one of the pool participants noted in (a) above: Fidelity and Guaranty Insurance Company, Gulf Underwriters Insurance Company, American Equity Insurance Company, Select Insurance Company, St. Paul Fire and Casualty Insurance Company, The Travelers Lloyds Insurance Company and Travelers Lloyds of Texas Insurance Company. 28 Table of Contents Debt Ratings The following table summarizes the current debt, preferred stock and commercial paper ratings of the Company and its subsidiaries as of February 18, 2010. The table also presents the position of each rating in the applicable agencys rating scale. A.M. Best Moodys S&P Fitch Senior debt a (7th of 22 ) A2 (6th of 21 ) A (7th of 22 ) A (6th of 19 ) Subordinated debt bbb+ (8th of 22 ) A3 (7th of 21 ) BBB+ (8th of 22 ) A (7th of 19 ) Junior subordinated debt bbb (9th of 22 ) A3 (7th of 21 ) BBB (9th of 22 ) BBB+ (8th of 19 ) Trust preferred securities bbb (9th of 22 ) A3 (7th of 21 ) BBB (9th of 22 ) BBB+ (8th of 19 ) Preferred stock bbb (9th of 22 ) Baa1 (8th of 21 ) BBB (9th of 22 ) Commercial paper AMB 1 (2nd of 6 ) P 1 (1st of 3 ) A 2 (3rd of 10 ) F 1 (2nd of 7 ) Rating Agency Actions The following rating agency actions were taken with respect to the Company in 2009 and through February 18, 2010: On February 13, 2009, Fitch affirmed all ratings for the Company. The outlook remained stable. On May 15, 2009, A.M. Best affirmed the financial strength ratings of the Travelers Reinsurance Pool, Travelers C&S Co. of America and Travelers C&S Co. of Europe, Ltd. The outlook for the financial strength ratings is stable. Additionally, for The Travelers Companies, Inc., A.M. Best revised the outlook for the debt ratings to positive from stable and affirmed the debt ratings. A.M. Best also upgraded the financial strength ratings of Travelers Guarantee Company of Canada from "A" to "A+." The outlook for that rating is stable. In addition, A.M. Best affirmed the financial strength ratings of The Premier Insurance Company of Massachusetts, First Trenton Indemnity Company and First Floridian Auto and Home Ins. Co. The outlook for these ratings is stable. On August 11, 2009, Standard & Poors revised its outlook to positive from stable for The Travelers Companies, Inc. and its operating insurance companies and affirmed the claims paying and debt ratings of the Company with a one year time horizon for consideration of an upgrade. On October 28, 2009, A.M. Best affirmed the financial strength rating of "A" and the issuer credit rating of "A+" for Travelers Insurance Company Limited. The outlook for both ratings is stable. On November 12, 2009, Standard & Poors affirmed the insurer financial strength rating of "3 " for Travelers Syndicate Management Limited Syndicate 5000. The outlook is stable. On December 29, 2009, Fitch revised its guidelines for rating preferred stock and hybrid securities issued by companies in all industry sectors, including insurers. On January 29, 2010, upon implementing its revised guidelines, Fitch took action to downgrade the ratings of over 200 such securities in the insurance sector, including the Companys junior subordinated debt and trust preferred securities. The ratings of the Companys securities were downgraded to "BBB+" from "A ." Recently, Moodys also issued revised guidelines for rating insurance hybrid securities and subordinated debt. Application of these guidelines by Moodys, which is expected to occur in 2010, could result in reduced equity credit and or ratings downgrades of the Companys hybrid securities and subordinated debt. 29 Table of Contents INVESTMENT OPERATIONS The majority of funds available for investment are deployed in a widely diversified portfolio of high quality, liquid taxable U.S. government bonds, tax exempt U.S. municipal bonds, and taxable corporate bonds and mortgage backed securities. The Company closely monitors the duration of its fixed maturity investments, and investment purchases and sales are executed with the objective of having adequate funds available to satisfy the Companys insurance and debt obligations. The Companys management of the duration of the fixed income investment portfolio generally produces a duration that modestly exceeds the estimated duration of the Companys net insurance liabilities. The primary goals of the Companys asset liability management process are to satisfy the insurance liabilities, manage the interest rate risk embedded in those insurance liabilities and maintain sufficient liquidity to cover fluctuations in projected liability cash flows. Generally, the expected principal and interest payments produced by the Companys fixed income portfolio adequately fund the estimated runoff of the Companys insurance reserves. Although this is not an exact cash flow match in each period, the substantial degree by which the market value of the fixed income portfolio exceeds the present value of the net insurance liabilities, plus the positive cash flow from newly sold policies and the large amount of high quality liquid bonds provides assurance of the Companys ability to fund the payment of claims without having to sell illiquid assets or access credit facilities. The Company also invests much smaller amounts in equity securities, real estate, private equity limited partnerships, real estate partnerships, hedge funds, mortgage loans and trading securities. These investment classes have the potential for higher returns but also involve varying degrees of risk, including less stable rates of return and less liquidity. See note 3 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the Companys investment portfolio. REGULATION U.S. State and Federal Regulation TRVs insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation in the various states and jurisdictions in which they transact business. The extent of regulation varies, but generally derives from statutes that delegate regulatory, supervisory and administrative authority to a department of insurance in each state. The regulation, supervision and administration relate, among other things, to standards of solvency that must be met and maintained, the licensing of insurers and their agents, the nature of and limitations on investments, premium rates, restrictions on the size of risks that may be insured under a single policy, reserves and provisions for unearned premiums, losses and other obligations, deposits of securities for the benefit of policyholders, approval of policy forms and the regulation of market conduct, including the use of credit information in underwriting as well as other underwriting and claims practices. In addition, many states have enacted variations of competitive ratemaking laws, which allow insurers to set certain premium rates for certain classes of insurance without having to obtain the prior approval of the state insurance department. State insurance departments also conduct periodic examinations of the financial condition and market conduct of insurance companies and require the filing of financial and other reports on a quarterly and annual basis. TRVs insurance subsidiaries are collectively licensed to transact insurance business in all U.S. states, the District of Columbia, Guam, Puerto Rico, Bermuda and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Insurance Regulation Concerning Dividends. TRVs principal insurance subsidiaries are domiciled in the states of Connecticut and Minnesota. The insurance holding company laws of both states applicable to TRVs subsidiaries require notice to, and approval by, the state insurance commissioner for the declaration or payment of any dividend, that together with other distributions made within the preceding twelve months, exceeds the greater of 10% of the insurers capital and surplus as of the 30 Table of Contents preceding December 31, or the insurers net income for the twelve month period ending the preceding December 31, in each case determined in accordance with statutory accounting practices and by state regulation. This declaration or payment is further limited by adjusted unassigned surplus, as determined in accordance with statutory accounting practices. The insurance holding company laws of other states in which TRVs insurance subsidiaries are domiciled generally contain similar, although in some instances somewhat more restrictive, limitations on the payment of dividends. Rate and Rule Approvals. TRVs insurance subsidiaries are subject to each states laws and regulations regarding rate and rule approvals. The applicable laws and regulations are used by states to establish standards to ensure that rates are not excessive, inadequate, unfairly discriminatory or used to engage in unfair price competition. An insurers ability to increase rates and the relative timing of the process are dependent upon each respective states requirements. Requirements for Exiting Geographic Markets and or Canceling or Nonrenewing Policies. Several states have laws and regulations which may impact the timing and or the ability of an insurer to either discontinue or substantially reduce its writings in that state. These laws and regulations typically require prior notice, and in some instances insurance department approval, prior to discontinuing a line of business or withdrawing from that state, and they allow insurers to cancel or non renew certain policies only for certain specified reasons. Assessments for Guaranty Funds and Second Injury Funds and Other Mandatory Pooling and Reinsurance Arrangements. Virtually all states require insurers licensed to do business in their state, including TRVs insurance subsidiaries, to bear a portion of the loss suffered by some claimants because of the insolvency of other insurers. Many states also have laws that established second injury funds to provide compensation to injured employees for aggravation of a prior condition or injury. TRVs insurance subsidiaries are also required to participate in various involuntary assigned risk pools, principally involving workers compensation, automobile insurance, property windpools in states prone to property damage from hurricanes, and FAIR plans, which provide various insurance coverages to individuals or other entities that otherwise are unable to purchase that coverage in the voluntary market. Assessments may include any charge mandated by statute or regulatory authority that is related directly or indirectly to underwriting activities. Examples of such mechanisms include, but are not limited to, the Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund, Florida Citizens Property Insurance Corporation, Louisiana Citizens Property Insurance Corporation, and the Texas Windstorm Insurance Association. Amounts payable or paid as a result of arrangements that are in substance reinsurance, including certain involuntary pools where insurers are required to assume premiums and losses from those pools, are accounted for as reinsurance (e.g., National Workers Compensation Reinsurance Pool, North Carolina Beach Plan). Amounts related to assessments from arrangements that are not reinsurance are reported as a component of "General and Administrative Expenses." For additional information concerning assessments for guaranty funds and second injury funds and other mandatory pooling and reinsurance agreements including state funding mechanisms, see Item 1A "Risk Factors." Insurance Regulatory Information System. The National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) developed the Insurance Regulatory Information System (IRIS) to help state regulators identify companies that may require special attention. Financial examiners review annual statements and key financial ratios based on year end data. These ratios assist state insurance departments in executing their statutory mandate to oversee the financial condition of insurance companies. Each ratio has an established "usual range" of results. A ratio result falling outside the usual range of IRIS ratios, however, is not considered a failing result; rather, unusual values are viewed as part of the regulatory early monitoring system. Furthermore, in some years, it may not be unusual for financially sound 31 Table of Contents companies to have several ratios with results outside the usual ranges. Generally, an insurance company will become subject to regulatory scrutiny if it falls outside the usual ranges of four or more of the ratios. Based on preliminary 2009 IRIS ratios calculated by the Company, Travelers Casualty and Surety Company had results outside the normal range for one IRIS ratio due to the amount of dividends received from its subsidiaries. Discover Property & Casualty Company and Fidelity and Guaranty Insurance Company each had results outside the normal range for one IRIS ratio due to greater than typical intercompany receivables and payables at December 31, 2009, which are not offset due to statutory accounting guidance. First Trenton Indemnity Company had results outside the normal range for one IRIS ratio, due to unfavorable loss development for recent accident years in the private passenger auto liability line of business in 2009 and the auto line of business in 2008. In 2008, The Travelers Indemnity Company and The Standard Fire Insurance Company had results outside the normal range on one IRIS ratio, due to the amount of dividends received from their respective subsidiaries. Travelers Casualty and Surety Company of America had results outside the normal range for one IRIS ratio due to reduced dividends paid to its parent company in 2008. First Trenton Indemnity Company had results outside the normal range for two IRIS ratios due to increased dividends paid to its parent company in 2008. Travelers Auto Insurance Co. of New Jersey had results outside the normal range for one IRIS ratio due to the receipt of a capital contribution from its parent company. Several additional companies had results outside the normal range for one IRIS ratio in both 2009 and 2008 due to increased direct written premiums in these companies. Management does not anticipate regulatory action as a result of the 2009 IRIS ratio results. In all instances in prior years, regulators have been satisfied upon follow up that no regulatory action was required. Risk Based Capital (RBC) Requirements. The NAIC has an RBC requirement for most property and casualty insurance companies. The RBC requirement determines minimum capital requirements and is intended to raise the level of protection for policyholder obligations. Under laws adopted by individual states, insurers having total adjusted capital less than that required by the RBC calculation will be subject to varying degrees of regulatory action, depending on the level of capital inadequacy. The formulas have not been designed to differentiate among adequately capitalized companies that operate with higher levels of capital. Therefore, it is inappropriate and ineffective to use the formulas to rate or to rank these companies. At December 31, 2009, all of TRVs insurance subsidiaries had total adjusted capital in excess of the RBC requirement. Investment Regulation. Insurance company investments must comply with applicable laws and regulations which prescribe the kind, quality and concentration of investments. In general, these laws and regulations permit investments in federal, state and municipal obligations, corporate bonds, preferred and common equity securities, mortgage loans, real estate and certain other investments, subject to specified limits and certain other qualifications. At December 31, 2009, the Company was in compliance with these laws and regulations. Agent and Broker Compensation. As part of industry wide investigations that commenced in 2004, the Company received subpoenas and written requests for information from a number of regulators. The areas of inquiry addressed to the Company included the method by which brokers and agents were compensated. The Company cooperated with these subpoenas and requests for information. The Company also entered into agreements with several of these regulators to resolve issues related to broker and agent compensation. As a result of these agreements, the Company has discontinued paying contingent commissions in the United States on a number of insurance businesses, including excess casualty and umbrella, personal insurance, boiler and machinery, financial guaranty, fidelity and burglary & theft. The Company has developed alternative compensation arrangements for these lines of 32 Table of Contents business that compensate brokers and agents in a manner that differentiates for business performance and is consistent with all applicable laws. Beginning January 1, 2007, the Company has offered an optional fixed commission program in the U.S. for most commercial insurance lines. International Regulation TRVs insurance underwriting subsidiaries based in the United Kingdom, Travelers Insurance Company Limited and Travelers Casualty and Surety Company of Europe Limited, are regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA). The FSAs principal objectives are to maintain market confidence, promote public understanding of the financial system, protect consumers, and fight financial crime. TRVs managing agent (Travelers Syndicate Management Ltd.) of its Lloyds syndicate is also regulated by the FSA, which has delegated certain regulatory responsibilities to the Council of Lloyds. Through Lloyds, TRV is licensed to write business in over 70 countries throughout the world by virtue of Lloyds international licenses. In each such country, TRV is subject to the laws and insurance regulation of that country. In 2007, a TRV subsidiary, Travelers Casualty and Surety Company, established a representative office in China. The representative office is regulated by the China Insurance Regulatory Commission. In addition, in 2007, TRVs Lloyds managing agency established a service company in Singapore, the underwriting operations of which are regulated by the Monetary Authority of Singapore. TRVs insurance operations in the Republic of Ireland are regulated by the Irish Financial Services Regulatory Authority. In Canada, the conduct of TRVs insurance business is regulated by the Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions under provisions of the Insurance Companies Act, which requires insurance companies to maintain certain levels of capital depending on the type and amount of insurance policies in force. TRVs branch in runoff in Australia is regulated by the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority. Insurance Holding Company Statutes As a holding company, TRV is not regulated as an insurance company. However, since TRV owns capital stock in insurance subsidiaries, it is subject to state insurance holding company statutes, as well as certain other laws, of each of its insurance subsidiaries states of domicile. All holding company statutes, as well as other laws, require disclosure and, in some instances, prior approval of material transactions between an insurance company and an affiliate. The holding company statutes and other laws also require, among other things, prior approval of an acquisition of control of a domestic insurer, some transactions between affiliates and the payment of extraordinary dividends or distributions. Insurance Regulations Concerning Change of Control. Many state insurance regulatory laws contain provisions that require advance approval by state agencies of any change in control of an insurance company that is domiciled, or, in some cases, having substantial business that it is deemed to be commercially domiciled, in that state. The laws of many states also contain provisions requiring pre notification to state agencies prior to any change in control of a non domestic insurance company admitted to transact business in that state. While these pre notification statutes do not authorize the state agency to disapprove the change of control, they do authorize issuance of cease and desist orders with respect to the non domestic insurer if it is determined that some conditions, such as undue market concentration, would result from the acquisition. Any transactions that would constitute a change in control of any of TRVs insurance subsidiaries would generally require prior approval by the insurance departments of the states in which the insurance subsidiaries are domiciled or commercially domiciled. They may also require pre acquisition 33 Table of Contents notification in those states that have adopted pre acquisition notification provisions and in which such insurance subsidiaries are admitted to transact business. Two of TRVs insurance subsidiaries and its operations at Lloyds are domiciled in the United Kingdom. Insurers in the United Kingdom are subject to change of control restrictions in the Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 including approval of the Financial Services Authority. Some of TRVs other insurance subsidiaries are domiciled in, or authorized to conduct insurance business in, Canada. Authorized insurers in Canada are subject to change of control restrictions in Section 407 of the Insurance Companies Act, including approval of the Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions. These requirements may deter, delay or prevent transactions affecting the control of or the ownership of common stock, including transactions that could be advantageous to TRVs shareholders. ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT As a large property and casualty insurance enterprise, the Company is exposed to many risks. These risks are a function of the environments within which the Company operates. Since certain risks can be correlated with other risks, an event or a series of events can impact multiple areas of the Company simultaneously and have a material effect on the Companys results of operations, financial position or liquidity. These exposures require an entity wide view of risk and an understanding of the potential impact on all aspects of the Company. It also requires the Company to manage its risk taking to be within its risk appetite in a prudent and balanced effort to create and preserve value for all of the Companys stakeholders. This approach to Company wide risk evaluation and management is commonly called Enterprise Risk Management (ERM). ERM activities involve both the identification and assessment of a broad range of risks and the execution of synchronized strategies to effectively manage such risks. ERM at the Company is an integral part of business operations. All risk owners across all functions, all corporate leaders and the Board of Directors are engaged in ERM. ERM involves risk based analytics, as well as reporting and feedback throughout the enterprise in support of the Companys long term financial strategies and objectives. The Company uses various analyses and methods, including sophisticated computer modeling techniques, to analyze catastrophic events and the risks associated with them. These analyses and methods are used in making underwriting and reinsurance decisions and are designed to aid in the management of the Companys exposure to catastrophic events. In addition to catastrophe modeling and analysis, the Company also models and analyzes its exposure to other extreme events. Terrorism provides a unique type of exposure, as discussed further in "Item 1A Risk Factors." These activities are an integral component of the Companys ERM process and further support the Companys long term financial strategy and objectives. In addition to the day to day ERM activities within the Companys business units, other key internal risk management functions include the Management Committee (comprised of the Companys Chief Executive Officer and the other most senior members of management), the Risk Committee of management, the Credit Committee, the Chief Compliance Officer, the Business Conduct Officer, the Corporate Actuarial group, the Corporate Audit group, the Accounting Policy group, the Enterprise Underwriting group and many others. A senior executive oversees the ERM process at a corporate level. The mission of this executive is to facilitate risk assessment and to collaborate in implementing effective risk management strategies throughout the Company. Another strategic ERM objective of this executive includes working across the Company to enhance effective and realistic risk modeling capabilities as part of the Companys overall effort to understand and manage its portfolio of risks to be within its risk appetite. Board oversight of ERM is provided by the Risk Committee, which reviews the strategies, processes and controls pertaining to the Companys insurance operations and oversees the implementation, execution and performance of the Companys enterprise risk management program. 34  Table of Contents The Companys ERM efforts build upon the foundation of an effective internal control environment. ERM expands the internal control objectives of effective and efficient operations, reliable financial reporting and compliance with applicable laws and regulations, to fostering, leading and supporting an integrated, risk based culture within the Company that focuses on value creation and preservation. However, the Company can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that these objectives will be met. Further, the design of any risk management or control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits must be considered relative to their costs. As a result, the possibility of material financial loss remains in spite of the Companys significant ERM efforts. An investor should carefully consider the risks and all of the other information set forth in this annual report, including the discussions included in "Item 1A Risk Factors," "Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk," and "
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Also see "Item 3 Legal Proceedings." We are exposed to, and may face adverse developments involving, mass tort claims such as those relating to exposure to potentially harmful products or substances. In addition to asbestos and environmental claims, we face exposure to other types of mass tort claims, including claims related to exposure to potentially harmful products or substances, including lead paint, silica and welding rod fumes. Establishing claims and claim adjustment expense reserves for mass tort claims is subject to uncertainties because of many factors, including expanded theories of liability, disputes concerning medical causation with respect to certain diseases, geographical concentration of the lawsuits asserting the claims and the potential for a large rise in the total number of claims without underlying epidemiological developments suggesting an increase in disease rates. Moreover, evolving judicial interpretations regarding the application of various tort theories and defenses, including application of various theories of joint and several liabilities, as well as the application of insurance coverage to these claims, impede our ability to estimate our ultimate liability for such claims. 54 Table of Contents Because of the uncertainties set forth above, additional liabilities may arise for amounts in excess of the current related reserves. In addition, our estimate of claims and claim adjustment expenses may change, and such change could be material. These additional liabilities or increases in estimates, or a range of either, cannot now be reasonably estimated and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claim and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. Examples of emerging claims and coverage issues include, but are not limited to: judicial expansion of policy coverage and the impact of new theories of liability; plaintiffs targeting property and casualty insurers, including us, in purported class action litigation relating to claims handling and other practices; claims relating to construction defects, which often present complex coverage and damage valuation questions; claims under directors & officers insurance policies relating to: losses from involvement in financial market activities, such as mortgage or financial product origination, distribution or structuring; fraud, including those related to investment management businesses; possible accounting irregularities; and corporate governance issues; the assertion of "public nuisance" or similar theories of liability, pursuant to which plaintiffs seek to recover monies spent to administer public health care programs; abate hazards to public health and safety and or recover damages purportedly attributable to a "public nuisance"; medical developments that link health issues to particular causes, resulting in liability claims; and claims relating to potentially changing climate conditions. In some instances, these emerging issues may not become apparent for some time after we have issued the affected insurance policies. As a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance policies may not be known for many years after the policies are issued. In addition, the potential passage of new legislation designed to expand the right to sue, to remove limitations on recovery, to extend the statutes of limitations or otherwise to repeal or weaken tort reforms could have an adverse impact on our business. In particular, recent shifts in the political landscape could increase the likelihood of the passing of such legislation in a number of states. The effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely hard to predict and could harm our business and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. The intense competition that we face could harm our ability to maintain or increase our business volumes and our profitability. The property and casualty insurance industry is highly competitive, and we believe that it will remain highly competitive for the foreseeable future. We compete with both domestic and foreign insurers, a number of which have experienced financial difficulties in recent periods. Competitors that are experiencing financial difficulties may offer products at prices and on terms that are not consistent with our economic standards in an effort to maintain or increase their business. The property and casualty insurance industry has historically been cyclical, with periods characterized by intense price competition and less restrictive underwriting standards followed by periods of higher premium rates and more selective underwriting standards. The competitive environment in which we operate could also be impacted by current general economic conditions, which could reduce the volume of business available to us, as well as to our competitors. In addition, the competitive environment could be impacted by changes in customer preferences, including customer 55 Table of Contents demand for direct distribution channels. See "Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Outlook." In recent years, many independent personal insurance agents have begun to utilize price comparison rating technology, sometimes referred to as "comparative raters," as a cost efficient means of obtaining quotes from multiple companies. Comparative raters also tend to put additional focus on price over other competitive criteria. Additionally, there is potential for similar technology to be used to access comparative rates for small commercial business. Our competitive position is based on many factors, including but not limited to our: ability to retain existing customers, to obtain new business and to profitably price our business; agent, broker and client relationships; speed of claims payment; premiums charged, contract terms and conditions, products and services offered (including the ability to design customized programs); ability to provide our products and services in a cost effective manner; perceived overall financial strength and corresponding ratings assigned by independent rating agencies; reputation, experience and qualifications of employees; geographic scope of business; local presence; and ability to keep pace relative to our competitors with changes in technology and information systems. We may have difficulty in continuing to compete successfully on any of these bases in the future. If competition limits our ability to retain existing business or write new business at adequate rates, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. See "Competition" sections of the discussion on business segments in "Item 1 Business." We may not be able to collect all amounts due to us from reinsurers, and reinsurance coverage may not be available to us in the future at commercially reasonable rates or at all. Although the reinsurer is liable to us to the extent of the ceded reinsurance, we remain liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. As a result, ceded reinsurance arrangements do not eliminate our obligation to pay claims. Accordingly, we are subject to credit risk with respect to our ability to recover amounts due from reinsurers. In the past, certain reinsurers have ceased writing business and entered into runoff. Some of our reinsurance claims may be disputed by the reinsurers, and we may ultimately receive partial or no payment. This is a particular risk in the case of claims that relate to insurance policies written many years ago, including those relating to asbestos and environmental claims. In addition, in a number of jurisdictions, particularly the European Union and the United Kingdom, a reinsurer is permitted to transfer a reinsurance arrangement to another reinsurer, which may be less creditworthy, without a counterpartys consent, provided that the transfer has been approved by the applicable regulatory and or court authority. The ability of reinsurers to transfer their risks to other, less creditworthy reinsurers may adversely impact our ability to collect amounts due to us. Included in reinsurance recoverables are certain amounts related to structured settlements. Structured settlements comprise annuities purchased from various life insurance companies to settle certain personal physical injury claims, of which workers compensation claims comprise a significant portion. In cases where we did not receive a release from the claimant, the structured settlement is included in reinsurance recoverables as we retain the contingent liability to the claimant. In the event that the life insurance company fails to make the required annuity payments, we would be required to make such payments. 56  Table of Contents Many reinsurance companies and life insurance companies have been negatively impacted by financial markets disruption and the economic downturn in 2008 and 2009. A number of these companies, including certain of those with which we conduct business, were downgraded by various rating agencies during this time period. The availability and cost of reinsurance are subject to prevailing market conditions, both in terms of price and available capacity. The availability of reinsurance capacity can be impacted by general economic conditions and conditions in the reinsurance market, such as the occurrence of significant reinsured events. The availability and cost of reinsurance could affect our business volume and profitability. Because of the risks set forth above, we may not be able to collect all amounts due to us from reinsurers, and reinsurance coverage may not be available to us in the future at commercially reasonable rates or at all, and or life insurance companies may fail to make required annuity payments, and thus our results of operations and financial position could be materially and adversely affected. We are exposed to credit risk in certain of our business operations. In addition to exposure to credit risk related to our investment portfolio and reinsurance recoverables (discussed above), we are exposed to credit risk in several other areas of our business operations, including credit risk relating to policyholders, independent agents and brokers. We are exposed to credit risk in our surety insurance operations, where we guarantee to a third party that our customer will satisfy certain performance obligations (e.g., a construction contract) or certain financial obligations. If our customer defaults, we may suffer losses and be unable to be reimbursed by our customer. In addition, it is customary practice in the surety business for multiple insurers to participate as co sureties on large surety bonds. Under these arrangements, the co surety obligations are typically joint and several, in which case we are also exposed to credit risk with respect to our co sureties. In addition, a portion of our business is written with large deductible insurance policies. Under workers compensation insurance contracts with deductible features, we are obligated to pay the claimant the full amount of the claim. We are subsequently reimbursed by the contractholder for the deductible amount and, as a result, we are exposed to credit risk to the policyholder. Moreover, certain policyholders purchase retrospectively rated workers compensation policies (i.e., policies in which premiums are adjusted after the policy period based on the actual loss experience of the policyholder during the policy period). Retrospectively rated policies expose us to additional credit risk to the extent that the adjusted premium is greater than the original premium. Our efforts to mitigate the credit risk that we have to our insureds may not be successful. To mitigate such credit risk, we require certain insureds to post collateral, which often is in the form of pledged securities, such as money market funds, or letters of credit provided by banks. In cases where we receive pledged securities and the insureds are unable to honor their obligations, we may be exposed to credit risk on the securities pledged and or the risk that our access to that collateral may be stayed during an insureds bankruptcy. In cases where we receive letters of credit from banks and the insureds are unable to honor their obligations, we are exposed to the credit risk of the banks that issued the letters of credit. In accordance with industry practice, when policyholders purchase insurance policies from us through independent agents and brokers, the premiums relating to those policies are often paid to the agents and brokers for payment to us. In most jurisdictions, the premiums will be deemed to have been paid to us whether or not they are actually received by us. Consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with amounts due from independent agents and brokers. To a large degree, the credit risk we face is a function of the economy; accordingly, we face a greater risk in an economic downturn. While we attempt to manage the risks discussed above through 57 Table of Contents underwriting and investment guidelines, collateral requirements and other oversight mechanisms, our efforts may not be successful. For example, collateral obtained may subsequently have little or no value. As a result, our exposure to the above credit risks could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. Our businesses are heavily regulated and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. We are extensively regulated and supervised in the jurisdictions in which we conduct business, including licensing and supervision by governmental regulatory agencies in such jurisdictions. This regulatory system is generally designed to protect the interests of policyholders, and not necessarily the interests of insurers, their shareholders and other investors. For example, to protect policyholders whose insurance company becomes financially insolvent, guaranty funds have been established in all fifty states to pay the covered claims of policyholders in the event of an insolvency of an insurer. The funding of guaranty funds is provided through assessments levied against remaining insurers in the marketplace. As a result, the insolvency of one or more insurance companies could result in additional assessments levied against us. This regulatory system also addresses authorization for lines of business, capital and surplus requirements, limitations on the types and amounts of certain investments, underwriting limitations, transactions with affiliates, dividend limitations, changes in control, premium rates and a variety of other financial and non financial components of an insurers business. In recent years, the state insurance regulatory framework has come under increased scrutiny, and some state legislatures have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state authority to regulate insurance companies and insurance holding companies. Further, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) and state insurance regulators continually reexamine existing laws and regulations, specifically focusing on modifications to holding company regulations, interpretations of existing laws and the development of new laws and regulations. In a time of financial uncertainty or a prolonged economic downturn, regulators may choose to adopt more restrictive insurance laws and regulations. For example, insurance regulators may choose to restrict the ability of insurance subsidiaries to make payments to their parent companies or reject rate increases due to the economic environment. Although the U. S. federal government does not currently directly regulate the insurance business, there have been proposals from time to time, and especially after the financial crisis in 2008 and 2009, to impose federal regulation on the insurance industry, to establish a federal office of insurance or to allow an optional federal charter for insurance companies, similar to the option available to most banks. Some legislative proposals currently being considered could, if enacted, give one or more federal regulators supervisory authority over a number of financial services companies, including insurance companies, viewed as systemically important. This authority could include the ability to impose prudential regulation and or market conduct regulation. Such proposals or other additional federal regulation, if adopted and applicable to us, could impose significant burdens on us, including impacting the ways in which we conduct our business, increasing compliance costs and duplicating state regulation. Even if we are not subject to regulation by the federal government, significant financial sector regulatory reform could have a significant impact on us. For example, regulatory reform could have an unexpected impact on our rights as a creditor or on our competitive position. Further, a number of legislative proposals may impose assessments on property and casualty insurance companies and related entities to pay for the resolution of other financial institutions (such as banks) that have become insolvent. Such costs could be material to us and difficult for us to estimate. Other potential changes in federal legislation, regulation and or administrative policies, including the potential repeal of the McCarran Ferguson Act and potential changes in federal taxation, could also significantly harm the insurance industry, including us. 58 Table of Contents State or federal insurance laws or regulations that are adopted or amended may be more restrictive than current laws or regulations and may result in lower revenues and or higher costs of compliance and thus could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and limit our growth. A downgrade in our claims paying and financial strength ratings could adversely impact our business volumes, adversely impact our ability to access the capital markets and increase our borrowing costs. Claims paying and financial strength ratings have become increasingly important to an insurers competitive position. Rating agencies review insurers ratings periodically, and change their ratings criteria periodically, and therefore our current ratings may not be maintained in the future. A downgrade in one or more of our ratings could negatively impact our business volumes because demand for certain of our products may be reduced, particularly because many customers may require that we maintain minimum ratings to enter into or renew business with us. Additionally, we may find it more difficult to access the capital markets and we may incur higher borrowing costs. If significant losses, such as those resulting from one or more major catastrophes, or significant reserve additions or significant investment impairments were to cause our capital position to deteriorate significantly, or if one or more rating agencies substantially increase their capital requirements, we may need to raise equity capital in the future (which we may not be able to do at a reasonable cost or at all) in order to maintain our ratings or limit the extent of a downgrade. A continued trend of more frequent and severe weather related catastrophes or a prolonged economic downturn may lead rating agencies to substantially increase their capital requirements. For further discussion about our ratings, see, "Item 1 Business Ratings." The inability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company in sufficient amounts would harm our ability to meet our obligations and to pay future shareholder dividends. Our holding company relies on dividends from our insurance subsidiaries to meet our obligations for payment of interest and principal on outstanding debt obligations and to pay dividends to shareholders and corporate expenses. The ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to us in the future will depend on their statutory surplus, earnings and regulatory restrictions. We are subject to regulation by some states as an insurance holding company system. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to various regulatory restrictions that limit the maximum amount of dividends available to be paid to their parent without prior approval of insurance regulatory authorities. In a time of prolonged economic downturn, regulators may choose to further restrict the ability of insurance subsidiaries to make payments to their parent companies. The ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company is also restricted by regulations that set standards of solvency that must be met and maintained. The inability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company in an amount sufficient to meet our debt service obligations and other cash requirements could harm our ability to meet our obligations and to pay future shareholder dividends. Disruptions to our relationships with our independent agents and brokers could adversely affect us. We market our insurance products primarily through independent agents and brokers. An important part of our business is written through less than a dozen such intermediaries. Loss of all or a substantial portion of the business provided through such agents and brokers could materially and adversely affect our future business volume and results of operations. We may also seek to develop new product distribution channels, including our current efforts to establish a direct to consumer platform in the Personal Insurance segment. Our efforts with respect to these alternate distribution channels could adversely impact our business relationship with independent agents and brokers who currently market our products, resulting in a lower volume of business generated from these sources. We rely on internet applications for the marketing and sale of certain of our products, and we may increasingly rely on internet applications and toll free numbers for distribution. In some instances, our 59 Table of Contents agents and brokers are required to access separate business platforms to execute the sale of our personal insurance or commercial insurance products. Should internet disruptions occur, or frustration with our business platforms or distribution initiatives develop among our independent agents and brokers, the resulting loss of business could materially and adversely affect our future business volume and results of operations. Our efforts to develop new products or expand in targeted markets may not be successful and may create enhanced risks. A number of our recent and planned business initiatives involve developing new products or expanding existing products in targeted markets. This includes the following efforts, from time to time, to protect or grow market share: We may develop products that insure risks we have not previously insured or contain new coverage or coverage terms. We may refine our underwriting processes. For example, in certain of our businesses in recent years, we have substantially increased the volume of business that flows through our automated underwriting and pricing systems. We may seek to expand distribution channels, such as our efforts to develop a direct to consumer platform in Personal Insurance. We may focus on geographic markets within or outside of the United States where we have had relatively little or no market share. We may not be successful in introducing new products or expanding in targeted markets and, even if we are successful, these efforts may create enhanced risks. Among other risks: Demand for new products or in new markets may not meet our expectations. To the extent we are able to market new products or expand in new markets, our risk exposures may change, and the data and models we use to manage such exposures may not be as sophisticated as those we use in existing markets or with existing products. This, in turn, could lead to losses in excess of our expectations. Models underlying automated underwriting and pricing decisions may not be effective. Efforts to develop new products or markets have the potential to create or increase distribution channel conflict, such as described above under " Disruptions to our relationships with our independent agents and brokers could adversely affect us." In connection with the conversion of existing policyholders to a new product, some policyholders pricing may increase, while the pricing for other policyholders may decrease, the net impact of which could negatively impact retention and margins. To develop new products or markets, we may need to make substantial capital and operating expenditures, which may also negatively impact results in the near term. If our efforts to develop new products or expand in targeted markets are not successful, our results could be materially and adversely affected. Our business success and profitability depend, in part, on effective information technology systems and on continuing to develop and implement improvements in technology. We depend in large part on our technology systems for conducting business and processing claims, and thus our business success is dependent on maintaining the effectiveness of existing technology systems and on continuing to develop and enhance technology systems that support our business processes and strategic initiatives in a cost and resource efficient manner. Some system development projects are long term in nature, may negatively impact our expense ratios as we invest in the projects and may cost more than we expect to 60 Table of Contents complete. In addition, system development projects may not deliver the benefits we expect once they are complete, or may be replaced or become obsolete more quickly than expected, which could result in accelerated recognition of expenses. If we do not effectively and efficiently manage and upgrade our technology portfolio, or if the costs of doing so are higher than we expect, our ability to provide competitive services to new and existing customers in a cost effective manner and our ability to implement our strategic initiatives could be adversely impacted. If we experience difficulties with technology, data security and or outsourcing relationships our ability to conduct our business could be negatively impacted. While technology can streamline many business processes and ultimately reduce the cost of operations, technology initiatives present certain risks. Our business is highly dependent upon our employees ability to perform, in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, necessary business functions. A shut down of, or inability to, access one or more of our facilities, a power outage or a failure of one or more of our information technology, telecommunications or other systems could significantly impair our ability to perform such functions on a timely basis. In addition, because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third party systems, we could experience service denials if demand for such service exceeds capacity or a third party system fails or experiences an interruption. If sustained or repeated, such a business interruption, system failure or service denial could result in a deterioration of our ability to write and process new and renewal business, provide customer service, pay claims in a timely manner or perform other necessary business functions. Computer viruses, hackers and other external hazards could expose our data systems to security breaches. These increased risks, and expanding regulatory requirements regarding data security, could expose us to data loss, monetary and reputational damages and significant increases in compliance costs. As a result, our ability to conduct our business might be adversely affected. We outsource certain technology and business process functions to third parties and may do so increasingly in the future. If we do not effectively develop, implement and monitor our outsourcing strategy, third party providers do not perform as anticipated or we experience technological or other problems with a transition, we may not realize productivity improvements or cost efficiencies and may experience operational difficulties, increased costs and a loss of business. Our outsourcing of certain technology and business process functions to third parties may expose us to enhanced risk related to data security, which could result in monetary and reputational damages. In addition, our ability to receive services from third party providers outside of the United States might be impacted by cultural differences, political instability, unanticipated regulatory requirements or policies inside or outside of the United States. As a result, our ability to conduct our business might be adversely affected. Acquisitions and integration of acquired businesses may result in operating difficulties and other unintended consequences. From time to time we may investigate and pursue acquisition opportunities if we believe that such opportunities are consistent with our long term objectives and that the potential rewards of an acquisition exceed the risks. The process of integrating an acquired company or business can be complex and costly, however, and may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. For example, acquisitions may present significant risks, including: the potential disruption of our ongoing business; the ineffective integration of underwriting, claims handling and actuarial practices; the uncertainty of an acquirees reserve estimates; the diversion of management time and resources to acquisition integration challenges; the loss of key employees; the cultural challenges associated with integrating employees; and the impact of an acquisition on our financial position and or credit ratings. 61 Table of Contents There is no guarantee that any businesses acquired in the future will be successfully integrated, and the ineffective integration of our businesses and processes may result in substantial costs or delays and adversely affect our ability to compete. Also, the acquired business may not perform as projected, and any cost savings and other synergies anticipated from the acquisition may not materialize. We are subject to a number of risks associated with our business outside the United States. We conduct business outside the United States primarily in the United Kingdom, Canada and Ireland. We have also started to explore opportunities in other countries, including in emerging markets such as India, China and Brazil. While our business outside of the United States currently constitutes a relatively small portion of our revenues, in conducting such business we are subject to a number of significant risks, particularly in emerging economies. These risks include restrictions such as price controls, capital controls, exchange controls, ownership limits and other restrictive governmental actions, which could have an adverse effect on our business and our reputation. In addition, some countries, particularly emerging economies, have laws and regulations that lack clarity and, even with local expertise and effective controls, it can be difficult to determine the exact requirements of the local laws. Failure to comply with local laws in a particular market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our business in that market but also on our reputation generally. We could be adversely affected if our controls to ensure compliance with guidelines, policies and legal and regulatory standards are not effective. Our business is highly dependent on our ability to engage on a daily basis in a large number of insurance underwriting, claim processing and investment activities, many of which are highly complex. These activities often are subject to internal guidelines and policies, as well as legal and regulatory standards. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance that the control systems objectives will be met. If our controls are not effective, it could lead to financial loss, unanticipated risk exposure (including underwriting, credit and investment risk) or damage to our reputation. Our businesses may be adversely affected if we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees. There is significant competition from within the property and casualty insurance industry and from businesses outside the industry for qualified employees, especially in key positions. Our performance is largely dependent on the talents, efforts and proper conduct of highly skilled individuals; therefore, our continued ability to compete effectively in our businesses and to expand into new business areas depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees. If we are not able to successfully attract, retain and motivate our employees, our business, financial results and reputation could be materially and adversely affected. Loss of or significant restriction on the use of credit scoring in the pricing and underwriting of Personal Insurance products could reduce our future profitability. In Personal Insurance, we use credit scoring as a factor in pricing decisions where allowed by state law. Some consumer groups and regulators have questioned whether the use of credit scoring unfairly discriminates against people with low incomes, minority groups and the elderly and are calling for the prohibition or restriction on the use of credit scoring in underwriting and pricing. Laws or regulations that significantly curtail the use of credit scoring, if enacted in a large number of states, could adversely affect our future profitability.  Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS On July 23, 2004, the Company announced that it was seeking guidance from the staff of the Division of Corporation Finance of the SEC with respect to the appropriate purchase accounting treatment for certain second quarter 2004 adjustments totaling $1.63 billion ($1.07 billion after tax). The Company recorded these adjustments as charges in its consolidated statement of income in the second quarter of 2004. Through an informal comment process, the staff of the Division of Corporation Finance subsequently asked for further information, which the Company provided. Specifically, the staff asked for information concerning the Companys adjustments to certain of SPCs insurance reserves 62 Table of Contents and reserves for reinsurance recoverables and premiums due from policyholders, and how those adjustments may relate to SPCs reserves for periods prior to the merger of SPC and TPC. After reviewing the staffs questions and comments and discussions with the Companys independent auditors, the Company continues to believe that its accounting treatment for these adjustments is appropriate. If, however, the staff disagrees, some or all of the adjustments may not be recorded as charges in the Companys consolidated statement of income, thereby increasing net income for the second quarter and full year 2004 and increasing shareholders equity at December 31, 2004 and at the end of each succeeding calendar year through December 31, 2009, in each case by the approximate after tax amount of the change. The effect on tangible shareholders equity (adjusted for the effects of deferred taxes associated with goodwill and other intangible assets) at each date would not be material. Increases to goodwill and deferred tax liabilities would be reflected on the Companys balance sheet at April 1, 2004, either due to purchase accounting or adjustment of SPCs reserves prior to the merger of SPC and TPC. On May 3, 2006, the Company received a letter from the Division of Enforcement of the SEC (the Division) advising the Company that it is conducting an inquiry relating to the second quarter 2004 adjustments and the April 1, 2004 merger between SPC and TPC. The Company cooperated with the Divisions requests for information.  Item 2. PROPERTIES The Company leases its principal executive offices in New York, New York, as well as 209 field and claim offices totaling approximately 5.4 million square feet throughout the United States under leases or subleases with third parties. The Company also leases offices in the United Kingdom, Canada and the Republic of Ireland that house operations (primarily for the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment) in those locations. The Company owns six buildings in Hartford, Connecticut. The Company currently occupies approximately 1.8 million square feet of office space in these buildings. The Company also owns office buildings located at 385 Washington Street and 130 West Sixth Street, St. Paul, Minnesota. These buildings are adjacent to one another and consist of approximately 1.1 million square feet of gross floor space. The Company also owns other real property, including office buildings in Denver, Colorado and Fall River, Massachusetts, as well as a data center located in Norcross, Georgia. The Company owns a building in London, England, which houses a portion of its Financial, Professional & International Insurance segments operations in the United Kingdom. The Company, through its subsidiaries, owns an investment portfolio of income producing properties and real estate funds. Included in this portfolio are four office buildings in which the Company holds a 50% ownership interest located in New York, New York, which collectively accounted for approximately 11% of the carrying value of the property portfolio at December 31, 2009. In the opinion of the Companys management, the Companys properties are adequate and suitable for its business as presently conducted and are adequately maintained.  Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS This section describes the major pending legal proceedings, other than ordinary routine litigation incidental to the business, to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or to which any of the Companys property is subject. Asbestos and Environmental Related Proceedings In the ordinary course of its insurance business, the Company receives claims for insurance arising under policies issued by the Company asserting alleged injuries and damages from asbestos and environmental related exposures that are the subject of related coverage litigation, including, among others, the litigation described below. The Company continues to be subject to aggressive 63 Table of Contents asbestos related litigation. The conditions surrounding the final resolution of these claims and the related litigation continue to change. The Company is defending its asbestos and environmental related litigation vigorously and believes that it has meritorious defenses; however, the outcomes of these disputes are uncertain. In this regard, the Company employs dedicated specialists and aggressive resolution strategies to manage asbestos and environmental loss exposure, including settling litigation under appropriate circumstances. For other information regarding the Companys asbestos and environmental exposure, including the results of its annual in depth asbestos claim review as well as its quarterly asbestos reserve review, see "Part I Item 2 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Asbestos Claims and Litigation," " Environmental Claims and Litigation" and " Uncertainty Regarding Adequacy of Asbestos and Environmental Reserves." Asbestos Direct Action Litigation In October 2001 and April 2002, two purported class action suits (Wise v. Travelers and Meninger v. Travelers) were filed against TPC and other insurers (not including SPC) in state court in West Virginia. These and other cases subsequently filed in West Virginia were consolidated into a single proceeding in the Circuit Court of Kanawha County, West Virginia. The plaintiffs allege that the insurer defendants engaged in unfair trade practices in violation of state statutes by inappropriately handling and settling asbestos claims. The plaintiffs seek to reopen large numbers of settled asbestos claims and to impose liability for damages, including punitive damages, directly on insurers. Similar lawsuits alleging inappropriate handling and settling of asbestos claims were filed in Massachusetts and Hawaii state courts. These suits are collectively referred to as the Statutory and Hawaii Actions. In March 2002, the plaintiffs in consolidated asbestos actions pending before a mass tort panel of judges in West Virginia state court amended their complaint to include TPC as a defendant, alleging that TPC and other insurers breached alleged duties to certain users of asbestos products. The plaintiffs seek damages, including punitive damages. Lawsuits seeking similar relief and raising similar allegations, primarily violations of purported common law duties to third parties, have also been asserted in various state courts against TPC and SPC. The claims asserted in these suits are collectively referred to as the Common Law Claims. The federal bankruptcy court that had presided over the bankruptcy of TPCs former policyholder Johns Manville Corporation issued a temporary injunction prohibiting the prosecution of the Statutory Actions (but not the Hawaii Actions), the Common Law Claims and an additional set of cases filed in various state courts in Texas and Ohio, and enjoining certain attorneys from filing any further lawsuits against TPC based on similar allegations. Notwithstanding the injunction, additional common law claims were filed against TPC. In November 2003, the parties reached a settlement of the Statutory and Hawaii Actions. This settlement includes a lump sum payment of up to $412 million by TPC, subject to a number of significant contingencies. In May 2004, the parties reached a settlement resolving substantially all pending and similar future Common Law Claims against TPC. This settlement requires a payment of up to $90 million by TPC, subject to a number of significant contingencies. Among the contingencies for each of these settlements is a final order of the bankruptcy court clarifying that all of these claims, and similar future asbestos related claims against TPC, are barred by prior orders entered by the bankruptcy court ("the 1986 Orders"). On August 17, 2004, the bankruptcy court entered an order approving the settlements and clarifying that the 1986 Orders barred the pending Statutory and Hawaii Actions and substantially all Common Law Claims pending against TPC ("the Clarifying Order"). The Clarifying Order also applies to similar direct action claims that may be filed in the future. On March 29, 2006, the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York substantially affirmed the Clarifying Order while vacating that portion of the order that required all future direct 64 Table of Contents actions against TPC to first be approved by the bankruptcy court before proceeding in state or federal court. Various parties appealed the district courts March 29, 2006 ruling to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. On February 15, 2008, the Second Circuit issued an opinion vacating on jurisdictional grounds the District Courts approval of the Clarifying Order. On February 29, 2008, TPC and certain other parties to the appeals filed petitions for rehearing and or rehearing en banc, requesting reinstatement of the district courts judgment, which were denied. TPC and certain other parties filed Petitions for Writ of Certiorari in the United States Supreme Court seeking review of the Second Circuits decision, and on December 12, 2008, the Petitions were granted. On June 18, 2009, the Supreme Court ruled in favor of the Company, reversing the Second Circuits February 15, 2008 decision, finding, among other things, that the 1986 Orders are final and generally bar the Statutory and Hawaii actions and substantially all Common Law Claims against TPC. Further, the Supreme Court ruled that the bankruptcy court had jurisdiction to issue the Clarifying Order. However, since the Second Circuit had not ruled on certain additional issues, principally related to procedural matters and the adequacy of notice provided to certain parties, the Supreme Court remanded the case to the Second Circuit for further proceedings on those specific issues. Accordingly, the settlements are not yet final. On October 21, 2009, all but one of the objectors to the Clarifying Order requested that the Second Circuit dismiss their appeal of the order approving the settlement, and that request was granted. Oral argument on the issues remaining to be considered on remand took place on October 22, 2009. The parties await a decision from the Second Circuit. SPC, which is not covered by the Manville bankruptcy court rulings or the settlements described above, is a party to pending direct action cases in Texas state court asserting common law claims. All such cases that are still pending and in which SPC has been served are currently on the inactive docket in Texas state court. If any of those cases becomes active, SPC intends to litigate those cases vigorously. SPC was previously a defendant in similar direct actions in Ohio state court. Those actions have all been dismissed following favorable rulings by Ohio trial and appellate courts. Currently, it is not possible to predict legal outcomes and their impact on the future development of claims and litigation relating to asbestos and environmental claims. Any such development will be affected by future court decisions and interpretations, as well as changes in applicable legislation. Because of these uncertainties, additional liabilities may arise for amounts in excess of the current related reserves. In addition, the Companys estimate of ultimate claims and claim adjustment expenses may change. These additional liabilities or increases in estimates, or a range of either, cannot now be reasonably estimated and could result in income statement charges that could be material to the Companys results of operations in future periods. Other Proceedings Reinsurance Litigation From time to time, the Company is involved in proceedings addressing disputes with its reinsurers regarding the collection of amounts due under the Companys reinsurance agreements. These proceedings may be initiated by the Company or the reinsurers and may involve the terms of the reinsurance agreements, the coverage of particular claims, exclusions under the agreements, as well as counterclaims for rescission of the agreements. One of these disputes is the action described in the following paragraphs. The Companys Gulf operation brought an action on May 22, 2003 in the Supreme Court of New York, County of New York (Gulf Insurance Company v. Transatlantic Reinsurance Company, et al.), against several reinsurers, later amended to include Gerling Global Reinsurance Corporation of America (Gerling), to recover amounts due under reinsurance contracts issued to Gulf and related to Gulfs February 2003 settlement of a coverage dispute under a vehicle residual value protection insurance policy. Gerling has sought rescission of the reinsurance contracts and unspecified damages 65 Table of Contents for breach of contract. In prior years, Gulf entered into final settlement agreements with the reinsurers other than Gerling. In November 2007, the trial court issued rulings denying Gulfs motion for partial summary judgment against Gerling and granting Gerlings motion for partial summary judgment on certain claims and counterclaims. Gulf appealed the trial courts decision to the Supreme Court of New York Appellate Division, First Department. On October 1, 2009, the Appellate Division issued an opinion reversing certain portions of the trial courts summary judgment rulings, while affirming other portions of those rulings and remanded the case to the trial court. In November 2009, Gulf entered into a final settlement agreement with Gerling. Accordingly, this entire matter is now concluded. Based on the Companys beliefs about its legal positions in its various reinsurance recovery proceedings, the Company does not expect any of these matters will have a material adverse effect on its results of operations in a future period. Industry Wide Investigations As previously disclosed, as part of industry wide investigations that commenced in October 2004, the Company and its affiliates received subpoenas and written requests for information from a number of government agencies and authorities, including, among others, state attorneys general, state insurance departments, the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The areas of pending inquiry addressed to the Company included its relationship with brokers and agents and the Companys involvement with "non traditional insurance and reinsurance products." The Company and its affiliates may receive additional subpoenas and requests for information with respect to these matters. The Company cooperated with these subpoenas and requests for information. In addition, outside counsel, with the oversight of the Companys board of directors, conducted an internal review of these matters. This review was commenced after the announcement of litigation brought in October 2004 by the New York Attorney Generals office against a major broker. In particular, upon completion of its review with respect to non traditional insurance and reinsurance products, the Company concluded that no adjustment to previously issued financial statements was required. Any authority with open inquiries or investigations could ask that additional work be performed or reach conclusions different from the Companys. Broker Anti Trust Litigation In 2005, four putative class action lawsuits were brought against a number of insurance brokers and insurers, including the Company and or certain of its affiliates, by plaintiffs who allegedly purchased insurance products through one or more of the defendant brokers. The plaintiffs alleged that various insurance brokers conspired with each other and with various insurers, including the Company and or certain of its affiliates, to artificially inflate premiums, allocate brokerage customers and rig bids for insurance products offered to those customers. To the extent they were not originally filed there, the federal class actions were transferred to the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey and were consolidated for pre trial proceedings with other class actions under the caption In re Insurance Brokerage Antitrust Litigation. On August 1, 2005, various plaintiffs, including the four named plaintiffs in the above referenced class actions, filed an amended consolidated class action complaint naming various brokers and insurers, including the Company and certain of its affiliates, on behalf of a putative nationwide class of policyholders. The complaint included causes of action under the Sherman Act, the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO), state common law and the laws of the various states prohibiting antitrust violations. The complaint sought monetary damages, including punitive damages and trebled damages, permanent injunctive relief, restitution, including disgorgement of profits, interest and costs, including attorneys fees. All defendants moved to dismiss the complaint for failure to state a claim. After giving plaintiffs multiple opportunities to replead, the court dismissed the Sherman Act claims on August 31, 2007 and the RICO claims on September 28, 2007, both with prejudice, and declined to exercise supplemental jurisdiction over the state law claims. The plaintiffs appealed the district courts decisions to the U.S. 66 Table of Contents Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. Oral argument before the Third Circuit took place on April 21, 2009. The parties continue to await a ruling from the Third Circuit. Additional individual actions have been brought in state and federal courts against the Company involving allegations similar to those in In re Insurance Brokerage Antitrust Litigation, and further actions may be brought. The Company believes that all of these lawsuits have no merit and intends to defend vigorously. Other In addition to those described above, the Company is involved in numerous lawsuits, not involving asbestos and environmental claims, arising mostly in the ordinary course of business operations, either as a liability insurer defending third party claims brought against policyholders or as an insurer defending claims brought against it relating to coverage or the Companys business practices. While the ultimate resolution of these legal proceedings could be material to the Companys results of operations in a future period, in the opinion of the Companys management, none would likely have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial position or liquidity. The Company previously reported that it sought guidance from the Division of Corporation Finance of the SEC with respect to the appropriate purchase accounting treatment for certain second quarter 2004 adjustments totaling $1.63 billion. See "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Other Matters." After discussion with the staff of the Division of Corporate Finance and the Companys independent auditors, the Company continues to believe that its accounting treatment for these adjustments is appropriate. On May 3, 2006, the Company received a letter from the Division of Enforcement of the SEC advising the Company that it is conducting an inquiry relating to the second quarter 2004 adjustments and the April 1, 2004 merger of SPC and TPC. The Company cooperated with the requests for information.  Item 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS NONE. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT Information about the Companys executive officers is incorporated by reference from Part III, Item 10 of this Report. 67  Table of Contents  PART II  Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES The Companys common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "TRV." The number of holders of record, including individual owners, of the Companys common stock was 76,714 as of February 11, 2010. This is not the actual number of beneficial owners of the Companys common stock, as shares are held in "street name" by brokers and others on behalf of individual owners. The following table sets forth the amount of cash dividends declared per share and the high and low closing sales prices of the Companys common stock for each quarter during the last two fiscal years. High Low Cash Dividend Declared 2009 First Quarter $ 45.20 $ 33.52 $ 0.30 Second Quarter 44.04 37.48 0.30 Third Quarter 50.42 39.00 0.30 Fourth Quarter 54.31 48.02 0.33 2008 First Quarter $ 53.06 $ 44.92 $ 0.29 Second Quarter 52.15 43.40 0.30 Third Quarter 50.80 36.00 0.30 Fourth Quarter 45.20 30.50 0.30 The Company paid cash dividends per share of $1.23 in 2009 and $1.19 in 2008. Future dividend decisions will be based on, and affected by, a number of factors, including the operating results and financial requirements of the Company and the impact of dividend restrictions. For information on dividends, as well as restrictions on the ability of certain of the Companys subsidiaries to transfer funds to the Company in the form of cash dividends or otherwise, see "Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources." Dividends will be paid by the Company only if declared by its Board of Directors out of funds legally available, and subject to any other restrictions that may be applicable to the Company. 68 Table of Contents  SHAREHOLDER RETURN PERFORMANCE GRAPH The following graph shows a five year comparison of the cumulative total return to shareholders for the Companys common stock and the common stock of companies included in the S&P 500 Index and the S&P Property & Casualty Insurance Index, which the Company believes is the most appropriate comparative index. (1)The cumulative return to shareholders is a concept used to compare the performance of a companys stock over time and is the ratio of the net stock price change plus the cumulative amount of dividends over the specified time period (assuming dividend reinvestment), to the stock price at the beginning of the time period. (2)Assumes $100 invested in common shares of The Travelers Companies, Inc. on December 31, 2004. (3)Companies in the S&P Property Casualty Index as of December 31, 2009 were the following: The Travelers Companies, Inc., The Chubb Corporation, Cincinnati Financial Corporation, Progressive Corporation, Allstate Corporation and XL Capital, Ltd. Returns of each of the companies included in this index have been weighted according to their respective market capitalizations. 69  Table of Contents  ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES The table below sets forth information regarding repurchases by the Company of its common stock during the periods indicated. Period Beginning Period Ending Total number of shares purchased Average price paid per share Total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs Approximate dollar value of shares that may yet be purchased under the plans or programs Oct. 1, 2009 Oct. 31, 2009 5,844,017 $ 50.52 5,740,562 $ 7,769,814,019 Nov. 1, 2009 Nov. 30, 2009 14,683,497 52.50 14,370,924 7,015,501,726 Dec. 1, 2009 Dec. 31, 2009 9,987,322 50.66 9,984,496 6,509,702,707 Total 30,514,836 $ 51.52 30,095,982 $ 6,509,702,707 The Company repurchased 418,854 shares during this three month period that were not part of the publicly announced share repurchase authorization, representing shares repurchased to cover payroll withholding taxes in connection with the vesting of restricted stock awards and exercises of stock options, and shares used to cover the exercise price of certain stock options that were exercised. Since May 2006, the Companys board of directors has approved four common share repurchase authorizations, for a cumulative authorization of up to $16 billion of shares of the Companys common stock. The authorization has no expiration date. Through December 31, 2009, the Company had repurchased a cumulative total of 193.2 million shares for a total cost of $9.49 billion and had $6.51 billion of remaining capacity under the authorization. Information relating to compensation plans under which the Companys equity securities are authorized for issuance is set forth in Part III Item 12 of this Report. 70  Table of Contents  Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA At and for the year ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 (in millions, except per share amounts) Total revenues $ 24,680 $ 24,477 $ 26,017 $ 25,090 $ 24,365 Income from continuing operations $ 3,622 $ 2,924 $ 4,601 $ 4,208 $ 2,061 Loss from discontinued operations(1) (439 ) Net income $ 3,622 $ 2,924 $ 4,601 $ 4,208 $ 1,622 Total investments $ 74,965 $ 70,738 $ 74,818 $ 72,268 $ 68,287 Total assets 109,560 109,632 115,224 115,292 113,736 Claims and claim adjustment expense reserves 53,127 54,723 57,700 59,288 61,090 Total debt 6,527 6,181 6,242 5,760 5,850 Total liabilities 82,145 84,313 88,608 90,157 91,433 Total shareholders equity 27,415 25,319 26,616 25,135 22,303 Basic earnings per share(2): Income from continuing operations $ 6.38 $ 4.87 $ 7.00 $ 6.07 $ 3.02 Loss from discontinued operations(1) (0.65 ) Net income $ 6.38 $ 4.87 $ 7.00 $ 6.07 $ 2.37 Diluted earnings per share(2): Income from continuing operations $ 6.33 $ 4.81 $ 6.85 $ 5.89 $ 2.93 Loss from discontinued operations(1) (0.61 ) Net income $ 6.33 $ 4.81 $ 6.85 $ 5.89 $ 2.32 Year end common shares outstanding 520.3 585.1 627.8 678.3 693.4 Per common share amounts: Cash dividends $ 1.23 $ 1.19 $ 1.13 $ 1.01 $ 0.91 Book value $ 52.54 $ 43.12 $ 42.22 $ 36.86 $ 31.94 (1)In August 2005, the Company completed its divestiture of Nuveen Investments, Inc., its asset management subsidiary acquired in the merger. Accordingly, the Companys share of Nuveen Investments results prior to the divestiture was classified as discontinued operations, along with the net after tax loss on disposal. (2)On January 1, 2009, the Company adopted the FASBs updated accounting guidance related to earnings per share. The impact of the adoption of this guidance was a reduction of previously reported basic earnings per share by $0.03, $0.04, $0.05 and $0.02 per share for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and a reduction of previously reported diluted earnings per share by $0.01, $0.01, $0.02 and $0.01 per share for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 71  Table of Contents  Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following is a discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of operations of The Travelers Companies, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, the Company). 2009 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 2009 Consolidated Results of Operations Net income of $3.62 billion, or $6.38 per share basic and $6.33 diluted Net earned premiums of $21.42 billion Catastrophe losses of $457 million pretax ($297 million after tax) Net favorable prior year reserve development of $1.33 billion pretax ($868 million after tax) GAAP combined ratio of 89.2% Pretax net investment income of $2.78 billion ($2.29 billion after tax) Net realized investment gains of $17 million pretax ($22 million after tax) 2009 Consolidated Financial Condition Total investments of $74.97 billion; fixed maturities and short term securities comprise 94% of total investments Total assets of $109.56 billion Total debt of $6.53 billion, resulting in a debt to total capital ratio of 19.2% (20.3% excluding net unrealized investment gains (losses), net of tax) Repurchased 69.4 million common shares for total cost of $3.30 billion under share repurchase authorization Shareholders equity of $27.42 billion; book value per common share of $52.54 Holding company liquidity of $2.14 billion CONSOLIDATED OVERVIEW The Company provides a wide range of property and casualty insurance products and services to businesses, government units, associations and individuals, primarily in the United States and in selected international markets. 72 Table of Contents Consolidated Results of Operations (for the year ended December 31, in millions except per share amounts) 2009 2008 2007 Revenues Premiums $ 21,418 $ 21,579 $ 21,470 Net investment income 2,776 2,792 3,761 Fee income 306 390 508 Net realized investment gains (losses) 17 (415 ) 154 Other revenues 163 131 124 Total revenues 24,680 24,477 26,017 Claims and expenses Claims and claim adjustment expenses 12,408 12,993 12,397 Amortization of deferred acquisition costs 3,813 3,880 3,706 General and administrative expenses 3,366 3,518 3,352 Interest expense 382 370 346 Total claims and expenses 19,969 20,761 19,801 Income before income taxes 4,711 3,716 6,216 Income tax expense 1,089 792 1,615 Net income $ 3,622 $ 2,924 $ 4,601 Net income per share Basic $ 6.38 $ 4.87 $ 7.00 Diluted $ 6.33 $ 4.81 $ 6.85 GAAP combined ratio Loss and loss adjustment expense ratio 57.3 % 59.4 % 56.6 % Underwriting expense ratio 31.9 32.5 30.8 GAAP combined ratio 89.2 % 91.9 % 87.4 % Incremental impact of direct to consumer initiative on GAAP combined ratio 0.5 % 0.2 % % The following discussions of the Companys net income and segment operating income are presented on an after tax basis. Discussions of the components of net income and segment operating income are presented on a pretax basis, unless otherwise noted. Discussions of earnings per common share are presented on a diluted basis. Overview Net income per diluted share of $6.33 in 2009 grew by 32% over net income per diluted share of $4.81 on 2008. Net income of $3.62 billion in 2009 was 24% higher than 2008 net income of $2.92 billion. The higher rate of growth in per share income compared with growth in income reflected the impact of the Companys significant common share repurchases. The increase in net income in 2009 was driven by declines in the cost of catastrophes. In addition, the increase reflected net realized investment gains (versus net realized investment losses in 2008), lower non catastrophe weather related losses and fewer large property losses, partially offset by reductions in underwriting margins related to pricing and loss cost trends, a decline in net favorable prior year reserve development and lower fee income. The cost of catastrophes in 2009 totaled $457 million, compared with $1.41 billion in 2008. The 2008 total was principally comprised of $1.26 billion of claims and claim adjustment expenses and $141 million of property windpool assessments that were included in general and administrative 73 Table of Contents expenses. Net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $1.33 billion in 2009, compared with $1.54 billion in 2008. Net income in 2009 included a net benefit of $89 million due to the favorable resolution of various prior year tax matters. Net income in 2009 also benefited from $87 million of reductions in the estimate of property windpool assessments related to Hurricane Ike that had been recorded as a component of the cost of catastrophes in general and administrative expenses in the third quarter of 2008 (discussed below). Net income in 2008 reflected an $89 million tax benefit related to the sale of a subsidiary. Net income of $4.81 per diluted share in 2008 was 30% lower than the $6.85 per diluted share in 2007. Net income in 2008 totaled $2.92 billion, 36% lower than $4.60 billion in 2007. The lower rate of decline in per share income compared with the rate of decline in actual income reflected the impact of the Companys significant common share repurchases. The decrease in net income in 2008 was primarily due to a significant increase in the cost of catastrophes and a significant decline in net investment income. Also contributing to the decline were net realized investment losses, a small increase in the number of large losses that exceeded expectations, an increase in non catastrophe related weather losses, the impact of competitive market conditions on pricing, the impact of loss cost trends and a decline in fee income. Net income in 2008 reflected an $89 million tax benefit related to the sale of a subsidiary. In 2007, net income included a net pretax benefit of $163 million due to the implementation of a new fixed, value based compensation program for the majority of the Companys agents which resulted in a reduction in commission expense compared to what would have otherwise been reported, due to a change in the timing of expense recognition. These factors were partially offset by an increase in net favorable prior year reserve development, which totaled $1.54 billion in 2008, compared with $546 million in 2007. The cost of catastrophes in 2008, net of reinsurance and including hurricane related assessments of $141 million (discussed below), totaled $1.41 billion, compared with $167 million in 2007. Hurricanes Ike and Gustav, as well as several other storms throughout the United States, accounted for the cost of catastrophes in 2008. Net income in 2007 also included a benefit of $86 million resulting from the favorable resolution of various prior year tax matters and a pretax loss of $39 million related to the Companys redemption of its 4.50% contingently convertible debentures. Hurricane related property windpool assessments are levied on insurers periodically by state created insurance and windstorm insurance entities such as Citizens Property Insurance Corporation in Florida, Louisiana Citizens Property Insurance Corporation and the Texas Windstorm Insurance Association. These assessments are levied on the insurers writing business in those states to fund the operating deficits of such entities during periods of significant storm activity. Hurricane related assessments are reported as a component of "General and Administrative Expenses" as the amounts paid to such entities are not insured losses of the Company. Revenues Earned Premiums Earned premiums in 2009 totaled $21.42 billion, a decrease of $161 million, or 1%, from 2008. In the Business Insurance segment, earned premiums in 2009 declined 2% from 2008 despite strong business retention levels, attributable to reduced insured exposures due to lower levels of economic activity. In the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment, earned premiums in 2009 declined 3% from 2008 due to the unfavorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates. Adjusting for the impact of exchange rates, earned premiums in this segment were slightly higher than in 2008. In the Personal Insurance segment, earned premium growth of 2% over 2008 reflected continued strong business retention rates and continued renewal premium increases. Earned premiums in 2008 totaled $21.58 billion, an increase of $109 million, or less than 1%, over 2007. In March 2007, the Company sold its Mexican surety subsidiary, Afianzadora Insurgentes, S.A. de C.V. (Afianzadora Insurgentes), which accounted for $27 million of earned premiums in 2007 prior 74 Table of Contents to its sale. In April 2007, the Company sold Mendota Insurance Company and its subsidiaries (collectively, Mendota), which primarily offered nonstandard automobile coverage and accounted for $46 million of earned premiums in 2007 prior to its sale. Adjusting for these sales in 2007, consolidated earned premiums in 2008 increased by $182 million, or 1%, over 2007. In the Business Insurance segment, earned premiums in 2008 declined 1% from 2007 despite continued strong business retention rates, reflecting the impact of competitive market conditions on pricing and new business. In the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment, earned premium growth of 2% in 2008 (adjusted for the sale of Afianzadora Insurgentes) was driven by changes in the terms of certain reinsurance treaties for Bond & Financial Products. In the Personal Insurance segment, earned premium growth of 3% in 2008 (adjusted for the sale of Mendota) reflected continued strong business retention rates and new business volume, coupled with continued renewal price increases. Net Investment Income The following table sets forth information regarding the Companys investments. (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Average investments(a) $ 73,130 $ 74,197 $ 73,872 Pretax net investment income 2,776 2,792 3,761 After tax net investment income 2,290 2,299 2,915 Average pretax yield(b) 3.8 % 3.8 % 5.1 % Average after tax yield(b) 3.1 % 3.1 % 3.9 % (a)Excludes net unrealized investment gains and losses, net of tax, and reflects cash, receivables for investment sales, payables on investment purchases and accrued investment income. (b)Excludes net realized investment gains and losses and net unrealized investment gains and losses. Net investment income of $2.78 billion in 2009 was $16 million, or less than 1%, lower than in 2008, primarily resulting from a significant decline in short term interest rates, a lower average level of long term fixed maturity invested assets and the unfavorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates. Those factors were largely offset by improved returns from non fixed maturity investments, which generated negative net investment income of $40 million in 2009, compared with negative net investment income of $222 million in 2008. The average pretax yield on the total investment portfolio was 3.8% in both 2009 and 2008. The improved performance from non fixed income investments in 2009 reflected improving capital market conditions in the second half of the year. The amortized cost of the fixed maturity and short term security portion of the investment portfolio at December 31, 2009 totaled $68.16 billion, $1.37 billion higher than at the same date in 2008, primarily reflecting the impact of strong operating cash flows during 2009 (a portion of which was invested in fixed maturity securities) and the issuance of $500 million of senior notes in the second quarter of 2009. These factors were partially offset by $3.30 billion of common share repurchases during 2009, $693 million of dividends paid to shareholders and contributions of $260 million to the Companys pension plan in 2009. Net investment income of $2.79 billion in 2008 declined $969 million, or 26%, from 2007, primarily due to lower returns from non fixed maturity investments, which produced negative net investment income of $222 million in 2008, compared with positive net investment income of $648 million in 2007. The decline in net investment income from these investments in 2008 reflected market conditions, which resulted in a lower level of transactions, including sales and initial public offerings, and lower market values compared to those at December 31, 2007. The average pretax yield on the total investment portfolio of 3.8% in 2008 declined from 5.1% in 2007, primarily reflecting the negative investment income from non fixed maturity investments in 2008. Net investment income from the Companys fixed maturity portfolio in 2008 also declined from 2007, primarily due to a significant decline in short term interest rates. The amortized cost of the fixed maturity and short term security 75 Table of Contents portion of the investment portfolio at December 31, 2008 totaled $66.79 billion, $2.55 billion lower than at the same date in 2007, primarily reflecting the use of $2.12 billion of funds for the Companys common share repurchases during 2008, the payment of $715 million of dividends to shareholders, the transfer of $662 million of fixed maturity investments as part of the sale of Unionamerica, and $450 million of contributions to the Companys pension plan, which were partially offset by strong cash flows from operating activities. Except as described below for certain legal entities, the Company allocates its invested assets and the related net investment income to its reportable business segments. Pretax net investment income is allocated based upon an investable funds concept, which takes into account liabilities (net of non invested assets) and appropriate capital considerations for each segment. For investable funds, a benchmark investment yield is developed that reflects the estimated duration of the loss reserves future cash flows, the interest rate environment at the time the losses were incurred and A+ rated corporate debt instrument yields. For capital, a benchmark investment yield is developed that reflects the average yield on the total investment portfolio. The benchmark investment yields are applied to each segments investable funds and capital, respectively, to produce a total notional investment income by segment. The Companys actual net investment income is allocated to each segment in proportion to the respective segments notional investment income to total notional investment income. There are certain legal entities within the Company that are dedicated to specific reportable business segments. The invested assets and related net investment income from these legal entities are reported in the applicable business segment and are not allocated among the other business segments. Fee Income The National Accounts market in the Business Insurance segment is the primary source of the Companys fee based business. The declines in fee income in 2009 and 2008 compared with the respective prior years are described in the Business Insurance segment discussion that follows. Net Realized Investment Gains (Losses) The following table sets forth information regarding the Companys net realized investment gains (losses). (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Net Realized Investment Gains (Losses) Other than temporary impairment losses: Total losses $ (323 ) $ (420 ) $ (70 ) Portion of losses recognized in accumulated other changes in equity from nonowner sources 65 Other than temporary impairment losses (258 ) (420 ) (70 ) Other net realized investment gains 275 5 224 Net realized investment gains (losses) $ 17 $ (415 ) $ 154 In the second quarter of 2009, the Company adopted updated accounting guidance that changed the reporting of other than temporary impairments. See notes 1 and 3 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the impact of the adoption. Other Than Temporary Impairment Losses on Investments In 2009, impairments included in net income totaled $258 million. Fixed income impairments in 2009 were $169 million and included $81 million of impairments related to structured mortgage securities, $70 million related to various issuers deteriorated financial position and $18 million with respect to securities that the Company either had the intent to sell or did not have the ability to assert an intention to hold until recovery in 76 Table of Contents fair value. Equity impairments in 2009 were $79 million, the majority of which were related to issuers in the financial services industry. Impairments in 2009 also included $10 million related to other investments. The 2008 impairments included $186 million related to the deteriorated financial position of various issuers (including $70 million related to securities issued by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and its subsidiaries), $113 million related to externally managed securities with respect to which the Company did not have the ability to assert an intention to hold until recovery in fair value, $64 million related to structured mortgage securities and $57 million related to securities the Company had identified for potential sale prior to a recovery in fair value. Impairments in 2007 included $30 million related to externally managed securities with respect to which the Company did not have the ability to assert an intention to hold until recovery in fair value, $30 million related to the deteriorated financial position of various issuers and $10 million related to the decline in the financial condition of one real estate development property. Further information regarding the nature of impairment charges in each year is included in the "Investment Portfolio" section later in this discussion. Other Net Realized Investment Gains Other net realized investment gains for 2009 were $275 million, compared with $5 million in 2008. In October 2009, the Company sold a portion of its common stock holdings in Verisk Analytics, Inc. (Verisk) for total proceeds of approximately $184 million as part of the initial public offering (IPO) of Verisk. The Company recorded a pretax realized investment gain of $159 million on this sale in the fourth quarter of 2009. Other net realized investment gains in 2009 also included $100 million of net realized investment gains related to fixed maturity investments, $23 million of net realized investment gains associated with the U.S. Treasury futures contracts (which require a daily mark to market settlement and are used to shorten the duration of the Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio) and $23 million of net realized investment losses related to foreign exchange. Other net realized investment gains in 2008 included $50 million related to foreign currency exchange gains, $39 million from the sale of subsidiaries, $29 million from the sale of fixed maturity securities and $17 million of net realized investment gains from the sale of venture capital investments. Partially offsetting these realized investment gains in 2008 were net realized losses of $77 million related to convertible bonds wherein the embedded option price is marked to market through realized gains or losses and $53 million of losses related to U.S. Treasury futures contracts. Other net realized investment gains in 2007 included $107 million of net realized investment gains generated by the venture capital portfolio (including an $81 million net realized investment gain from the bundled sale of a substantial portion of the Companys venture capital investment holdings), $63 million of net realized investment gains from the sale of a privately held security, $21 million of net realized investment gains related to the Companys holdings of stock purchase warrants of Platinum Underwriters Holdings, Ltd., a publicly held company, and $5 million of net realized investment gains from the Companys fixed maturity portfolio. These gains were partially offset by a net realized investment loss of $24 million related to the divestiture of a subsidiary. Other Revenues Other revenues primarily consist of premium installment charges. In 2007, other revenues also included a $39 million loss related to the Companys redemption of its 4.50% convertible junior subordinated notes in April 2007, consisting of the redemption premium paid and the write off of remaining debt issuance costs. 77 Table of Contents Written Premiums Consolidated gross and net written premiums were as follows: Gross Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Business Insurance $ 12,098 $ 12,580 $ 13,017 Financial, Professional & International Insurance 3,713 3,966 4,037 Personal Insurance 7,474 7,291 7,144 Total $ 23,285 $ 23,837 $ 24,198 Net Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Business Insurance $ 10,902 $ 11,220 $ 11,318 Financial, Professional & International Insurance 3,285 3,468 3,465 Personal Insurance 7,149 6,995 6,835 Total $ 21,336 $ 21,683 $ 21,618 Gross and net written premiums in 2009 both decreased 2% from 2008. Overall, business retention remained at high levels in 2009. Renewal premium changes remained stable as improving rate trends offset the impact of lower coverage demands from existing policyholders due to general economic conditions. New business volume declined slightly from 2008, as modest growth in the Business Insurance segment was offset by lower new business volume in the Financial, Professional & International Insurance and Personal Insurance segments. In Business Insurance, net written premiums in 2009 declined 3% from 2008, driven by lower levels of economic activity in recent quarters that impacted exposure changes at renewal, audit premium adjustments, policy endorsements and mid term cancellations. In Financial, Professional & International Insurance, net written premiums in 2009 decreased 5% from 2008, reflecting the unfavorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates and the impact of the economic downturn on construction surety business volume. In the Personal Insurance segment, net written premiums in 2009 increased 2% over 2008, reflecting continued strong retention rates and renewal premium increases, particularly in the Homeowners and Other line of business. Afianzadora Insurgentes and Mendota generated combined gross and net written premiums of $79 million and $74 million, respectively, in 2007, prior to their sale. Adjusting for the sale of these operations in 2007, gross written premiums in 2008 declined 1% and net written premiums in 2008 increased by less than 1% compared with 2007. In the Business Insurance segment, net written premiums decreased by 1% from 2007, despite strong business retention rates. Premium growth in Industry Focused Underwriting, Select Accounts and Commercial Accounts in 2008, which was generally driven by strong business retention rates and new business volume, was largely offset by premium declines in National Accounts, Target Risk Underwriting and Specialized Distribution which primarily resulted from declines in renewal price changes and new business. Net written premiums in the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment adjusted for the sale of Afianzadora Insurgentes increased by 1% over 2007, largely driven by changes in the terms of certain reinsurance treaties that resulted in a higher level of business retained in the Bond & Financial Products group. In the Personal Insurance segment, net written premiums in 2008 adjusted for the sale of Mendota increased 3% over 2007, reflecting continued strong retention rates, renewal price increases and growth in new business levels. 78 Table of Contents Claims and Expenses Claims and Claim Adjustment Expenses Claims and claim adjustment expenses totaled $12.41 billion in 2009, $585 million, or 5%, lower than the 2008 total of $12.99 billion, primarily reflecting a decline in the cost of catastrophes, lower non catastrophe weather related losses and fewer large property losses, mostly offset by a decline in net favorable prior year reserve development and the impact of loss cost trends. Total claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2009 included $457 million for the cost of catastrophes and $1.33 billion of net favorable prior year reserve development, whereas the comparable 2008 total included $1.26 billion for the cost of catastrophes and $1.54 billion of net favorable prior year reserve development. Catastrophe losses in 2009 primarily resulted from several wind and hail storms, as well as flooding. Catastrophe losses in 2008 primarily resulted from Hurricanes Ike, Gustav and Dolly. Claims and claim adjustment expenses totaled $12.99 billion in 2008, $596 million, or 5%, higher than the 2007 total of $12.40 billion, primarily reflecting a significant increase in the cost of catastrophes, an increase in the number of large losses that exceeded expectations, an increase in non catastrophe related weather losses in Personal Insurance and the impact of loss cost trends. These factors were partially offset by an increase in net favorable prior year reserve development. The cost of catastrophes included in claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2008 totaled $1.26 billion, primarily resulting from Hurricanes Ike and Gustav, as well as wind, rain and hail storms in several regions of the United States throughout the year. The cost of catastrophes in 2007 totaled $167 million, primarily resulting from wildfires in California and several wind, rain and hail storms throughout the United States. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2008 totaled $1.54 billion, compared with $546 million of net favorable prior year reserve development in 2007. Net favorable prior year reserve development of $1.33 billion in 2009 reflected greater reductions in frequency than the Company expected based upon long term frequency trends that have been declining. In the Business Insurance segment, net favorable prior year reserve development of $1.03 billion resulted from better than expected loss development for recent accident years in the general liability, commercial multi peril, commercial automobile and commercial property product lines, partially offset by increases to asbestos and environmental reserves of $185 million and $70 million, respectively (which are discussed in more detail in the "Asbestos Claims and Litigation" and "Environmental Claims and Litigation" sections herein). Net favorable prior year reserve development in the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment totaled $168 million, driven by better than expected loss experience in the International group particularly in the United Kingdom, several lines of business at Lloyds and in the surety line of business in Canada and in the contract surety line of business in the Bond & Financial Products group. In the Personal Insurance segment, net favorable prior year reserve development of $135 million was driven by better than expected loss experience related to Hurricanes Katrina and Ike and the 2007 California wildfires. The Companys three business segments each experienced net favorable prior year reserve development in 2008. Net favorable prior year reserve development of $1.12 billion in the Business Insurance segment was driven by better than expected loss results primarily concentrated in the general liability, commercial multi peril, commercial property and commercial automobile product lines, partially offset by increases in workers compensation reserves and $70 million and $85 million increases in asbestos and environmental reserves, respectively. In the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment, net favorable prior year reserve development of $274 million was concentrated in the International group, particularly in the public and products liability (general liability), professional indemnity (professional liability) and property lines of business in the United Kingdom, the general liability line of business in Canada, and the Aviation and Property lines of business at Lloyds. In the Personal Insurance segment, net favorable prior year reserve development of $143 million in 2008 was primarily driven by favorable loss experience related to Hurricane Katrina as 79 Table of Contents well as better than expected loss experience in certain lines of business within the Homeowners and Other product line. Each of the Companys three business segments also experienced net favorable prior year reserve development in 2007. In Business Insurance, net favorable prior year reserve development of $301 million was primarily driven by better than expected loss development for recent accident years in the commercial multi peril, general liability, commercial automobile and property product lines. Net prior year reserve development in 2007 in the Business Insurance segment included a $185 million increase to environmental reserves. In the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment, net favorable prior year reserve development of $93 million in 2007 primarily reflected better than expected loss development in international property, employers liability, professional indemnity and motor lines of business for recent accident years. In the Personal Insurance segment, net favorable prior year reserve development of $152 million in 2007 occurred in both the Automobile and Homeowners and Other lines of business. Factors contributing to net favorable prior year reserve development in each segment in 2009, 2008 and 2007 are discussed in more detail in the segment discussions that follow. Amortization of Deferred Acquisition Costs In 2009, the amortization of deferred acquisition costs totaled $3.81 billion, 2% lower than the total of $3.88 billion in 2008. The decline in 2009 was consistent with the decline in earned premiums. The amortization of deferred acquisition costs totaled $3.88 billion in 2008, $174 million, or 5%, higher than the comparable 2007 total of $3.71 billion. The growth in amortization costs in 2008 primarily reflected the higher level of amortized commission expense resulting from the Companys implementation of a new fixed agent compensation program in 2007, described in more detail below. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses totaled $3.37 billion in 2009, a decrease of $152 million, or 4%, from the comparable 2008 total of $3.52 billion. The decrease resulted from estimates of windpool assessments related to Hurricane Ike. During 2008, the Company recorded $141 million of hurricane related assessments in general and administrative expenses. Subsequently, during the first half of 2009, the Company recorded an $87 million reduction in these estimated assessments due to a decline in estimated insurance industry losses related to Hurricane Ike. Adjusting for the impact of windpool assessments in both 2009 and 2008, general and administrative expenses in 2009 increased 2% over 2008. The increase reflected the impact of continued investments to support business growth and product development, including the Companys direct to consumer initiative in the Personal Insurance segment, partially offset by the favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on expenses in the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment. General and administrative expenses totaled $3.52 billion in 2008, an increase of $166 million, or 5%, over the comparable 2007 total of $3.35 billion. This increase primarily reflected the impact of $141 million of hurricane related assessments. In the first quarter of 2007, the Company discontinued the use of contingent commissions and implemented a new fixed agent compensation program for all of its personal insurance business. The Company also offered the majority of its agents conducting commercial insurance business the option to switch to this new program. The Companys total payout rate for all agent compensation for 2007 was substantially the same as for 2006; however, the change to the new program created a difference in the timing of commission expense recognition. The cost of the new program is required to be deferred and amortized over the related policy period (generally six to twelve months), whereas the cost of the contingent commission program was not subject to deferred acquisition cost accounting treatment and, 80 Table of Contents therefore, was expensed as incurred. That timing difference resulted in a benefit to income during the 2007 transition year. The impact of this change in 2007 was to lower reported expenses by $376 million in the "General and Administrative Expenses" income statement line, and increase reported expenses by $213 million in the "Amortization of Deferred Acquisition Costs" income statement line, compared to what would have been reported under the prior contingent commission program. Interest Expense Interest expense in 2009, 2008 and 2007 totaled $382 million, $370 million and $346 million, respectively. The increases in 2009 and 2008 over the respective prior year primarily reflected higher average levels of debt outstanding. Effective Tax Rate The Companys effective tax rate was 23.1%, 21.3% and 26.0% in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The increase in the effective rate in 2009 compared to 2008 as well as the decrease in the effective rate in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily resulted from changes in income before taxes between the three years and the proportion of tax exempt investment income in each year. GAAP Combined Ratios The consolidated loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 57.3% in 2009 was 2.1 points lower than the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 59.4% in 2008. The cost of catastrophes accounted for 2.1 points of the 2009 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio, whereas the 2008 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio included a 5.8 point impact from the cost of catastrophes. The 2009 and 2008 loss and loss adjustment expense ratios included 6.2 point and 7.1 point benefits from net favorable prior year reserve development, respectively. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio adjusted for catastrophe losses and prior year reserve development in 2009 was 0.7 points higher than the 2008 ratio on the same basis. The higher ratio in 2009 primarily reflected reduced underwriting margins related to pricing and loss cost trends in several lines of business, partially offset by lower non catastrophe weather related losses and fewer large property losses. In 2009, the underwriting expense ratio of 31.9% was 0.6 points lower than the underwriting expense ratio of 32.5% in 2008. The underwriting expense ratio in 2009 included a 0.4 point benefit from the reduction in the estimate of windpool assessments described above, whereas the underwriting expense ratio in 2008 included a 0.7 point increase due to the impact of the windpool assessments. Adjusting for these factors in both years, the underwriting expense ratio for 2009 was 0.5 points higher than the respective 2008 underwriting expense ratio, primarily reflecting the impact of continued investments to support business growth and product development, including the Companys direct to consumer initiative in the Personal Insurance segment, as well as salary increases in the normal course of business. The consolidated loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 59.4% for 2008 was 2.8 points higher than the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 56.6% in 2007. The cost of catastrophes accounted for 5.8 points of the 2008 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio, whereas the 2007 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio included a 0.7 point impact from catastrophe losses. The 2008 and 2007 loss and loss adjustment expense ratios included 7.1 point and 2.5 point benefits, respectively, from net favorable prior year reserve development. The 2008 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio adjusted for the cost of catastrophes and prior year reserve development was 2.3 points higher than the respective 2007 ratio on the same basis, reflecting the impact of competitive market conditions on pricing, a small increase in the number of large losses, non catastrophe weather related losses and loss cost trends. 81  Table of Contents The underwriting expense ratio of 32.5% in 2008 was 1.7 points higher than the 2007 underwriting expense ratio of 30.8%. The 2008 expense ratio included a 0.7 point increase due to the impact of the hurricane related assessments, whereas the 2007 ratio included a 0.8 point benefit from the implementation of the new fixed agent compensation program described above. Adjusting for these factors in both years, the adjusted 2008 expense ratio was 0.2 points higher than the adjusted expense ratio in 2007, reflecting continued investments to support business growth and product development, as well as salary increases in the normal course of business. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS BY SEGMENT Business Insurance Results of the Companys Business Insurance segment were as follows: (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Revenues: Earned premiums $ 10,968 $ 11,180 $ 11,283 Net investment income 1,902 1,917 2,708 Fee income 306 390 508 Other revenues 42 30 24 Total revenues $ 13,218 $ 13,517 $ 14,523 Total claims and expenses $ 9,778 $ 10,506 $ 10,444 Operating income $ 2,590 $ 2,338 $ 3,015 Loss and loss adjustment expense ratio 53.9 % 57.7 % 57.1 % Underwriting expense ratio 32.2 32.5 30.7 GAAP combined ratio 86.1 % 90.2 % 87.8 % Overview In 2009, operating income totaled $2.59 billion, an increase of $252 million, or 11%, over the comparable 2008 total of $2.34 billion. The increase in operating income in 2009 primarily reflected a decline in the cost of catastrophes, which was partially offset by reduced underwriting margins and fee income. The cost of catastrophes in 2009 and 2008 totaled $176 million and $706 million, respectively. The 2008 total was principally comprised of $642 million of claims and claim adjustment expenses and $62 million of property windpool assessments that were included in general and administrative expenses. Net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $1.03 billion and $1.12 billion in 2009 and 2008, respectively. Operating income in 2009 also included a benefit of $42 million from the favorable resolution of various prior year tax matters and a $38 million reduction in the estimate of property windpool assessments related to Hurricane Ike that had been recorded in general and administrative expenses in 2008. Operating income of $2.34 billion in 2008 was $677 million, or 22%, lower than operating income of $3.02 billion in 2007, primarily due to a significant decline in net investment income and an increase in the cost of catastrophes. Also contributing to this reduction were a decline in fee income, the impact of competitive market conditions on pricing, the impact of loss cost trends, and a small increase in the number of large property losses. A significant increase in net favorable prior year reserve development in 2008 partially offset these factors. The cost of catastrophes in 2008 totaled $706 million, compared with $4 million in 2007. Net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $1.12 billion and $301 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Operating income in 2008 included an $89 million tax benefit related to the sale of Unionamerica. Operating income in 2007 benefited by $81 million from 82 Table of Contents the Companys implementation of the new fixed agent compensation program and the resolution of various prior year tax matters. Earned Premiums Earned premiums of $10.97 billion in 2009 decreased $212 million, or 2%, from 2008. The decline in 2009 was primarily attributable to reduced insured exposures due to lower levels of economic activity. Earned premiums of $11.18 billion in 2008 decreased $103 million, or 1%, from 2007, reflecting the impact of competitive market conditions on pricing and new business. Net Investment Income Refer to the "Net Investment Income" section of "Consolidated Results of Operations" herein for a discussion of the decline in the Companys net investment income in 2009 and 2008 as compared with the prior year. Fee Income National Accounts is the primary source of fee income due to its service businesses, which include claim and loss prevention services to large companies that choose to self insure a portion of their insurance risks, as well as claims and policy management services to workers compensation residual market pools. The $84 million decline in fee income in 2009 compared with 2008 primarily resulted from lower serviced premium and claim volume due to the de population of workers compensation residual market pools, the impact on fee income related to both lower claim volume and lower loss costs (as fees are based either on the number of claims serviced or as a percentage of losses) driven by workers compensation reforms and overall lower claim frequency during the preceding twelve months. Lower new business volume over the preceding twelve months, due to lower levels of economic activity and increased competition, also contributed to the decline in fee income in 2009. In 2008, the $118 million decline in fee income compared with 2007 primarily resulted from the same factors causing the decline in 2009. Claims and Expenses Claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2009 totaled $6.04 billion, a decrease of $571 million, or 9%, compared with 2008. The decrease in 2009 primarily reflected a decline in the cost of catastrophes, partially offset by the impact of loss cost trends and a slight decline in net favorable prior year reserve development. The cost of catastrophes included in claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2009 totaled $176 million, compared with $642 million in 2008. Catastrophe losses in 2009 primarily resulted from several wind and hail storms, as well as flooding. In 2008, Hurricanes Ike, Gustav and Dolly, and other wind, rain and hail storms in several regions of the United States accounted for the majority of catastrophe losses. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2009 and 2008 totaled $1.03 billion and $1.12 billion, respectively. The 2009 total was driven by better than expected loss results primarily concentrated in the general liability, commercial multi peril, commercial automobile and commercial property product lines for recent accident years, reflecting greater reductions in frequency than the Company expected based upon long term frequency trends that have been declining. The general liability and commercial multi peril product lines experienced better than anticipated loss development that was attributable to several factors, including improved legal and judicial environments, as well as enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. The commercial automobile line of business experienced better than expected loss development that was attributable to more favorable legal and judicial environments, claim handling initiatives and improvements in auto safety technology. The commercial property product line improvement primarily occurred in the 2007 and 2008 accident years as a result of better than expected loss development for certain large national property and inland marine exposures. In addition, the commercial property product lines 2005 accident year 83 Table of Contents experience improved due to the litigation environment relating to, and ongoing claim settlements for, Hurricane Katrina. The net favorable prior year reserve development in these product lines in 2009 was partially offset by a $185 million increase to asbestos reserves (discussed in more detail in the "Asbestos Claims and Litigation" section herein), a $70 million increase to environmental reserves recorded in the second quarter (discussed in more detail in the "Environmental Claims and Litigation" section herein). Claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2008 totaled $6.61 billion, an increase of $65 million, or 1%, over 2007, primarily reflecting a significant increase in the cost of catastrophes, a small increase in the number of large property losses and the impact of loss cost trends, which were largely offset by an increase in net favorable prior year reserve development. The cost of catastrophes included in claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2008 totaled $642 million, compared with $4 million in 2007. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2008 and 2007 totaled $1.12 billion and $301 million, respectively. Net favorable prior year development in 2008 was driven by better than expected loss results primarily concentrated in the general liability and commercial multi peril product lines, an increase in anticipated ceded reinsurance recoveries for older accident years in the general liability product line and better than anticipated loss development in the commercial property and commercial automobile product lines. The net favorable prior year reserve development in the general liability and commercial multi peril lines was attributable to several factors, including improved legal and judicial environments, as well as enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. The commercial property product line improvement occurred primarily in the 2007 accident year as a result of better than expected loss development for certain large national property, national programs, and ocean marine claim exposures and lower than expected weather related losses during the last half of 2007, as well as favorable loss development in certain large inland marine claim exposures and in ceded reinsurance recoveries for commercial property large claims. In addition, the commercial multi peril and property product lines 2005 accident year results experienced improvement due to the litigation environment relating to, and ongoing claim settlements for, Hurricane Katrina. The commercial automobile product line improvement was attributable to several factors, including improved legal and judicial environments, as well as enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. The net favorable prior year reserve development in the foregoing product lines in 2008 was partially offset by net unfavorable prior year reserve development in the workers compensation product line, primarily driven by higher than anticipated medical costs related to 2004 and prior accident years, and by $70 million and $85 million increases to asbestos and environmental reserves, respectively (discussed in more detail in the "Asbestos Claims and Litigation" and "Environmental Claims and Litigation" sections herein). Net favorable prior year reserve development of $301 million in 2007 was primarily driven by better than expected loss development for recent accident years in the commercial multi peril, general liability, commercial automobile and property product lines. The commercial multi peril and general liability product lines experienced better than anticipated loss development that was attributable to several factors, including improved legal and judicial environments, as well as enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. The commercial automobile product line experienced better than expected loss development due to more favorable legal and judicial environments, claim handling initiatives focused on the automobile line of insurance and improvements in auto safety technology. The property product line experienced fewer than expected late reported claims related to non catastrophe weather events that occurred late in 2006, as well as better than expected frequency and severity due in part to changes in the marketplace, such as higher deductibles and lower policy limits. In addition, the property product line experienced better than expected large loss outcomes which were partially attributable to favorable litigation resolutions. Net total prior year reserve development in 2007 included a $185 million increase to environmental reserves (discussed in more detail in the "Environmental Claims and Litigation" section herein). 84 Table of Contents The amortization of deferred acquisition costs totaled $1.78 billion in 2009, $43 million lower than the comparable total of $1.82 billion in 2008. The decline was consistent with the declines in earned premiums. The amortization of deferred acquisition costs totaled $1.82 billion in 2008, $76 million, or 4%, higher than the comparable total of $1.74 billion in 2007. The growth in amortization costs primarily reflected the higher level of amortized commission expense in 2008 resulting from the Companys implementation of a new fixed agent compensation program in 2007. General and administrative expenses in 2009 totaled $1.97 billion, $113 million lower than the comparable 2008 total of $2.08 billion. The majority of the decrease reflected the impact of estimates of windpool assessments related to Hurricane Ike in each year. During 2008, the Company recorded $62 million of hurricane related assessments in general and administrative expenses. Subsequently, during the first half of 2009, the Company recorded a $38 million reduction in these assessments due to a decline in estimated insurance industry losses related to Hurricane Ike. General and administrative expenses totaled $2.08 billion in 2008, an increase of $51 million, or 3%, over the comparable 2007 total of $2.03 billion. The increase in 2008 primarily reflected the impact of hurricane related assessments. GAAP Combined Ratio In 2009, the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 53.9% was 3.8 points lower than the comparable 2008 ratio of 57.7%. The cost of catastrophes in 2009 and 2008 accounted for 1.6 points and 5.7 points of the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio, respectively. Net favorable prior year reserve development provided 9.3 point and 10.0 point benefits to the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio in 2009 adjusted for the cost of catastrophes and prior year reserve development was 0.4 points lower than the 2008 ratio on the same basis, due to lower non catastrophe weather related losses and fewer large property losses, partially offset by reduced underwriting margins related to pricing and loss cost trends. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio in 2008 of 57.7% was 0.6 points higher than the comparable 2007 ratio of 57.1%. The cost of catastrophes accounted for 5.7 points of the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio in 2008, compared with no impact from catastrophes in 2007. Net favorable prior year reserve development provided 10.0 point and 2.6 point benefits to the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio in 2008 and 2007, respectively. The 2008 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio adjusted for the cost of catastrophes and prior year reserve development was 2.3 points higher than the 2007 ratio on the same basis, reflecting the impact of competitive market conditions on pricing over the preceding twelve months and loss cost trends, as well as a small increase in the number of large property losses. The underwriting expense ratio of 32.2% in 2009 was 0.3 points lower than the underwriting expense ratio of 32.5% in 2008. The 2009 underwriting expense ratio included a 0.3 point benefit from the reduction in the estimate of windpool assessments described above, whereas the underwriting expense ratio in 2008 included a 0.6 point increase due to the impact from the windpool assessments and reinstatement premiums. Adjusting for these factors in both years, the underwriting expense ratio for 2009 was 0.6 points higher than the 2008 underwriting expense ratio. The adjusted underwriting expense ratio in 2009 reflected the unfavorable impact of the decline in fee income compared with the same periods of 2008. A portion of fee income is accounted for as a reduction of expenses for purposes of calculating the expense ratio. The underwriting expense ratio of 32.5% in 2008 was 1.8 points higher than the comparable 2007 ratio of 30.7%. The 2008 expense ratio included a 0.6 point impact of the hurricane related assessments, whereas the 2007 ratio included a 0.7 point benefit from the implementation of the new fixed agent compensation program described in the "Consolidated Overview" section herein. Adjusting for these factors in both years, the adjusted 2008 expense ratio was 0.5 points higher than the adjusted 85 Table of Contents expense ratio for 2007, primarily reflecting continued investments to support business growth and product development, the impact of a decline in the rate of earned premium growth relative to expense growth, and declines in fee income. Written Premiums The Business Insurance segments gross and net written premiums by market were as follows: Gross Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Select Accounts $ 2,804 $ 2,804 $ 2,774 Commercial Accounts 2,687 2,729 2,740 National Accounts 1,321 1,577 1,859 Industry Focused Underwriting 2,363 2,485 2,380 Target Risk Underwriting 2,014 2,029 2,182 Specialized Distribution 901 954 1,033 Total Business Insurance Core 12,090 12,578 12,968 Business Insurance Other 8 2 49 Total Business Insurance $ 12,098 $ 12,580 $ 13,017 Net Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Select Accounts $ 2,756 $ 2,756 $ 2,711 Commercial Accounts 2,493 2,524 2,518 National Accounts 902 996 1,056 Industry Focused Underwriting 2,279 2,396 2,301 Target Risk Underwriting 1,568 1,593 1,665 Specialized Distribution 889 939 1,015 Total Business Insurance Core 10,887 11,204 11,266 Business Insurance Other 15 16 52 Total Business Insurance $ 10,902 $ 11,220 $ 11,318 In Business Insurance Core, gross and net written premiums in 2009 decreased by 4% and 3% from 2008, respectively. The decline in gross and net written premiums in 2009 was driven in large part by lower levels of economic activity in recent quarters that impacted exposure changes at renewal, audit premium adjustments, policy endorsements and mid term cancellations. In Business Insurance Core, gross and net written premiums in 2008 decreased by 3% and 1% from 2007, respectively. The difference in rates of decline between gross and net written premiums in 2008 was concentrated in National Accounts, where a significant portion of gross written premiums is ceded to other insurers and residual market pools. As a result, the decline in gross written premiums did not have a proportional impact on net written premiums. Net written premium growth in the Industry Focused Underwriting, Select Accounts and Commercial Accounts groups generally reflected higher business retention levels and new business volume in several business units within these groups. This was more than offset by premium declines in Specialized Distribution, Target Risk Underwriting and National Accounts. Select Accounts. Net written premiums of $2.76 billion in 2009 were level with 2008. Business retention rates remained strong, but declined slightly from the prior year. Renewal premium changes were positive in 2009 and increased over 2008. New business volume in 2009 increased slightly over 86 Table of Contents 2008, driven by the continued success of the Companys quote to issue agency platform and multivariate pricing program for smaller businesses, partially offset by lower business volumes in larger, more complex accounts served by this market. Net written premiums of $2.76 billion in 2008 increased 2% over 2007. Business retention rates in 2008 remained strong and were consistent with 2007. Renewal price changes remained positive and were comparable to 2007. In the aggregate, new business volume in 2008 increased over 2007. The Company experienced a favorable impact on its new business volume from its enhanced quote to issue agency platform and multivariate pricing program for smaller businesses served by Select Accounts. However, new business volume for larger accounts in 2008 declined from 2007 primarily due to competitive market conditions. Commercial Accounts. In 2009, net written premiums of $2.49 billion were 1% lower than in 2008. Business retention rates in 2009 remained strong but declined slightly from the prior year. Renewal premium changes were slightly negative in 2009 but were improved over 2008, as the impact of a continued improving rate trend was partially offset by the impact on written premiums of lower coverage demands from existing policyholders due to general economic conditions. New business levels increased when compared with 2008 due to various product and customer initiatives. Net written premiums of $2.52 billion in 2008 were virtually level with the 2007 total. Business retention rates in 2008 remained strong and were higher than in 2007. Renewal price changes were slightly negative in 2008, and were lower than in 2007. New business levels also declined when compared with 2007, reflecting competitive market conditions in this market. National Accounts. In 2009, net written premiums of $902 million were 9% lower than in 2008. The decline in net written premiums in 2009 was driven by the loss of a large account, negative renewal premium changes resulting from lower coverage demands from existing policyholders due to general economic conditions, and lower premium volume from property and workers compensation involuntary residual markets. Despite the impact of the loss of a large account, business retention rates remained high in 2009. Net written premiums of $1.00 billion in 2008 decreased 6% from 2007. The decline primarily reflected a significant decline in renewal price changes, as prices charged for National Accounts products are adjusted for actual loss performance, which continued to be favorable due to workers compensation reforms. Overall new business volume increased slightly over 2007. Business retention rates in 2008 remained strong and increased over 2007. Industry Focused Underwriting. In 2009, net written premiums of $2.28 billion declined 5% from 2008. Premium declines were concentrated in the Construction and Oil & Gas business units, reflecting economic conditions in these industries. In addition, premium volume in the Technology and Public Sector business units declined, reflecting economic conditions and competitive market pressures. These declines were partially offset by premium growth in the Agribusiness business unit in 2009. Net written premiums of $2.40 billion in 2008 increased 4% over 2007. All business units in this market recorded net written premium growth in 2008. Growth in Construction net written premiums in 2008 was driven by strong business retention levels coupled with continued strong new business volume. An increase in new business volume was the primary factor in the growth in net written premiums in the Oil & Gas business unit. In Agribusiness, net written premium growth was driven by increases in business retention rates and renewal price changes. In the Public Sector business unit, the increase in net written premiums was driven by higher new business volume coupled with continued strong business retention rates. Target Risk Underwriting. In 2009, net written premiums of $1.57 billion were 2% lower than in 2008, primarily due to the Inland Marine and Ocean Marine business units, reflecting the impact of 87 Table of Contents general economic conditions and a decline in new business volume. Partially offsetting the declines in these business units was strong growth in National Property premium volume in 2009 due to significant increases in renewal premium changes. Excess Casualty written premiums also increased over 2008, due to a change in the terms of certain reinsurance treaties that resulted in a higher level of business retained. Net written premiums of $1.59 billion in 2008 decreased 4% from 2007. The decline was concentrated in the National Property business unit, reflecting reductions in renewal price changes and new business volume due to competitive market conditions, and in the Inland Marine business unit, primarily reflecting reductions in business retention rates and new business volume due to general economic conditions. In addition, the Global Accounts business unit experienced a reduction in net written premiums due to declines in business retention rates, renewal price changes and new business. Partially offsetting the declines in these business units was an increase in net written premiums in the Excess Casualty business unit, where renewal price changes remained negative but improved over 2007 and business retention levels increased. Specialized Distribution. In 2009, net written premiums of $889 million were 5% lower than in 2008. The decline was attributable to both the National Programs and Northland business units, which experienced continued negative renewal premium changes that reflected competitive market conditions and the impact of economic conditions, primarily on the commercial trucking, entertainment and leisure industries. Net written premiums of $939 million in 2008 decreased 7% from 2007. The premium decline reflected negative renewal price changes in both the Northland and National Programs business units. In the National Programs business unit, business retention rates increased over 2007, but new business levels declined compared with 2007. In the Northland business unit, business retention rates and new business levels remained strong, but were down slightly compared with 2007. Financial, Professional & International Insurance Results of the Companys Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment were as follows: (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Revenues: Earned premiums $ 3,333 $ 3,429 $ 3,384 Net investment income 452 454 494 Other revenues 27 24 29 Total revenues $ 3,812 $ 3,907 $ 3,907 Total claims and expenses $ 2,948 $ 3,004 $ 2,981 Operating income $ 642 $ 649 $ 675 Loss and loss adjustment expense ratio 52.1 % 51.2 % 50.8 % Underwriting expense ratio 36.0 36.0 36.8 GAAP combined ratio 88.1 % 87.2 % 87.6 % Overview In 2009, operating income of $642 million was $7 million, or 1%, lower than in 2008. A reduction in net favorable prior year reserve development was largely offset by a decline in the cost of catastrophes and lower large losses in the International group. Net favorable prior year reserve 88 Table of Contents development totaled $168 million and $274 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The cost of catastrophes totaled $3 million and $84 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. Operating income of $649 million in 2008 decreased by $26 million, or 4%, from 2007. The decline in operating income was primarily driven by an increase in the number of large losses that exceeded expectations within the International group, an increase in the cost of catastrophes and a decline in net investment income, largely offset by a significant increase in net favorable prior year reserve development. The cost of catastrophes in 2008 was $84 million, compared with no catastrophe losses in 2007. Net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $274 and $93 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. In March 2007, the Company completed the sale of Afianzadora Insurgentes, which accounted for $25 million of net written premiums for the year ended December 31, 2007. The impact of this transaction was not material to the Companys results of operations or financial position. Earned Premiums Earned premiums of $3.33 billion in 2009 declined $96 million, or 3%, from the 2008 total due to the unfavorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates. Adjusting for the impact of exchange rates, earned premiums in this segment were slightly higher than in 2008, primarily reflecting growth in the International group. Earned premiums of $3.43 billion in 2008 increased $45 million, or 1%, over the 2007 total of $3.38 billion. Adjusting for the sale of Afianzadora Insurgentes in 2007, earned premium growth of 2% in 2008 was concentrated in the Construction Services business unit of the Bond & Financial Products group due to changes in the terms of certain reinsurance treaties that resulted in a higher level of business retained. Net Investment Income The slight decline in net investment income in 2009 compared with 2008 was primarily driven by the unfavorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates, which reduced reported net investment income by approximately $18 million in 2009. Refer to the "Net Investment Income" section of "Consolidated Results of Operations" herein for a discussion of the change in the Companys net investment income in 2009 and 2008 as compared with the respective prior years, as well as a discussion of the Companys net investment income allocation methodology. Claims and Expenses Claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2009 totaled $1.75 billion, a decrease of $22 million, or 1%, from 2008. The decrease in 2009 was driven by a $73 million favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates. A decrease in net favorable prior year reserve development was largely offset by declines in the cost of catastrophes and large losses in the International group. Net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $168 million and $274 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2009 was driven by better than expected loss experience in the International group, particularly in the United Kingdom and in the Surety line of business in Canada. In addition, the Aviation and Property lines of business at Lloyds experienced net favorable prior year reserve development in 2009. In the Bond & Financial Products group, better than expected loss experience for the contract surety business within the fidelity and surety product line for recent accident years also resulted in net favorable prior year reserve development in 2009. The cost of catastrophes included in claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2009 totaled $3 million, compared with $73 million in 2008. Claims and claim adjustment expenses of $1.77 billion in 2008 increased by $32 million, or 2%, over 2007. An increase in the cost of catastrophes and an increase in the number of large losses that exceeded expectations within International in 2008 were largely offset by a significant increase in net favorable prior year reserve development. The cost of catastrophes included in claims and claim 89 Table of Contents adjustment expenses in 2008 totaled $73 million, compared with no catastrophe losses in 2007. Hurricanes Ike and Gustav accounted for the majority of catastrophe losses in 2008. Net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $274 million in 2008, primarily driven by better than expected loss experience in the International group. The improvements in longer tail lines of business were attributable to several factors, including enhanced risk control and underwriting strategies throughout the International group. In the property line of business, the improvement primarily resulted from better than anticipated loss development in the United Kingdom, in part due to favorable claim activity relating to 2007 flood losses. In the Bond & Financial Products group, better than expected loss experience for the contract surety business within the fidelity and surety product line, resulting from favorable settlements on large claims (primarily from accident years prior to 2005), resulted in net favorable prior year reserve development in 2008. In 2007, net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $93 million, primarily reflecting better than expected loss development in international property, employers liability, professional indemnity and motor lines of business for recent accident years, which was attributable to several factors, including enhanced pricing and underwriting strategies throughout the International operations, and the favorable impact of legal and judicial reforms in Ireland. The amortization of deferred acquisition costs totaled $622 million in 2009, $30 million, or 5%, lower than the comparable 2008 total of $652 million. The declines were driven by the favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates and changes in the mix of business. General and administrative expenses in 2009 totaled $579 million, slightly lower than $581 million in 2008. The decline in 2009 primarily reflected the favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates, which was largely offset by an increase in employee related expenses associated with growth initiatives. General and administrative expenses in 2008 were $9 million lower than in 2007, primarily reflecting a decrease in commission expense. GAAP Combined Ratio In 2009, the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 52.1% was 0.9 points higher than the ratio of 51.2% in 2008. The 2009 ratio included a 5.1 point benefit from net favorable prior year reserve development and a 0.1 point impact from the cost of catastrophes, whereas the 2008 ratio included an 8.0 point benefit from net favorable prior year reserve development and a 2.3 point impact from the cost of catastrophes. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio in 2009 adjusted for the cost of catastrophes and prior year reserve development was 0.2 points higher than the 2008 ratio on the same basis, as the impact of loss cost trends was partially offset by the favorable impact of lower large losses in the International group. The underwriting expense ratio of 36.0% for 2009 was level with the underwriting expense ratio in 2008. The 2008 expense ratio included a 0.2 point impact from hurricane related assessments. Adjusting for that factor in 2008, the 2009 underwriting expense ratio was 0.2 points higher than the 2008 ratio. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 51.2% in 2008 was 0.4 points higher than the 2007 ratio of 50.8%. The 2008 ratio included an 8.0 point benefit from net favorable prior year reserve development and a 2.3 point impact from the cost of catastrophes, whereas the 2007 ratio included a 2.7 point benefit from net favorable prior year reserve development and no impact from catastrophe losses. The 2008 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio adjusted for catastrophe losses and prior year reserve development was 3.4 points higher than the 2007 ratio on the same basis, primarily reflecting an increase in the number of large losses that exceeded expectations within International. The underwriting expense ratio of 36.0% in 2008 was 0.8 points lower than in 2007. The 2008 expense ratio included a 0.2 point impact of hurricane related assessments. Adjusting for these assessments, the 2008 expense ratio was 1.0 points lower than the expense ratio in 2007, reflecting reduced acquisition costs. 90 Table of Contents Written Premiums Financial, Professional & International Insurance gross and net written premiums by market were as follows: Gross Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Bond & Financial Products $ 2,262 $ 2,378 $ 2,480 International 1,451 1,588 1,557 Total Financial, Professional & International Insurance $ 3,713 $ 3,966 $ 4,037 Net Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Bond & Financial Products $ 2,040 $ 2,126 $ 2,123 International 1,245 1,342 1,342 Total Financial, Professional & International Insurance $ 3,285 $ 3,468 $ 3,465 The Financial, Professional & International Insurance segments gross written premiums of $3.71 billion in 2009 decreased 6% from 2008, and net written premiums of $3.29 billion in 2009 decreased 5% from 2008. The decline in gross and net written premiums was primarily attributable to the unfavorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates in the International group. The remainder of the decline was driven by the impact of the economic downturn on construction surety business volume and underwriting actions taken in the professional liability component of Bond & Financial Products management liability business, partially offset by growth in Ireland. In the Bond & Financial Products group (excluding the surety line of business, for which the following are not relevant measures), business retention rates remained strong but decreased from 2008, primarily in professional liability. Renewal premium changes in 2009 increased slightly over 2008, as the impact of slight positive renewal rate changes on written premiums was largely offset by reduced insured exposures due to underwriting actions and lower levels of economic activity. New business levels in 2009 were lower than in 2008. In the International group (excluding the surety line of business, for which the following are not relevant measures), business retention rates in 2009 declined from 2008, primarily due to underwriting actions taken in the United Kingdom, Ireland and at the Companys operations at Lloyds. Renewal premium changes improved over 2008 and new business levels declined when compared with 2008. Afianzadora Insurgentes generated gross and net written premiums of $30 million and $25 million, respectively, in 2007. Adjusting for the sale of that operation in 2007, gross written premiums in 2008 declined 1% from 2007, whereas net written premiums increased 1% over 2007. The difference in 2008 gross and net written premium growth rates primarily reflected changes in the terms of certain of the Companys reinsurance treaties that resulted in a higher level of business retained in the Bond & Financial Products group. In the Bond & Financial Products group, net written premiums in 2008 increased 1% over 2007 (adjusted for the sale of Afianzadora Insurgentes), as the impact of the higher level of business retained in 2008 was largely offset by a decline in premium volume due to competitive market conditions and the economic downturn. In the Bond & Financial Products group (excluding the surety line of business, for which the following are not relevant measures), business retention rates in 2008 remained strong and increased slightly over 2007. Renewal price changes in 2008 were slightly negative, compared to an increase in the prior year, and new business levels were consistent with 2007. 91 Table of Contents Net written premiums in the International group in 2008 were flat with 2007. For the International group in 2008, business retention rates declined from 2007 due to the intentional non renewal of certain property business in Canada and more competitive market conditions at Lloyds. Renewal price changes in 2008 were flat, compared to a decrease in 2007, and new business volume increased. Personal Insurance Results of the Companys Personal Insurance segment were as follows: (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Revenues: Earned premiums $ 7,117 $ 6,970 $ 6,803 Net investment income 422 421 559 Other revenues 84 75 90 Total revenues $ 7,623 $ 7,466 $ 7,452 Total claims and expenses $ 6,824 $ 6,855 $ 5,996 Operating income $ 601 $ 465 $ 1,019 Loss and loss adjustment expense ratio 65.0 % 66.2 % 58.6 % Underwriting expense ratio 29.6 30.8 28.2 GAAP combined ratio 94.6 % 97.0 % 86.8 % Incremental impact of direct to consumer initiative on GAAP combined ratio 1.7 % 0.5 % % Overview In 2009, operating income of $601 million was $136 million, or 29%, higher than in 2008, driven by a decline in the cost of catastrophes and a reduction in the estimate of property windpool assessments, partially offset by investments in the direct to consumer initiative and loss cost trends. The cost of catastrophes in 2009 totaled $278 million, compared with $618 million in 2008. The 2008 total was comprised of $541 million of claims and claim adjustment expenses and $77 million of property windpool assessments that were included in general and administrative expenses. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2009 and 2008 totaled $135 million and $143 million, respectively. Operating income of $465 million in 2008 was $554 million, or 54%, lower than operating income in 2007, primarily reflecting an increase in the cost of catastrophes. Also contributing to the decline in 2008 were a reduction in net investment income, an increase in non catastrophe related weather losses and loss cost trends. The cost of catastrophes in 2008 totaled $618 million, compared with $163 million in 2007. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2008 and 2007 totaled $143 million and $152 million, respectively. In addition, results in 2007 benefited by $71 million from the Companys implementation of a new fixed agent compensation program. In April 2007, the Company completed the sale of its subsidiary, Mendota Insurance Company, and its wholly owned subsidiaries, Mendakota Insurance Company and Mendota Insurance Agency, Inc. (collectively, Mendota). These subsidiaries primarily offered nonstandard automobile coverage and accounted for $49 million of net written premiums in the year ended December 31, 2007. The impact of this transaction was not material to the Companys results of operations or financial position. Earned Premiums In 2009, earned premiums of $7.12 billion were $147 million, or 2%, higher than in 2008. The increase reflected continued strong business retention rates and new business levels, and renewal 92 Table of Contents premium increases. Earned premiums of $6.97 billion in 2008 increased $167 million, or 2%, over earned premiums of $6.80 billion in 2007. Adjusting for the sale of Mendota in 2007, earned premiums in 2008 increased 3% over 2007. The increase reflected continued strong business retention rates and new business volume, coupled with continued renewal price increases. Net Investment Income Refer to the "Net Investment Income" section of "Consolidated Results of Operations" herein for a discussion of the change in the Companys net investment income in 2009 and 2008 as compared with the prior year. Claims and Expenses In 2009, claims and claim adjustment expenses of $4.62 billion were slightly higher than in 2008, as the impacts of loss cost trends and increased business volume were largely offset by the decline in the cost of catastrophes. The cost of catastrophes included in claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2009 totaled $278 million, compared with $541 million in 2008. Catastrophe losses in 2009 primarily resulted from several wind and hail storms, as well as flooding. Catastrophe losses in 2008 primarily resulted from Hurricanes Ike and Gustav, as well as tornado, wind and hail storms in various regions of the United States throughout the year. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2009 totaled $135 million, compared with $143 million in 2008. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2009 primarily reflected favorable loss experience related to Hurricanes Ike and Katrina, as well as the 2007 California wildfires. Claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2008 totaled $4.62 billion, an increase of $629 million, or 16%, over 2007, primarily reflecting a significant increase in the cost of catastrophes, non catastrophe weather related losses in the Homeowners and Other product line, the impact of loss cost trends and increased business volume. The cost of catastrophes included in claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2008 totaled $541 million, compared with $163 million in 2007. Catastrophe losses in 2008 primarily resulted from Hurricanes Ike and Gustav, as well as tornado, wind and hail storms in various regions of the United States throughout the year. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2008 and 2007 totaled $143 million and $152 million, respectively. The 2008 net favorable prior year reserve development was primarily driven by favorable loss experience related to Hurricane Katrina, and better than expected loss experience from recent accident years for the Homeowners and Other product line. This improvement was driven in part by claim initiatives as well as better than expected outcomes on 2007 catastrophe related claims. In addition, the Homeowners and Other product line experienced improvement in older accident years for the umbrella line as well as favorable experience from accident year 2007 for allied coverages due to less than expected claim activity. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2007 of $152 million was driven by better than expected automobile loss experience due in part to claim initiatives and fewer than expected late reported homeowners claims related to non catastrophe weather events that occurred in the fourth quarter of 2006. In addition, a portion of net favorable prior year reserve development in the Homeowners and Other line of business in 2007 was attributable to a decrease in the number of claims due to changes in the marketplace, including higher deductibles and fewer small dollar claims. The amortization of deferred acquisition costs totaled $1.42 billion in 2009, compared with $1.41 billion in 2008, consistent with earned premium levels in both years. The amortization of deferred acquisition costs totaled $1.41 billion in 2008, compared with $1.31 billion in 2007. The growth in amortization costs in 2008 primarily reflected the higher level of amortized commission expense in 2008 resulting from the Companys implementation of a new fixed agent compensation program in 2007, as well as an increase in business volume. 93  Table of Contents In 2009, general and administrative expenses of $784 million were $45 million lower than the comparable 2008 total of $829 million. The decrease resulted from revised estimates of windpool assessments related to Hurricane Ike. During 2008, the Company recorded $77 million of estimated property windpool assessments in the Personal Insurance segment in general and administrative expenses. Subsequently, during the first half of 2009, the Company recorded a $48 million reduction in these estimated assessments due to a decline in estimated insurance industry losses related to Hurricane Ike. Adjusting for the impact of windpool assessments in both 2009 and 2008, general and administrative expenses in 2009 increased 11%, over 2008, primarily reflecting growth in business volume and continued investments to support business growth and product development, including the Companys direct to consumer initiative. General and administrative expenses totaled $829 million in 2008, an increase of $130 million, or 19% over the 2007 total of $699 million. The increase in 2008 included the impact of $77 million of estimated hurricane related assessments. The remaining increase reflected growth in business volume and continued investments to support business growth and product development. GAAP Combined Ratio In 2009, the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 65.0% was 1.2 points lower than the comparable 2008 ratio of 66.2%. The cost of catastrophes accounted for 3.9 points of the 2009 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio, whereas the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio for 2008 included a 7.8 point impact of the cost of catastrophes. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio for 2009 and 2008 included 1.9 point and 2.1 point benefits, respectively from net favorable prior year reserve development. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratios adjusted for catastrophe losses and prior year reserve development for 2009 was 2.5 points higher than the 2008 ratio on the same basis, primarily reflecting the impact of loss cost trends. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 66.2% in 2008 was 7.6 points higher than the comparable 2007 ratio of 58.6%. The 2008 ratio included a 7.8 point impact of the cost of catastrophes and a 2.1 point benefit from net favorable prior year reserve development, whereas the 2007 ratio included a 2.4 point impact of the cost of catastrophes and a 2.2 point benefit from net favorable prior year reserve development. The 2008 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio adjusted for catastrophe losses and prior year reserve development was 2.1 points higher than the 2007 ratio on the same basis, primarily reflecting the impact of an increase in non catastrophe weather related losses in the Homeowners and Other line of business and loss cost trends. In 2009, the underwriting expense ratio of 29.6% was 1.2 points lower than the underwriting expense ratio of 30.8% in 2008. The 2009 underwriting expense ratio included a 0.7 point benefit from the reduction in the estimate of windpool assessments described above, whereas the 2008 underwriting expense ratio included a 1.1 point increase due to the impact related to the windpool assessments. Adjusting for these factors in both years, the underwriting expense ratio for 2009 was 0.6 points higher than the 2008 underwriting expense ratio, primarily reflecting expenses resulting from the Companys direct to consumer initiative. The underwriting expense ratio of 30.8% in 2008 was 2.6 points higher than the 2007 ratio of 28.2%. The 2008 ratio included a 1.1 point impact from estimated hurricane related assessments, whereas the 2007 ratio included a 1.0 point benefit from the implementation of the new fixed agent compensation program. Adjusting for these factors, the 2008 expense ratio was 0.5 points higher than the adjusted expense ratio for 2007, primarily reflecting continued investments to support business growth and product development. 94 Table of Contents Agency Written Premiums Personal Insurances gross and net written premiums by product line were as follows for its Agency business, which comprises business written through agents, brokers and other intermediaries, and represents almost all of the Personal Insurance segments gross and net written premiums: Gross Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Agency Automobile $ 3,610 $ 3,680 $ 3,673 Agency Homeowners and Other 3,809 3,599 3,471 Total Agency Personal Insurance $ 7,419 $ 7,279 $ 7,144 Net Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Agency Automobile $ 3,586 $ 3,651 $ 3,628 Agency Homeowners and Other 3,508 3,333 3,207 Total Agency Personal Insurance $ 7,094 $ 6,984 $ 6,835 Gross and net Agency written premiums in 2009 both increased by 2% over the comparable 2008 totals. In 2008, gross and net Agency written premiums also both increased 2% over the comparable 2007 totals. Mendota accounted for $49 million of both gross and net written premiums in 2007. Adjusting for the sale of Mendota in 2007, gross and net written premiums in 2008 both increased 3% over the 2007 totals. In 2009, net written premiums in the Agency Automobile line of business decreased 2% from 2008. The impact of increasing renewal premium changes was more than offset by declines in new business volume and business retention rates compared with 2008. In the Agency Homeowners and Other line of business, net written premiums in 2009 grew 5% over 2008, driven by increases in renewal premium changes. New business volume was consistent with 2008 and business retention rates remained strong and consistent with 2008. In the Agency Automobile line of business, net written premiums in 2008 increased 2% over 2007, adjusting for the sale of Mendota. Business retention rates in 2008 remained strong and were consistent with 2007. Renewal price changes in 2008 remained positive and consistent with 2007. New business levels in 2008 increased over 2007. In the Agency Homeowners and Other line of business, net written premiums in 2008 grew 4% over 2007. Business retention rates in 2008 remained strong and were consistent with 2007. Renewal price changes in 2008 remained positive but declined from 2007. New business levels also remained strong and increased slightly over 2007. For its Agency business, the Personal Insurance segment had approximately 7.4 million and 7.3 million active policies at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In the Agency Automobile line of business, active policies at December 31, 2009 decreased 3% from the same date in 2008. Active policies in the Agency Homeowners and Other line of business at December 31, 2009 grew by 3% over the same date in 2008. Interest Expense and Other (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Operating loss $ (233 ) $ (257 ) $ (209 ) 95 Table of Contents The $24 million decline in operating loss for Interest Expense and Other in 2009 compared with 2008 primarily reflected a benefit of $28 million in 2009 from the favorable resolution of various prior year tax matters. After tax interest expense in 2009 totaled $248 million, compared with $239 million in 2008. The $48 million increase in operating loss for Interest Expense and Other in 2008 compared with 2007 was primarily driven by a $52 million benefit in 2007 resulting from the favorable resolution of various prior year tax matters. The net loss in 2008 included after tax interest expense of $239 million, compared with $224 million in 2007. The net loss in 2007 also included an after tax loss of $25 million related to the Companys redemption of its 4.50% contingently convertible debentures in April 2007, consisting of the redemption premium paid and the write off of remaining debt issuance costs. ASBESTOS CLAIMS AND LITIGATION The Company believes that the property and casualty insurance industry has suffered from court decisions and other trends that have attempted to expand insurance coverage for asbestos claims far beyond the intent of insurers and policyholders. While the Company has experienced a decrease in new asbestos claims over the past several years, the Company continues to receive a significant number of asbestos claims from the Companys policyholders (which includes others seeking coverage under a policy), including claims against the Companys policyholders by individuals who do not appear to be impaired by asbestos exposure. Factors underlying these claim filings include intensive advertising by lawyers seeking asbestos claimants and the focus by plaintiffs on previously peripheral defendants. The focus on these defendants is primarily the result of the number of traditional asbestos defendants who have sought bankruptcy protection in previous years. In addition to contributing to the overall number of claims, bankruptcy proceedings may increase the volatility of asbestos related losses by initially delaying the reporting of claims and later by significantly accelerating and increasing loss payments by insurers, including the Company. The bankruptcy of many traditional defendants has also caused increased settlement demands against those policyholders who are not in bankruptcy but that remain in the tort system. Currently, in many jurisdictions, those who allege very serious injury and who can present credible medical evidence of their injuries are receiving priority trial settings in the courts, while those who have not shown any credible disease manifestation are having their hearing dates delayed or placed on an inactive docket. This trend of prioritizing claims involving credible evidence of injuries, along with the focus on previously peripheral defendants, contributes to the claims and claim adjustment expense payments experienced by the Company. The Companys asbestos related claims and claim adjustment expense experience also has been impacted by the unavailability of other insurance sources potentially available to policyholders, whether through exhaustion of policy limits or through the insolvency of other participating insurers. The Company continues to be involved in coverage litigation concerning a number of policyholders, some of whom have filed for bankruptcy, who in some instances have asserted that all or a portion of their asbestos related claims are not subject to aggregate limits on coverage. In these instances, policyholders also may assert that each individual bodily injury claim should be treated as a separate occurrence under the policy. It is difficult to predict whether these policyholders will be successful on both issues. To the extent both issues are resolved in a policyholders favor and other Company defenses are not successful, the Companys coverage obligations under the policies at issue would be materially increased and bounded only by the applicable per occurrence limits and the number of asbestos bodily injury claims against the policyholders. Accordingly, although the Company has seen a moderation in the overall risk associated with these lawsuits, it remains difficult to predict the ultimate cost of these claims. Many coverage disputes with policyholders are only resolved through settlement agreements. Because many policyholders make exaggerated demands, it is difficult to predict the outcome of settlement negotiations. Settlements involving bankrupt policyholders may include extensive releases 96 Table of Contents which are favorable to the Company but which could result in settlements for larger amounts than originally anticipated. There also may be instances where a court may not approve a proposed settlement, which may result in additional litigation and potentially less beneficial outcomes for the Company. As in the past, the Company will continue to pursue settlement opportunities. In addition to claims against policyholders, proceedings have been launched directly against insurers, including the Company, by individuals challenging insurers conduct with respect to the handling of past asbestos claims and by individuals seeking damages arising from alleged asbestos related bodily injuries. The Company anticipates the filing of other direct actions against insurers, including the Company, in the future. It is difficult to predict the outcome of these proceedings, including whether the plaintiffs will be able to sustain these actions against insurers based on novel legal theories of liability. The Company believes it has meritorious defenses to these claims and has received favorable rulings in certain jurisdictions. Travelers Property Casualty Corp. (TPC), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, had entered into settlement agreements, which are subject to a number of contingencies, in connection with a number of these direct action claims. These settlement agreements had been approved by the court in connection with proceedings initiated by TPC in the Johns Manville bankruptcy court. On March 29, 2006, the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York substantially affirmed the bankruptcy courts orders, while vacating that portion of the bankruptcy courts orders which required all future direct actions against TPC to first be approved by the bankruptcy court before proceeding in state or federal court. Various parties appealed the district courts ruling to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. On February 15, 2008, the Second Circuit issued an opinion vacating on jurisdictional grounds the district courts approval of the bankruptcy courts order that barred the filing of certain direct action claims against TPC in the future. TPC and certain other parties filed Petitions for Writ of Certiorari in the United States Supreme Court seeking review of the Second Circuits decision. Those petitions were granted and on June 18, 2009, the Supreme Court ruled in favor of the Company, reversing the Second Circuits decision. However, since the Second Circuit had not ruled on several additional issues principally related to procedural matters and the adequacy of notice provided to certain parties, the Supreme Court remanded the case to the Second Circuit for further proceedings on those specific issues. Oral argument before the Second Circuit on the remaining issues was held on October 22, 2009 and the parties await a ruling. Accordingly, the settlements are not yet final. (For a description of these matters, see "Part I Item 3 Legal Proceedings"). Because each policyholder presents different liability and coverage issues, the Company generally reviews the exposure presented by each policyholder at least annually. Among the factors which the Company may consider in the course of this review are: available insurance coverage, including the role of any umbrella or excess insurance the Company has issued to the policyholder; limits and deductibles; an analysis of the policyholders potential liability; the jurisdictions involved; past and anticipated future claim activity and loss development on pending claims; past settlement values of similar claims; allocated claim adjustment expense; potential role of other insurance; the role, if any, of non asbestos claims or potential non asbestos claims in any resolution process; and applicable coverage defenses or determinations, if any, including the determination as to whether or not an asbestos claim is a product/completed operation claim subject to an aggregate limit and the available coverage, if any, for that claim. In the third quarter of 2009, the Company completed its annual in depth asbestos claim review. As in prior years, the review considered active policyholders and litigation cases for potential product and "non product" liability. The "home office and field office" category (as defined below), which accounts for the vast majority of policyholders with active asbestos related claims, again experienced an overall reduction in new claim filings. Overall gross defense and indemnity costs in these categories remained at similar levels to what the Company has experienced in recent years due to the continued high level of trial activity involving individuals alleging serious asbestos related injury, rather than decreasing 97 Table of Contents slightly as the Company had expected. While there was an aggregate decrease in the number of claims received, the number of policyholders tendering asbestos claims for the first time increased from the number tendering claims for the first time in 2008. The Company also noted the continuation of recent trends, which included: stable payment patterns for a large proportion of policyholders; a decrease in the number of claims received; a decrease in the number of large asbestos exposures confronting the Company due to additional settlement activity; continued moderate level of asbestos related bankruptcy activity; and the absence of new theories of liability or new classes of defendants. While the Company believes that these trends indicate a reduction in the volatility associated with the Companys overall asbestos exposure, there nonetheless remains a high degree of uncertainty with respect to future exposure from asbestos claims. The Companys quarterly asbestos reserve review includes an analysis of exposure and claim payment patterns by policyholder category, as well as recent settlements, policyholder bankruptcies, judicial rulings and legislative actions. Developing payment patterns among policyholders in the "home office and field office" and "assumed reinsurance and other" categories are also analyzed. In addition, the Company reviews its historical gross and net loss and expense paid experience, year by year, to assess any emerging trends, fluctuations, or characteristics suggested by the aggregate paid activity. For certain policyholders an estimate of the gross ultimate exposure for indemnity and related claim adjustment expense is determined, and for those policyholders the Company calculates, by each policy year, a ceded reinsurance projection based on any applicable facultative and treaty reinsurance, past ceded experience and reinsurance collections. Conventional actuarial methods are not utilized to establish asbestos reserves nor have the Companys evaluations resulted in any way of determining a meaningful average asbestos defense or indemnity payment. The completion of these reviews and analyses in the third quarter resulted in a $185 million increase in the Companys asbestos reserves, which was primarily driven by a slight increase in the Companys assumption for projected defense costs related to a broad range of policyholders. Overall, the companys assessment of the underlying asbestos environment did not change significantly from recent periods. The Company recorded a $70 million increase to asbestos reserves in 2008, which was driven by a change in the estimated costs associated with litigating asbestos coverage matters and a change in estimated losses for certain individual policyholders. The Company recorded no asbestos reserve additions in 2007. Net asbestos losses paid in 2009, 2008 and 2007 were $341 million, $658 million and $317 million, respectively. (Asbestos payments in 2008 included the Companys one time net payment of $365 million associated with the settlement of the ACandS, Inc. matter). Approximately 41%, 59% and 20% of total net paid losses in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, related to policyholders with whom the Company had entered into settlement agreements limiting the Companys liability. 98 Table of Contents The Company categorizes its asbestos reserves as follows: Number of Policyholders Total Net Paid Net Asbestos Reserves (at and for the year ended December 31, $ in millions) 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 Policyholders with settlement agreements 18 23 $ 139 $ 389 $ 621 $ 749 Home office and field office 1,697 1,651 176 217 1,956 1,983 Assumed reinsurance and other 26 41 181 182 International 11 Total 1,715 1,674 $ 341 $ 658 $ 2,758 $ 2,914 The "policyholders with settlement agreements" category includes structured settlements, coverage in place arrangements and, with respect to TPC, Wellington accounts. Reserves are based on the expected payout for each policyholder under the applicable agreement. Structured settlements are arrangements under which policyholders and or plaintiffs agree to fixed financial amounts to be paid at scheduled times. Included in this category are TPCs settlements of the Statutory and Hawaii Actions and the Common Law Claims (collectively the Direct Action Settlement). Unless the bankruptcy courts order approving the settlement is reinstated and becomes final, the Direct Action Settlement will be voided and TPC will have no obligation to pay the amounts under the Direct Action Settlement (other than certain administrative expenses). In that event, the reserves assigned to the settlement will be returned to TPCs unallocated asbestos reserve. (For a description of these matters, see "Item 3 Legal Proceedings"). Coverage in place arrangements represent agreements with major policyholders on specified amounts of coverage to be provided. Payment obligations may be subject to annual maximums and are only made when valid claims are presented. Wellington accounts refer to the 35 defendants that are parties to a 1985 agreement settling certain disputes concerning insurance coverage for their asbestos claims. Many of the aspects of the Wellington agreement are similar to those of coverage in place arrangements in which the parties have agreed on specific amounts of coverage and the terms under which the coverage can be accessed. The "home office and field office" category relates to all other policyholders and also includes unallocated IBNR reserves and reserves for the costs of defending asbestos related coverage litigation. Policyholders are identified for home office review based upon, among other factors: a combination of past payments and current case reserves in excess of a specified threshold (currently $100,000), perceived level of exposure, number of reported claims, products/completed operations and potential "non product" exposures, size of policyholder and geographic distribution of products or services sold by the policyholder. In addition to IBNR amounts contained in the reserves for "home office and field office" policyholders and the costs of litigating asbestos coverage matters, the Company has established a reserve for further adverse development related to existing policyholders, new claims from policyholders reporting claims for the first time and policyholders for which there is, or may be, litigation and direct actions against the Company. The "assumed reinsurance and other" category primarily consists of reinsurance of excess coverage, including various pool participations. On January 29, 2009, the Company and PPG Industries, Inc ("PPG"), along with approximately 30 other insurers of PPG, agreed in principle to an agreement to settle asbestos related coverage litigation under insurance policies issued to PPG. The tentative settlement agreement has been incorporated into the Modified Third Amended Plan of Reorganization ("Amended Plan") proposed as part of the Pittsburgh Corning Corp. ("PCC", which is 50% owned by PPG) bankruptcy proceeding. Pursuant to the proposed Amended Plan, which was filed on January 30, 2009, PCC, along with enumerated other companies (including PPG as well as the Company as a participating insurer), are to receive protections afforded by Section 524(g) of the Bankruptcy Code from certain asbestos related bodily injury claims. Under the agreement in principle, the Company has the option to make a series of payments over the next 20 years totaling approximately $620 million to the Trust to be created under the Amended Plan, 99 Table of Contents or it may elect to make a one time discounted payment, which, as of June 30, 2010, would total approximately $443 million (approximately $414 million after reinsurance). The agreement in principle with PPG is subject to numerous contingencies, including final court approval of the Amended Plan, and the Company has no obligation to make the settlement payment until all contingencies are satisfied. The Companys obligations under this agreement in principle are included in the unallocated asbestos IBNR reserve. In December 2008, the Company completed the sale of Unionamerica, which comprised its United Kingdom based runoff insurance and reinsurance businesses. Included in the claims and claim adjustment expense reserves transferred to the purchaser were gross and net asbestos reserves of $330 million and $232 million, respectively. The following table displays activity for asbestos losses and loss expenses and reserves: (at and for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Beginning reserves: Direct $ 3,299 $ 4,353 $ 4,777 Ceded (385 ) (619 ) (726 ) Net 2,914 3,734 4,051 Incurred losses and loss expenses: Direct 185 70 (1 ) Ceded 1 Net 185 70 Losses paid: Direct 387 794 423 Ceded (46 ) (136 ) (106 ) Net 341 658 317 Sale of subsidiary: Direct 330 Ceded (98 ) Net 232 Ending reserves: Direct 3,097 3,299 4,353 Ceded (339 ) (385 ) (619 ) Net $ 2,758 $ 2,914 $ 3,734 See " Uncertainty Regarding Adequacy of Asbestos and Environmental Reserves." ENVIRONMENTAL CLAIMS AND LITIGATION The Company continues to receive claims from policyholders who allege that they are liable for injury or damage arising out of their alleged disposition of toxic substances. Mostly, these claims are due to various legislative as well as regulatory efforts aimed at environmental remediation. For instance, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA), enacted in 1980 and later modified, enables private parties as well as federal and state governments to take action with respect to releases and threatened releases of hazardous substances. This federal statute permits the recovery of response costs from some liable parties and may require liable parties to undertake their own remedial action. Liability under CERCLA may be joint and several with other responsible parties. 100 Table of Contents The Company has been, and continues to be, involved in litigation involving insurance coverage issues pertaining to environmental claims. The Company believes that some court decisions have interpreted the insurance coverage to be broader than the original intent of the insurers and policyholders. These decisions often pertain to insurance policies that were issued by the Company prior to the mid 1980s. These decisions continue to be inconsistent and vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Environmental claims when submitted rarely indicate the monetary amount being sought by the claimant from the policyholder, and the Company does not keep track of the monetary amount being sought in those few claims which indicate a monetary amount. The resolution of environmental exposures by the Company generally occurs by settlement on a policyholder by policyholder basis as opposed to a claim by claim basis. Generally, the Company strives to extinguish any obligations it may have under any policy issued to the policyholder for past, present and future environmental liabilities and extinguish any pending coverage litigation dispute with the policyholder. This form of settlement is commonly referred to as a "buy back" of policies for future environmental liability. In addition, many of the agreements have also extinguished any insurance obligation which the Company may have for other claims, including but not limited to asbestos and other cumulative injury claims. The Company and its policyholders may also agree to settlements which extinguish any liability arising from known specified sites or claims. These agreements also include appropriate indemnities and hold harmless provisions to protect the Company. The Companys general purpose in executing these agreements is to reduce the Companys potential environmental exposure and eliminate the risks presented by coverage litigation with the policyholder and related costs. In establishing environmental reserves, the Company evaluates the exposure presented by each policyholder and the anticipated cost of resolution, if any. In the course of this analysis, the Company generally considers the probable liability, available coverage, relevant judicial interpretations and historical value of similar exposures. In addition, the Company considers the many variables presented, such as the nature of the alleged activities of the policyholder at each site; the allegations of environmental harm at each site; the number of sites; the total number of potentially responsible parties at each site; the nature of environmental harm and the corresponding remedy at each site; the nature of government enforcement activities at each site; the ownership and general use of each site; the overall nature of the insurance relationship between the Company and the policyholder, including the role of any umbrella or excess insurance the Company has issued to the policyholder; the involvement of other insurers; the potential for other available coverage, including the number of years of coverage; the role, if any, of non environmental claims or potential non environmental claims in any resolution process; and the applicable law in each jurisdiction. Conventional actuarial techniques are not used to estimate these reserves. In its review of environmental reserves, the Company considers: past settlement payments; changing judicial and legislative trends; its reserves for the costs of litigating environmental coverage matters; the potential for policyholders with smaller exposures to be named in new clean up actions for both on and off site waste disposal activities; the potential for adverse development; the potential for additional new claims beyond previous expectations; and the potential higher costs for new settlements. The duration of the Companys investigation and review of these claims and the extent of time necessary to determine an appropriate estimate, if any, of the value of the claim to the Company vary significantly and are dependent upon a number of factors. These factors include, but are not limited to, the cooperation of the policyholder in providing claim information, the pace of underlying litigation or claim processes, the pace of coverage litigation between the policyholder and the Company and the willingness of the policyholder and the Company to negotiate, if appropriate, a resolution of any dispute pertaining to these claims. Because these factors vary from claim to claim and policyholder by policyholder, the Company cannot provide a meaningful average of the duration of an environmental claim. However, based upon the Companys experience in resolving these claims, the duration may vary from months to several years. 101 Table of Contents The Company continues to receive notices from policyholders tendering claims for the first time. These policyholders generally present smaller exposures, have fewer sites and are lower tier defendants. Further, in many instances clean up costs have been reduced because regulatory agencies are willing to accept risk based site analyses and more efficient clean up technologies. In recent years, the Company had experienced a decline in both the number of new policyholders tendering claims for the first time and the number of pending lawsuits between the Company and its policyholders pertaining to coverage for environmental claims. However, during 2009 the Company experienced an increase in the number of policyholders tendering claims for the first time and in the number of pending environmental related coverage actions. In addition, the Company experienced upward development in the expected defense and settlement costs for certain of its pending policyholders. As a result, the Company increased its net environmental reserves by $70 million in the second quarter of 2009. In 2008, the Company increased its environmental reserves by $85 million as a result of upward development in the anticipated defense and settlement costs for certain of its pending policyholders. In 2007, the Company increased its environmental reserves by $185 million primarily in response to the moderation in the rate of decline in both the number of new policyholders tendering claims for the first time and the number of pending lawsuits between the Company and its policyholders pertaining to coverage for environmental claims. In December 2008, the Company completed the sale of Unionamerica, which comprised its United Kingdom based runoff insurance and reinsurance businesses. Included in the claims and claim adjustment expense reserves transferred to the purchaser were gross and net environmental reserves of $40 million and $33 million, respectively. Net paid losses in 2009 and 2008 were $91 million and $128 million, respectively. At December 31, 2009, approximately 93% of the net environmental reserve (approximately $365 million) was carried in a bulk reserve and included unresolved environmental claims, incurred but not reported environmental claims and the anticipated cost of coverage litigation disputes relating to these claims. The bulk reserve the Company carries is established and adjusted based upon the aggregate volume of in process environmental claims and the Companys experience in resolving those claims. The balance, approximately 7% of the net environmental reserve (approximately $28 million), consists of case reserves. 102 Table of Contents The following table displays activity for environmental losses and loss expenses and reserves: (at and for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Beginning reserves: Direct $ 400 $ 478 $ 413 Ceded 14 12 5 Net 414 490 418 Incurred losses and loss expenses: Direct 85 85 182 Ceded (15 ) 3 Net 70 85 185 Losses paid: Direct 96 123 117 Ceded (5 ) 5 (4 ) Net 91 128 113 Sale of subsidiary: Direct 40 Ceded (7 ) Net 33 Ending reserves: Direct 389 400 478 Ceded 4 14 12 Net $ 393 $ 414 $ 490 UNCERTAINTY REGARDING ADEQUACY OF ASBESTOS AND ENVIRONMENTAL RESERVES As a result of the processes and procedures described above, management believes that the reserves carried for asbestos and environmental claims at December 31, 2009 are appropriately established based upon known facts, current law and managements judgment. However, the uncertainties surrounding the final resolution of these claims continue, and it is difficult to determine the ultimate exposure for asbestos and environmental claims and related litigation. As a result, these reserves are subject to revision as new information becomes available and as claims develop. The continuing uncertainties include, without limitation, the risks and lack of predictability inherent in complex litigation, any impact from the bankruptcy protection sought by various asbestos producers and other asbestos defendants, a further increase or decrease in asbestos and environmental claims beyond that which is anticipated, the role of any umbrella or excess policies the Company has issued, the resolution or adjudication of disputes pertaining to the amount of available coverage for asbestos and environmental claims in a manner inconsistent with the Companys previous assessment of these claims, the number and outcome of direct actions against the Company, future developments pertaining to the Companys ability to recover reinsurance for asbestos and environmental claims and the unavailability of other insurance sources potentially available to policyholders, whether through exhaustion of policy limits or through the insolvency of other participating insurers. In addition, uncertainties arise from the insolvency or bankruptcy of policyholders and other defendants. It is also not possible to predict changes in the legal, regulatory and legislative environment and their impact on the future development of asbestos and environmental claims. This development will be affected by future court and regulatory decisions and interpretations, as well as changes in applicable legislation. It is also difficult to predict the ultimate outcome of complex coverage disputes until settlement negotiations near completion and significant legal questions are resolved or, failing settlement, until the dispute is adjudicated. This is 103 Table of Contents particularly the case with policyholders in bankruptcy where negotiations often involve a large number of claimants and other parties and require court approval to be effective. As part of its continuing analysis of asbestos and environmental reserves, the Company continues to study the implications of these and other developments. (Also, see "Part I Item 3, Legal Proceedings"). Because of the uncertainties set forth above, additional liabilities may arise for amounts in excess of the current related reserves. In addition, the Companys estimate of claims and claim adjustment expenses may change. These additional liabilities or increases in estimates, or a range of either, cannot now be reasonably estimated and could result in income statement charges that could be material to the Companys operating results in future periods. INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO The Companys invested assets at December 31, 2009 totaled $74.97 billion, of which 94% was invested in fixed maturity and short term investments, 1% in equity securities, 1% in real estate and 4% in other investments. Because the primary purpose of the investment portfolio is to fund future claims payments, the Company employs a conservative investment philosophy. A significant majority of funds available for investment are deployed in a widely diversified portfolio of high quality, liquid taxable U.S. government, tax exempt U.S. municipal bonds, and taxable corporate and U.S. agency mortgage backed bonds. The Companys fixed maturity portfolio at December 31, 2009 totaled $65.85 billion. The Company closely monitors the duration of its fixed maturity investments, and investment purchases and sales are executed with the objective of having adequate funds available to satisfy the Companys insurance and debt obligations. The weighted average credit quality of the Companys fixed maturity portfolio, both including and excluding U.S. Treasury securities, was "Aa2" at December 31, 2009 and "Aa1" at December 31, 2008. The slight decline in the Companys average credit quality rating was due to the downgrading of a monoline bond insurer during the second quarter of 2009 and the downgrading of non agency mortgage backed securities. Below investment grade securities represented 2.7% and 2.0% of the total fixed maturity investment portfolio at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The downgrading of non agency mortgage backed securities and an increase in the fair value of those and other below investment grade securities also resulted in an increase to our below investment grade securities. The average effective duration of fixed maturities and short term securities was 3.9 (4.2 excluding short term securities) at December 31, 2009 and 4.2 (4.6 excluding short term securities) at December 31, 2008. The decline in duration resulted from the impact of declining market yields on existing holdings of municipal bonds and mortgage backed securities (which impact the assumptions related to optional pre payments and the related estimate of effective duration for callable securities), and the purchase of shorter term fixed maturities during the second half of 2009. The following table sets forth the Companys combined fixed maturity investment portfolio rated using external ratings agencies or by the Company when a public rating does not exist: (at December 31, 2009, in millions) Carrying Value Percent of Total Carrying Value Quality Rating: Aaa $ 28,093 42.7 % Aa 24,861 37.8 A 7,000 10.6 Baa 4,091 6.2 Total investment grade 64,045 97.3 Below investment grade 1,802 2.7 Total fixed maturity investments $ 65,847 100.0 % 104 Table of Contents Included in the Companys fixed maturity portfolio at December 31, 2009 were $1.96 billion of debt securities issued by foreign governments and $14.78 billion of corporate fixed maturities and redeemable preferred stock. These credit exposures are diversified across a number of countries and industries. The following table shows the industry sectors for those exposures. (at December 31, 2009, in millions) Carrying Value Average Credit Rating Credit Sector(1) Government: Debt securities issued by foreign governments $ 1,957 Aaa Corporate: Financial Bank 2,107 Aa3 Insurance 423 A2 Finance/leasing 113 Baa3 Brokerage and asset management 34 Baa2 Total financial 2,677 Industrial 7,080 Baa1 Public utility 1,737 A3 Sovereign corporate securities(2) 1,499 Aaa Commercial mortgage backed and project loans(3) 714 Aaa Canadian municipal securities 669 Aa1 Asset backed and other 400 A3 Total corporate 14,776 Total credit exposure $ 16,733 A1 (1)Credit sectors include debt securities issued by foreign governments, corporate bonds and redeemable preferred stocks. (2)Sovereign corporate securities include corporate securities that are backed by a government and include sovereign banks and securities issued under the Temporary Liquidity Guaranty and the Federal Ship Financing Programs. (3)Included in commercial mortgage backed securities and project loans are $200 million of securities guaranteed by the U.S. government and $36 million by government sponsored enterprises. The Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio at December 31, 2009 included $41.33 billion of securities which are obligations of states, municipalities and political subdivisions (collectively referred to as the municipal bond portfolio). The municipal bond portfolio is diversified across the United States, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico, and includes general obligation and revenue bonds issued by states, cities, counties, school districts, and similar issuers. On April 2, 2009, municipal securities issued by local governments within the United States were assigned a negative outlook by Moodys Investors Service. Included in the municipal bond portfolio are $6.06 billion of advance refunded or escrowed to maturity bonds. Advance refunded and escrowed to maturity bonds are bonds for which an irrevocable trust has been established to fund the remaining payments of principal and interest. Such escrow accounts are verified as to their sufficiency by an external auditor and almost exclusively involve U.S. Treasury securities. The following table shows the geographic distribution of the remaining $35.27 billion of municipal bonds at December 31, 2009 which were not advance refunded or escrowed to maturity. 105  Table of Contents State (in millions) State General Obligation Local General Obligation Revenue Total Fair Value Average Quality Rating(1) Texas $ 438 $ 2,204 $ 1,422 $ 4,064 Aa1 California 115 1,668 436 2,219 Aa2 Illinois 350 1,020 672 2,042 Aa2 Virginia 201 693 735 1,629 Aaa/Aa1 Washington 446 756 421 1,623 Aa1 Florida 530 81 920 1,531 Aa1 Minnesota 450 663 206 1,319 Aaa/Aa1 New York 49 235 973 1,257 Aa1 Maryland 376 609 263 1,248 Aaa/Aa1 Arizona 524 708 1,232 Aa1 Georgia 444 427 331 1,202 Aa1 North Carolina 454 615 128 1,197 Aaa Ohio 392 357 374 1,123 Aa1 All Others(2) 3,490 4,245 5,850 13,585 Aa1 Total $ 7,735 $ 14,097 $ 13,439 $ 35,271 Aa1 (1)Rated using external ratings agencies or by the Company when a public rating does not exist. Ratings shown are the higher of the rating of the underlying issuer or the insurer in the case of securities enhanced by third party insurance for the payment of principal and interest in the event of issuer default. (2)No other single state accounted for 3.0% or more of the total non advance refunded or escrowed to maturity municipal bonds. The Company bases its investment decision on the credit characteristics of the municipal security; however, its municipal bond portfolio includes a number of securities that were enhanced by third party insurance for the payment of principal and interest in the event of an issuer default. The downgrade during 2009 and 2008 of credit ratings of insurers of these securities resulted in a corresponding downgrade in the ratings of the securities to the underlying rating of the respective security. Of the insured municipal securities in the Companys investment portfolio at December 31, 2009, approximately 98% were rated at A3 or above, and approximately 80% were rated at Aa3 or above, without the benefit of insurance. The Company believes that a further loss of the benefit of insurance would not result in a material adverse impact on the Companys results of operations, financial position or liquidity, due to the underlying credit strength of the issuers of the securities, as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the securities. The average credit rating of the underlying issuers of these securities was "Aa3" at December 31, 2009. The average credit rating of the entire municipal bond portfolio was "Aa1" at December 31, 2009 with and without the third party insurance. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company held commercial mortgage backed securities (CMBS, including FHA project loans) of $714 million and $766 million, respectively. At December 31, 2009, approximately $236 million of these securities, or the loans backing such securities, contained guarantees by the U.S. government or a government sponsored enterprise and $20 million were comprised of Canadian non guaranteed securities. The average credit rating of the $478 million of non guaranteed securities at December 31, 2009 was "Aaa," and 91% of those securities were issued in 2004 and prior years. The CMBS portfolio is supported by loans that are diversified across economic sectors and geographical areas. The Company does not believe this portfolio exposes it to a material adverse impact on its results of operations, financial position or liquidity, due to the portfolios relatively small size and the underlying credit strength of these securities. 106 Table of Contents The Company makes investments in residential collateralized mortgage obligations (CMOs) that typically have high credit quality, offer good liquidity and are expected to provide an advantage in yield compared to U.S. Treasury securities. The Companys investment strategy is to purchase CMO tranches which offer the most favorable return given the risks involved. One significant risk evaluated is prepayment sensitivity. While prepayment risk (either shortening or lengthening of duration) and its effect on total return cannot be fully controlled, particularly when interest rates move dramatically, the investment process generally favors securities that control this risk within expected interest rate ranges. The Company does invest in other types of CMO tranches if a careful assessment indicates a favorable risk/return tradeoff. The Company does not purchase residual interests in CMOs. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company held CMOs classified as available for sale with a fair value of $2.58 billion and $2.84 billion, respectively (in addition to the CMBS securities of $714 million and $766 million, respectively, described above). Approximately 37% and 35% of the Companys CMO holdings are guaranteed by or fully collateralized by securities issued by GNMA, FNMA or FHLMC at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In addition, at December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company held $2.63 billion and $3.22 billion, respectively, of GNMA, FNMA, FHLMC (excluding FHA project loans which are included with CMBS) mortgage backed pass through securities classified as available for sale. The average credit rating of all of the above securities was "Aa1" at December 31, 2009, and "Aaa" at December 31, 2008. The Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio at December 31, 2009 and 2008 included asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages and collateralized mortgage obligations backed by alternative documentation mortgages with a collective fair value of $270 million and $206 million, respectively (comprising approximately 0.4% and 0.3% of the Companys total fixed maturity investments at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively). The disruption in secondary investment markets for mortgage backed securities provided the Company with the opportunity to selectively acquire additional asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages at discounted prices. The Company purchased $74 million and $47 million of such securities in the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The Company defines sub prime mortgage backed securities as investments in which the underlying loans primarily exhibit one or more of the following characteristics: low FICO scores, above prime interest rates, high loan to value ratios or high debt to income ratios. Alternative documentation securitizations are those in which the underlying loans primarily meet the government sponsored entitys requirements for credit score but do not meet the government sponsored entitys guidelines for documentation, property type, debt and loan to value ratios. The average credit rating on these securities and obligations held by the Company was "A3" and "Aa2" at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Approximately $114 million of the Companys asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime and alternative documentation mortgages were downgraded in 2009. An additional $39 million of such securities were placed on credit watch during 2009. Approximately $81 million of the Companys asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime and alternative documentation mortgages were downgraded in 2008. The Companys real estate investments include warehouses and office buildings and other commercial land and properties that are directly owned. The Companys other investments are primarily comprised of private equity limited partnerships, hedge funds, real estate partnerships, joint ventures, mortgage loans, venture capital (through direct ownership and limited partnerships) and trading securities, which are subject to more volatility than the Companys fixed maturity investments. While these asset classes have historically provided a higher return than fixed maturities, in 2009 and 2008 the returns were significantly lower than in prior periods and, in the aggregate, produced negative investment income, reflecting market conditions. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the carrying value of the Companys other investments was $2.95 billion and $3.04 billion, respectively. The Company has engaged in securities lending activities from which it generates net investment income from the lending of certain of its investments to other institutions for short periods of time. 107 Table of Contents Borrowers of these securities provide collateral equal to at least 102% of the market value of the loaned securities plus accrued interest. This collateral is held by a third party custodian, and the Company has the right to access the collateral only in the event that the institution borrowing the Companys securities is in default under the lending agreement. Therefore, the Company does not recognize the receipt of the collateral held by the third party custodian or the obligation to return the collateral. The loaned securities remain a recorded asset of the Company. The Company accepts only cash as collateral for securities on loan and restricts the manner in which that cash is invested. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company had $90 million and $8 million, respectively, of securities on loan to others. The Company has not incurred any investment losses in its securities lending program for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. The net unrealized investment gains (losses) that were included as a separate component of accumulated other changes in equity from nonowner sources were as follows: (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Fixed maturities $ 2,536 $ (294 ) $ 768 Equity securities 78 (82 ) 15 Other investments 216 123 155 Unrealized investment gains (losses) before tax 2,830 (253 ) 938 Tax expense (benefit) 969 (109 ) 318 Net unrealized investment gains (losses) at end of year $ 1,861 $ (144 ) $ 620 Net pretax unrealized investment gains totaled $2.83 billion at December 31, 2009, compared with net pretax unrealized investment losses of $253 million at December 31, 2008. The improvement in the Companys net unrealized gain position at December 31, 2009 over the prior year is primarily attributable to the Companys fixed maturity investments. The improved valuations on these holdings reflect the changing market conditions in 2009 which included a significant narrowing of credit spreads. Net pretax unrealized investment losses totaled $253 million at December 31, 2008, compared with net pretax unrealized investment gains of $938 million at December 31, 2007. The net unrealized loss position at December 31, 2008 reflected the impact of rising interest rates on longer dated fixed maturity securities (primarily due to the widening of credit spreads generally), as well as net unrealized investment losses on equity securities, which reflected current market conditions. 108 Table of Contents Impairment charges included in net realized investment gains (losses) were as follows: (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Fixed maturities U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. Government and government agencies and authorities $ $ $ Obligations of states, municipalities and political subdivisions 1 Debt securities issued by foreign governments Mortgage backed securities, collateralized mortgage obligations and pass through securities 81 36 All other corporate bonds 88 283 37 Redeemable preferred stock 4 Total fixed maturities 169 324 37 Equity securities Common stock 15 34 7 Non redeemable preferred stock 64 40 Total equity securities 79 74 7 Other investments 10 22 26 Total $ 258 $ 420 $ 70 For the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company recognized the following other than temporary impairments: $169 million in the fixed maturities portfolio, consisting of $81 million related to structured mortgage securities, $70 million related to the deteriorated financial position of various issuers and $18 million related to securities the Company either had the intent to sell or did not have the ability to assert an intention to hold until recovery in market value; $79 million in the equity portfolio related to securities with respect to which it was determined that the cost basis of those securities would not be recovered over the expected holding period. The majority of these impairments were related to issuers in the financial industry; and $10 million in other investments related to the decline in the financial condition of various issuers. For the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company recognized the following other than temporary impairments: $324 million in the fixed maturities portfolio, consisting of $210 million related to the deteriorated financial position of various issuers (of which $70 million related to securities issued by Lehman Brothers Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries), $81 million related to externally managed securities with respect to which the Company does not have the ability to assert an intention to hold until recovery in market value and $33 million resulting from the intent or potential to sell various holdings prior to a recovery in market value; $74 million in the equity portfolio consisting of $26 million related to externally managed securities with respect to which the Company does not have the ability to assert an intention to hold until recovery in fair value, $26 million related to securities with respect to which it was determined that the cost basis of those securities would not be recovered over the expected holding period and $22 million resulting from the intent or potential to sell prior to a recovery in fair value; 109 Table of Contents $14 million in the venture capital portfolio on 16 holdings, consisting of $6 million related to six holdings which were externally managed securities with respect to which the Company does not have the ability to assert an intention to hold until recovery in fair value and ten holdings which experienced fundamental economic deterioration; and $8 million in other investments of which $6 million related to the decline in the financial condition of a privately held investment and $2 million resulted from the intent or potential to sell prior to a recovery in fair value. For the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company recognized the following other than temporary impairments: $37 million in the fixed maturities portfolio, consisting of $23 million related to externally managed securities with respect to which the Company does not have the ability to assert an intention to hold until recovery in fair value, and $14 million related to credit risk associated with various issuers deteriorated financial position; $7 million in the equity portfolio related to externally managed securities with respect to which the Company does not have the ability to assert an intention to hold until recovery in fair value; $10 million in the real estate portfolio, related to the decline in the financial condition of one real estate development property; and $16 million in the venture capital portfolio on 14 holdings. Three of the holdings were public securities whose cost basis was not anticipated to be recovered over the expected holding period. Nine holdings experienced economic deterioration (characterized by less than expected revenues or a change in product). The remaining two holdings were impaired due to the impending sale, liquidation or shutdown of the entity. The Company had a net pretax unrealized gain of $2.54 billion in its fixed maturities portfolio at December 31, 2009, compared with a net pretax unrealized loss of $294 million at December 31, 2008. In 2009, yields on municipal fixed maturity securities declined, which increased the market value of the Companys portfolio of such securities. In addition, credit spreads narrowed on other non municipal fixed maturity securities which also resulted in an increase in the market value of those securities. The following table summarizes, for all fixed maturities and equity securities available for sale and for equity securities reported at fair value for which fair value is less than 80% of amortized cost at December 31, 2009, the gross unrealized investment loss by length of time those securities have continuously been in an unrealized loss position of greater than 20% of amortized cost: Period For Which Fair Value Is Less Than 80% of Amortized Cost (in millions) Less Than 3 Months Greater Than 3 Months, Less Than 6 Months Greater Than 6 Months, Less Than 12 Months Greater Than 12 Months Total Fixed maturities: Mortgage backed securities $ 11 $ 4 $ 24 $ 55 $ 94 Other 2 2 9 32 45 Total fixed maturities 13 6 33 87 139 Equity securities 6 5 11 Total $ 19 $ 11 $ 33 $ 87 $ 150 These unrealized investment losses at December 31, 2009 represent less than 1% of the combined fixed maturity and equity security portfolios on a pretax basis and less than 1% of shareholders equity on an after tax basis. 110 Table of Contents For fixed maturity investments where fair value is less than the carrying value and the Company did not reach a decision to impair, the Company continues to have the intent and ability to hold such investments to a projected recovery in value, which may not be until maturity. At December 31, 2009, below investment grade securities comprised 2.7% of the Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio. Included in below investment grade securities at December 31, 2009 were securities in an unrealized loss position that, in the aggregate, had an amortized cost of $1.06 billion and a fair value of $927 million, resulting in a net pretax unrealized investment loss of $136 million. These securities in an unrealized loss position represented less than 2% of both the total amortized cost and the fair value of the fixed maturity portfolio at December 31, 2009. These securities accounted for 42% of the total pretax unrealized investment loss in the fixed maturity portfolio at December 31, 2009. Following are the pretax realized losses on investments sold during the year ended December 31, 2009: (in millions) Loss Fair Value Fixed maturities $ 19 $ 866 Equity securities 2 24 Other 2 2 Total $ 23 $ 892 Purchases and sales of investments are based on cash requirements, the characteristics of the insurance liabilities and current market conditions. The Company identifies investments to be sold to achieve its primary investment goals of assuring the Companys ability to meet policyholder obligations as well as to optimize investment returns, given these obligations. CATASTROPHE MODELING The Company uses various analyses and methods, including computer modeling techniques, to analyze catastrophic events and the risks associated with them. The Company uses these analyses and methods to make underwriting and reinsurance decisions designed to manage its exposure to catastrophic events. In making underwriting and reinsurance decisions for hurricane and earthquake exposures, the company uses third party proprietary computer modeling in an attempt to estimate the likelihood that the loss from a single event occurring in a one year timeframe will equal or exceed a particular amount. The tables below set forth the estimated probabilities that losses from a single event occurring in a one year timeframe will equal or exceed the indicated loss amounts (expressed in dollars and as a percentage of the Companys common equity). For example, on the basis described below the tables, the Company estimates that there is a one percent chance that the Companys loss from a single U.S. hurricane occurring in a one year timeframe would equal or exceed $1.1 billion, or 4 percent of the Companys common equity at December 31, 2009. Dollars (in billions) Likelihood of Exceedance(1) Single Hurricane Single Earthquake 2.0% (1 in 50) $ 0.9 $ 0.4 1.0% (1 in 100) $ 1.1 $ 0.6 0.4% (1 in 250) $ 2.1 $ 0.9 0.1% (1 in 1,000) $ 4.5 $ 2.2 111 Table of Contents Percentage of Common Equity(2) Likelihood of Exceedance Single Hurricane Single Earthquake 2.0% (1 in 50) 4 % 2 % 1.0% (1 in 100) 4 % 2 % 0.4% (1 in 250) 8 % 4 % 0.1% (1 in 1,000) 18 % 9 % (1)An event that has, for example, a 2% likelihood of exceedance is sometimes described as a "1 in 50 year event." As noted above, however, the probabilities in the table represent the likelihood of losses from a single event equaling or exceeding the indicated threshold loss amount in a one year timeframe, not over a multi year timeframe. Also, because the probabilities relate to a single event, the probabilities do not address the likelihood of more than one event occurring in a particular period, and, therefore, the amounts do not address potential aggregate catastrophe losses occurring in a one year timeframe. (2)The percentage of common equity is calculated by dividing (a) indicated loss amounts in dollars by (b) total common equity excluding net unrealized investment gain (loss) on investments, net of taxes. Net unrealized investment gains and losses can be significantly impacted by both discretionary and other economic factors and are not necessarily indicative of operating trends. Accordingly, in the opinion of the Companys management, the percentage of common equity calculated on this basis provides a useful metric for investors to understand the potential impact of a single hurricane or single earthquake on the Companys financial position. The threshold loss amounts in the tables above are net of reinsurance, after tax and exclude loss adjustment expense, which historically has been less than 10% of loss estimates. The above threshold loss amounts reflect the most recent version of the modeling software. The amounts for hurricanes reflect U.S. exposures and include property exposures (other than offshore energy and marine exposures), property residual market exposures and an adjustment for certain non property exposures. The amounts for earthquakes reflect U.S. and Canadian exposures and include property exposures and workers compensation exposures. The Company does not believe that the inclusion of hurricane or earthquake losses arising from other geographical areas or other exposures would materially change the estimated threshold loss amounts. This information in the tables is based on the Companys in force portfolio and catastrophic reinsurance program as of December 31, 2009. Catastrophe modeling requires a significant amount of judgment and a number of assumptions and relies upon inputs based on experience, science, engineering and history. As a result, such models may fail to account for risks that are outside the range of normal probability or that are otherwise unforeseeable. Catastrophe modeling assumptions include, among others, the portion of purchased reinsurance that is collectible after a catastrophic event, which may prove to be materially incorrect. Consequently, catastrophe modeling estimates are subject to significant uncertainty. In the tables above, the uncertainty associated with the estimated threshold loss amounts increases significantly as the likelihood of exceedance decreases. In other words, in the case of a relatively more remote event (e.g., 1 in 1,000), the estimated threshold loss amount is relatively less reliable. Actual losses from an event could materially exceed the indicated threshold loss amount. In addition, more than one such event could occur in any period. Moreover, the Company is exposed to the risk of material losses from other than property and workers compensation coverages arising out of hurricanes and earthquakes, and it is exposed to catastrophe losses from perils other than hurricanes and earthquakes, for example, floods, tornadoes and acts of terrorism. 112 Table of Contents There are no industry standard methodologies or assumptions for projecting catastrophe exposure. Accordingly, catastrophe estimates provided by different insurers may not be comparable. For more information about the Companys exposure to catastrophe losses, see "Item 1A Risk Factors Catastrophe losses could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, our financial position and or liquidity, and could adversely impact our ratings, our ability to raise capital and the availability and cost of reinsurance." CHANGING CLIMATE CONDITIONS Severe weather events over the last several years have underscored the unpredictability of future climate trends and created uncertainty regarding insurers exposures to financial loss as a result of catastrophe and other weather related events. Some scientists believe that, in recent years, changing climate conditions have added to the unpredictability, frequency and severity of natural disasters. Accordingly, if climate conditions change in the future, the Companys catastrophe models may be less reliable. The Company discusses how potentially changing climate conditions may present other issues for its business under "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of this report and under " Outlook" herein. For example, among other things: Increasingly unpredictable and severe weather conditions could result in increased frequency and severity of claims under policies issued by the Company. See "Risk Factors Catastrophe losses could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, our financial position and or liquidity, and could adversely impact our ratings, our ability to raise capital and the availability and cost of reinsurance" and " Outlook Underwriting Profitability." Such changing climate conditions could also impact the creditworthiness of issuers of municipal and corporate securities in which the Company invests. For example, water supply adequacy could impact the creditworthiness of municipal bond issuers in the Southwestern U.S. and more frequent and or severe hurricanes could impact the creditworthiness of issuers in the Southeastern U.S., among other areas. See "Risk Factors Our investment portfolio may suffer reduced returns or material losses." Increased regulation adopted in response to potential changes in climate conditions may impact the Company and its customers. For example, state insurance regulation could impact the Companys ability to manage property exposures in areas vulnerable to significant climate driven losses. If the Company is unable to implement risk based pricing, modify policy terms or reduce exposures to the extent necessary to address rising losses related to catastrophes and smaller scale weather events (should those increased losses occur), its business may be adversely affected. See "Risk Factors Catastrophe losses could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, our financial position and or liquidity, and could adversely impact our ratings, our ability to raise capital and the availability and cost of reinsurance." The full range of potential liability exposures related to climate change continues to evolve. Through the Companys Emerging Issues Committee and its Committee on Climate, Energy and the Environment, the Company works with its business units and corporate groups as appropriate to identify and try to assess climate change related liability issues, which are continually evolving and often hard to fully evaluate. See "Risk Factors The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain." Climate change regulation also could increase the Companys customers costs of doing business. For example, insureds faced with carbon management regulatory requirements may have less available capital for investment in loss prevention and safety features which may, over time, increase loss exposures. Also, increased regulation may result in reduced economic activity, which would decrease the amount of insurable assets and businesses. 113 Table of Contents The Company regularly reviews emerging issues, such as changing climate conditions, to consider potential changes to its modeling and the use of such modeling, as well as to help determine the need for new underwriting strategies, coverage modifications or new products. There can be no assurance that these efforts will be successful. REINSURANCE RECOVERABLES Ceded reinsurance involves credit risk, except with regard to mandatory pools, and is generally subject to aggregate loss limits. Although the reinsurer is liable to the Company to the extent of the reinsurance ceded, the Company remains liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. Reinsurance recoverables are reported after reductions for known insolvencies and after allowances for uncollectible amounts. The Company also holds collateral, including trust agreements, escrow funds and letters of credit, under certain reinsurance agreements. The Company monitors the financial condition of reinsurers on an ongoing basis and reviews its reinsurance arrangements periodically. Reinsurers are selected based on their financial condition, business practices and the price of their product offerings. After reinsurance is purchased, the Company has limited ability to manage the credit risk to a reinsurer. In addition, in a number of jurisdictions, particularly the European Union and the United Kingdom, a reinsurer is permitted to transfer a reinsurance arrangement to another reinsurer, which may be less creditworthy, without a counterpartys consent, provided that the transfer has been approved by the applicable regulatory and or court authority. The Companys reinsurance recoverables totaled $12.82 billion at December 31, 2009, a decline of $1.42 billion from year end 2008, primarily reflecting various commutation agreements and collections on reinsurance recoverables, including those related to prior years hurricane losses. The Company has also entered into Master Security Agreements with certain reinsurers. These agreements define conditions that require the reinsurer to provide collateral. The specific conditions and the amounts and form of collateral to be provided by these agreements vary based on a number of factors including, but not limited to, the reinsurers legal structure and trading history with the Company. The following table presents the Companys top five reinsurer groups by reinsurance recoverable at December 31, 2009 (in millions). Also included is the A.M. Best rating of each reinsurer group at February 18, 2010: Reinsurer Group Reinsurance Recoverable A.M. Best Rating of Groups Predominant Reinsurer Swiss Re Group $ 895 A third highest of 16 ratings Munich Re Group 779 A+ second highest of 16 ratings Transatlantic Holdings, Inc. 485 A third highest of 16 ratings XL Capital Group 398 A third highest of 16 ratings Berkshire Hathaway Group 386 A++ highest of 16 ratings At December 31, 2009, $2.4 billion of reinsurance recoverables were collateralized by letters of credit, trust agreements and funds held. Included in reinsurance recoverables are certain amounts related to structured settlements. Structured settlements comprise annuities purchased from various life insurance companies to settle certain personal physical injury claims, of which workers compensation claims comprise a significant portion. In cases where the Company did not receive a release from the claimant, the structured settlement is included in reinsurance recoverables as the Company retains the contingent liability to the claimant. In the event that the life insurance company fails to make the required annuity payments, the Company would be required to make such payments. The following table presents the Companys top 114 Table of Contents five groups by structured settlements at December 31, 2009 (in millions). Also included is the A.M. Best rating of the Companys predominant insurer from each insurer group at February 18, 2010: Group Structured Settlements A.M. Best Rating of Groups Predominant Insurer Old Mutual $ 1,050 A fourth highest of 16 ratings MetLife 529 A+ second highest of 16 ratings Genworth 472 A third highest of 16 ratings Symetra 286 A third highest of 16 ratings ING Group 235 A third highest of 16 ratings Many reinsurance companies and life insurance companies were negatively impacted by turbulent economic conditions during 2009 and 2008. A number of such companies have been subjected to downgrades and or negative outlook changes by various ratings agencies, including those with which the Company conducts business. The Company considers these factors in assessing the adequacy of its allowance for uncollectible amounts. OUTLOOK The following discussion provides outlook information for certain key drivers of the Companys results of operations and capital position. Premiums. The Companys earned premiums are a function of net written premium volume. Net written premiums comprise both renewal business and new business, including the impact of audit premium adjustments, policy endorsements and mid term cancellations, and are recognized as earned premium over the life of the underlying policies. When business renews, the amount of net written premiums associated with that business may increase or decrease (renewal premium change) as a result of increases or decreases in rate and or insured exposures, which the Company considers as a measure of units of exposure. Net written premiums from both renewal and new business, and therefore earned premiums, are impacted by competitive market conditions and general economic conditions. The Company expects retention levels (the amount of expiring premium that renews, before the impact of renewal premium changes) will remain high, generally consistent with recent periods, in each of its business segments. In the Business Insurance and the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segments, the Company expects renewal premium changes in 2010 will be similar to 2009 levels or modestly higher. With regard to the components comprising renewal premium changes, the Company expects that positive rate changes during 2010 will be largely offset by a decline in insured exposures. In the Personal Insurance segment, the Company expects that Agency Automobile renewal premium changes, while positive, will decrease slightly in 2010 from 2009 levels. For its Agency Homeowners and Other business, the Company expects renewal premium changes in 2010 will remain generally consistent with 2009 levels. The pricing environment for new business generally has less of an impact on underwriting profitability than renewal rate changes, given the volume of new business relative to renewal business. While property and casualty insurance market conditions are expected to remain competitive in 2010 for new business, the Company believes it is well positioned to capitalize on new business opportunities as agents, brokers and customers seek to place business with high quality carriers. In addition, the Company announced in 2009 that it launched a new distribution channel that markets personal insurance products directly to consumers, which is expected to generate modest growth in premium volume for Personal Insurance in 2010. While economic conditions have recently improved and U.S. gross domestic product experienced growth in the latter part of 2009, that trend may not continue and the U.S. economy may enter into a "double dip" recession. Further, if growth continues, it may be at a slow rate for an extended period of time. In addition, other economic conditions, such as the commercial and residential real estate 115 Table of Contents environment and employment rates, may continue to be weak. If weak economic conditions persist or deteriorate, low levels of economic activity could impact exposure changes at renewal and our ability to write business at acceptable rates. Additionally, such low levels of economic activity could adversely impact audit premium adjustments, policy endorsements and mid term cancellations after policies are written. All of the foregoing, in turn, could adversely impact net written premiums in 2010. Since earned premiums lag net written premiums, earned premiums could be adversely impacted in 2010 and into 2011. Underwriting Gain/Loss. The anticipated impact of competitive market conditions and general economic conditions on the Companys earned premiums, as discussed above, coupled with an expected modest increase in loss costs, will likely result in modestly reduced underwriting profitability during 2010, as compared with 2009. In addition, the Companys direct to consumer initiative in the Personal Insurance segment, discussed above, while intended to enhance the Companys long term ability to compete successfully in a consumer driven marketplace, is expected to remain unprofitable for a number of years as this book of business grows and matures. In recent periods, the Company has experienced net favorable prior year reserve development, driven by better than expected loss experience in all of the Companys segments for prior loss years. If better than expected loss experience continues, the Company may recognize additional net favorable prior year reserve development in 2010. However, better than expected loss experience may not continue or may reverse, in which case the Company may recognize no favorable prior year reserve development or unfavorable prior year reserve development in future periods. The ongoing review of prior year claim and claim adjustment expense reserves, or other changes in current period circumstances, may result in the Company revising current year loss estimates upward or downward in future periods. Catastrophe losses are inherently unpredictable from year to year, and the Companys results of operations would be adversely impacted by a significant increase in such losses in 2010. Investments. The Company expects to continue to focus its investment strategy on maintaining a high quality investment portfolio and a relatively low average effective duration. The Companys invested assets at December 31, 2009 totaled $74.97 billion, of which 94% was invested in fixed maturity and short term securities, with the remaining 6% invested in equity securities, real estate, private equity limited partnerships, hedge funds, and real estate partnerships. Net investment income is a material contributor to the Companys results of operations. While investment returns are difficult to predict and inherently uncertain, in 2010 the Company expects investment returns for its fixed maturity investment portfolio to be generally consistent with recent periods, and returns for its short term and non fixed maturity investment portfolios to remain challenged. Short term interest rates are expected to remain at or near historically low levels. The Company expects investment income in its non fixed maturity investment portfolio to improve from 2009 levels, which were negative. However, if general economic conditions and or capital market conditions deteriorate in 2010, the Company could also experience a reduction in net investment income and or significant realized investment losses, including impairments. Capital Position. The Company believes it has a strong capital position and expects to continue its common share repurchase program in 2010 as part of its continuing efforts to maximize shareholder value. During 2010, the Company expects to repurchase between $3.5 billion and $4.0 billion of its common shares under its share repurchase authorization. The actual amount of share repurchases may be materially less and will depend on a variety of factors, including the Companys earnings, corporate and regulatory requirements, share price, catastrophe losses, strategic initiatives and other market conditions. The Company had a net after tax unrealized investment gain of $1.67 billion in its fixed maturity investment portfolio at December 31, 2009. While the Company does not attempt to predict future 116 Table of Contents interest rate movements, a rising interest rate environment would reduce the market value of fixed maturity investments and, therefore, reduce shareholders equity, and a declining interest rate environment would have the opposite effects. Many of the statements in this "Outlook" section are forward looking statements, which are subject to risks and uncertainties that are often difficult to predict and beyond the Companys control. Actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward looking statements. Further, such forward looking statements speak only as of the date of this report and the Company undertakes no obligation to update them. See " Forward Looking Statements." For a discussion of potential risks and uncertainties that could impact the Companys results of operations or financial position, see "Item 1A Risk Factors" and "Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates" in this report. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Liquidity is a measure of a companys ability to generate sufficient cash flows to meet the short and long term cash requirements of its business operations. The liquidity requirements of the Companys business have been met primarily by funds generated from operations, asset maturities and income received on investments. Cash provided from these sources is used primarily for claims and claim adjustment expense payments and operating expenses. The timing and amount of catastrophe claims are inherently unpredictable. Such claims increase liquidity requirements. The timing and amount of reinsurance recoveries may be affected by reinsurer solvency and reinsurance coverage disputes. Additionally, the variability of asbestos related claim payments, as well as the volatility of potential judgments and settlements arising out of litigation, may also result in increased liquidity requirements. It is the opinion of the Companys management that the Companys future liquidity needs will be adequately met from all of the above sources. At December 31, 2009, total cash, short term invested assets and other readily marketable securities aggregating $2.14 billion were held at the holding company. The assets held at the holding company are sufficient to meet the holding companys current liquidity requirements and are almost twice the Companys target level. These liquidity requirements primarily include shareholder dividends and debt service. The Company intends to reduce the amount of holding company liquidity in 2010, subject to profitability, market conditions and other factors. The Company has a shelf registration with the Securities and Exchange Commission which permits it to issue securities from time to time. The Company also has a $1.0 billion line of credit facility with several financial institutions that expires in the second quarter of 2010. This line of credit also backs up the Companys $800 million commercial paper program, of which $100 million was outstanding at December 31, 2009. The Company is not reliant on its commercial paper program to meet its operating cash flow needs. The Company may decide to replace the existing credit agreement with a new credit agreement of a different amount or duration, or it could decide to replace the credit facility with other alternatives. The Company currently utilizes uncollateralized letters of credit issued by major banks with an aggregate limit of approximately $474 million to provide much of the capital needed to support its operations at Lloyds. If uncollateralized letters of credit are not available at a reasonable price or at all in the future, the Company can collateralize these letters of credit or may have to seek alternative means of supporting its operations at Lloyds, which could include utilizing holding company funds on hand. Operating Activities Net cash flows provided by operating activities totaled $4.23 billion, $3.14 billion and $5.29 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Cash flows in 2009 reflected a decline in catastrophe loss payments, a higher level of reinsurance recoveries, a reduction in the amount of contributions to the Companys pension plan and lower claims and claim adjustment expense payments related to operations in runoff. Those runoff payments in 2008 included the Companys one time net payment of $365 million associated with the final settlement of asbestos claims related to ACandS, Inc. During 2009 and 2008, the Company contributed $260 million and $450 million, respectively, to its pension plan. 117  Table of Contents Cash flows in 2008 reflected an increase in claim payments (including the impact of higher catastrophe losses and the $365 million net asbestos settlement payment related to ACandS, Inc.) and a reduction in reinsurance recoveries compared with 2007. In addition, the Company made a $450 million contribution to its pension plan in 2008. No pension plan contribution was made in 2007. Cash flows in 2007 reflected higher levels of collected premiums and net investment income, lower claim payments on catastrophe losses, as well as lower runoff claim payments. Cash flows from operations in 2007 benefited from significant collections on reinsurance recoverables in both years, including those related to 2005 hurricane losses, operations in runoff (primarily Gulf) and various commutation agreements. These factors were partially offset by an increase in tax payments in 2007 resulting from higher profitability, expenses related to increased business volume and continued expenditures to support business growth and product development, and higher interest payments. Investing Activities Net cash flows used in investing activities totaled $899 million, $162 million and $2.53 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Fixed maturity securities accounted for the majority of investment purchases in all three years. Net cash available for use in investing activities in 2009 was principally provided by $4.23 billion of cash flows from operating activities, partially offset by $3.44 billion of cash used in financing activities (principally $3.29 billion for common share repurchases). In 2008, substantially all of the $3.14 billion in cash provided by operating activities was deployed for financing activities, principally for $2.20 billion of common share repurchases. The Companys consolidated total investments at December 31, 2009 increased by $4.23 billion from year end 2008, primarily reflecting a $3.08 billion pretax increase in the unrealized appreciation of investments since year end 2008 and investment purchases resulting from strong cash flows from operations, partially offset by $3.29 billion of common share repurchases made during 2009. The improvement in the Companys net unrealized investment gain position at December 31, 2009 over the prior year is primarily attributable to the Companys fixed maturity investments. The improved valuations on these holdings reflect the changing market conditions in 2009 which included a significant narrowing of credit spreads. The Companys management of the duration of the fixed maturity investment portfolio generally produces a duration that exceeds the estimated duration of the Companys net insurance liabilities. The average duration of fixed maturities and short term securities was 3.9 (4.2 excluding short term securities) at December 31, 2009 and 4.2 (4.6 excluding short term securities) at December 31, 2008. The decline in duration resulted from the impact of declining market yields on existing holdings of municipal bonds and mortgage backed securities (which impact the assumptions related to optional pre payments and the related estimate of effective duration for callable securities), and the purchase of shorter term fixed maturities during the second half of 2009. The primary goals of the Companys asset liability management process are to satisfy the insurance liabilities, manage the interest rate risk embedded in those insurance liabilities and maintain sufficient liquidity to cover fluctuations in projected liability cash flows. Generally, the expected principal and interest payments produced by the Companys fixed maturity portfolio adequately fund the estimated runoff of the Companys insurance reserves. Although this is not an exact cash flow match in each period, the substantial degree by which the market value of the fixed maturity portfolio exceeds the expected present value of the net insurance liabilities, as well as the positive cash flow from newly sold policies and the large amount of high quality liquid bonds, provide assurance of the Companys ability to fund claim payments without having to sell illiquid assets or access credit facilities. 118 Table of Contents Financing Activities Net cash flows used in financing activities totaled $3.44 billion, $2.87 billion and $2.95 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The 2009 and 2008 totals primarily reflected common share repurchases, dividends to shareholders and the repayment of debt, partially offset by the proceeds from employee stock option exercises and the issuance of debt. The 2007 total primarily reflected common share repurchases, the early redemption of debt, the repayment of maturing debt and dividends to shareholders, partially offset by the issuance of debt and proceeds from employee stock option exercises. Debt Transactions. 2009. On June 2, 2009, the Company issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of 5.90% senior notes that will mature on June 2, 2019. The net proceeds of the issuance, after original issuance discount and the deduction of underwriting expenses and commissions and other expenses, totaled approximately $494 million. Interest on the senior notes is payable semi annually in arrears on June 2 and December 2 of each year. The senior notes are redeemable in whole at any time or in part from time to time, at the Companys option, at a redemption price equal to the greater of (a) 100% of the principal amount of senior notes to be redeemed or (b) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the senior notes to be redeemed (exclusive of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the date of redemption on a semi annual basis (assuming a 360 day year consisting of twelve 30 day months) at the then current Treasury rate (as defined) plus 35 basis points for the senior notes. On March 3, 2009, the Companys zero coupon convertible notes with an effective yield of 4.17% and a remaining principal balance of $141 million matured and were fully paid. 2008. On March 15, 2008, the Companys $400 million, 3.75% senior notes matured and were fully paid. On May 13, 2008, the Company issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of 5.80% senior notes that will mature on May 15, 2018. The net proceeds of the issuance, after original issuance discount and the deduction of underwriting expenses and commissions and other expenses, totaled approximately $496 million. Interest on the senior notes is payable semi annually on May 15 and November 15. The senior notes are redeemable in whole at any time or in part from time to time, at the Companys option, at a redemption price equal to the greater of (a) 100% of the principal amount of senior notes to be redeemed or (b) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the senior notes to be redeemed (exclusive of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the date of redemption on a semi annual basis (assuming a 360 day year consisting of twelve 30 day months) at the then current Treasury rate plus 30 basis points for the senior notes. On December 15, 2008, two medium term notes with a cumulative par value of $149 million, each bearing an interest rate of 6.38%, matured and were fully paid. 2007. In January 2007, the Company redeemed $81 million of 8.47% subordinated debentures originally issued in 1997 and due January 10, 2027. The debentures were redeemable by the Company on or after January 10, 2007. In January 1997, USF&G Capital II, a business trust, issued $100 million of capital securities, the proceeds of which, along with $3 million in capital provided by the Company, were used to purchase the subordinated debentures issued by USF&G Corporation and subsequently assumed by the Company after the merger of The St. Paul Companies Inc. (SPC) and Travelers Property Casualty Corp. (TPC). During the period prior to redemption, the Company had repurchased and retired $22 million of the debentures in open market transactions. Upon the Companys redemption of the remaining $81 million of subordinated debentures in January 2007, USF&G Capital II in turn used the proceeds to redeem its remaining capital securities outstanding. USF&G Capital II was then liquidated, and the Company received a $3 million distribution of capital. The Company 119 Table of Contents recorded a $3 million pretax gain on the redemption of the subordinated debentures, due to the remaining unamortized fair value adjustment recorded at the merger date, less the redemption premium paid. In March 2007, the Company issued $1 billion aggregate principal amount of 6.25% fixed to floating rate junior subordinated debentures due March 15, 2067 for net proceeds of $986 million (after original issue discount and the deduction of underwriting expenses and commissions and other expenses). The debentures were issued at a discount, resulting in an effective interest rate of 6.447%. The debentures bear interest at an annual rate of 6.25% from the date of issuance to, but excluding, March 15, 2017, payable semi annually in arrears on March 15 and September 15. From and including March 15, 2017, the debentures will bear interest at an annual rate equal to three month LIBOR plus 2.215%, payable quarterly on March 15, June 15, September 15 and December 15 of each year. The Company has the right, on one or more occasions, to defer the payment of interest on the debentures. The Company will not be required to settle deferred interest until it has deferred interest for five consecutive years or, if earlier, made a payment of current interest during a deferral period. The Company may defer interest for up to ten consecutive years without giving rise to an event of default. Deferred interest will accumulate additional interest at an annual rate equal to the annual interest rate then applicable to the debentures. The debentures carry a 60 year final maturity and a scheduled maturity date in year thirty. During the 180 day period ending not more than fifteen and not less than ten business days prior to the scheduled maturity date, the Company is required to use commercially reasonable efforts to sell enough qualifying capital securities, or at its option, common stock, qualifying warrants, mandatorily convertible preferred stock, debt exchangeable for common equity or debt exchangeable for preferred equity to permit repayment of the debentures at the scheduled maturity date. If any debentures remain outstanding after the scheduled maturity date, the unpaid amount will remain outstanding until the Company has raised sufficient proceeds from the sale of qualifying capital securities or, at its option, common stock, qualifying warrants, mandatorily convertible preferred stock, debt exchangeable for common equity or debt exchangeable for preferred equity to permit the repayment in full of the debentures. If there are remaining debentures at the final maturity date, the Company is required to redeem the debentures using any source of funds. Qualifying capital securities are securities (other than common stock, qualifying warrants, mandatorily convertible preferred stock, debt exchangeable for common equity, and debt exchangeable for preferred equity) which generally are treated by the ratings agencies as having similar equity content to the debentures. The Company can redeem the debentures at its option, in whole or in part, at any time on or after March 15, 2017 at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount being redeemed plus accrued but unpaid interest. The Company can redeem the debentures at its option prior to March 15, 2017 (a) in whole at any time or in part from time to time or (b) in whole, but not in part, in the event of certain tax or rating agency events relating to the debentures, at a redemption price equal to the greater of 100% of the principal amount being redeemed and the applicable make whole amount, in each case plus any accrued and unpaid interest. In connection with the offering of the debentures, the Company entered into a "replacement capital covenant" for the benefit of holders of one or more designated series of the Companys indebtedness (which will initially be the 6.750% senior notes due 2036). Under the terms of the replacement capital covenant, if the Company redeems the debentures at any time prior to March 15, 2047 it can only do so with the proceeds of securities that are treated by the rating agencies as having similar equity content to the debentures. In March 2007, the Companys $500 million, 5.75% senior notes matured and were fully paid. In April 2007, the Company completed the redemption of its outstanding $893 million, 4.50% convertible junior subordinated notes due in 2032 (the notes). The notes were originally issued by 120 Table of Contents Travelers Property Casualty Corp., and the Company assumed certain obligations relating to the notes pursuant to a Second Supplemental Indenture dated April 1, 2004. Each note had a principal amount of $25.00. The redemption price for each note was $25.5625 plus $0.009375 of accrued and unpaid interest. Any note called for redemption could be surrendered for conversion into common stock before the close of business on April 17, 2007. Each note was convertible into 0.4684 shares of common stock of The Travelers Companies, Inc. Holders of $36 million of the notes tendered their certificates in exchange for the issuance of 670,910 of the Companys common shares. The remaining $857 million of notes were redeemed for cash, along with accrued interest to the date of redemption. The Company recorded a $39 million pretax loss ($25 million after tax) in other revenues in the second quarter of 2007 related to the redemption, consisting of the redemption premium paid and the write off of remaining unamortized issuance costs. In May 2007, the Company issued $250 million aggregate principal amount of 5.375% senior notes due June 15, 2012 (the 2012 senior notes), $450 million aggregate principal amount of 5.75% senior notes due December 15, 2017 (the 2017 senior notes), and $800 million aggregate principal amount of 6.25% senior notes due June 15, 2037 (the 2037 senior notes). The total net proceeds of these three senior note issuances, after original issuance discounts and the deduction of underwriting expenses and commissions and other expenses, were approximately $1.47 billion. Interest on each of the senior note issuances is payable semi annually on June 15 and December 15. Each series of senior notes is redeemable in whole at any time or in part from time to time, at the Companys option, at a redemption price equal to the greater of (a) 100% of the principal amount of senior notes to be redeemed, or (b) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the senior notes to be redeemed (exclusive of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the date of redemption on a semi annual basis (assuming a 360 day year consisting of twelve 30 day months) at the then current Treasury rate plus 12.5 basis points for the 2012 senior notes, 15 basis points for the 2017 senior notes and 20 basis points for the 2037 senior notes. The Company applied a portion of the net proceeds of this offering to repay approximately $442 million of senior notes maturing on August 16, 2007 and to repay approximately $42 million of medium term notes maturing in the third quarter of 2007. The remaining proceeds were used for general corporate purposes. Prior to applying these proceeds, the Company invested them in investment grade, marketable securities. In August 2007, the Companys $442 million, 5.01% senior notes matured and were fully paid. In 2007, medium term notes with a cumulative par value of $72 million and interest rates ranging from 6.85% to 7.37% matured and were fully paid. The amounts of debt obligations, other than commercial paper, that becomes due in 2010, 2011 and 2012 are $273 million, $11 million and $250 million, respectively. Dividends. Dividends paid to shareholders totaled $693 million, $715 million and $742 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. On February 3, 2010, the Companys board of directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.33 per share, payable March 31, 2010 to shareholders of record on March 10, 2010. The declaration and payment of future dividends to holders of the Companys common stock will be at the discretion of the Companys board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including the Companys financial position, earnings, capital requirements of the Companys operating subsidiaries, legal requirements, regulatory constraints and other factors as the board of directors deems relevant. Dividends would be paid by the Company only if declared by its board of directors out of funds legally available, subject to any other restrictions that may be applicable to the Company. Share Repurchases. Since May 2006, the Companys board of directors has approved four common share repurchase authorizations, for a cumulative authorization of up to $16 billion of shares of the Companys common stock. Under these authorizations, the most recent of which totaled $6 billion and was approved by the board of directors in October 2009, repurchases may be made from time to time 121 Table of Contents in the open market, pursuant to preset trading plans meeting the requirements of Rule 10b5 1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, in private transactions or otherwise. The authorizations do not have a stated expiration date. The timing and actual number of shares to be repurchased in the future will depend on a variety of factors, including the Companys earnings, corporate and regulatory requirements, share price, catastrophe losses, strategic initiatives and other market conditions. The following table summarizes repurchase activity in 2009 under these authorizations and remaining repurchase capacity at December 31, 2009. Quarterly Period Ending Number of shares purchased Cost of shares repurchased Average price paid per share Remaining capacity under share repurchase authorization March 31, 2009 $ $ $ 3,809,857,539 June 30, 2009 18,450,066 750,030,914 40.65 3,059,826,625 September 30, 2009 20,826,981 1,000,035,439 48.02 2,059,791,186 December 31, 2009 30,095,982 1,550,088,479 51.50 6,509,702,707 Total 69,373,029 $ 3,300,154,832 $ 47.57 $ 6,509,702,707 Since the inception of the repurchase authorizations in May 2006, the Company has repurchased a cumulative total of 193.2 million shares for a total cost of $9.49 billion, or $49.12 per share, through December 31, 2009. In 2009, 2008 and 2007, the Company acquired 1.5 million, 0.8 million and 1.7 million shares, respectively, of common stock from employees as treasury stock primarily to cover payroll withholding taxes related to the vesting of restricted stock awards and exercises of stock options. Capital Resources Capital resources reflect the overall financial strength of the Company and its ability to borrow funds at competitive rates and raise new capital to meet its needs. The following table summarizes the components of the Companys capital structure at December 31, 2009 and 2008. (at December 31, in millions) 2009 2008 Debt: Short term $ 373 $ 242 Long term 6,165 5,938 Net unamortized fair value adjustments and debt issuance costs (11 ) 1 Total debt 6,527 6,181 Preferred shareholders equity 79 89 Common shareholders equity: Common stock and retained earnings, less treasury stock 26,117 26,130 Accumulated other changes in equity from nonowner sources 1,219 (900 ) Total shareholders equity 27,415 25,319 Total capitalization $ 33,942 $ 31,500 The $2.44 billion increase in total capitalization from year end 2008 reflected an increase in unrealized appreciation on investment securities, net income in 2009 and the issuance of debt, partially offset by common share repurchases, dividends to shareholders and debt maturities. The improvement in the Companys net unrealized gain position at December 31, 2009 over the prior year is primarily attributable to the Companys fixed maturity investments. The improved valuations on these holdings reflect the changing market conditions in 2009 which included a significant narrowing of credit spreads. 122 Table of Contents The following table provides a reconciliation of total capitalization excluding net unrealized gain (loss) on investments to total capitalization presented in the foregoing table. (at December 31, dollars in millions) 2009 2008 Total capitalization excluding net unrealized gain (loss) on investments $ 32,081 $ 31,644 Net unrealized gain (loss) on investments, net of taxes 1,861 (144 ) Total capitalization $ 33,942 $ 31,500 Debt to total capital ratio 19.2 % 19.6 % Debt to total capital ratio excluding net unrealized gain (loss) on investments 20.3 % 19.5 % The debt to total capital ratio excluding net unrealized gain (loss) on investments is calculated by dividing (a) debt by (b) total capitalization excluding net unrealized investment gain (loss) on investments, net of taxes. Net unrealized investment gains and losses can be significantly impacted by both discretionary and other economic factors and are not necessarily indicative of operating trends. Accordingly, in the opinion of the Companys management, the debt to total capital ratio calculated on this basis provides another useful metric for investors to understand the Companys financial leverage position. The Companys debt to total capital ratio of 20.3% at December 31, 2009 calculated on this basis approximated its targeted level. Line of Credit Agreement. The Company has a $1.0 billion, five year revolving credit agreement (the "credit agreement") with a syndicate of financial institutions that expires on June 10, 2010. Pursuant to covenants in the credit agreement, the Company must maintain an excess of consolidated net worth over goodwill and other intangible assets of not less than $10 billion at all times. The Company must also maintain a ratio of total consolidated debt to the sum of total consolidated debt plus consolidated net worth of not greater than 0.40 to 1.00. In addition, the credit agreement contains other customary restrictive covenants as well as certain customary events of default, including with respect to a change in control. At December 31, 2009, the Company was in compliance with these covenants and all other covenants related to its outstanding debt instruments. There was no amount outstanding under the credit agreement as of December 31, 2009. The Company is evaluating its options with regard to the forthcoming expiration of the credit agreement. The credit agreement provides back up liquidity for the Companys $800 million commercial paper program, of which $100 million was outstanding at December 31, 2009. In December 2008, the Company filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission a universal shelf registration statement for the potential offering and sale of securities to replace its expiring universal shelf registration statement. The Company may offer these securities from time to time at prices and on other terms to be determined at the time of offering. During 2009, the Company issued securities with a principal amount of $500 million under the new shelf registration statement, and in 2008, the Company issued securities with a principal amount of $500 million under the prior shelf registration statement. Share Repurchase Authorization. At December 31, 2009, the Company had $6.51 billion of capacity remaining under its share repurchase authorization approved by the board of directors. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes, as of December 31, 2009, the Companys future payments under contractual obligations and estimated claims and claims related payments. The table excludes short term obligations and includes only liabilities at December 31, 2009 that are expected to be settled in cash. 123 Table of Contents The table below includes the amount and estimated future timing of claims and claim related payments. The amounts do not represent the exact liability, but instead represent estimates, generally utilizing actuarial projections techniques, at a given accounting date. These estimates include expectations of what the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost based on the Companys assessment of facts and circumstances then known, review of historical settlement patterns, estimates of trends in claims severity, frequency, legal theories of liability and other factors. Variables in the reserve estimation process can be affected by both internal and external events, such as changes in claims handling procedures, economic inflation or deflation, legal trends and legislative changes. Many of these items are not directly quantifiable, particularly on a prospective basis. Additionally, there may be significant reporting lags between the occurrence of the policyholder event and the time it is actually reported to the insurer. The future cash flows related to the items contained in the table below required estimation of both amount (including severity considerations) and timing. Amount and timing are frequently estimated separately. An estimation of both amount and timing of future cash flows related to claims and claim related payments is generally reliable only in the aggregate with some unavoidable estimation uncertainty. The contractual obligations related to debt, operating leases, purchase obligations, long term unfunded investment commitments, estimated claims and claims related payments (gross of the 124 Table of Contents estimated reinsurance recoveries) and liabilities related to unrecognized tax benefits, at December 31, 2009 were as follows: Payments Due by Period (in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years Debt Medium term notes $ 21 $ 21 $ $ $ Senior notes 5,150 250 250 500 4,150 Junior subordinated debentures 1,254 1,254 Private placement notes 13 2 11 Total debt principal 6,438 273 261 500 5,404 Interest 5,294 390 748 690 3,466 Total long term debt obligations(1) 11,732 663 1,009 1,190 8,870 Operating leases(2) 681 174 252 148 107 Purchase obligations Information systems administration and maintenance commitments(3) 117 55 54 8 Reinsurance brokerage commitment(4) 44 20 24 Other purchase commitments(5) 75 23 10 10 32 Total purchase obligations 236 98 88 18 32 Long term unfunded investment commitments(6) 1,319 297 377 457 188 Estimated claims and claims related payments Claims and claim adjustment expenses(7) 54,290 12,030 14,549 8,797 18,914 Claims from large deductible policies (8) Loss based assessments(9) 238 34 55 25 124 Reinsurance contracts accounted for as deposits(10) 1 1 Payout from ceded funds withheld(11) 250 6 129 11 104 Total estimated claims and claims related payments 54,779 12,071 14,733 8,833 19,142 Liabilities related to unrecognized tax benefits(12) 2,126 1,734 392 Total $ 70,873 $ 13,303 $ 18,193 $ 11,038 $ 28,339 (1)See note 8 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements for a further discussion of outstanding indebtedness. Because the amounts reported in the foregoing table include principal and interest, the total long term debt obligations will not agree with the amounts reported in note 8. (2)Represents agreements entered into in the ordinary course of business to lease office space, equipment and furniture. (3)Includes agreements with vendors to purchase system software administration and maintenance services. (4)In connection with the sale of its insurance brokerage operations, the Company committed to acquire brokerage services from the buyer through May 16, 2012. See note 15 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements. 125 Table of Contents (5)Includes commitments to vendors entered into in the ordinary course of business for goods and services including office supplies, archival services, etc. (6)Represents estimated timing for fulfilling unfunded commitments for private equity limited partnerships and real estate partnerships. (7)The amounts in "Claims and claim adjustment expenses" in the table above represent the estimated timing of future payments for both reported and unreported claims incurred and related claim adjustment expenses, gross of reinsurance recoverables. The Company has entered into reinsurance agreements to protect itself from potential losses in excess of the amount it is prepared to accept as described in note 5 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements. In order to qualify for reinsurance accounting, a reinsurance agreement must indemnify the insurer from insurance risk, i.e., the agreement must transfer amount and timing risk. Since the timing and amount of cash inflows from such reinsurance agreements are directly related to the underlying payment of claims and claim adjustment expenses by the insurer, reinsurance recoverables are recognized in a manner consistent with the liabilities (the estimated liability for claims and claim adjustment expenses) relating to the underlying reinsured contracts. The presence of any feature that can delay timely reimbursement of claims by a reinsurer results in the reinsurance contract being accounted for as a deposit rather than reinsurance (see below). The assumptions used in estimating the amount and timing of the reinsurance recoverables are consistent with those used in estimating the amount and timing of the related liabilities. Reinsurance agreements that do not transfer both amount and timing risk are accounted for as deposits and included in "Reinsurance contracts accounted for as deposits" in the table above. The estimated future cash inflows from the Companys reinsurance contracts that qualify for reinsurance accounting are as follows: (in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years Reinsurance recoverables $ 12,459 $ 2,582 $ 3,199 $ 2,027 $ 4,651 The Company manages its business and evaluates its liabilities for claims and claim adjustment expense on a net of reinsurance basis. The estimated cash flows on a net of reinsurance basis are as follows: (in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years Claims and claim adjustment expenses, net $ 41,831 $ 9,448 $ 11,350 $ 6,770 $ 14,263 For business underwritten by non U.S. operations, future cash flows related to reported and unreported claims incurred and related claim adjustment expenses were translated at the spot rate on December 31, 2009. The amounts reported in the table above and in the table of reinsurance recoverables above are presented on a nominal basis and have not been adjusted to reflect the time value of money. Accordingly, the amounts above will differ from the Companys balance sheet to the extent that the liability for claims and claim adjustment expenses and the related reinsurance recoverables have been discounted in the balance sheet. (See note 1 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements.) (8)Workers compensation large deductible policies provide third party coverage in which the Company typically is responsible for paying the entire loss under such policies and then seeks 126 Table of Contents reimbursement from the insured for the deductible amount. "Claims from large deductible policies" represent the estimated future payment for claims and claim related expenses below the deductible amount, net of the estimated recovery of the deductible. The liability and the related deductible receivable for unpaid claims are presented in the consolidated balance sheet as "contractholder payables" and "contractholder receivables," respectively. Most deductibles for such policies are paid directly from the policyholders escrow which is periodically replenished by the policyholder. The payment of the loss amounts above the deductible are reported within "Claims and claim adjustment expenses" in the above table. Because the timing of the collection of the deductible (contractholder receivables) occurs shortly after the payment of the deductible to a claimant (contractholder payables), these cash flows offset each other in the table. The estimated timing of the payment of the contractholder payables and the collection of contractholder receivables for workers compensation policies is presented below: (in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years Contractholder payables/receivables $ 5,797 $ 1,442 $ 1,608 $ 854 $ 1,893 (9)The amounts in "Loss based assessments" relate to estimated future payments of second injury fund assessments which would result from payment of current claim liabilities. Second injury funds cover the cost of any additional benefits for aggravation of a pre existing condition. For loss based assessments, the cost is shared by the insurance industry and self insureds, funded through assessments to insurance companies and self insureds based on losses. Amounts relating to second injury fund assessments are included in "other liabilities" in the consolidated balance sheet. (10)The amounts in "Reinsurance contracts accounted for as deposits" represent estimated future nominal payments for reinsurance agreements that are accounted for as deposits. Amounts payable under deposit agreements are included in "other liabilities" in the consolidated balance sheet. The amounts reported in the table are presented on a nominal basis and have not been adjusted to reflect the time value of money. Accordingly, the amounts above will differ from the Companys balance sheet to the extent that deposit values in the balance sheet have been discounted using deposit accounting. (11)The amounts in "Payout from ceded funds withheld" represent estimated payments for losses and return of funds held related to certain reinsurance arrangements whereby the Company holds a portion of the premium due to the reinsurer and is allowed to pay claims from the amounts held. (12)The Companys gross current and deferred liabilities related to unrecognized tax benefits from uncertain tax positions are $2,126 million. Offsetting these liabilities are current and deferred tax assets in the following amounts associated with the temporary differences that would exist if these positions become realized: (in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years Receivables related to unrecognized tax benefits $ 2,060 $ $ 1,669 $ 391 $ The above table does not include an analysis of liabilities reported for structured settlements for which the Company has purchased annuities and remains contingently liable in the event of default by the company issuing the annuity. The Company is not reasonably likely to incur material future payment obligations under such agreements. In addition, the Company does not have a best estimate of contributions expected to be paid to its qualified pension plan. Accordingly, any future contributions are not included in the foregoing table. 127  Table of Contents Dividend Availability The Companys principal insurance subsidiaries are domiciled in the states of Connecticut and Minnesota. The insurance holding company laws of both states applicable to the Companys subsidiaries requires notice to, and approval by, the state insurance commissioner for the declaration or payment of any dividend that, together with other distributions made within the preceding twelve months, exceeds the greater of 10% of the insurers capital and surplus as of the preceding December 31, or the insurers net income for the twelve month period ending the preceding December 31, in each case determined in accordance with statutory accounting practices and by state regulation. This declaration or payment is further limited by adjusted unassigned surplus, as determined in accordance with statutory accounting practices. The insurance holding company laws of other states in which the Companys subsidiaries are domiciled generally contain similar, although in some instances somewhat more restrictive, limitations on the payment of dividends. A maximum of $3.49 billion is available by the end of 2010 for such dividends without prior approval of the Connecticut Insurance Department for Connecticut domiciled subsidiaries and the Minnesota Department of Commerce for Minnesota domiciled subsidiaries. The Company may choose to accelerate the timing within 2010 and or increase the amount of dividends from its insurance subsidiaries in 2010, which could result in certain dividends being subject to approval by those Insurance Departments. The holding company received $3.54 billion of dividends from its domestic insurance subsidiaries in 2009, including a $500 million dividend that received regulatory approval. Risk Based Capital The NAIC adopted RBC requirements for property casualty companies to be used as minimum capital requirements by the NAIC and states to identify companies that merit further regulatory action. The formulas have not been designed to differentiate among adequately capitalized companies that operate with levels of capital higher than RBC requirements. Therefore, it is inappropriate and ineffective to use the formulas to rate or to rank these companies. At December 31, 2009, all of the Companys insurance subsidiaries had adjusted capital in excess of amounts requiring any company or regulatory action. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company has entered into certain contingent obligations for guarantees related to letters of credit, issuance of debt securities, certain investments and various indemnifications, including those related to the sale of business entities. See note 15 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements. The Company does not expect these arrangements to have a material effect on the Companys financial position, changes in financial position, revenues and expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES The Company considers its most significant accounting estimates to be those applied to claims and claim adjustment expense reserves and related reinsurance recoverables, investment valuation and impairments, and goodwill impairments. Claims and Claim Adjustment Expense Reserves Claims and claim adjustment expense reserves (loss reserves) represent managements estimate of ultimate unpaid costs of losses and loss adjustment expenses for claims that have been reported and claims that have been incurred but not yet reported. Loss reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability, but instead represent management estimates, generally utilizing actuarial expertise and 128 Table of Contents projection techniques, at a given accounting date. These loss reserve estimates are expectations of what the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost upon final resolution in the future, based on the Companys assessment of facts and circumstances then known, review of historical settlement patterns, estimates of trends in claims severity and frequency, expected interpretations of legal theories of liability and other factors. In establishing loss reserves, the Company also takes into account estimated recoveries, reinsurance, salvage and subrogation. The loss reserves are reviewed regularly by qualified actuaries employed by the Company. The process of estimating loss reserves involves a high degree of judgment and is subject to a number of variables. These variables can be affected by both internal and external events, such as changes in claims handling procedures, changes in individuals involved in the reserve estimation process, economic inflation, legal trends and legislative changes, among others. The impact of many of these items on ultimate costs for claims and claim adjustment expenses is difficult to estimate. Loss reserve estimation difficulties also differ significantly by product line due to differences in claim complexity, the volume of claims, the potential severity of individual claims, the determination of occurrence date for a claim and reporting lags (the time between the occurrence of the policyholder event and when it is actually reported to the insurer). Informed judgment is applied throughout the process, including the application of various individual experiences and expertise to multiple sets of data and analyses. The Company continually refines its loss reserve estimates in a regular ongoing process as historical loss experience develops and additional claims are reported and settled. The Company rigorously attempts to consider all significant facts and circumstances known at the time loss reserves are established. Due to the inherent uncertainty underlying loss reserve estimates including, but not limited to, the future settlement environment, final resolution of the estimated liability for claims and claim adjustment expenses may be higher or lower than the related loss reserves at the reporting date. Therefore, actual paid losses, as claims are settled in the future, may be materially different in amount than current loss reserves favorable or unfavorable. Because establishment of loss reserves is an inherently uncertain process involving estimates, currently established loss reserves may change. The Company reflects adjustments to loss reserves in the results of operations in the period the estimates are changed. There are also additional risks which impact the estimation of ultimate costs for catastrophes. For example, the estimation of reserves related to hurricanes can be affected by the inability of the Company and its insureds to access portions of the impacted areas, the complexity of factors contributing to the losses, the legal and regulatory uncertainties and the nature of the information available to establish the reserves. Complex factors include, but are not limited to: determining whether damage was caused by flooding versus wind; evaluating general liability and pollution exposures; estimating additional living expenses; estimating the impact of demand surge, infrastructure disruption, fraud, the effect of mold damage and business interruption costs; and reinsurance collectibility. The timing of a catastrophe, such as at or near the end of a reporting period, can also affect the information available to the Company in estimating reserves for that reporting period. The estimates related to catastrophes are adjusted as actual claims emerge. A portion of the Companys gross claims and claim adjustment expense reserves are for asbestos and environmental claims and related litigation, which totaled $3.49 billion at December 31, 2009. While the ongoing review of asbestos and environmental claims and associated liabilities considers the inconsistencies of court decisions as to coverage, plaintiffs expanded theories of liability and the risks inherent in complex litigation and other uncertainties, in the opinion of the Companys management, it is possible that the outcome of the continued uncertainties regarding these claims could result in liability in future periods that differs from current reserves by an amount that could be material to the Companys future operating results. See the preceding discussion of "Asbestos Claims and Litigation" and "Environmental Claims and Litigation." 129 Table of Contents Gross claims and claim adjustment expense reserves by product line were as follows: 2009 2008 (at December 31, in millions) Case IBNR Total Case IBNR Total General liability $ 6,368 $ 11,542 $ 17,910 $ 6,529 $ 11,912 $ 18,441 Property 1,211 771 1,982 1,414 858 2,272 Commercial multi peril 1,878 1,762 3,640 1,988 1,968 3,956 Commercial automobile 2,262 1,294 3,556 2,413 1,408 3,821 Workers compensation 9,355 7,122 16,477 9,419 6,872 16,291 Fidelity and surety 661 1,091 1,752 677 1,081 1,758 Personal automobile 1,457 994 2,451 1,448 1,043 2,491 Homeowners and personal other 633 717 1,350 633 800 1,433 International and other 2,003 1,933 3,936 2,140 2,043 4,183 Property casualty 25,828 27,226 53,054 26,661 27,985 54,646 Accident and health 64 9 73 68 9 77 Claims and claim adjustment expense reserves $ 25,892 $ 27,235 $ 53,127 $ 26,729 $ 27,994 $ 54,723 The amounts previously disclosed above at December 31, 2008 for general liability and commercial auto IBNR reserves have been increased and decreased by $103 million, respectively, to correct a classification error at December 31, 2008. In addition, the amounts previously disclosed at December 31, 2008 for commercial multi peril case and IBNR reserves, as well as the total case and IBNR reserves, have been increased and decreased by $172 million, respectively, to correct a classification error at December 31, 2008. These reclassifications had no impact on total claims and claim adjustment expense reserves reported at December 31, 2008. The $1.60 billion decline in gross claims and claim adjustment expense reserves since December 31, 2008 primarily reflected ongoing claims and claim adjustment expense activity, including losses incurred and payments, as well as favorable prior year reserve development and payments related to operations in runoff. Asbestos and environmental reserves are included in the General liability, Commercial multi peril and International and other lines in the summary table. Asbestos and environmental reserves are discussed separately; see "Asbestos Claims and Litigation", "Environmental Claims and Litigation" and "Uncertainty Regarding Adequacy of Asbestos and Environmental Reserves." General Discussion The process for estimating the liabilities for claims and claim adjustment expenses begins with the collection and analysis of claim data. Data on individual reported claims, both current and historical, including paid amounts and individual claim adjuster estimates, are grouped by common characteristics (components) and evaluated by actuaries in their analyses of ultimate claim liabilities by product line. Such data is occasionally supplemented with external data as available and when appropriate. The process of analyzing reserves for a component is undertaken on a regular basis, generally quarterly, in light of continually updated information. Multiple estimation methods are available for the analysis of ultimate claim liabilities. Each estimation method has its own set of assumption variables and its own advantages and disadvantages, with no single estimation method being better than the others in all situations and no one set of assumption variables being meaningful for all product line components. The relative strengths and weaknesses of the particular estimation methods when applied to a particular group of claims can also change over time. Therefore, the actual choice of estimation method(s) can change with each 130 Table of Contents evaluation. The estimation method(s) chosen are those that are believed to produce the most reliable indication at that particular evaluation date for the claim liabilities being evaluated. In most cases, multiple estimation methods will be valid for the particular facts and circumstances of the claim liabilities being evaluated. This will result in a range of reasonable estimates for any particular claim liability. The Company uses such range analyses to back test whether previously established estimates for reserves at the reporting segments are reasonable, given subsequent information. Reported values found to be closer to the endpoints of a range of reasonable estimates are subject to further detailed reviews. These reviews may substantiate the validity of managements recorded estimate or lead to a change in the reported estimate. The exact boundary points of these ranges are more qualitative than quantitative in nature, as no clear line of demarcation exists to determine when the set of underlying assumptions for an estimation method switches from being reasonable to unreasonable. As a result, the Company does not believe that the endpoints of these ranges are or would be comparable across companies. In addition, potential interactions among the different estimation assumptions for different product lines make the aggregation of individual ranges a highly judgmental and inexact process. Property casualty insurance policies are either written on a claims made or on an occurrence basis. Claims made policies generally cover, subject to requirements in individual policies, claims reported during the policy period. Policies that are written on an occurrence basis require that the insured demonstrate that a loss occurred in the policy period, even if the insured reports the loss many years later. Most general liability policies are written on an occurrence basis. These policies are subject to substantial loss development over time as facts and circumstances change in the years following the policy issuance. The occurrence form, which accounts for much of the reserve development in asbestos and environmental exposures, is also used to provide coverage for construction general liability, including construction defect. Occurrence based forms of insurance for general liability exposures require substantial projection of various trends, including future inflation and judicial interpretations and societal litigation dynamics, among others. A basic premise in most actuarial analyses is that past patterns demonstrated in the data will repeat themselves in the future, absent a material change in the associated risk factors discussed below. To the extent a material change affecting the ultimate claim liability is known, such change is quantified to the extent possible through an analysis of internal company data and, if available and when appropriate, external data. Such a measurement is specific to the facts and circumstances of the particular claim portfolio and the known change being evaluated. Significant structural changes to the available data, product mix or organization can materially impact the reserve estimation process. Informed judgment is applied throughout the reserving process. This includes the application of various individual experiences and expertise to multiple sets of data and analyses. In addition to actuaries, experts involved with the reserving process also include underwriting and claims personnel and lawyers, as well as other company management. Therefore, management may have to consider varying individual viewpoints as part of its estimation of loss reserves. It is also likely that during periods of significant change, such as a merger, consistent application of informed judgment becomes even more complicated and difficult. The variables discussed above in this general discussion have different impacts on reserve estimation uncertainty for a given product line, depending on the length of the claim tail, the reporting lag, the impact of individual claims and the complexity of the claim process for a given product line. Product lines are generally classifiable as either long tail or short tail, based on the average length of time between the event triggering claims under a policy and the final resolution of those claims. Short tail claims are reported and settled quickly, resulting in less estimation variability. The longer the 131 Table of Contents time before final claim resolution, the greater the exposure to estimation risks and hence the greater the estimation uncertainty. A major component of the claim tail is the reporting lag. The reporting lag, which is the time between the event triggering a claim and the reporting of the claim to the insurer, makes estimating IBNR inherently more uncertain. In addition, the greater the reporting lag, the greater the proportion of IBNR to the total claim liability for the product line. Writing new products with material reporting lags can result in adding several years worth of IBNR claim exposure before the reporting lag exposure becomes clearly observable, thereby increasing the risk associated with pricing and reserving such products. The most extreme example of claim liabilities with long reporting lags are asbestos claims. For some lines, the impact of large individual claims can be material to the analysis. These lines are generally referred to as being "low frequency/high severity," while lines without this "large claim" sensitivity are referred to as "high frequency/low severity." Estimates of claim liabilities for low frequency/high severity lines can be sensitive to the impact of a small number of potentially large claims. As a result, the role of judgment is much greater for these reserve estimates. In contrast, for high frequency/low severity lines the impact of individual claims is relatively minor and the range of reasonable reserve estimates is narrower and more stable. Claim complexity can also greatly affect the estimation process by impacting the number of assumptions needed to produce the estimate, the potential stability of the underlying data and claim process, and the ability to gain an understanding of the data. Product lines with greater claim complexity, such as for certain surety and construction exposures, have inherently greater estimation uncertainty. Actuaries have to exercise a considerable degree of judgment in the evaluation of all these factors in their analysis of reserves. The human element in the application of actuarial judgment is unavoidable when faced with material uncertainty. Different actuaries may choose different assumptions when faced with such uncertainty, based on their individual backgrounds, professional experiences and areas of focus. Hence, the estimates selected by the various actuaries may differ materially from each other. Lastly, significant structural changes to the available data, product mix or organization can also materially impact the reserve estimation process. Events such as mergers increase the inherent uncertainty of reserve estimates for a period of time, until stable trends re establish themselves within the new organization. Risk factors The major causes of material uncertainty ("risk factors") generally will vary for each product line, as well as for each separately analyzed component of the product line. In a few cases, such risk factors are explicit assumptions of the estimation method, but in most cases, they are implicit. For example, a method may explicitly assume that a certain percentage of claims will close each year, but will implicitly assume that the legal interpretation of existing contract language will remain unchanged. Actual results will likely vary from expectations for each of these assumptions, causing actual paid losses, as claims are settled in the future, to be different in amount than the reserves being estimated currently. Some risk factors will affect more than one product line. Examples include changes in claim department practices, changes in settlement patterns, regulatory and legislative actions, court actions, timeliness of claim reporting, state mix of claimants and degree of claimant fraud. The extent of the impact of a risk factor will also vary by components within a product line. Individual risk factors are also subject to interactions with other risk factors within product line components. The effect of a particular risk factor on estimates of claim liabilities cannot be isolated in most cases. For example, estimates of potential claim settlements may be impacted by the risk associated 132 Table of Contents with potential court rulings, but the final settlement agreement typically does not delineate how much of the settled amount is due to this and other factors. The evaluation of data is also subject to distortion from extreme events or structural shifts, sometimes in unanticipated ways. For example, the timing of claims payments in one geographic region will be impacted if claim adjusters are temporarily reassigned from that region to help settle catastrophe claims in another region. While some changes in the claim environment are sudden in nature (such as a new court ruling affecting the interpretation of all contracts in that jurisdiction), others are more evolutionary. Evolutionary changes can occur when multiple factors affect final claim values, with the uncertainty surrounding each factor being resolved separately, in stepwise fashion. The final impact is not known until all steps have occurred. Sudden changes generally cause a one time shift in claim liability estimates, although there may be some lag in reliable quantification of their impact. Evolutionary changes generally cause a series of shifts in claim liability estimates, as each component of the evolutionary change becomes evident and estimable. Actuarial methods for analyzing and estimating claims and claim adjustment expense reserves The principal estimation and analysis methods utilized by the Companys actuaries are the paid development method, the case incurred development method, the Bornhuetter Ferguson (BF) method, and average value analysis combined with the reported claim development method. The BF method is usually utilized for more recent accident periods, with a transition to other methods as the underlying claim data becomes more voluminous and therefore more credible. These are typically referred to as traditional actuarial methods. (See Glossary for an explanation of these methods). While these are the principal methods utilized throughout the Company, actuaries evaluating a particular component for a product line have available to them the full range of methods developed within the casualty actuarial profession. The Companys actuaries are also continually monitoring developments within the profession for advances in existing techniques or the creation of new techniques that might improve current and future estimates. Some components of product line reserves are susceptible to relatively infrequent large claims that can materially impact the total estimate for that component. In such cases, the Companys actuarial analysis generally isolates and analyzes separately such large claims. The reserves excluding such large claims are generally analyzed using the traditional methods described above. The reserves associated with large claims are then analyzed utilizing various methods, such as: Estimating the number of large claims and their average values based on historical trends from prior accident periods, adjusted for the current environment and supplemented with actual data for the accident year analyzed to the extent available. Utilizing individual claim adjuster estimates of the large claims, combined with continual monitoring of the aggregate accuracy of such claim adjuster estimates. (This monitoring may lead to supplemental adjustments to the aggregate of such claim estimates.) Utilizing historic longer term average ratios of large claims to small claims, and applying such ratios to the estimated ultimate small claims from traditional analysis. Ground up analysis of the underlying exposure (typically used for asbestos and environmental). The results of such methodologies are subjected to various reasonability and diagnostic tests, including paid to incurred loss ratios, implied incurred loss to earned premium ratios and non zero claim severity trends. An actual versus expected analysis is also performed comparing actual loss 133 Table of Contents development to expected development based on the prior review. Additional analyses may be performed based on the results of these diagnostics, including the investigation of other actuarial methods. The methods described above are generally utilized to evaluate managements existing estimate for prior accident periods. For the initial estimate of the current accident year, the available claim data is typically insufficient to produce a reliable indication. Hence, the initial estimate for an accident year is generally based on a loss ratio projection method, which uses the earned premium for the current year multiplied by a projected loss ratio. The projected loss ratio is determined through an analysis of prior periods experience, using loss trend, rate level differences, mix of business changes and other known or observed factors influencing the current accident year relative to prior accident years. The exact number of prior accident years utilized varies by product line component, based on the volume of business for that component and the reliability of an individual accident year estimate. Managements estimates At least once per quarter, certain Company management meets with its actuaries to review the latest claims and claim adjustment expense reserve analyses. Based on these analyses, management determines whether its ultimate claim liability estimates should be changed. In doing so, it must evaluate whether the new data provided represents credible actionable information or an anomaly that will have no effect on estimated ultimate claim liability. For example, as described above, payments may have decreased in one geographic region due to fewer claim adjusters being available to process claims. The resulting claim payment patterns would be analyzed to determine whether or not the change in payment pattern represents a change in ultimate claim liability. Such an assessment requires considerable judgment. It is frequently not possible to determine whether a change in the data is an anomaly until sometime after the event. Even if a change is determined to be permanent, it is not always possible to reliably determine the extent of the change until sometime later. The overall detailed analyses supporting such an effort can take several months to perform. This is because the underlying causes of the trends observed need to be evaluated, which may require the gathering or assembling of data not previously available. It may also include interviews with experts involved with the underlying processes. As a result, there can be a time lag between the emergence of a change and a determination that the change should be reflected in the Companys estimated claim liabilities. The final estimate selected by management in a reporting period is based on these various detailed analyses of past data, adjusted to reflect any new actionable information. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors is responsible for providing oversight of reserving propriety, and annually reviews the process by which the Company establishes reserves. Discussion of Product Lines The following section details reserving considerations and common risk factors by product line. There are many additional risk factors that may impact ultimate claim costs. Each risk factor presented will have a different impact on required reserves. Also, risk factors can have offsetting or compounding effects on required reserves. For example, in workers compensation, the use of expensive medical procedures that result in medical cost inflation may enable workers to return to work faster, thereby lowering indemnity costs. Thus, in almost all cases, it is impossible to discretely measure the effect of a single risk factor and construct a meaningful sensitivity expectation. In order to provide information on reasonably possible reserving changes by product line, the historical changes in year end loss reserves over a one year period are provided for the U.S. product lines. This information is provided for both the Company and the industry for the nine most recent years, and is based on the most recent publicly available data for the reported line(s) that most closely match the individual product line being discussed. These changes were calculated, net of reinsurance, 134 Table of Contents from statutory annual statement data found in Schedule P of those statements, and represent the reported reserve development on the beginning of the year claim liabilities divided by the beginning claim liabilities, all accident years combined, excluding non defense related claim adjustment expense. Data presented for the Company includes history for the entire Travelers group (U.S. companies only), whether or not the individual subsidiaries were originally part of SPC or TPC. This treatment is required by the statutory reporting instructions promulgated by state regulatory authorities for Schedule P. Comparable data for non U.S. companies is not available. General Liability General liability is generally considered a long tail line, as it takes a relatively long period of time to finalize and settle claims from a given accident year. The speed of claim reporting and claim settlement is a function of the specific coverage provided, the jurisdiction and specific policy provisions such as self insured retentions. There are numerous components underlying the general liability product line. Some of these have relatively moderate payment patterns (with most of the claims for a given accident year closed within 5 to 7 years), while others can have extreme lags in both reporting and payment of claims (e.g., a reporting lag of a decade or more for "construction defect" claims). While the majority of general liability coverages are written on an "occurrence" basis, certain general liability coverages (such as those covering directors and officers or professional liability) are typically insured on a "claims made" basis. General liability reserves are generally analyzed as two components: primary and excess/umbrella, with the primary component generally analyzed separately for bodily injury and property damage. Bodily injury liability payments reimburse the claimant for damages pertaining to physical injury as a result of the policyholders legal obligation arising from non intentional acts such as negligence, subject to the insurance policy provisions. In some cases the damages can include future wage loss (which is a function of future earnings power and wage inflation) and future medical treatment costs. Property damage liability payments result from damages to the claimants private property arising from the policyholders legal obligation for non intentional acts. In most cases, property damage losses are a function of costs as of the loss date, or soon thereafter. In addition, sizable or unique exposures are reviewed separately. These exposures include asbestos, environmental, other mass torts, construction defect, medical malpractice and large unique accounts that would otherwise distort the analysis. These unique categories often require a very high degree of judgment and require reserve analyses that do not rely on traditional actuarial methods. Defense costs are also a part of the insured costs covered by liability policies and can be significant, sometimes greater than the cost of the actual paid claims. For some products this risk is mitigated by policy language such that the insured portion of defense costs erodes the amount of policy limit available to pay the claim. Such "defense within the limits" policies are most common for "claims made" products. When defense costs are outside of the limits, amounts paid for defense costs do not erode the policy limits. This line is typically the largest source of reserve estimate uncertainty in the United States (excluding assumed reinsurance contracts covering the same risk). Major contributors to this reserve estimate uncertainty include the reporting lag (i.e., the length of time between the event triggering coverage and the actual reporting of the claim), the number of parties involved in the underlying tort action, whether the "event" triggering coverage is confined to only one time period or is spread over multiple time periods, the potential dollars involved (in the individual claim actions), whether such claims were reasonably foreseeable and intended to be covered at the time the contracts were written (i.e., coverage dispute potential), and the potential for mass claim actions. Claims with longer reporting lags result in greater inherent risk. This is especially true for alleged claims with a latency feature, particularly where courts have ruled that coverage is spread over multiple policy years, hence involving 135 Table of Contents multiple defendants (and their insurers and reinsurers) and multiple policies (thereby increasing the potential dollars involved and the underlying settlement complexity). Claims with long latencies also increase the potential recognition lag (i.e., the lag between writing a type of policy in a certain market and the recognition that such policies have potential mass tort and or latent claim exposure). The amount of reserve estimate uncertainty also varies significantly by component for the general liability product line. The components in this product line with the longest latency, longest reporting lags, largest potential dollars involved and greatest claim settlement complexity are asbestos and environmental. Components that include latency, reporting lag and or complexity issues, but to a materially lesser extent than asbestos and environmental, include construction defect, medical malpractice and other mass tort actions. Many components of general liability are not subject to material latency or claim complexity risks and hence have materially less uncertainty than the previously mentioned components. In general, policies providing coverage with shorter reporting lags, fewer parties involved in settlement negotiations, only one policy potentially triggered per claim, fewer potential settlement dollars, reasonably foreseeable (and stable) potential hazards/claims and no mass tort potential result in much less reserve estimate uncertainty than policies without those characteristics. In addition to the traditional actuarial methods mentioned in the general discussion section, the company utilizes various report year development and S curve methods for the construction defect components of this product line. The Construction Defect report year development analysis is supplemented with projected claim counts and average values for IBNR claim counts. For components with greater lags in claim reporting, such as excess and umbrella components of this product line, the company relies more heavily on the BF method than on the paid and case incurred development methods. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required general liability reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: General liability risk factors Changes in claim handling philosophies Changes in policy provisions or court interpretation of such provisions New theories of liability Trends in jury awards Changes in the propensity to sue, in general with specificity to particular issues Changes in statutes of limitations Changes in the underlying court system Distortions from losses resulting from large single accounts or single issues Changes in tort law Shifts in law suit mix between federal and state courts Changes in claim adjuster office structure (causing distortions in the data) Changes in settlement patterns (e.g., medical malpractice) General liability book of business risk factors Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements) Changes in underwriting standards Product mix (e.g., size of account, industries insured, jurisdiction mix) Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for general liability (excluding asbestos and environmental), a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.5% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line, excluding estimated asbestos and environmental amounts, over the last nine years has varied from 5% to 14% (averaging 136 Table of Contents 4%) for the Company and from 5% to 7% (averaging 1%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. Because the high end of the Companys range of historical adverse development comes from certain businesses that the Company has since exited, the Company believes that the industrys range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. General liability reserves (excluding asbestos and environmental) represent approximately 28% of the Companys total loss reserves. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line, excluding estimated asbestos and environmental amounts, was 5% for 2009, 5% for 2008 and 2% for 2007. The 2009 and 2008 changes primarily reflected significant favorable prior year reserve development, driven by several factors, including improved legal and judicial environments, as well as enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. The 2007 change was driven by better than expected loss development for recent accident years attributable to several factors, including improved legal and judicial environments, as well as enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. Property Property is generally considered a short tail line with a simpler and faster claim reporting and adjustment process than liability coverages, and less uncertainty in the reserve setting process (except for more complex business interruption claims). It is generally viewed as a moderate frequency, low to moderate severity line, except for catastrophes and coverage related to large properties. The claim reporting and settlement process for property coverage claim reserves is generally restricted to the insured and the insurer. Overall, the claim liabilities for this line create a low estimation risk, except possibly for catastrophes and business interruption claims. Property reserves are typically analyzed in two components, one for catastrophic or other large single events, and another for all other events. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required property reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Property risk factors Physical concentration of policyholders Availability and cost of local contractors For the more severe catastrophic events, "demand surge" inflation, which refers to significant short term increases in building material and labor costs due to a sharp increase in demand for those materials and services Local building codes Amount of time to return property to full usage (for business interruption claims) Court interpretation of policy provisions (such as occurrence definition, or wind versus flooding) Lags in reporting claims (e.g., winter damage to summer homes, hidden damage after an earthquake) Court or legislative changes to the statute of limitations Property book of business risk factors Policy provisions mix (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements) Changes in underwriting standards Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for property, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.1% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 34% to 26% (averaging 7%) for the Company, and from 14% to 7% 137 Table of Contents (averaging 3%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. Because the high end of the Companys range of historical adverse development comes from certain businesses that the Company has since exited, the Company believes that the industrys range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Property reserves represent approximately 4% of the Companys total loss reserves. While property is considered a short tail coverage, the one year change for property can be more volatile than that for the longer tail product lines. This is due to the fact that the majority of the reserve for property relates to the most recent accident year, which is subject to the most uncertainty for all product lines. This recent accident year uncertainty is relevant to property because of weather related events which tend to be concentrated in the second half of the year, and generally are not completely resolved until the following year. Reserve estimates associated with major catastrophes may take even longer to resolve. The reserve estimates for this product line are also potentially subject to material changes due to uncertainty in measuring ultimate losses for unprecedented significant catastrophes such as the events of September 11, 2001 and Hurricane Katrina. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 9% for 2009, 22% for 2008 and 18% for 2007. The 2009 change was primarily driven by better than expected loss development in the 2007 and 2008 accident years for certain large national property and inland marine exposures. In addition, the 2005 accident year experience improved due to the litigation environment relating to, and ongoing claim settlements for, Hurricane Katrina. The 2008 change was primarily driven by favorable development in the 2007 accident year for certain large property, national programs and ocean marine claim exposures, and improvements in the litigation environment relating to, and ongoing claim settlements for, Hurricane Katrina. The 2007 change was due to fewer than expected late reported claims related to non catastrophe weather events that occurred late in 2006 as well as better than expected frequency and severity due in part to changes in the marketplace, such as higher deductibles and lower policy limits. In addition, the property product line experienced better than expected large loss outcomes which were partially attributable to favorable litigation resolutions. Commercial Multi Peril Commercial multi peril provides a combination of property and liability coverage typically for small businesses and, therefore, includes both short and long tail coverages. For property coverage, it generally takes a relatively short period of time to close claims, while for the other coverages, generally for the liability coverages, it takes a longer period of time to close claims. The reserving risk for this line is dominated by the liability coverage portion of this product, except occasionally in the event of catastrophic or large single losses. The reserving risk for this line differs from that of the general liability product line and the property product line due to the nature of the customer. Commercial multi peril is generally sold to smaller sized accounts, while the customer profile for general liability and property includes larger customers. See "Property risk factors" and "General liability risk factors," discussed above, with regard to reserving risk for commercial multi peril. Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for commercial multi peril (excluding asbestos and environmental), a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.2% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 16% to 2% (averaging 5%) for the Company, and from 5% to 6% (averaging 1%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes 138 Table of Contents is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Commercial multi peril reserves (excluding asbestos and environmental reserves) represent approximately 7% of the Companys total loss reserves. As discussed above, this line combines general liability and property coverages and it has been impacted in the past by many of the same events as those two lines. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 8% for 2009, 16% for 2008 and 8% for 2007. The 2009 and 2008 changes were attributable to several factors, including improved legal and judicial environments, and enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. Also contributing to the change was improvement in the litigation environment relating to, and ongoing claim settlements for, Hurricane Katrina. The 2007 change was attributable to better than expected results due to, among other factors, increasingly favorable legal and judicial environments as well as enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. Commercial Automobile The commercial automobile product line is a mix of property and liability coverages and, therefore, includes both short and long tail coverages. The payments that are made quickly typically pertain to auto physical damage (property) claims and property damage (liability) claims. The payments that take longer to finalize and are more difficult to estimate relate to bodily injury claims. In general, claim reporting lags are minor, claim complexity is not a major issue, and the line is viewed as high frequency, low to moderate severity. Overall, the claim liabilities for this line create a moderate estimation risk. Commercial automobile reserves are typically analyzed in four components: bodily injury liability; property damage liability; collision claims; and comprehensive claims. These last two components have minimum reserve risk and fast payouts and, accordingly, separate risk factors are not presented. The Company utilizes the traditional actuarial methods mentioned in the general discussion above in estimating claim liabilities for this line. This is supplemented with detailed custom analyses where needed. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required commercial automobile reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Bodily injury and property damage liability risk factors Trends in jury awards Changes in the underlying court system Changes in case law Litigation trends Frequency of claims with payment capped by policy limits Change in average severity of accidents, or proportion of severe accidents Changes in auto safety technology Subrogation opportunities Changes in claim handling philosophies Frequency of visits to health providers Number of medical procedures given during visits to health providers Types of health providers used Types of medical treatments received Changes in cost of medical treatments Degree of patient responsiveness to treatment Commercial automobile book of business risk factors Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements, etc.) Changes in mix of insured vehicles (e.g., long haul trucks versus local and smaller vehicles, fleet risks versus non fleets) Changes in underwriting standards 139 Table of Contents Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for commercial automobile, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.2% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 10% to 9% (averaging 2%) for the Company, and from 3% to 9% (averaging 2%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Commercial automobile reserves represent approximately 7% of the Companys total loss reserves. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 6% for 2009, 7% for 2008 and 10% for 2007. The 2009 and 2008 changes were a result of better than expected loss development, primarily for recent accident years, which was attributable to several factors, including improved legal and judicial environments, and enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. The 2007 change was due to better than expected loss development, for recent accident years, as a result of more favorable legal and judicial environments, claim handling initiatives and, the Company believes, improvements in auto safety technology. Workers Compensation Workers compensation is generally considered a long tail coverage, as it takes a relatively long period of time to finalize claims from a given accident year. While certain payments such as initial medical treatment or temporary wage replacement for the injured worker are made quickly, some other payments are made over the course of several years, such as awards for permanent partial injuries. In addition, some payments can run as long as the injured workers life, such as permanent disability benefits and on going medical care. Despite the possibility of long payment tails, the reporting lags are generally short, settlements are generally not complex, and most of the liability can be considered high frequency with moderate severity. The largest reserve risk generally comes from the low frequency, high severity claims providing lifetime coverage for medical expense arising from a workers injury. Overall, the claim liabilities for this line create a somewhat greater than moderate estimation risk. Workers compensation reserves are typically analyzed in three components: indemnity losses, medical losses and claim adjustment expenses. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required workers compensation reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Indemnity risk factors Time required to recover from the injury Degree of available transitional jobs Degree of legal involvement Changes in the interpretations and processes of the workers compensation commissions oversight of claims(1) Future wage inflation for states that index benefits Changes in the administrative policies of second injury funds (1)These are administrative bodies that evaluate whether or not a given claim for workers compensation benefits is valid. Their duties include the determination of whether a given injury arose out of the scope of employment or the determination of the degree of injury where disputes exist. 140 Table of Contents Medical risk factors Changes in the cost of medical treatments (including prescription drugs) and underlying fee schedules ("inflation") Frequency of visits to health providers Number of medical procedures given during visits to health providers Types of health providers used Type of medical treatments received Use of preferred provider networks and other medical cost containment practices Availability of new medical processes and equipment Changes in the use of pharmaceutical drugs Degree of patient responsiveness to treatment General workers compensation risk factors Frequency of claim reopenings on claims previously closed Mortality trends of injured workers with lifetime benefits and medical treatment Degree of cost shifting between workers compensation and health insurance Workers compensation book of business risk factors Product mix Injury type mix Changes in underwriting standards Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for workers compensation, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.2% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 2% to 2% (averaging 0%) for the Company, and from 1% to 4% (averaging 1%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Workers compensation reserves represent approximately 31% of the Companys total loss reserves. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 1% in 2009, 1% for 2008 and 0% for 2007. Fidelity and Surety Fidelity is generally considered a short tail coverage. It takes a relatively short period of time to finalize and settle fidelity claims. The volatility of fidelity reserves is generally related to the type of business of the insured, the size and complexity of the insureds business operations, amount of policy limit and attachment point of coverage. The uncertainty surrounding reserves for small, commercial insureds is typically less than the uncertainty for large commercial or financial institutions. The high frequency, low severity nature of small commercial fidelity losses provides for stability in loss estimates whereas, the low frequency, high severity nature of losses for large insureds results in a wider range of ultimate loss outcomes. Actuarial techniques that rely on a stable pattern of loss development are generally not applicable to low frequency, high severity policies. 141  Table of Contents Surety has certain components that are generally considered short tail coverages with short reporting lags, although large individual construction and commercial surety contracts can result in a long settlement tail, based on the length and complexity of the construction project or commercial transaction being insured. (Large construction projects can take many years to complete.) The frequency of losses in surety correlates with economic cycles as the primary cause of surety loss is the inability of the Companys insureds to perform financially. The volatility of surety losses is generally related to the type of business performed by the insured, the type of bonded obligation, the amount of limit exposed to loss and the amount of assets available to the insurer to mitigate losses, such as unbilled contract funds, collateral, first and third party indemnity, and other security positions of an insureds assets. Certain classes of surety claims are very high severity, low frequency in nature. These can include large construction contractors involved with one or multiple large, complex projects as well as certain large commercial surety exposures. Other claim factors affecting reserve variability of surety include litigation related to amounts owed by and due the insured (e.g., salvage and subrogation efforts) and the results of financial restructuring of an insured. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required fidelity and surety reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Fidelity risk factors Type of business of insured Policy limit and attachment points Third party claims Coverage litigation Complexity of claims Growth in insureds operations Surety risk factors Economic trends, including the general level of construction activity Concentration of reserves in a relatively few large claims Type of business insured Type of obligation insured Cumulative limits of liability for insured Assets available to mitigate loss Defective workmanship/latent defects Financial strategy of insured Changes in statutory obligations Geographic spread of business Fidelity and Surety book of business risk factors Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, limits, endorsements) Changes in underwriting standards Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for fidelity and surety, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.4% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 10% to 138% (averaging 21%) for the Company, and from 13% to 24% (averaging 5%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. Because the high end of the Companys range was due to acquired business in 2004, the Company believes that the industrys range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Fidelity and surety reserves represent approximately 3% of the Companys total loss reserves. 142 Table of Contents In general, developments on single large claims (both adverse and favorable) are a primary source of changes in reserve estimates for this product line. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 7% for 2009, 10% for 2008 and 1% for 2007. The 2009 and 2008 changes were a result of better than expected loss experience for the contract surety business within this product line, primarily driven by favorable settlements on large claims from older accident years. Personal Automobile Personal automobile includes both short and long tail coverages. The payments that are made quickly typically pertain to auto physical damage (property) claims and property damage (liability) claims. The payments that take longer to finalize and are more difficult to estimate relate to bodily injury claims. Reporting lags are relatively short and the claim settlement process for personal automobile liability generally is the least complex of the liability products. It is generally viewed as a high frequency, low to moderate severity product line. Overall, the claim liabilities for this line create a moderate estimation risk. Personal automobile reserves are typically analyzed in five components: bodily injury liability, property damage liability, no fault losses, collision claims and comprehensive claims. These last two components have minimum reserve risk and fast payouts and, accordingly, separate factors are not presented. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required personal automobile reserves (beyond those included in the general reserve discussion section) include: Bodily injury and property damage liability risk factors Trends in jury awards Changes in the underlying court system and its philosophy Changes in case law Litigation trends Frequency of claims with payment capped by policy limits Change in average severity of accidents, or proportion of severe accidents Subrogation opportunities Degree of patient responsiveness to treatment Changes in claim handling philosophies No fault risk factors (for selected states and time periods) Effectiveness of no fault laws Frequency of visits to health providers Number of medical procedures given during visits to health providers Types of health providers used Types of medical treatments received Changes in cost of medical treatments Degree of patient responsiveness to treatment Personal automobile book of business risk factors Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements, etc.) Changes in underwriting standards Changes in the use of credit data for rating and underwriting Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for personal automobile, a 1% increase 143 Table of Contents (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.1% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 9% to 1% (averaging 3%) for the Company, and from 4% to 0% (averaging 2%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Personal automobile reserves represent approximately 5% of the Companys total loss reserves. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 0% for 2009, 1% for 2008 and 5% for 2007. The decreases in 2008 and 2007 were primarily due to better than expected results from changes in claim handling practices as well as initiatives to fight fraud. Homeowners and Personal Lines Other Homeowners is generally considered a short tail coverage. Most payments are related to the property portion of the policy, where the claim reporting and settlement process is generally restricted to the insured and the insurer. Claims on property coverage are typically reported soon after the actual damage occurs, although delays of several months are not unusual. The claim is settled when the two parties agree on the amount due in accordance with the policy contract language and the appropriate payment is made (or alternatively, the property replacement/repair is performed by the insurer). The resulting settlement process is typically fairly short term, although exceptions do exist. The liability portion of the homeowners policy generates claims which take longer to pay due to the involvement of litigation and negotiation, but with generally small reporting lags. In addition, reserves related to umbrella coverages have greater uncertainty since umbrella liability payments are often made far into the future. Overall, the line is generally high frequency, low to moderate severity (except for catastrophes), with simple to moderate claim complexity. Homeowners reserves are typically analyzed in two components: non catastrophe related losses and catastrophe loss payments. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required homeowners reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Non catastrophe risk factors Salvage opportunities Amount of time to return property to residential use Changes in weather patterns Local building codes Litigation trends Trends in jury awards Catastrophe risk factors Physical concentration of policyholders Availability and cost of local contractors Local building codes Quality of construction of damaged homes Amount of time to return property to residential use For the more severe catastrophic events, "demand surge" inflation, which refers to significant short term increases in building material and labor costs due to a sharp increase in demand for those materials and services 144 Table of Contents Homeowners book of business risk factors Policy provisions mix (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements, etc.) Degree of concentration of policyholders Changes in underwriting standards Changes in the use of credit data for rating and underwriting Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for homeowners and personal lines other, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.1% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 31% to 3% (averaging 12%) for the Company, and from 8% to 11% (averaging 2%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Homeowners and personal lines other reserves represent approximately 2% of the Companys total loss reserves. This line combines both liability and property coverages; however, the majority of the reserves relate to property. While property is considered a short tail coverage, the one year change for property can be more volatile than that for the longer tail product lines. This is due to the fact that the majority of the reserve for property relates to the most recent accident year, which is subject to the most uncertainty for all product lines. This recent accident year uncertainty is relevant to property because of weather related events which tend to be concentrated in the second half of the year, and generally are not completely resolved until the following year. Reserve estimates associated with major catastrophes may take even longer to resolve. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 14% for 2009, 13% for 2008 and 3% for 2007. The 2009 change primarily reflected favorable loss experience related to Hurricanes Ike and Katrina, as well as the 2007 California wildfires. The 2008 change was primarily driven by favorable loss experience related to Hurricane Katrina, by claim initiatives, by better than expected outcomes on 2007 catastrophe related claims and by improvements in older accident years for the umbrella line. The 2007 change was due to fewer than expected late reported claims related to non catastrophe weather events that occurred in the fourth quarter of 2006. In addition, a portion of the change was attributable to a decrease in the number of claims due to changes in the marketplace, including higher deductibles and fewer small dollar claims. International and other International and other includes products written by International and other products not discussed above. The principal component of "other" claim reserves is assumed reinsurance written on an excess of loss basis, which may include reinsurance of non U.S. exposures, and is runoff business. International and other claim liabilities result from a mix of coverages, currencies and jurisdictions/countries. The common characteristic is the need to customize the analysis to the individual component, and the inability to rely on data characterizations and reporting requirements in the U.S. statutory reporting framework. Due to changes in the business mix for this line over time, the recently incurred claim liabilities are relatively short term (due to both the products and the jurisdictions involved, e.g., the Republic of Ireland and the United Kingdom), while the older liabilities include some from runoff operations that are extremely long tail (e.g., U.S. excess liabilities reinsured through the London market, and several underwriting pools in runoff). The speed of claim reporting and claim settlement is a function of the 145 Table of Contents specific coverage provided, the jurisdiction, the distribution system (e.g., underwriting pool versus direct) and the proximity of the insurance sale to the insured hazard (e.g., insured and insurer located in different countries). In particular, liabilities arising from the underwriting pools in runoff may result in significant reporting lags, settlement lags and claim complexity, due to the need to coordinate with other pool members or co insurers through a broker or lead insurer for claim settlement purposes. International and other reserves are generally analyzed by program/pool, country and general coverage category (e.g., U.S. Liability excess of loss reinsurance, or General Liability Municipalities by country). The business is also generally split by direct versus assumed reinsurance for a given coverage/jurisdiction. Where the underlying insured hazard is outside the United States, the underlying coverages are generally similar to those described under the General Liability and Automobile discussion above, but under a different legal system. Where the underlying hazard is within the U.S., the coverage involved is typically that of General Liability, but on an excess or excess of loss reinsurance basis. Excess exposure requires the insured to "prove" not only claims under the policy, but also the prior payment of claims reaching up to the excess policys attachment point. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required International and other reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: International and other risk factors Changes in claim handling procedures, including those of the primary carriers Changes in policy provisions or court interpretation of such provision New theories of liability Trends in jury awards Changes in the propensity to sue Changes in statutes of limitations Changes in the underlying court system Distortions from losses resulting from large single accounts or single issues Changes in tort law Changes in claim adjuster office structure (causing distortions in the data) International and other book of business risk factors Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements, "claims made" language) Changes in underwriting standards Product mix (e.g., size of account, industries insured, jurisdiction mix) Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for International and other (excluding asbestos and environmental), a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.3% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. International and other reserves (excluding asbestos and environmental) represent approximately 7% of the Companys total loss reserves. International and other represents a combination of different product lines, some of which are in runoff. Comparative historical information is not available for international product lines as insurers domiciled outside of the U.S. do not file U.S. statutory reports. Comparative historical information on runoff business is not indicative of reasonably possible one year changes in the reserve estimate for this mix of runoff business. Accordingly, the Company has not included comparative analyses for International and other. 146 Table of Contents Reinsurance Recoverables Amounts recoverable from reinsurers are estimated in a manner consistent with the associated claim liability. The Company evaluates and monitors the financial condition of its reinsurers under voluntary reinsurance arrangements to minimize its exposure to significant losses from reinsurer insolvencies. In addition, in the ordinary course of business, the Company becomes involved in coverage disputes with its reinsurers. Some of these disputes could result in lawsuits and arbitrations brought by or against the reinsurers to determine the Companys rights and obligations under the various reinsurance agreements. The Company employs dedicated specialists and aggressive strategies to manage reinsurance collections and disputes. The reinsurance agreements that the Company entered into as part of its catastrophe bond programs are dual trigger contracts and meet the requirements to be accounted for as reinsurance in accordance with guidance for accounting for reinsurance contracts. The Companys catastrophe bond programs are described in more detail in the "Catastrophe Reinsurance Coverage" section herein. The Company reports its reinsurance recoverables net of an allowance for estimated uncollectible reinsurance recoverables. The allowance is based upon the Companys ongoing review of amounts outstanding, length of collection periods, changes in reinsurer credit standing, disputes, applicable coverage defenses and other relevant factors. Accordingly, the establishment of reinsurance recoverables and the related allowance for uncollectible reinsurance recoverables is also an inherently uncertain process involving estimates. From time to time, as a result of the long tailed nature of the underlying liabilities, coverage complexities and potential for disputes, the Company considers the commutation of reinsurance contracts. Changes in estimated reinsurance recoverables and commutation activity could result in additional income statement charges. Recoverables attributable to structured settlements relate primarily to personal injury claims, of which workers compensation claims comprise a significant portion, for which the Company has purchased annuities and remains contingently liable in the event of a default by the companies issuing the annuities. Recoverables attributable to mandatory pools and associations relate primarily to workers compensation service business. These recoverables are supported by the participating insurance companies obligation to pay a pro rata share based on each companys voluntary market share of written premium in each state in which it is a pool participant. In the event a member of a mandatory pool or association defaults on its share of the pools or associations obligations, the other members share of such obligation increases proportionally. The following table summarizes the composition of the Companys reinsurance recoverable assets: (at December 31, in millions) 2009 2008 Gross reinsurance recoverables on paid and unpaid claims and claim adjustment expenses $ 8,138 $ 9,376 Allowance for uncollectible reinsurance (523 ) (618 ) Net reinsurance recoverables 7,615 8,758 Structured settlements 3,456 3,517 Mandatory pools and associations 1,745 1,957 Total reinsurance recoverables $ 12,816 $ 14,232 The $1.14 billion decline in net reinsurance recoverables since year end 2008 reflected cash collections, several commutation agreements and the impact of net favorable prior year reserve development. 147 Table of Contents Investment Valuation and Impairments Fair Value Measurements The Companys estimates of fair value for financial assets and financial liabilities are based on the framework established in the fair value accounting guidance. The framework is based on the inputs used in valuation, gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets, and requires that observable inputs be used in the valuations when available. The disclosure of fair value estimates in the fair value accounting guidance hierarchy is based on whether the significant inputs into the valuation are observable. In determining the level of the hierarchy in which the estimate is disclosed, the highest priority is given to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs that reflect the Companys significant market assumptions. The three levels of the hierarchy are as follows: Level 1 Unadjusted quoted market prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets that the Company has the ability to access. Level 2 Quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in inactive markets; or valuations based on models where the significant inputs are observable (e.g., interest rates, yield curves, prepayment speeds, default rates, loss severities, etc.) or can be corroborated by observable market data. Level 3 Valuations based on models where significant inputs are not observable. The unobservable inputs reflect the Companys own assumptions about the inputs that market participants would use. Valuation of Investments Reported at Fair Value in Financial Statements The fair value of a financial instrument is the estimated amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in an orderly transaction between knowledgeable, unrelated willing parties, i.e., not in a forced transaction. The estimated fair value of a financial instrument may differ from the amount that could be realized if the security was sold in an immediate sale, e.g., a forced transaction. Additionally, the valuation of fixed maturity investments is more subjective when markets are less liquid due to the lack of market based inputs, which may increase the potential that the estimated fair value of an investment is not reflective of the price at which an actual transaction would occur. For investments that have quoted market prices in active markets, the Company uses the quoted market prices as fair value and includes these prices in the amounts disclosed in Level 1 of the hierarchy. The Company receives the quoted market prices from a third party, nationally recognized pricing service (pricing service). When quoted market prices are unavailable, the Company utilizes a pricing service to determine an estimate of fair value, which is mainly used for its fixed maturity investments. The fair value estimates provided from this pricing service are included in the amount disclosed in Level 2 of the hierarchy. If quoted market prices and an estimate from a pricing service are unavailable, the Company produces an estimate of fair value based on internally developed valuation techniques, which, depending on the level of observable market inputs, will render the fair value estimate as Level 2 or Level 3. The Company bases all of its estimates of fair value for assets on the bid price as it represents what a third party market participant would be willing to pay in an arms length transaction. Fixed Maturities The Company utilizes a pricing service to estimate fair value measurements for approximately 99% of its fixed maturities. The pricing service utilizes market quotations for fixed maturity securities that have quoted prices in active markets. Since fixed maturities other than U.S. Treasury securities generally do not trade on a daily basis, the pricing service prepares estimates of fair value 148 Table of Contents measurements for these securities using its proprietary pricing applications, which include available relevant market information, benchmark curves, benchmarking of like securities, sector groupings and matrix pricing. Additionally, the pricing service uses an Option Adjusted Spread model to develop prepayment and interest rate scenarios. The pricing service evaluates each asset class based on relevant market information, relevant credit information, perceived market movements and sector news. The market inputs utilized in the pricing evaluation, listed in the approximate order of priority, include: benchmark yields, reported trades, broker/dealer quotes, issuer spreads, two sided markets, benchmark securities, bids, offers, reference data, and industry and economic events. The extent of the use of each market input depends on the asset class and the market conditions. Depending on the security, the priority of the use of inputs may change or some market inputs may not be relevant. For some securities, additional inputs may be necessary. The pricing service utilized by the Company has indicated that they will only produce an estimate of fair value if there is objectively verifiable information to produce a valuation. If the pricing service discontinues pricing an investment, the Company would be required to produce an estimate of fair value using some of the same methodologies as the pricing service but would have to make assumptions for market based inputs that are unavailable due to market conditions. The fair value estimates of most fixed maturity investments are based on observable market information rather than market quotes. Accordingly, the estimates of fair value for such fixed maturities, other than U.S. Treasury securities, provided by the pricing service are included in the amount disclosed in Level 2 of the hierarchy. The estimated fair value of U.S. Treasury securities is included in the amount disclosed in Level 1 as the estimates are based on unadjusted market prices. The Company reviews the estimates of fair value provided by the pricing service and compares the estimates to the Companys knowledge of the market to determine if the estimates obtained are representative of the prices in the market. The Company produces a report monthly that lists all price changes from the previous month in excess of 10%. The Company reviews the report and will challenge any prices deemed not to be representative of fair value. In addition, the Company has implemented various other processes including randomly selecting purchased or sold securities and comparing execution prices to the estimates from the pricing service as well as reviewing reports that contain securities whose valuation did not change from their previous valuation (stale price review). The Company also uses an additional independent pricing service to further test the primary pricing services valuation of the Companys fixed maturity portfolio. These processes have not highlighted any significant issues with the fair value estimates received from the pricing service. The Company holds privately placed corporate bonds and estimates the fair value of these bonds using an internal matrix that is based on market information regarding interest rates, credit spreads and liquidity. The underlying source data for calculating the matrix of credit spreads relative to the U.S. Treasury curve are the Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate Index and the Merrill Lynch High Yield BB Rated Index. The Company includes the fair value estimates of these corporate bonds in Level 2, since all significant inputs are market observable. As many of these securities are issued by public companies, the Company compares the estimates of fair value to the fair values of these companies publicly traded debt to test the validity of the internal pricing matrix. While the vast majority of the Companys municipal bonds are included in Level 2, the Company holds a small number of municipal bonds which are not valued by the pricing service and estimates the fair value of these bonds using an internal pricing matrix with some unobservable inputs that are significant to the valuation. Due to the limited amount of observable market information, the Company includes the fair value estimates for these particular bonds in Level 3. Additionally, the Company holds a small amount of fixed maturities that have characteristics that make them unsuitable for matrix pricing. For these fixed maturities, the Company obtains a quote from a broker (typically a market 149 Table of Contents maker). Due to the disclaimers on the quotes that indicate that the price is indicative only, the Company includes these fair value estimates in Level 3. Equities Public Common and Preferred For public common and preferred stocks, the Company receives prices from a nationally recognized pricing service that are based on observable market transactions and includes these estimates in the amount disclosed in Level 1. Infrequently, current market quotes in active markets are unavailable for certain non redeemable preferred stocks held by the Company. In these instances, the Company receives an estimate of fair value from the pricing service that provides fair value estimates for the Companys fixed maturities. The service utilizes some of the same methodologies to price the non redeemable preferred stocks as it does for the fixed maturities. The Company includes the fair value estimate for these non redeemable preferred stocks in the amount disclosed in Level 2. Other Investments Common Stock with Transfer Restrictions and Other The Company holds one public common stock with transfer restrictions, with a fair value of $213 million. At December 31, 2009, the fair value of this common stock was determined by adjusting the observed market price of the security for a liquidity discount which takes into consideration the restriction on the common stock that existed at December 31, 2009 and is based on market observable inputs. As a result of adjusting the market price to consider the transfer restriction, the Company discloses this security in Level 2. The Company holds investments in non public common and preferred equity securities, with a fair value estimate of $60 million at December 31, 2009, reported in other investments, where the fair value estimate is determined either internally or by an external fund manager based on recent filings, operating results, balance sheet stability, growth and other business and market sector fundamentals. Due to the significant unobservable inputs in these valuations, the Company includes the total fair value estimate for all of these investments at December 31, 2009 in the amount disclosed in Level 3. The Company holds investments in various publicly traded securities which are reported in other investments. The $46 million fair value of these investments at December 31, 2009 is disclosed in Level 1. These investments include securities in the Companys trading portfolio ($24 million), mutual funds ($15 million) and other small holdings ($7 million). Derivatives The Company holds non public warrants in a public company and has convertible bonds containing embedded conversion options that are valued separately from the host bond contract. The Company estimates fair value for the warrants using an option pricing model with observable market inputs. Because the warrants are not market traded and information concerning market participants is not available, the Company includes the fair value estimate of $94 million at December 31, 2009 in the amount disclosed in Level 3 other investments. The valuation of the warrants is comprised of two components: the intrinsic value (i.e., the difference between the warrant strike price and the current share price of the underlying stock) and a modeled value that represents the additional price that a market participant would be willing to pay to purchase the warrants based on the remaining time to the warrants expiration, the volatility of the underlying stock, expected dividends and current interest rates. The estimated fair value at December 31, 2009, of $94 million was comprised of $68 million of intrinsic value and $26 million of modeled value. While the value of both components will change as a result of changes in the fair value of the underlying stock, the modeled value will eventually decrease to zero as the expiration date of the warrants, which is November 1, 2012, is approached. 150  Table of Contents Valuation of Investments Not Reported at Fair Value in Financial Statements Short term Securities The Companys short term securities consist of Aaa rated registered money market funds and high quality commercial paper (primarily A1/P1) with a combined average of 27 days to maturity at December 31, 2009. It is the Companys policy to not invest in structured products for its short term securities. The Company believes that there is insignificant credit risk in its short term portfolio and that amortized cost approximates fair value. The Company includes short term securities in its impairment monitoring to identify any credit issues. Real Estate Real estate is recorded on the purchase date at the purchase price, which generally represents fair value, and is supported by internal analysis or external appraisals, using discounted cash flow analyses and other acceptable valuation techniques. Real estate held for investment purposes is subsequently carried at the Companys cost, less accumulated depreciation. Other Investments The Companys investment portfolio includes other investments not carried at fair value which include private equity limited partnerships, hedge funds, real estate partnerships (together, partnerships) and mortgage loans. The Company uses the equity method of accounting for its investments in partnerships, and amortized cost is used for mortgage loans. The partnerships and the hedge funds generally report investments on their balance sheet at fair value. The financial statements prepared by the investee are received by the Company on a lag basis, with the lag period generally dependent upon the type of underlying investments. The private equity and real estate partnerships provide financial information quarterly which is generally available to investors, including the Company, within three to six months following the date of the reporting period. The hedge funds provide financial information monthly, which is generally available to investors within one month following the date of the reporting period. The Company regularly requests financial information from the partnerships prior to the receipt of the partnerships financial statements, and records any material information obtained from these requests in the financial statements. Investment Impairments The Company conducts a periodic review to identify and evaluate invested assets having other than temporary impairments. Some of the factors considered in identifying other than temporary impairments include: (1) for fixed maturity investments, whether the Company intends to sell the investment or whether it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell the investment prior to an anticipated recovery in value; (2) for non fixed maturity investments, the Companys ability and intent to retain the investment for a reasonable period of time sufficient to allow for an anticipated recovery in value; (3) the likelihood of the recoverability of principal and interest for fixed maturity securities (i.e., whether there is a credit loss), or cost for equity securities; (4) the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than amortized cost for fixed maturity securities or cost for equity securities; and (5) the financial condition, near term and long term prospects for the issuer, including the relevant industry conditions and trends, and implications of rating agency actions and offering prices. Reporting of Other Than Temporary Impairments For fixed maturity investments that the Company does not intend to sell or for which it is more likely than not that the Company would not be required to sell before an anticipated recovery in value, 151 Table of Contents the Company separates the credit loss component of the impairment from the amount related to all other factors and reports the credit loss component in net realized investment gains (losses). The impairment related to all other factors is reported in accumulated other changes in equity from nonowner sources. For non fixed maturity investments and fixed maturity investments the Company intends to sell or for which it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell before an anticipated recovery in value, the full amount of the impairment is included in net realized investment gains (losses). Upon recognizing an other than temporary impairment, the new cost basis of the investment is the previous amortized cost basis less the other than temporary impairment recognized in net realized investment gains (losses). The new cost basis is not adjusted for any subsequent recoveries in fair value; however, for fixed maturity investments, the difference between the new cost basis and the expected cash flows is accreted on a quarterly basis to net investment income over the remaining expected life of the investment. Due to the subjective nature of the Companys analysis and estimates of future cash flows, along with the judgment that must be applied in the analysis, it is possible that the Company could reach a different conclusion whether or not to impair a security if it had access to additional information about the issuer. Additionally, it is possible that the issuers actual ability to meet contractual obligations may be different than what the Company determined during its analysis, which may lead to a different impairment conclusion in future periods. Determination of Credit Loss The Company determines the credit loss component of fixed maturity investments by utilizing discounted cash flow modeling to determine the present value of the security and comparing the present value with the amortized cost of the security. If the amortized cost is greater than the present value of the expected cash flows, the difference is considered a credit loss and recognized in net realized investment gains (losses). For non structured fixed maturities (U.S. Treasury securities, obligations of U.S. Government and government agencies and authorities, obligations of states, municipalities and political subdivisions, debt securities issued by foreign governments and certain corporate debt) the estimate of expected cash flows is determined by projecting a recovery value and a recovery time frame and assessing whether further principal and interest will be received. The determination of recovery value incorporates an issuer valuation assumption utilizing one or a combination of valuation methods as deemed appropriate by the Company. The Company determines the undiscounted recovery value by allocating the estimated value of the issuer to the Companys assessment of the priority of claims. The present value of the cash flows is determined by applying the effective yield of the security at the date of acquisition (or the most recent implied rate used to accrete the security if the implied rate has changed as a result of a previous impairment) and an estimated recovery time frame. Generally, that time frame for securities for which the issuer is in bankruptcy is 12 months. For securities for which the issuer is financially troubled but not in bankruptcy, that time frame is generally 24 months. Included in the present value calculation are expected principal and interest payments; however, for securities for which the issuer is classified as bankrupt or in default, the present value calculation assumes no interest payments and a single recovery amount. In estimating the recovery value, significant judgment is involved in the development of assumptions relating to a myriad of factors related to the issuer including, but not limited to, revenue, margin and earnings projections, the likely market or liquidation values of assets, potential additional debt to be incurred pre or post bankruptcy/restructuring, the ability to shift existing or new debt to different priority layers, the amount of restructuring/bankruptcy expenses, the size and priority of 152 Table of Contents unfunded pension obligations, litigation or other contingent claims, the treatment of intercompany claims and the likely outcome with respect to inter creditor conflicts. For structured fixed maturity securities (primarily residential and commercial mortgage backed securities, collateralized mortgage obligations and pass through securities), the Company estimates the present value of the security by projecting future cash flows of the assets underlying the securitization, allocating the flows to the various tranches based on the structure of the securitization, and determining the present value of the cash flows using the effective yield of the security at the date of acquisition (or the most recent implied rate used to accrete the security if the implied rate has changed as a result of a previous impairment or changes in expected cash flows). The Company incorporates levels of delinquencies, defaults and severities as well as credit attributes of the remaining assets in the securitization, along with other economic data, to arrive at its best estimate of the parameters applied to the assets underlying the securitization. In order to project cash flows, the following assumptions are applied to the assets underlying the securitization: (1) voluntary prepayment rates, (2) default rates and (3) loss severity. The key assumptions made for the Prime, Alt A and Sub Prime mortgage backed securities at December 31, 2009 were as follows: (at December 31, 2009) Prime Alt A Sub Prime Voluntary prepayment rates 2% 15% 1% 8% 1% 6% Percentage of remaining pool liquidated due to defaults 5% 55% 23% 75% 31% 90% Loss severity 35% 60% 50% 75% 70% 80% Changes in Intent to Sell Temporarily Impaired Assets The Company may, from time to time, sell invested assets subsequent to the balance sheet date that it did not intend to sell at the balance sheet date. Conversely, the Company may not sell invested assets that it asserted that it intended to sell at the balance sheet date. Such changes in intent are generally due to events occurring subsequent to the balance sheet date. The types of events that may result in a change in intent include, but are not limited to, significant changes in the economic facts and circumstances related to the invested asset (e.g., a downgrade or upgrade from a rating agency), significant unforeseen changes in liquidity needs, or changes in tax laws or the regulatory environment. Real Estate Investments On at least an annual basis, the Company obtains independent appraisals for substantially all of its real estate investments. In addition, the carrying value of all real estate property is reviewed for impairment on a quarterly basis or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The review for impairment considers the valuation from the independent appraisal, when applicable, and incorporates an estimate of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the real estate property. An impairment loss is recognized if the expected future undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the real estate property. The impairment loss is the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds fair value. Other Investments Investments in Private Equity Limited Partnerships, Hedge Funds and Real Estate Partnerships The Company reviews these investments for impairment no less frequently than quarterly and monitors the performance throughout the year through discussions with the managers/general partners. If the Company becomes aware of an impairment of a partnerships investments at the balance sheet date prior to receiving the partnerships financial statements, it will recognize an impairment by recording a reduction in the carrying value of the partnership with a corresponding charge to net investment income. 153 Table of Contents Mortgage Loans A mortgage loan is considered impaired when it is probable that the Company will be unable to collect principal and interest amounts due. For mortgage loans that are determined to be impaired, a reserve is established for the difference between the amortized cost and the fair market value of the underlying collateral. In estimating fair value, the Company uses interest rates reflecting the current real estate financing market returns. The Company did not have any impaired mortgage loans at December 31, 2009 and 2008. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Impairments The Company performs a review, on at least an annual basis, of goodwill held by the reporting units which are the Companys three operating and reportable segments: Business Insurance, Financial, Professional & International Insurance, and Personal Insurance. The Company estimates the fair value of its reporting units and compares it to their carrying value, including goodwill. If the carrying values of the reporting units exceed their fair value, the amount of the impairment is calculated and goodwill is adjusted accordingly. In the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company changed its methodology for estimating the fair value of its reporting units from a multiple of earnings model to a discounted cash flow model. This change was made as a result of the effects of a severe disruption of the credit and equity markets and significant changes in the insurance industry that caused disparities between the multiple of earnings of the Company and the observed multiple of earnings of its competitors. The discounted cash flow model is an income approach to valuation that is based on a more detailed analysis for deriving a current fair value of reporting units and is more representative of the Companys reporting units current and expected future financial performance. The change in methodology resulted in a change in estimate of the fair value of the reporting units for purposes of testing goodwill for impairment. Other indefinite lived intangible assets held by the Company are also reviewed for impairment on at least an annual basis. The classification of the asset as indefinite lived is reassessed, and an impairment is recognized if the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value. Intangible assets that are deemed to have a finite useful life are amortized over their useful lives. The carrying amount of intangible assets with a finite useful life is regularly reviewed for indicators of impairment in value. Impairment is recognized only if the carrying amount of the intangible asset is not recoverable from its undiscounted cash flows and is measured as the difference between the carrying amount and the fair value of the asset. The Companys review did not result in an impairment of its indefinite lived or finite lived intangible assets for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. OTHER UNCERTAINTIES For a discussion of other risks and uncertainties that could impact the Companys results of operations or financial position, see note 15 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements and "Item 1A Risk Factors." FUTURE APPLICATION OF ACCOUNTING STANDARDS See note 1 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements for a discussion of recently issued accounting standards updates. The Company is currently required to prepare its financial statements in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), as promulgated by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB). During 2008, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) issued a proposed Roadmap for comment for the potential use in filings with the SEC of financial statements 154 Table of Contents for U.S. issuers prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as promulgated by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), instead of in accordance with GAAP. The Roadmap contains milestones that, if achieved, may lead the SEC to decide in 2011 to require the use of IFRS for large accelerated filers, including the Company, in 2014. The SEC is expected to re deliberate the proposed Roadmap in 2011 based on the comments received. The IASB and the FASB are in the process of developing a global insurance standard that may involve methodologies for valuing insurance contract liabilities that may be significantly different from the methodologies required by current GAAP. The FASB and the IASB are also embarked on a long term project to converge GAAP and IFRS. The Company is not able to predict whether it will choose to, or be required to, adopt IFRS or how the adoption of IFRS (or the convergence of GAAP and IFRS) may impact the Companys financial statements in the future. FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS This report contains, and management may make, certain "forward looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, may be forward looking statements. Specifically, statements in "Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Outlook," earnings guidance, statements about the Companys share repurchase plans (which repurchase plans depend on a variety of factors, including the Companys financial position, earnings, capital requirements of the Companys operating subsidiaries, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, other investment opportunities (including mergers and acquisitions), and other factors), statements about the potential impact of recent or future disruption in the investment markets and other economic conditions on the Companys investment portfolio and underwriting results are forward looking, and the Company may make forward looking statements about its results of operations (including, among others, premium volume, premium rates (either for new or renewal business), net and operating income, investment income, return on equity, expected current returns and combined ratio), and financial condition (including, among others, invested assets and liquidity); the sufficiency of the Companys asbestos and other reserves (including, among others, asbestos claim payment patterns); the cost and availability of reinsurance coverage; catastrophe losses; investment performance; investment, economic and underwriting market conditions; and strategic initiatives. Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the Companys control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward looking information and statements. For a discussion of some of the factors that could cause actual results to differ, see "Item 1A Risk Factors" and "Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates." The Companys forward looking statements speak only as of the date of this report or as of the date they are made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update its forward looking statements.  Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK MARKET RISK Market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates (inclusive of credit spreads), foreign currency exchange rates and other relevant market rate or price changes. Market risk is directly influenced by the volatility and liquidity in the markets in which the related underlying assets are traded. The following is a discussion of the Companys primary market risk exposures and how those exposures are managed as of December 31, 2009. The Companys 155 Table of Contents market risk sensitive instruments, including derivatives, are primarily entered into for purposes other than trading. The carrying value of the Companys investment portfolio at December 31, 2009 and 2008 was $74.97 billion and $70.74 billion, respectively, of which 88% and 87% was invested in fixed maturity securities, respectively. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, approximately 5.8% and 5.5%, respectively, of the Companys invested assets were denominated in foreign currencies. The Companys exposure to equity price risk is not significant. The Company has no direct commodity risk and is not a party to any credit default swaps. The Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio at December 31, 2009 and 2008 included asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages and collateralized mortgage obligations backed by alternative documentation mortgages with a collective fair value of $270 million and $206 million, respectively (comprising approximately 0.4% and 0.3% of the Companys total fixed maturity investments, respectively). The disruption in secondary investment markets for mortgage backed securities provided the Company with the opportunity to selectively acquire additional asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages at discounted prices. The Company purchased $74 million and $47 million of such securities in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The Company defines sub prime mortgage backed securities as investments in which the underlying loans primarily exhibit one or more of the following characteristics: low FICO scores, above prime interest rates, high loan to value ratios or high debt to income ratios. Alternative documentation securitizations are those in which the underlying loans primarily meet the government sponsored entitys requirements for credit score but do not meet the government sponsored entitys guidelines for documentation, property type, debt and loan to value ratios. The average credit rating on these securities and obligations held by the Company was "A3" and "Aa2" at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Approximately $114 million and $81 million of asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime and alternative documentation mortgages were downgraded in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio at December 31, 2009 included securities issued by numerous states, municipalities and political subdivisions (collectively referred to as the municipal bond portfolio), a number of which were enhanced by third party insurance for the payment of principal and interest in the event of an issuer default. The downgrade of credit ratings of insurers of these securities has resulted in a corresponding downgrade in the ratings of the securities to the underlying rating of the respective security. Of the insured municipal bond portfolio, approximately 98% were rated at A3 or above, and approximately 80% were rated at Aa3 or above, without the benefit of insurance. The Company believes, based on current market conditions, that a further loss of the benefit of insurance would not result in a material adverse impact on the Companys results of operations, financial position or liquidity, due to the underlying credit strength of the issuers of the securities, as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the securities. The average credit rating of the underlying issuers of these securities was "Aa3" at December 31, 2009. The average credit rating of the entire municipal bond portfolio was "Aa1" at December 31, 2009 with and without the third party insurance and includes pre funded and escrowed to maturity securities, as well as securities issued without third party insurance. On April 2, 2009, municipal securities issued by local governments within the United States were assigned a negative outlook by Moodys Investors Service. Notwithstanding the relatively low historical rates of default on many of these obligations, during an economic downturn, the Companys municipal bond portfolio could be subject to a higher risk of default or impairment due to declining municipal tax bases and revenue. The prolonged economic downturn that began in 2008 has resulted in many states and local governments operating under deficits or projected deficits. The severity and duration of these deficits could have an adverse impact on the collectability and valuation of the Companys municipal bond portfolio. In addition, some issuers have been unable or may be unwilling to increase tax revenue, or to reduce spending, to fund maturing municipal bonds. 156 Table of Contents The primary market risk to the investment portfolio is interest rate and credit risk associated with investments in fixed maturity securities. The portfolio duration relative to the liabilities duration is primarily managed through cash market transactions and treasury futures transactions. The Companys tax exempt fixed maturity investment portfolio totaled $40.84 billion and $38.79 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Federal and or state tax legislation could be enacted that would lessen or improve some or all of the tax advantages currently benefiting the Company and result in an adverse or favorable impact on the value of these holdings. The primary market risk for all of the Companys debt is interest rate risk at the time of refinancing. The Company monitors the interest rate environment and evaluates refinancing opportunities as maturity dates approach. For additional information regarding the Companys debt see note 8 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements as well as the "Liquidity and Capital Resources" section of "Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." The Companys foreign exchange market risk exposure is concentrated in the Companys invested assets and insurance reserves denominated in foreign currencies. Cash flows from the Companys foreign operations are the primary source of funds for the purchase of investments denominated in foreign currencies. The Company purchases these investments primarily to fund insurance reserves and other liabilities denominated in the same currency, effectively reducing its foreign currency exchange rate exposure. Invested assets denominated in the British Pound Sterling comprised approximately 2.5% and 2.3% of the total invested assets at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Invested assets denominated in the Canadian dollar comprised approximately 2.1% of the total invested assets at December 31, 2009 and 2008. Invested assets denominated in other currencies at December 31, 2009 and 2008 were not material. There were no other significant changes in the Companys primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures were managed for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the year ended December 31, 2008. The Company does not currently anticipate significant changes in its primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures are managed in future reporting periods based upon what is known or expected to be in effect in future reporting periods. SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS Sensitivity analysis is defined as the measurement of potential loss in future earnings, fair values or cash flows of market sensitive instruments resulting from one or more selected hypothetical changes in interest rates and other market rates or prices over a selected period of time. In the Companys sensitivity analysis model, a hypothetical change in market rates is selected that is expected to reflect reasonably possible near term changes in those rates. "Near term" means a period of time going forward up to one year from the date of the consolidated financial statements. Actual results may differ from the hypothetical change in market rates assumed in this disclosure, especially since this sensitivity analysis does not reflect the results of any actions that would be taken by the Company to mitigate such hypothetical losses in fair value. Interest Rate Risk In this sensitivity analysis model, the Company uses fair values to measure its potential loss. The sensitivity analysis model includes the following financial instruments entered into for purposes other than trading: fixed maturities, non redeemable preferred stocks, mortgage loans, short term securities, debt and derivative financial instruments. The primary market risk to the Companys market sensitive instruments is interest rate risk (inclusive of credit spreads). The sensitivity analysis model uses a 100 basis point change in interest rates to measure the hypothetical change in fair value of financial instruments included in the model. 157 Table of Contents For invested assets with primary exposure to interest rate risk, estimates of portfolio duration and convexity are used to model the loss of fair value that would be expected to result from a parallel increase in interest rates. Durations on invested assets are adjusted for call, put and interest rate reset features. Durations on tax exempt securities are adjusted for the fact that the yields on such securities do not normally move in lockstep with changes in the U.S. Treasury curve. Fixed maturity portfolio durations are calculated on a market value weighted basis, including accrued interest, using holdings as of December 31, 2009 and 2008. For debt, the change in fair value is determined by calculating hypothetical December 31, 2009 and 2008 ending prices based on yields adjusted to reflect a 100 basis point change, comparing such hypothetical ending prices to actual ending prices, and multiplying the difference by the par or securities outstanding. The sensitivity analysis model used by the Company produces a loss in fair value of market sensitive instruments of approximately $2.34 billion and $2.48 billion based on a 100 basis point increase in interest rates as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The loss estimates do not take into account the impact of possible interventions that the Company might reasonably undertake in order to mitigate or avoid losses that would result from emerging interest rate trends. In addition, the loss value only reflects the impact of an interest rate increase on the fair value of the Companys financial instruments. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk The Company uses fair values of investment securities to measure its potential loss from foreign denominated investments. A hypothetical 10% reduction in value of foreign denominated investments is used to estimate the impact on the market value of the foreign denominated holdings. The Companys analysis indicates that a hypothetical 10% reduction in the value of foreign denominated investments would be expected to produce a loss in fair value of approximately $431 million and $386 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 158  Table of Contents  
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following is a discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of operations of The Travelers Companies, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, the Company). 2009 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 2009 Consolidated Results of Operations Net income of $3.62 billion, or $6.38 per share basic and $6.33 diluted Net earned premiums of $21.42 billion Catastrophe losses of $457 million pretax ($297 million after tax) Net favorable prior year reserve development of $1.33 billion pretax ($868 million after tax) GAAP combined ratio of 89.2% Pretax net investment income of $2.78 billion ($2.29 billion after tax) Net realized investment gains of $17 million pretax ($22 million after tax) 2009 Consolidated Financial Condition Total investments of $74.97 billion; fixed maturities and short term securities comprise 94% of total investments Total assets of $109.56 billion Total debt of $6.53 billion, resulting in a debt to total capital ratio of 19.2% (20.3% excluding net unrealized investment gains (losses), net of tax) Repurchased 69.4 million common shares for total cost of $3.30 billion under share repurchase authorization Shareholders equity of $27.42 billion; book value per common share of $52.54 Holding company liquidity of $2.14 billion CONSOLIDATED OVERVIEW The Company provides a wide range of property and casualty insurance products and services to businesses, government units, associations and individuals, primarily in the United States and in selected international markets. 72 Table of Contents Consolidated Results of Operations (for the year ended December 31, in millions except per share amounts) 2009 2008 2007 Revenues Premiums $ 21,418 $ 21,579 $ 21,470 Net investment income 2,776 2,792 3,761 Fee income 306 390 508 Net realized investment gains (losses) 17 (415 ) 154 Other revenues 163 131 124 Total revenues 24,680 24,477 26,017 Claims and expenses Claims and claim adjustment expenses 12,408 12,993 12,397 Amortization of deferred acquisition costs 3,813 3,880 3,706 General and administrative expenses 3,366 3,518 3,352 Interest expense 382 370 346 Total claims and expenses 19,969 20,761 19,801 Income before income taxes 4,711 3,716 6,216 Income tax expense 1,089 792 1,615 Net income $ 3,622 $ 2,924 $ 4,601 Net income per share Basic $ 6.38 $ 4.87 $ 7.00 Diluted $ 6.33 $ 4.81 $ 6.85 GAAP combined ratio Loss and loss adjustment expense ratio 57.3 % 59.4 % 56.6 % Underwriting expense ratio 31.9 32.5 30.8 GAAP combined ratio 89.2 % 91.9 % 87.4 % Incremental impact of direct to consumer initiative on GAAP combined ratio 0.5 % 0.2 % % The following discussions of the Companys net income and segment operating income are presented on an after tax basis. Discussions of the components of net income and segment operating income are presented on a pretax basis, unless otherwise noted. Discussions of earnings per common share are presented on a diluted basis. Overview Net income per diluted share of $6.33 in 2009 grew by 32% over net income per diluted share of $4.81 on 2008. Net income of $3.62 billion in 2009 was 24% higher than 2008 net income of $2.92 billion. The higher rate of growth in per share income compared with growth in income reflected the impact of the Companys significant common share repurchases. The increase in net income in 2009 was driven by declines in the cost of catastrophes. In addition, the increase reflected net realized investment gains (versus net realized investment losses in 2008), lower non catastrophe weather related losses and fewer large property losses, partially offset by reductions in underwriting margins related to pricing and loss cost trends, a decline in net favorable prior year reserve development and lower fee income. The cost of catastrophes in 2009 totaled $457 million, compared with $1.41 billion in 2008. The 2008 total was principally comprised of $1.26 billion of claims and claim adjustment expenses and $141 million of property windpool assessments that were included in general and administrative 73 Table of Contents expenses. Net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $1.33 billion in 2009, compared with $1.54 billion in 2008. Net income in 2009 included a net benefit of $89 million due to the favorable resolution of various prior year tax matters. Net income in 2009 also benefited from $87 million of reductions in the estimate of property windpool assessments related to Hurricane Ike that had been recorded as a component of the cost of catastrophes in general and administrative expenses in the third quarter of 2008 (discussed below). Net income in 2008 reflected an $89 million tax benefit related to the sale of a subsidiary. Net income of $4.81 per diluted share in 2008 was 30% lower than the $6.85 per diluted share in 2007. Net income in 2008 totaled $2.92 billion, 36% lower than $4.60 billion in 2007. The lower rate of decline in per share income compared with the rate of decline in actual income reflected the impact of the Companys significant common share repurchases. The decrease in net income in 2008 was primarily due to a significant increase in the cost of catastrophes and a significant decline in net investment income. Also contributing to the decline were net realized investment losses, a small increase in the number of large losses that exceeded expectations, an increase in non catastrophe related weather losses, the impact of competitive market conditions on pricing, the impact of loss cost trends and a decline in fee income. Net income in 2008 reflected an $89 million tax benefit related to the sale of a subsidiary. In 2007, net income included a net pretax benefit of $163 million due to the implementation of a new fixed, value based compensation program for the majority of the Companys agents which resulted in a reduction in commission expense compared to what would have otherwise been reported, due to a change in the timing of expense recognition. These factors were partially offset by an increase in net favorable prior year reserve development, which totaled $1.54 billion in 2008, compared with $546 million in 2007. The cost of catastrophes in 2008, net of reinsurance and including hurricane related assessments of $141 million (discussed below), totaled $1.41 billion, compared with $167 million in 2007. Hurricanes Ike and Gustav, as well as several other storms throughout the United States, accounted for the cost of catastrophes in 2008. Net income in 2007 also included a benefit of $86 million resulting from the favorable resolution of various prior year tax matters and a pretax loss of $39 million related to the Companys redemption of its 4.50% contingently convertible debentures. Hurricane related property windpool assessments are levied on insurers periodically by state created insurance and windstorm insurance entities such as Citizens Property Insurance Corporation in Florida, Louisiana Citizens Property Insurance Corporation and the Texas Windstorm Insurance Association. These assessments are levied on the insurers writing business in those states to fund the operating deficits of such entities during periods of significant storm activity. Hurricane related assessments are reported as a component of "General and Administrative Expenses" as the amounts paid to such entities are not insured losses of the Company. Revenues Earned Premiums Earned premiums in 2009 totaled $21.42 billion, a decrease of $161 million, or 1%, from 2008. In the Business Insurance segment, earned premiums in 2009 declined 2% from 2008 despite strong business retention levels, attributable to reduced insured exposures due to lower levels of economic activity. In the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment, earned premiums in 2009 declined 3% from 2008 due to the unfavorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates. Adjusting for the impact of exchange rates, earned premiums in this segment were slightly higher than in 2008. In the Personal Insurance segment, earned premium growth of 2% over 2008 reflected continued strong business retention rates and continued renewal premium increases. Earned premiums in 2008 totaled $21.58 billion, an increase of $109 million, or less than 1%, over 2007. In March 2007, the Company sold its Mexican surety subsidiary, Afianzadora Insurgentes, S.A. de C.V. (Afianzadora Insurgentes), which accounted for $27 million of earned premiums in 2007 prior 74 Table of Contents to its sale. In April 2007, the Company sold Mendota Insurance Company and its subsidiaries (collectively, Mendota), which primarily offered nonstandard automobile coverage and accounted for $46 million of earned premiums in 2007 prior to its sale. Adjusting for these sales in 2007, consolidated earned premiums in 2008 increased by $182 million, or 1%, over 2007. In the Business Insurance segment, earned premiums in 2008 declined 1% from 2007 despite continued strong business retention rates, reflecting the impact of competitive market conditions on pricing and new business. In the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment, earned premium growth of 2% in 2008 (adjusted for the sale of Afianzadora Insurgentes) was driven by changes in the terms of certain reinsurance treaties for Bond & Financial Products. In the Personal Insurance segment, earned premium growth of 3% in 2008 (adjusted for the sale of Mendota) reflected continued strong business retention rates and new business volume, coupled with continued renewal price increases. Net Investment Income The following table sets forth information regarding the Companys investments. (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Average investments(a) $ 73,130 $ 74,197 $ 73,872 Pretax net investment income 2,776 2,792 3,761 After tax net investment income 2,290 2,299 2,915 Average pretax yield(b) 3.8 % 3.8 % 5.1 % Average after tax yield(b) 3.1 % 3.1 % 3.9 % (a)Excludes net unrealized investment gains and losses, net of tax, and reflects cash, receivables for investment sales, payables on investment purchases and accrued investment income. (b)Excludes net realized investment gains and losses and net unrealized investment gains and losses. Net investment income of $2.78 billion in 2009 was $16 million, or less than 1%, lower than in 2008, primarily resulting from a significant decline in short term interest rates, a lower average level of long term fixed maturity invested assets and the unfavorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates. Those factors were largely offset by improved returns from non fixed maturity investments, which generated negative net investment income of $40 million in 2009, compared with negative net investment income of $222 million in 2008. The average pretax yield on the total investment portfolio was 3.8% in both 2009 and 2008. The improved performance from non fixed income investments in 2009 reflected improving capital market conditions in the second half of the year. The amortized cost of the fixed maturity and short term security portion of the investment portfolio at December 31, 2009 totaled $68.16 billion, $1.37 billion higher than at the same date in 2008, primarily reflecting the impact of strong operating cash flows during 2009 (a portion of which was invested in fixed maturity securities) and the issuance of $500 million of senior notes in the second quarter of 2009. These factors were partially offset by $3.30 billion of common share repurchases during 2009, $693 million of dividends paid to shareholders and contributions of $260 million to the Companys pension plan in 2009. Net investment income of $2.79 billion in 2008 declined $969 million, or 26%, from 2007, primarily due to lower returns from non fixed maturity investments, which produced negative net investment income of $222 million in 2008, compared with positive net investment income of $648 million in 2007. The decline in net investment income from these investments in 2008 reflected market conditions, which resulted in a lower level of transactions, including sales and initial public offerings, and lower market values compared to those at December 31, 2007. The average pretax yield on the total investment portfolio of 3.8% in 2008 declined from 5.1% in 2007, primarily reflecting the negative investment income from non fixed maturity investments in 2008. Net investment income from the Companys fixed maturity portfolio in 2008 also declined from 2007, primarily due to a significant decline in short term interest rates. The amortized cost of the fixed maturity and short term security 75 Table of Contents portion of the investment portfolio at December 31, 2008 totaled $66.79 billion, $2.55 billion lower than at the same date in 2007, primarily reflecting the use of $2.12 billion of funds for the Companys common share repurchases during 2008, the payment of $715 million of dividends to shareholders, the transfer of $662 million of fixed maturity investments as part of the sale of Unionamerica, and $450 million of contributions to the Companys pension plan, which were partially offset by strong cash flows from operating activities. Except as described below for certain legal entities, the Company allocates its invested assets and the related net investment income to its reportable business segments. Pretax net investment income is allocated based upon an investable funds concept, which takes into account liabilities (net of non invested assets) and appropriate capital considerations for each segment. For investable funds, a benchmark investment yield is developed that reflects the estimated duration of the loss reserves future cash flows, the interest rate environment at the time the losses were incurred and A+ rated corporate debt instrument yields. For capital, a benchmark investment yield is developed that reflects the average yield on the total investment portfolio. The benchmark investment yields are applied to each segments investable funds and capital, respectively, to produce a total notional investment income by segment. The Companys actual net investment income is allocated to each segment in proportion to the respective segments notional investment income to total notional investment income. There are certain legal entities within the Company that are dedicated to specific reportable business segments. The invested assets and related net investment income from these legal entities are reported in the applicable business segment and are not allocated among the other business segments. Fee Income The National Accounts market in the Business Insurance segment is the primary source of the Companys fee based business. The declines in fee income in 2009 and 2008 compared with the respective prior years are described in the Business Insurance segment discussion that follows. Net Realized Investment Gains (Losses) The following table sets forth information regarding the Companys net realized investment gains (losses). (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Net Realized Investment Gains (Losses) Other than temporary impairment losses: Total losses $ (323 ) $ (420 ) $ (70 ) Portion of losses recognized in accumulated other changes in equity from nonowner sources 65 Other than temporary impairment losses (258 ) (420 ) (70 ) Other net realized investment gains 275 5 224 Net realized investment gains (losses) $ 17 $ (415 ) $ 154 In the second quarter of 2009, the Company adopted updated accounting guidance that changed the reporting of other than temporary impairments. See notes 1 and 3 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the impact of the adoption. Other Than Temporary Impairment Losses on Investments In 2009, impairments included in net income totaled $258 million. Fixed income impairments in 2009 were $169 million and included $81 million of impairments related to structured mortgage securities, $70 million related to various issuers deteriorated financial position and $18 million with respect to securities that the Company either had the intent to sell or did not have the ability to assert an intention to hold until recovery in 76 Table of Contents fair value. Equity impairments in 2009 were $79 million, the majority of which were related to issuers in the financial services industry. Impairments in 2009 also included $10 million related to other investments. The 2008 impairments included $186 million related to the deteriorated financial position of various issuers (including $70 million related to securities issued by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and its subsidiaries), $113 million related to externally managed securities with respect to which the Company did not have the ability to assert an intention to hold until recovery in fair value, $64 million related to structured mortgage securities and $57 million related to securities the Company had identified for potential sale prior to a recovery in fair value. Impairments in 2007 included $30 million related to externally managed securities with respect to which the Company did not have the ability to assert an intention to hold until recovery in fair value, $30 million related to the deteriorated financial position of various issuers and $10 million related to the decline in the financial condition of one real estate development property. Further information regarding the nature of impairment charges in each year is included in the "Investment Portfolio" section later in this discussion. Other Net Realized Investment Gains Other net realized investment gains for 2009 were $275 million, compared with $5 million in 2008. In October 2009, the Company sold a portion of its common stock holdings in Verisk Analytics, Inc. (Verisk) for total proceeds of approximately $184 million as part of the initial public offering (IPO) of Verisk. The Company recorded a pretax realized investment gain of $159 million on this sale in the fourth quarter of 2009. Other net realized investment gains in 2009 also included $100 million of net realized investment gains related to fixed maturity investments, $23 million of net realized investment gains associated with the U.S. Treasury futures contracts (which require a daily mark to market settlement and are used to shorten the duration of the Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio) and $23 million of net realized investment losses related to foreign exchange. Other net realized investment gains in 2008 included $50 million related to foreign currency exchange gains, $39 million from the sale of subsidiaries, $29 million from the sale of fixed maturity securities and $17 million of net realized investment gains from the sale of venture capital investments. Partially offsetting these realized investment gains in 2008 were net realized losses of $77 million related to convertible bonds wherein the embedded option price is marked to market through realized gains or losses and $53 million of losses related to U.S. Treasury futures contracts. Other net realized investment gains in 2007 included $107 million of net realized investment gains generated by the venture capital portfolio (including an $81 million net realized investment gain from the bundled sale of a substantial portion of the Companys venture capital investment holdings), $63 million of net realized investment gains from the sale of a privately held security, $21 million of net realized investment gains related to the Companys holdings of stock purchase warrants of Platinum Underwriters Holdings, Ltd., a publicly held company, and $5 million of net realized investment gains from the Companys fixed maturity portfolio. These gains were partially offset by a net realized investment loss of $24 million related to the divestiture of a subsidiary. Other Revenues Other revenues primarily consist of premium installment charges. In 2007, other revenues also included a $39 million loss related to the Companys redemption of its 4.50% convertible junior subordinated notes in April 2007, consisting of the redemption premium paid and the write off of remaining debt issuance costs. 77 Table of Contents Written Premiums Consolidated gross and net written premiums were as follows: Gross Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Business Insurance $ 12,098 $ 12,580 $ 13,017 Financial, Professional & International Insurance 3,713 3,966 4,037 Personal Insurance 7,474 7,291 7,144 Total $ 23,285 $ 23,837 $ 24,198 Net Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Business Insurance $ 10,902 $ 11,220 $ 11,318 Financial, Professional & International Insurance 3,285 3,468 3,465 Personal Insurance 7,149 6,995 6,835 Total $ 21,336 $ 21,683 $ 21,618 Gross and net written premiums in 2009 both decreased 2% from 2008. Overall, business retention remained at high levels in 2009. Renewal premium changes remained stable as improving rate trends offset the impact of lower coverage demands from existing policyholders due to general economic conditions. New business volume declined slightly from 2008, as modest growth in the Business Insurance segment was offset by lower new business volume in the Financial, Professional & International Insurance and Personal Insurance segments. In Business Insurance, net written premiums in 2009 declined 3% from 2008, driven by lower levels of economic activity in recent quarters that impacted exposure changes at renewal, audit premium adjustments, policy endorsements and mid term cancellations. In Financial, Professional & International Insurance, net written premiums in 2009 decreased 5% from 2008, reflecting the unfavorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates and the impact of the economic downturn on construction surety business volume. In the Personal Insurance segment, net written premiums in 2009 increased 2% over 2008, reflecting continued strong retention rates and renewal premium increases, particularly in the Homeowners and Other line of business. Afianzadora Insurgentes and Mendota generated combined gross and net written premiums of $79 million and $74 million, respectively, in 2007, prior to their sale. Adjusting for the sale of these operations in 2007, gross written premiums in 2008 declined 1% and net written premiums in 2008 increased by less than 1% compared with 2007. In the Business Insurance segment, net written premiums decreased by 1% from 2007, despite strong business retention rates. Premium growth in Industry Focused Underwriting, Select Accounts and Commercial Accounts in 2008, which was generally driven by strong business retention rates and new business volume, was largely offset by premium declines in National Accounts, Target Risk Underwriting and Specialized Distribution which primarily resulted from declines in renewal price changes and new business. Net written premiums in the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment adjusted for the sale of Afianzadora Insurgentes increased by 1% over 2007, largely driven by changes in the terms of certain reinsurance treaties that resulted in a higher level of business retained in the Bond & Financial Products group. In the Personal Insurance segment, net written premiums in 2008 adjusted for the sale of Mendota increased 3% over 2007, reflecting continued strong retention rates, renewal price increases and growth in new business levels. 78 Table of Contents Claims and Expenses Claims and Claim Adjustment Expenses Claims and claim adjustment expenses totaled $12.41 billion in 2009, $585 million, or 5%, lower than the 2008 total of $12.99 billion, primarily reflecting a decline in the cost of catastrophes, lower non catastrophe weather related losses and fewer large property losses, mostly offset by a decline in net favorable prior year reserve development and the impact of loss cost trends. Total claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2009 included $457 million for the cost of catastrophes and $1.33 billion of net favorable prior year reserve development, whereas the comparable 2008 total included $1.26 billion for the cost of catastrophes and $1.54 billion of net favorable prior year reserve development. Catastrophe losses in 2009 primarily resulted from several wind and hail storms, as well as flooding. Catastrophe losses in 2008 primarily resulted from Hurricanes Ike, Gustav and Dolly. Claims and claim adjustment expenses totaled $12.99 billion in 2008, $596 million, or 5%, higher than the 2007 total of $12.40 billion, primarily reflecting a significant increase in the cost of catastrophes, an increase in the number of large losses that exceeded expectations, an increase in non catastrophe related weather losses in Personal Insurance and the impact of loss cost trends. These factors were partially offset by an increase in net favorable prior year reserve development. The cost of catastrophes included in claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2008 totaled $1.26 billion, primarily resulting from Hurricanes Ike and Gustav, as well as wind, rain and hail storms in several regions of the United States throughout the year. The cost of catastrophes in 2007 totaled $167 million, primarily resulting from wildfires in California and several wind, rain and hail storms throughout the United States. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2008 totaled $1.54 billion, compared with $546 million of net favorable prior year reserve development in 2007. Net favorable prior year reserve development of $1.33 billion in 2009 reflected greater reductions in frequency than the Company expected based upon long term frequency trends that have been declining. In the Business Insurance segment, net favorable prior year reserve development of $1.03 billion resulted from better than expected loss development for recent accident years in the general liability, commercial multi peril, commercial automobile and commercial property product lines, partially offset by increases to asbestos and environmental reserves of $185 million and $70 million, respectively (which are discussed in more detail in the "Asbestos Claims and Litigation" and "Environmental Claims and Litigation" sections herein). Net favorable prior year reserve development in the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment totaled $168 million, driven by better than expected loss experience in the International group particularly in the United Kingdom, several lines of business at Lloyds and in the surety line of business in Canada and in the contract surety line of business in the Bond & Financial Products group. In the Personal Insurance segment, net favorable prior year reserve development of $135 million was driven by better than expected loss experience related to Hurricanes Katrina and Ike and the 2007 California wildfires. The Companys three business segments each experienced net favorable prior year reserve development in 2008. Net favorable prior year reserve development of $1.12 billion in the Business Insurance segment was driven by better than expected loss results primarily concentrated in the general liability, commercial multi peril, commercial property and commercial automobile product lines, partially offset by increases in workers compensation reserves and $70 million and $85 million increases in asbestos and environmental reserves, respectively. In the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment, net favorable prior year reserve development of $274 million was concentrated in the International group, particularly in the public and products liability (general liability), professional indemnity (professional liability) and property lines of business in the United Kingdom, the general liability line of business in Canada, and the Aviation and Property lines of business at Lloyds. In the Personal Insurance segment, net favorable prior year reserve development of $143 million in 2008 was primarily driven by favorable loss experience related to Hurricane Katrina as 79 Table of Contents well as better than expected loss experience in certain lines of business within the Homeowners and Other product line. Each of the Companys three business segments also experienced net favorable prior year reserve development in 2007. In Business Insurance, net favorable prior year reserve development of $301 million was primarily driven by better than expected loss development for recent accident years in the commercial multi peril, general liability, commercial automobile and property product lines. Net prior year reserve development in 2007 in the Business Insurance segment included a $185 million increase to environmental reserves. In the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment, net favorable prior year reserve development of $93 million in 2007 primarily reflected better than expected loss development in international property, employers liability, professional indemnity and motor lines of business for recent accident years. In the Personal Insurance segment, net favorable prior year reserve development of $152 million in 2007 occurred in both the Automobile and Homeowners and Other lines of business. Factors contributing to net favorable prior year reserve development in each segment in 2009, 2008 and 2007 are discussed in more detail in the segment discussions that follow. Amortization of Deferred Acquisition Costs In 2009, the amortization of deferred acquisition costs totaled $3.81 billion, 2% lower than the total of $3.88 billion in 2008. The decline in 2009 was consistent with the decline in earned premiums. The amortization of deferred acquisition costs totaled $3.88 billion in 2008, $174 million, or 5%, higher than the comparable 2007 total of $3.71 billion. The growth in amortization costs in 2008 primarily reflected the higher level of amortized commission expense resulting from the Companys implementation of a new fixed agent compensation program in 2007, described in more detail below. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses totaled $3.37 billion in 2009, a decrease of $152 million, or 4%, from the comparable 2008 total of $3.52 billion. The decrease resulted from estimates of windpool assessments related to Hurricane Ike. During 2008, the Company recorded $141 million of hurricane related assessments in general and administrative expenses. Subsequently, during the first half of 2009, the Company recorded an $87 million reduction in these estimated assessments due to a decline in estimated insurance industry losses related to Hurricane Ike. Adjusting for the impact of windpool assessments in both 2009 and 2008, general and administrative expenses in 2009 increased 2% over 2008. The increase reflected the impact of continued investments to support business growth and product development, including the Companys direct to consumer initiative in the Personal Insurance segment, partially offset by the favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on expenses in the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment. General and administrative expenses totaled $3.52 billion in 2008, an increase of $166 million, or 5%, over the comparable 2007 total of $3.35 billion. This increase primarily reflected the impact of $141 million of hurricane related assessments. In the first quarter of 2007, the Company discontinued the use of contingent commissions and implemented a new fixed agent compensation program for all of its personal insurance business. The Company also offered the majority of its agents conducting commercial insurance business the option to switch to this new program. The Companys total payout rate for all agent compensation for 2007 was substantially the same as for 2006; however, the change to the new program created a difference in the timing of commission expense recognition. The cost of the new program is required to be deferred and amortized over the related policy period (generally six to twelve months), whereas the cost of the contingent commission program was not subject to deferred acquisition cost accounting treatment and, 80 Table of Contents therefore, was expensed as incurred. That timing difference resulted in a benefit to income during the 2007 transition year. The impact of this change in 2007 was to lower reported expenses by $376 million in the "General and Administrative Expenses" income statement line, and increase reported expenses by $213 million in the "Amortization of Deferred Acquisition Costs" income statement line, compared to what would have been reported under the prior contingent commission program. Interest Expense Interest expense in 2009, 2008 and 2007 totaled $382 million, $370 million and $346 million, respectively. The increases in 2009 and 2008 over the respective prior year primarily reflected higher average levels of debt outstanding. Effective Tax Rate The Companys effective tax rate was 23.1%, 21.3% and 26.0% in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The increase in the effective rate in 2009 compared to 2008 as well as the decrease in the effective rate in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily resulted from changes in income before taxes between the three years and the proportion of tax exempt investment income in each year. GAAP Combined Ratios The consolidated loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 57.3% in 2009 was 2.1 points lower than the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 59.4% in 2008. The cost of catastrophes accounted for 2.1 points of the 2009 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio, whereas the 2008 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio included a 5.8 point impact from the cost of catastrophes. The 2009 and 2008 loss and loss adjustment expense ratios included 6.2 point and 7.1 point benefits from net favorable prior year reserve development, respectively. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio adjusted for catastrophe losses and prior year reserve development in 2009 was 0.7 points higher than the 2008 ratio on the same basis. The higher ratio in 2009 primarily reflected reduced underwriting margins related to pricing and loss cost trends in several lines of business, partially offset by lower non catastrophe weather related losses and fewer large property losses. In 2009, the underwriting expense ratio of 31.9% was 0.6 points lower than the underwriting expense ratio of 32.5% in 2008. The underwriting expense ratio in 2009 included a 0.4 point benefit from the reduction in the estimate of windpool assessments described above, whereas the underwriting expense ratio in 2008 included a 0.7 point increase due to the impact of the windpool assessments. Adjusting for these factors in both years, the underwriting expense ratio for 2009 was 0.5 points higher than the respective 2008 underwriting expense ratio, primarily reflecting the impact of continued investments to support business growth and product development, including the Companys direct to consumer initiative in the Personal Insurance segment, as well as salary increases in the normal course of business. The consolidated loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 59.4% for 2008 was 2.8 points higher than the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 56.6% in 2007. The cost of catastrophes accounted for 5.8 points of the 2008 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio, whereas the 2007 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio included a 0.7 point impact from catastrophe losses. The 2008 and 2007 loss and loss adjustment expense ratios included 7.1 point and 2.5 point benefits, respectively, from net favorable prior year reserve development. The 2008 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio adjusted for the cost of catastrophes and prior year reserve development was 2.3 points higher than the respective 2007 ratio on the same basis, reflecting the impact of competitive market conditions on pricing, a small increase in the number of large losses, non catastrophe weather related losses and loss cost trends. 81  Table of Contents The underwriting expense ratio of 32.5% in 2008 was 1.7 points higher than the 2007 underwriting expense ratio of 30.8%. The 2008 expense ratio included a 0.7 point increase due to the impact of the hurricane related assessments, whereas the 2007 ratio included a 0.8 point benefit from the implementation of the new fixed agent compensation program described above. Adjusting for these factors in both years, the adjusted 2008 expense ratio was 0.2 points higher than the adjusted expense ratio in 2007, reflecting continued investments to support business growth and product development, as well as salary increases in the normal course of business. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS BY SEGMENT Business Insurance Results of the Companys Business Insurance segment were as follows: (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Revenues: Earned premiums $ 10,968 $ 11,180 $ 11,283 Net investment income 1,902 1,917 2,708 Fee income 306 390 508 Other revenues 42 30 24 Total revenues $ 13,218 $ 13,517 $ 14,523 Total claims and expenses $ 9,778 $ 10,506 $ 10,444 Operating income $ 2,590 $ 2,338 $ 3,015 Loss and loss adjustment expense ratio 53.9 % 57.7 % 57.1 % Underwriting expense ratio 32.2 32.5 30.7 GAAP combined ratio 86.1 % 90.2 % 87.8 % Overview In 2009, operating income totaled $2.59 billion, an increase of $252 million, or 11%, over the comparable 2008 total of $2.34 billion. The increase in operating income in 2009 primarily reflected a decline in the cost of catastrophes, which was partially offset by reduced underwriting margins and fee income. The cost of catastrophes in 2009 and 2008 totaled $176 million and $706 million, respectively. The 2008 total was principally comprised of $642 million of claims and claim adjustment expenses and $62 million of property windpool assessments that were included in general and administrative expenses. Net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $1.03 billion and $1.12 billion in 2009 and 2008, respectively. Operating income in 2009 also included a benefit of $42 million from the favorable resolution of various prior year tax matters and a $38 million reduction in the estimate of property windpool assessments related to Hurricane Ike that had been recorded in general and administrative expenses in 2008. Operating income of $2.34 billion in 2008 was $677 million, or 22%, lower than operating income of $3.02 billion in 2007, primarily due to a significant decline in net investment income and an increase in the cost of catastrophes. Also contributing to this reduction were a decline in fee income, the impact of competitive market conditions on pricing, the impact of loss cost trends, and a small increase in the number of large property losses. A significant increase in net favorable prior year reserve development in 2008 partially offset these factors. The cost of catastrophes in 2008 totaled $706 million, compared with $4 million in 2007. Net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $1.12 billion and $301 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Operating income in 2008 included an $89 million tax benefit related to the sale of Unionamerica. Operating income in 2007 benefited by $81 million from 82 Table of Contents the Companys implementation of the new fixed agent compensation program and the resolution of various prior year tax matters. Earned Premiums Earned premiums of $10.97 billion in 2009 decreased $212 million, or 2%, from 2008. The decline in 2009 was primarily attributable to reduced insured exposures due to lower levels of economic activity. Earned premiums of $11.18 billion in 2008 decreased $103 million, or 1%, from 2007, reflecting the impact of competitive market conditions on pricing and new business. Net Investment Income Refer to the "Net Investment Income" section of "Consolidated Results of Operations" herein for a discussion of the decline in the Companys net investment income in 2009 and 2008 as compared with the prior year. Fee Income National Accounts is the primary source of fee income due to its service businesses, which include claim and loss prevention services to large companies that choose to self insure a portion of their insurance risks, as well as claims and policy management services to workers compensation residual market pools. The $84 million decline in fee income in 2009 compared with 2008 primarily resulted from lower serviced premium and claim volume due to the de population of workers compensation residual market pools, the impact on fee income related to both lower claim volume and lower loss costs (as fees are based either on the number of claims serviced or as a percentage of losses) driven by workers compensation reforms and overall lower claim frequency during the preceding twelve months. Lower new business volume over the preceding twelve months, due to lower levels of economic activity and increased competition, also contributed to the decline in fee income in 2009. In 2008, the $118 million decline in fee income compared with 2007 primarily resulted from the same factors causing the decline in 2009. Claims and Expenses Claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2009 totaled $6.04 billion, a decrease of $571 million, or 9%, compared with 2008. The decrease in 2009 primarily reflected a decline in the cost of catastrophes, partially offset by the impact of loss cost trends and a slight decline in net favorable prior year reserve development. The cost of catastrophes included in claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2009 totaled $176 million, compared with $642 million in 2008. Catastrophe losses in 2009 primarily resulted from several wind and hail storms, as well as flooding. In 2008, Hurricanes Ike, Gustav and Dolly, and other wind, rain and hail storms in several regions of the United States accounted for the majority of catastrophe losses. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2009 and 2008 totaled $1.03 billion and $1.12 billion, respectively. The 2009 total was driven by better than expected loss results primarily concentrated in the general liability, commercial multi peril, commercial automobile and commercial property product lines for recent accident years, reflecting greater reductions in frequency than the Company expected based upon long term frequency trends that have been declining. The general liability and commercial multi peril product lines experienced better than anticipated loss development that was attributable to several factors, including improved legal and judicial environments, as well as enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. The commercial automobile line of business experienced better than expected loss development that was attributable to more favorable legal and judicial environments, claim handling initiatives and improvements in auto safety technology. The commercial property product line improvement primarily occurred in the 2007 and 2008 accident years as a result of better than expected loss development for certain large national property and inland marine exposures. In addition, the commercial property product lines 2005 accident year 83 Table of Contents experience improved due to the litigation environment relating to, and ongoing claim settlements for, Hurricane Katrina. The net favorable prior year reserve development in these product lines in 2009 was partially offset by a $185 million increase to asbestos reserves (discussed in more detail in the "Asbestos Claims and Litigation" section herein), a $70 million increase to environmental reserves recorded in the second quarter (discussed in more detail in the "Environmental Claims and Litigation" section herein). Claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2008 totaled $6.61 billion, an increase of $65 million, or 1%, over 2007, primarily reflecting a significant increase in the cost of catastrophes, a small increase in the number of large property losses and the impact of loss cost trends, which were largely offset by an increase in net favorable prior year reserve development. The cost of catastrophes included in claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2008 totaled $642 million, compared with $4 million in 2007. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2008 and 2007 totaled $1.12 billion and $301 million, respectively. Net favorable prior year development in 2008 was driven by better than expected loss results primarily concentrated in the general liability and commercial multi peril product lines, an increase in anticipated ceded reinsurance recoveries for older accident years in the general liability product line and better than anticipated loss development in the commercial property and commercial automobile product lines. The net favorable prior year reserve development in the general liability and commercial multi peril lines was attributable to several factors, including improved legal and judicial environments, as well as enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. The commercial property product line improvement occurred primarily in the 2007 accident year as a result of better than expected loss development for certain large national property, national programs, and ocean marine claim exposures and lower than expected weather related losses during the last half of 2007, as well as favorable loss development in certain large inland marine claim exposures and in ceded reinsurance recoveries for commercial property large claims. In addition, the commercial multi peril and property product lines 2005 accident year results experienced improvement due to the litigation environment relating to, and ongoing claim settlements for, Hurricane Katrina. The commercial automobile product line improvement was attributable to several factors, including improved legal and judicial environments, as well as enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. The net favorable prior year reserve development in the foregoing product lines in 2008 was partially offset by net unfavorable prior year reserve development in the workers compensation product line, primarily driven by higher than anticipated medical costs related to 2004 and prior accident years, and by $70 million and $85 million increases to asbestos and environmental reserves, respectively (discussed in more detail in the "Asbestos Claims and Litigation" and "Environmental Claims and Litigation" sections herein). Net favorable prior year reserve development of $301 million in 2007 was primarily driven by better than expected loss development for recent accident years in the commercial multi peril, general liability, commercial automobile and property product lines. The commercial multi peril and general liability product lines experienced better than anticipated loss development that was attributable to several factors, including improved legal and judicial environments, as well as enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. The commercial automobile product line experienced better than expected loss development due to more favorable legal and judicial environments, claim handling initiatives focused on the automobile line of insurance and improvements in auto safety technology. The property product line experienced fewer than expected late reported claims related to non catastrophe weather events that occurred late in 2006, as well as better than expected frequency and severity due in part to changes in the marketplace, such as higher deductibles and lower policy limits. In addition, the property product line experienced better than expected large loss outcomes which were partially attributable to favorable litigation resolutions. Net total prior year reserve development in 2007 included a $185 million increase to environmental reserves (discussed in more detail in the "Environmental Claims and Litigation" section herein). 84 Table of Contents The amortization of deferred acquisition costs totaled $1.78 billion in 2009, $43 million lower than the comparable total of $1.82 billion in 2008. The decline was consistent with the declines in earned premiums. The amortization of deferred acquisition costs totaled $1.82 billion in 2008, $76 million, or 4%, higher than the comparable total of $1.74 billion in 2007. The growth in amortization costs primarily reflected the higher level of amortized commission expense in 2008 resulting from the Companys implementation of a new fixed agent compensation program in 2007. General and administrative expenses in 2009 totaled $1.97 billion, $113 million lower than the comparable 2008 total of $2.08 billion. The majority of the decrease reflected the impact of estimates of windpool assessments related to Hurricane Ike in each year. During 2008, the Company recorded $62 million of hurricane related assessments in general and administrative expenses. Subsequently, during the first half of 2009, the Company recorded a $38 million reduction in these assessments due to a decline in estimated insurance industry losses related to Hurricane Ike. General and administrative expenses totaled $2.08 billion in 2008, an increase of $51 million, or 3%, over the comparable 2007 total of $2.03 billion. The increase in 2008 primarily reflected the impact of hurricane related assessments. GAAP Combined Ratio In 2009, the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 53.9% was 3.8 points lower than the comparable 2008 ratio of 57.7%. The cost of catastrophes in 2009 and 2008 accounted for 1.6 points and 5.7 points of the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio, respectively. Net favorable prior year reserve development provided 9.3 point and 10.0 point benefits to the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio in 2009 adjusted for the cost of catastrophes and prior year reserve development was 0.4 points lower than the 2008 ratio on the same basis, due to lower non catastrophe weather related losses and fewer large property losses, partially offset by reduced underwriting margins related to pricing and loss cost trends. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio in 2008 of 57.7% was 0.6 points higher than the comparable 2007 ratio of 57.1%. The cost of catastrophes accounted for 5.7 points of the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio in 2008, compared with no impact from catastrophes in 2007. Net favorable prior year reserve development provided 10.0 point and 2.6 point benefits to the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio in 2008 and 2007, respectively. The 2008 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio adjusted for the cost of catastrophes and prior year reserve development was 2.3 points higher than the 2007 ratio on the same basis, reflecting the impact of competitive market conditions on pricing over the preceding twelve months and loss cost trends, as well as a small increase in the number of large property losses. The underwriting expense ratio of 32.2% in 2009 was 0.3 points lower than the underwriting expense ratio of 32.5% in 2008. The 2009 underwriting expense ratio included a 0.3 point benefit from the reduction in the estimate of windpool assessments described above, whereas the underwriting expense ratio in 2008 included a 0.6 point increase due to the impact from the windpool assessments and reinstatement premiums. Adjusting for these factors in both years, the underwriting expense ratio for 2009 was 0.6 points higher than the 2008 underwriting expense ratio. The adjusted underwriting expense ratio in 2009 reflected the unfavorable impact of the decline in fee income compared with the same periods of 2008. A portion of fee income is accounted for as a reduction of expenses for purposes of calculating the expense ratio. The underwriting expense ratio of 32.5% in 2008 was 1.8 points higher than the comparable 2007 ratio of 30.7%. The 2008 expense ratio included a 0.6 point impact of the hurricane related assessments, whereas the 2007 ratio included a 0.7 point benefit from the implementation of the new fixed agent compensation program described in the "Consolidated Overview" section herein. Adjusting for these factors in both years, the adjusted 2008 expense ratio was 0.5 points higher than the adjusted 85 Table of Contents expense ratio for 2007, primarily reflecting continued investments to support business growth and product development, the impact of a decline in the rate of earned premium growth relative to expense growth, and declines in fee income. Written Premiums The Business Insurance segments gross and net written premiums by market were as follows: Gross Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Select Accounts $ 2,804 $ 2,804 $ 2,774 Commercial Accounts 2,687 2,729 2,740 National Accounts 1,321 1,577 1,859 Industry Focused Underwriting 2,363 2,485 2,380 Target Risk Underwriting 2,014 2,029 2,182 Specialized Distribution 901 954 1,033 Total Business Insurance Core 12,090 12,578 12,968 Business Insurance Other 8 2 49 Total Business Insurance $ 12,098 $ 12,580 $ 13,017 Net Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Select Accounts $ 2,756 $ 2,756 $ 2,711 Commercial Accounts 2,493 2,524 2,518 National Accounts 902 996 1,056 Industry Focused Underwriting 2,279 2,396 2,301 Target Risk Underwriting 1,568 1,593 1,665 Specialized Distribution 889 939 1,015 Total Business Insurance Core 10,887 11,204 11,266 Business Insurance Other 15 16 52 Total Business Insurance $ 10,902 $ 11,220 $ 11,318 In Business Insurance Core, gross and net written premiums in 2009 decreased by 4% and 3% from 2008, respectively. The decline in gross and net written premiums in 2009 was driven in large part by lower levels of economic activity in recent quarters that impacted exposure changes at renewal, audit premium adjustments, policy endorsements and mid term cancellations. In Business Insurance Core, gross and net written premiums in 2008 decreased by 3% and 1% from 2007, respectively. The difference in rates of decline between gross and net written premiums in 2008 was concentrated in National Accounts, where a significant portion of gross written premiums is ceded to other insurers and residual market pools. As a result, the decline in gross written premiums did not have a proportional impact on net written premiums. Net written premium growth in the Industry Focused Underwriting, Select Accounts and Commercial Accounts groups generally reflected higher business retention levels and new business volume in several business units within these groups. This was more than offset by premium declines in Specialized Distribution, Target Risk Underwriting and National Accounts. Select Accounts. Net written premiums of $2.76 billion in 2009 were level with 2008. Business retention rates remained strong, but declined slightly from the prior year. Renewal premium changes were positive in 2009 and increased over 2008. New business volume in 2009 increased slightly over 86 Table of Contents 2008, driven by the continued success of the Companys quote to issue agency platform and multivariate pricing program for smaller businesses, partially offset by lower business volumes in larger, more complex accounts served by this market. Net written premiums of $2.76 billion in 2008 increased 2% over 2007. Business retention rates in 2008 remained strong and were consistent with 2007. Renewal price changes remained positive and were comparable to 2007. In the aggregate, new business volume in 2008 increased over 2007. The Company experienced a favorable impact on its new business volume from its enhanced quote to issue agency platform and multivariate pricing program for smaller businesses served by Select Accounts. However, new business volume for larger accounts in 2008 declined from 2007 primarily due to competitive market conditions. Commercial Accounts. In 2009, net written premiums of $2.49 billion were 1% lower than in 2008. Business retention rates in 2009 remained strong but declined slightly from the prior year. Renewal premium changes were slightly negative in 2009 but were improved over 2008, as the impact of a continued improving rate trend was partially offset by the impact on written premiums of lower coverage demands from existing policyholders due to general economic conditions. New business levels increased when compared with 2008 due to various product and customer initiatives. Net written premiums of $2.52 billion in 2008 were virtually level with the 2007 total. Business retention rates in 2008 remained strong and were higher than in 2007. Renewal price changes were slightly negative in 2008, and were lower than in 2007. New business levels also declined when compared with 2007, reflecting competitive market conditions in this market. National Accounts. In 2009, net written premiums of $902 million were 9% lower than in 2008. The decline in net written premiums in 2009 was driven by the loss of a large account, negative renewal premium changes resulting from lower coverage demands from existing policyholders due to general economic conditions, and lower premium volume from property and workers compensation involuntary residual markets. Despite the impact of the loss of a large account, business retention rates remained high in 2009. Net written premiums of $1.00 billion in 2008 decreased 6% from 2007. The decline primarily reflected a significant decline in renewal price changes, as prices charged for National Accounts products are adjusted for actual loss performance, which continued to be favorable due to workers compensation reforms. Overall new business volume increased slightly over 2007. Business retention rates in 2008 remained strong and increased over 2007. Industry Focused Underwriting. In 2009, net written premiums of $2.28 billion declined 5% from 2008. Premium declines were concentrated in the Construction and Oil & Gas business units, reflecting economic conditions in these industries. In addition, premium volume in the Technology and Public Sector business units declined, reflecting economic conditions and competitive market pressures. These declines were partially offset by premium growth in the Agribusiness business unit in 2009. Net written premiums of $2.40 billion in 2008 increased 4% over 2007. All business units in this market recorded net written premium growth in 2008. Growth in Construction net written premiums in 2008 was driven by strong business retention levels coupled with continued strong new business volume. An increase in new business volume was the primary factor in the growth in net written premiums in the Oil & Gas business unit. In Agribusiness, net written premium growth was driven by increases in business retention rates and renewal price changes. In the Public Sector business unit, the increase in net written premiums was driven by higher new business volume coupled with continued strong business retention rates. Target Risk Underwriting. In 2009, net written premiums of $1.57 billion were 2% lower than in 2008, primarily due to the Inland Marine and Ocean Marine business units, reflecting the impact of 87 Table of Contents general economic conditions and a decline in new business volume. Partially offsetting the declines in these business units was strong growth in National Property premium volume in 2009 due to significant increases in renewal premium changes. Excess Casualty written premiums also increased over 2008, due to a change in the terms of certain reinsurance treaties that resulted in a higher level of business retained. Net written premiums of $1.59 billion in 2008 decreased 4% from 2007. The decline was concentrated in the National Property business unit, reflecting reductions in renewal price changes and new business volume due to competitive market conditions, and in the Inland Marine business unit, primarily reflecting reductions in business retention rates and new business volume due to general economic conditions. In addition, the Global Accounts business unit experienced a reduction in net written premiums due to declines in business retention rates, renewal price changes and new business. Partially offsetting the declines in these business units was an increase in net written premiums in the Excess Casualty business unit, where renewal price changes remained negative but improved over 2007 and business retention levels increased. Specialized Distribution. In 2009, net written premiums of $889 million were 5% lower than in 2008. The decline was attributable to both the National Programs and Northland business units, which experienced continued negative renewal premium changes that reflected competitive market conditions and the impact of economic conditions, primarily on the commercial trucking, entertainment and leisure industries. Net written premiums of $939 million in 2008 decreased 7% from 2007. The premium decline reflected negative renewal price changes in both the Northland and National Programs business units. In the National Programs business unit, business retention rates increased over 2007, but new business levels declined compared with 2007. In the Northland business unit, business retention rates and new business levels remained strong, but were down slightly compared with 2007. Financial, Professional & International Insurance Results of the Companys Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment were as follows: (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Revenues: Earned premiums $ 3,333 $ 3,429 $ 3,384 Net investment income 452 454 494 Other revenues 27 24 29 Total revenues $ 3,812 $ 3,907 $ 3,907 Total claims and expenses $ 2,948 $ 3,004 $ 2,981 Operating income $ 642 $ 649 $ 675 Loss and loss adjustment expense ratio 52.1 % 51.2 % 50.8 % Underwriting expense ratio 36.0 36.0 36.8 GAAP combined ratio 88.1 % 87.2 % 87.6 % Overview In 2009, operating income of $642 million was $7 million, or 1%, lower than in 2008. A reduction in net favorable prior year reserve development was largely offset by a decline in the cost of catastrophes and lower large losses in the International group. Net favorable prior year reserve 88 Table of Contents development totaled $168 million and $274 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The cost of catastrophes totaled $3 million and $84 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. Operating income of $649 million in 2008 decreased by $26 million, or 4%, from 2007. The decline in operating income was primarily driven by an increase in the number of large losses that exceeded expectations within the International group, an increase in the cost of catastrophes and a decline in net investment income, largely offset by a significant increase in net favorable prior year reserve development. The cost of catastrophes in 2008 was $84 million, compared with no catastrophe losses in 2007. Net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $274 and $93 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. In March 2007, the Company completed the sale of Afianzadora Insurgentes, which accounted for $25 million of net written premiums for the year ended December 31, 2007. The impact of this transaction was not material to the Companys results of operations or financial position. Earned Premiums Earned premiums of $3.33 billion in 2009 declined $96 million, or 3%, from the 2008 total due to the unfavorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates. Adjusting for the impact of exchange rates, earned premiums in this segment were slightly higher than in 2008, primarily reflecting growth in the International group. Earned premiums of $3.43 billion in 2008 increased $45 million, or 1%, over the 2007 total of $3.38 billion. Adjusting for the sale of Afianzadora Insurgentes in 2007, earned premium growth of 2% in 2008 was concentrated in the Construction Services business unit of the Bond & Financial Products group due to changes in the terms of certain reinsurance treaties that resulted in a higher level of business retained. Net Investment Income The slight decline in net investment income in 2009 compared with 2008 was primarily driven by the unfavorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates, which reduced reported net investment income by approximately $18 million in 2009. Refer to the "Net Investment Income" section of "Consolidated Results of Operations" herein for a discussion of the change in the Companys net investment income in 2009 and 2008 as compared with the respective prior years, as well as a discussion of the Companys net investment income allocation methodology. Claims and Expenses Claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2009 totaled $1.75 billion, a decrease of $22 million, or 1%, from 2008. The decrease in 2009 was driven by a $73 million favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates. A decrease in net favorable prior year reserve development was largely offset by declines in the cost of catastrophes and large losses in the International group. Net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $168 million and $274 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2009 was driven by better than expected loss experience in the International group, particularly in the United Kingdom and in the Surety line of business in Canada. In addition, the Aviation and Property lines of business at Lloyds experienced net favorable prior year reserve development in 2009. In the Bond & Financial Products group, better than expected loss experience for the contract surety business within the fidelity and surety product line for recent accident years also resulted in net favorable prior year reserve development in 2009. The cost of catastrophes included in claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2009 totaled $3 million, compared with $73 million in 2008. Claims and claim adjustment expenses of $1.77 billion in 2008 increased by $32 million, or 2%, over 2007. An increase in the cost of catastrophes and an increase in the number of large losses that exceeded expectations within International in 2008 were largely offset by a significant increase in net favorable prior year reserve development. The cost of catastrophes included in claims and claim 89 Table of Contents adjustment expenses in 2008 totaled $73 million, compared with no catastrophe losses in 2007. Hurricanes Ike and Gustav accounted for the majority of catastrophe losses in 2008. Net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $274 million in 2008, primarily driven by better than expected loss experience in the International group. The improvements in longer tail lines of business were attributable to several factors, including enhanced risk control and underwriting strategies throughout the International group. In the property line of business, the improvement primarily resulted from better than anticipated loss development in the United Kingdom, in part due to favorable claim activity relating to 2007 flood losses. In the Bond & Financial Products group, better than expected loss experience for the contract surety business within the fidelity and surety product line, resulting from favorable settlements on large claims (primarily from accident years prior to 2005), resulted in net favorable prior year reserve development in 2008. In 2007, net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $93 million, primarily reflecting better than expected loss development in international property, employers liability, professional indemnity and motor lines of business for recent accident years, which was attributable to several factors, including enhanced pricing and underwriting strategies throughout the International operations, and the favorable impact of legal and judicial reforms in Ireland. The amortization of deferred acquisition costs totaled $622 million in 2009, $30 million, or 5%, lower than the comparable 2008 total of $652 million. The declines were driven by the favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates and changes in the mix of business. General and administrative expenses in 2009 totaled $579 million, slightly lower than $581 million in 2008. The decline in 2009 primarily reflected the favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates, which was largely offset by an increase in employee related expenses associated with growth initiatives. General and administrative expenses in 2008 were $9 million lower than in 2007, primarily reflecting a decrease in commission expense. GAAP Combined Ratio In 2009, the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 52.1% was 0.9 points higher than the ratio of 51.2% in 2008. The 2009 ratio included a 5.1 point benefit from net favorable prior year reserve development and a 0.1 point impact from the cost of catastrophes, whereas the 2008 ratio included an 8.0 point benefit from net favorable prior year reserve development and a 2.3 point impact from the cost of catastrophes. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio in 2009 adjusted for the cost of catastrophes and prior year reserve development was 0.2 points higher than the 2008 ratio on the same basis, as the impact of loss cost trends was partially offset by the favorable impact of lower large losses in the International group. The underwriting expense ratio of 36.0% for 2009 was level with the underwriting expense ratio in 2008. The 2008 expense ratio included a 0.2 point impact from hurricane related assessments. Adjusting for that factor in 2008, the 2009 underwriting expense ratio was 0.2 points higher than the 2008 ratio. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 51.2% in 2008 was 0.4 points higher than the 2007 ratio of 50.8%. The 2008 ratio included an 8.0 point benefit from net favorable prior year reserve development and a 2.3 point impact from the cost of catastrophes, whereas the 2007 ratio included a 2.7 point benefit from net favorable prior year reserve development and no impact from catastrophe losses. The 2008 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio adjusted for catastrophe losses and prior year reserve development was 3.4 points higher than the 2007 ratio on the same basis, primarily reflecting an increase in the number of large losses that exceeded expectations within International. The underwriting expense ratio of 36.0% in 2008 was 0.8 points lower than in 2007. The 2008 expense ratio included a 0.2 point impact of hurricane related assessments. Adjusting for these assessments, the 2008 expense ratio was 1.0 points lower than the expense ratio in 2007, reflecting reduced acquisition costs. 90 Table of Contents Written Premiums Financial, Professional & International Insurance gross and net written premiums by market were as follows: Gross Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Bond & Financial Products $ 2,262 $ 2,378 $ 2,480 International 1,451 1,588 1,557 Total Financial, Professional & International Insurance $ 3,713 $ 3,966 $ 4,037 Net Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Bond & Financial Products $ 2,040 $ 2,126 $ 2,123 International 1,245 1,342 1,342 Total Financial, Professional & International Insurance $ 3,285 $ 3,468 $ 3,465 The Financial, Professional & International Insurance segments gross written premiums of $3.71 billion in 2009 decreased 6% from 2008, and net written premiums of $3.29 billion in 2009 decreased 5% from 2008. The decline in gross and net written premiums was primarily attributable to the unfavorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates in the International group. The remainder of the decline was driven by the impact of the economic downturn on construction surety business volume and underwriting actions taken in the professional liability component of Bond & Financial Products management liability business, partially offset by growth in Ireland. In the Bond & Financial Products group (excluding the surety line of business, for which the following are not relevant measures), business retention rates remained strong but decreased from 2008, primarily in professional liability. Renewal premium changes in 2009 increased slightly over 2008, as the impact of slight positive renewal rate changes on written premiums was largely offset by reduced insured exposures due to underwriting actions and lower levels of economic activity. New business levels in 2009 were lower than in 2008. In the International group (excluding the surety line of business, for which the following are not relevant measures), business retention rates in 2009 declined from 2008, primarily due to underwriting actions taken in the United Kingdom, Ireland and at the Companys operations at Lloyds. Renewal premium changes improved over 2008 and new business levels declined when compared with 2008. Afianzadora Insurgentes generated gross and net written premiums of $30 million and $25 million, respectively, in 2007. Adjusting for the sale of that operation in 2007, gross written premiums in 2008 declined 1% from 2007, whereas net written premiums increased 1% over 2007. The difference in 2008 gross and net written premium growth rates primarily reflected changes in the terms of certain of the Companys reinsurance treaties that resulted in a higher level of business retained in the Bond & Financial Products group. In the Bond & Financial Products group, net written premiums in 2008 increased 1% over 2007 (adjusted for the sale of Afianzadora Insurgentes), as the impact of the higher level of business retained in 2008 was largely offset by a decline in premium volume due to competitive market conditions and the economic downturn. In the Bond & Financial Products group (excluding the surety line of business, for which the following are not relevant measures), business retention rates in 2008 remained strong and increased slightly over 2007. Renewal price changes in 2008 were slightly negative, compared to an increase in the prior year, and new business levels were consistent with 2007. 91 Table of Contents Net written premiums in the International group in 2008 were flat with 2007. For the International group in 2008, business retention rates declined from 2007 due to the intentional non renewal of certain property business in Canada and more competitive market conditions at Lloyds. Renewal price changes in 2008 were flat, compared to a decrease in 2007, and new business volume increased. Personal Insurance Results of the Companys Personal Insurance segment were as follows: (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Revenues: Earned premiums $ 7,117 $ 6,970 $ 6,803 Net investment income 422 421 559 Other revenues 84 75 90 Total revenues $ 7,623 $ 7,466 $ 7,452 Total claims and expenses $ 6,824 $ 6,855 $ 5,996 Operating income $ 601 $ 465 $ 1,019 Loss and loss adjustment expense ratio 65.0 % 66.2 % 58.6 % Underwriting expense ratio 29.6 30.8 28.2 GAAP combined ratio 94.6 % 97.0 % 86.8 % Incremental impact of direct to consumer initiative on GAAP combined ratio 1.7 % 0.5 % % Overview In 2009, operating income of $601 million was $136 million, or 29%, higher than in 2008, driven by a decline in the cost of catastrophes and a reduction in the estimate of property windpool assessments, partially offset by investments in the direct to consumer initiative and loss cost trends. The cost of catastrophes in 2009 totaled $278 million, compared with $618 million in 2008. The 2008 total was comprised of $541 million of claims and claim adjustment expenses and $77 million of property windpool assessments that were included in general and administrative expenses. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2009 and 2008 totaled $135 million and $143 million, respectively. Operating income of $465 million in 2008 was $554 million, or 54%, lower than operating income in 2007, primarily reflecting an increase in the cost of catastrophes. Also contributing to the decline in 2008 were a reduction in net investment income, an increase in non catastrophe related weather losses and loss cost trends. The cost of catastrophes in 2008 totaled $618 million, compared with $163 million in 2007. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2008 and 2007 totaled $143 million and $152 million, respectively. In addition, results in 2007 benefited by $71 million from the Companys implementation of a new fixed agent compensation program. In April 2007, the Company completed the sale of its subsidiary, Mendota Insurance Company, and its wholly owned subsidiaries, Mendakota Insurance Company and Mendota Insurance Agency, Inc. (collectively, Mendota). These subsidiaries primarily offered nonstandard automobile coverage and accounted for $49 million of net written premiums in the year ended December 31, 2007. The impact of this transaction was not material to the Companys results of operations or financial position. Earned Premiums In 2009, earned premiums of $7.12 billion were $147 million, or 2%, higher than in 2008. The increase reflected continued strong business retention rates and new business levels, and renewal 92 Table of Contents premium increases. Earned premiums of $6.97 billion in 2008 increased $167 million, or 2%, over earned premiums of $6.80 billion in 2007. Adjusting for the sale of Mendota in 2007, earned premiums in 2008 increased 3% over 2007. The increase reflected continued strong business retention rates and new business volume, coupled with continued renewal price increases. Net Investment Income Refer to the "Net Investment Income" section of "Consolidated Results of Operations" herein for a discussion of the change in the Companys net investment income in 2009 and 2008 as compared with the prior year. Claims and Expenses In 2009, claims and claim adjustment expenses of $4.62 billion were slightly higher than in 2008, as the impacts of loss cost trends and increased business volume were largely offset by the decline in the cost of catastrophes. The cost of catastrophes included in claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2009 totaled $278 million, compared with $541 million in 2008. Catastrophe losses in 2009 primarily resulted from several wind and hail storms, as well as flooding. Catastrophe losses in 2008 primarily resulted from Hurricanes Ike and Gustav, as well as tornado, wind and hail storms in various regions of the United States throughout the year. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2009 totaled $135 million, compared with $143 million in 2008. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2009 primarily reflected favorable loss experience related to Hurricanes Ike and Katrina, as well as the 2007 California wildfires. Claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2008 totaled $4.62 billion, an increase of $629 million, or 16%, over 2007, primarily reflecting a significant increase in the cost of catastrophes, non catastrophe weather related losses in the Homeowners and Other product line, the impact of loss cost trends and increased business volume. The cost of catastrophes included in claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2008 totaled $541 million, compared with $163 million in 2007. Catastrophe losses in 2008 primarily resulted from Hurricanes Ike and Gustav, as well as tornado, wind and hail storms in various regions of the United States throughout the year. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2008 and 2007 totaled $143 million and $152 million, respectively. The 2008 net favorable prior year reserve development was primarily driven by favorable loss experience related to Hurricane Katrina, and better than expected loss experience from recent accident years for the Homeowners and Other product line. This improvement was driven in part by claim initiatives as well as better than expected outcomes on 2007 catastrophe related claims. In addition, the Homeowners and Other product line experienced improvement in older accident years for the umbrella line as well as favorable experience from accident year 2007 for allied coverages due to less than expected claim activity. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2007 of $152 million was driven by better than expected automobile loss experience due in part to claim initiatives and fewer than expected late reported homeowners claims related to non catastrophe weather events that occurred in the fourth quarter of 2006. In addition, a portion of net favorable prior year reserve development in the Homeowners and Other line of business in 2007 was attributable to a decrease in the number of claims due to changes in the marketplace, including higher deductibles and fewer small dollar claims. The amortization of deferred acquisition costs totaled $1.42 billion in 2009, compared with $1.41 billion in 2008, consistent with earned premium levels in both years. The amortization of deferred acquisition costs totaled $1.41 billion in 2008, compared with $1.31 billion in 2007. The growth in amortization costs in 2008 primarily reflected the higher level of amortized commission expense in 2008 resulting from the Companys implementation of a new fixed agent compensation program in 2007, as well as an increase in business volume. 93  Table of Contents In 2009, general and administrative expenses of $784 million were $45 million lower than the comparable 2008 total of $829 million. The decrease resulted from revised estimates of windpool assessments related to Hurricane Ike. During 2008, the Company recorded $77 million of estimated property windpool assessments in the Personal Insurance segment in general and administrative expenses. Subsequently, during the first half of 2009, the Company recorded a $48 million reduction in these estimated assessments due to a decline in estimated insurance industry losses related to Hurricane Ike. Adjusting for the impact of windpool assessments in both 2009 and 2008, general and administrative expenses in 2009 increased 11%, over 2008, primarily reflecting growth in business volume and continued investments to support business growth and product development, including the Companys direct to consumer initiative. General and administrative expenses totaled $829 million in 2008, an increase of $130 million, or 19% over the 2007 total of $699 million. The increase in 2008 included the impact of $77 million of estimated hurricane related assessments. The remaining increase reflected growth in business volume and continued investments to support business growth and product development. GAAP Combined Ratio In 2009, the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 65.0% was 1.2 points lower than the comparable 2008 ratio of 66.2%. The cost of catastrophes accounted for 3.9 points of the 2009 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio, whereas the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio for 2008 included a 7.8 point impact of the cost of catastrophes. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio for 2009 and 2008 included 1.9 point and 2.1 point benefits, respectively from net favorable prior year reserve development. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratios adjusted for catastrophe losses and prior year reserve development for 2009 was 2.5 points higher than the 2008 ratio on the same basis, primarily reflecting the impact of loss cost trends. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 66.2% in 2008 was 7.6 points higher than the comparable 2007 ratio of 58.6%. The 2008 ratio included a 7.8 point impact of the cost of catastrophes and a 2.1 point benefit from net favorable prior year reserve development, whereas the 2007 ratio included a 2.4 point impact of the cost of catastrophes and a 2.2 point benefit from net favorable prior year reserve development. The 2008 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio adjusted for catastrophe losses and prior year reserve development was 2.1 points higher than the 2007 ratio on the same basis, primarily reflecting the impact of an increase in non catastrophe weather related losses in the Homeowners and Other line of business and loss cost trends. In 2009, the underwriting expense ratio of 29.6% was 1.2 points lower than the underwriting expense ratio of 30.8% in 2008. The 2009 underwriting expense ratio included a 0.7 point benefit from the reduction in the estimate of windpool assessments described above, whereas the 2008 underwriting expense ratio included a 1.1 point increase due to the impact related to the windpool assessments. Adjusting for these factors in both years, the underwriting expense ratio for 2009 was 0.6 points higher than the 2008 underwriting expense ratio, primarily reflecting expenses resulting from the Companys direct to consumer initiative. The underwriting expense ratio of 30.8% in 2008 was 2.6 points higher than the 2007 ratio of 28.2%. The 2008 ratio included a 1.1 point impact from estimated hurricane related assessments, whereas the 2007 ratio included a 1.0 point benefit from the implementation of the new fixed agent compensation program. Adjusting for these factors, the 2008 expense ratio was 0.5 points higher than the adjusted expense ratio for 2007, primarily reflecting continued investments to support business growth and product development. 94 Table of Contents Agency Written Premiums Personal Insurances gross and net written premiums by product line were as follows for its Agency business, which comprises business written through agents, brokers and other intermediaries, and represents almost all of the Personal Insurance segments gross and net written premiums: Gross Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Agency Automobile $ 3,610 $ 3,680 $ 3,673 Agency Homeowners and Other 3,809 3,599 3,471 Total Agency Personal Insurance $ 7,419 $ 7,279 $ 7,144 Net Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Agency Automobile $ 3,586 $ 3,651 $ 3,628 Agency Homeowners and Other 3,508 3,333 3,207 Total Agency Personal Insurance $ 7,094 $ 6,984 $ 6,835 Gross and net Agency written premiums in 2009 both increased by 2% over the comparable 2008 totals. In 2008, gross and net Agency written premiums also both increased 2% over the comparable 2007 totals. Mendota accounted for $49 million of both gross and net written premiums in 2007. Adjusting for the sale of Mendota in 2007, gross and net written premiums in 2008 both increased 3% over the 2007 totals. In 2009, net written premiums in the Agency Automobile line of business decreased 2% from 2008. The impact of increasing renewal premium changes was more than offset by declines in new business volume and business retention rates compared with 2008. In the Agency Homeowners and Other line of business, net written premiums in 2009 grew 5% over 2008, driven by increases in renewal premium changes. New business volume was consistent with 2008 and business retention rates remained strong and consistent with 2008. In the Agency Automobile line of business, net written premiums in 2008 increased 2% over 2007, adjusting for the sale of Mendota. Business retention rates in 2008 remained strong and were consistent with 2007. Renewal price changes in 2008 remained positive and consistent with 2007. New business levels in 2008 increased over 2007. In the Agency Homeowners and Other line of business, net written premiums in 2008 grew 4% over 2007. Business retention rates in 2008 remained strong and were consistent with 2007. Renewal price changes in 2008 remained positive but declined from 2007. New business levels also remained strong and increased slightly over 2007. For its Agency business, the Personal Insurance segment had approximately 7.4 million and 7.3 million active policies at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In the Agency Automobile line of business, active policies at December 31, 2009 decreased 3% from the same date in 2008. Active policies in the Agency Homeowners and Other line of business at December 31, 2009 grew by 3% over the same date in 2008. Interest Expense and Other (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Operating loss $ (233 ) $ (257 ) $ (209 ) 95 Table of Contents The $24 million decline in operating loss for Interest Expense and Other in 2009 compared with 2008 primarily reflected a benefit of $28 million in 2009 from the favorable resolution of various prior year tax matters. After tax interest expense in 2009 totaled $248 million, compared with $239 million in 2008. The $48 million increase in operating loss for Interest Expense and Other in 2008 compared with 2007 was primarily driven by a $52 million benefit in 2007 resulting from the favorable resolution of various prior year tax matters. The net loss in 2008 included after tax interest expense of $239 million, compared with $224 million in 2007. The net loss in 2007 also included an after tax loss of $25 million related to the Companys redemption of its 4.50% contingently convertible debentures in April 2007, consisting of the redemption premium paid and the write off of remaining debt issuance costs. ASBESTOS CLAIMS AND LITIGATION The Company believes that the property and casualty insurance industry has suffered from court decisions and other trends that have attempted to expand insurance coverage for asbestos claims far beyond the intent of insurers and policyholders. While the Company has experienced a decrease in new asbestos claims over the past several years, the Company continues to receive a significant number of asbestos claims from the Companys policyholders (which includes others seeking coverage under a policy), including claims against the Companys policyholders by individuals who do not appear to be impaired by asbestos exposure. Factors underlying these claim filings include intensive advertising by lawyers seeking asbestos claimants and the focus by plaintiffs on previously peripheral defendants. The focus on these defendants is primarily the result of the number of traditional asbestos defendants who have sought bankruptcy protection in previous years. In addition to contributing to the overall number of claims, bankruptcy proceedings may increase the volatility of asbestos related losses by initially delaying the reporting of claims and later by significantly accelerating and increasing loss payments by insurers, including the Company. The bankruptcy of many traditional defendants has also caused increased settlement demands against those policyholders who are not in bankruptcy but that remain in the tort system. Currently, in many jurisdictions, those who allege very serious injury and who can present credible medical evidence of their injuries are receiving priority trial settings in the courts, while those who have not shown any credible disease manifestation are having their hearing dates delayed or placed on an inactive docket. This trend of prioritizing claims involving credible evidence of injuries, along with the focus on previously peripheral defendants, contributes to the claims and claim adjustment expense payments experienced by the Company. The Companys asbestos related claims and claim adjustment expense experience also has been impacted by the unavailability of other insurance sources potentially available to policyholders, whether through exhaustion of policy limits or through the insolvency of other participating insurers. The Company continues to be involved in coverage litigation concerning a number of policyholders, some of whom have filed for bankruptcy, who in some instances have asserted that all or a portion of their asbestos related claims are not subject to aggregate limits on coverage. In these instances, policyholders also may assert that each individual bodily injury claim should be treated as a separate occurrence under the policy. It is difficult to predict whether these policyholders will be successful on both issues. To the extent both issues are resolved in a policyholders favor and other Company defenses are not successful, the Companys coverage obligations under the policies at issue would be materially increased and bounded only by the applicable per occurrence limits and the number of asbestos bodily injury claims against the policyholders. Accordingly, although the Company has seen a moderation in the overall risk associated with these lawsuits, it remains difficult to predict the ultimate cost of these claims. Many coverage disputes with policyholders are only resolved through settlement agreements. Because many policyholders make exaggerated demands, it is difficult to predict the outcome of settlement negotiations. Settlements involving bankrupt policyholders may include extensive releases 96 Table of Contents which are favorable to the Company but which could result in settlements for larger amounts than originally anticipated. There also may be instances where a court may not approve a proposed settlement, which may result in additional litigation and potentially less beneficial outcomes for the Company. As in the past, the Company will continue to pursue settlement opportunities. In addition to claims against policyholders, proceedings have been launched directly against insurers, including the Company, by individuals challenging insurers conduct with respect to the handling of past asbestos claims and by individuals seeking damages arising from alleged asbestos related bodily injuries. The Company anticipates the filing of other direct actions against insurers, including the Company, in the future. It is difficult to predict the outcome of these proceedings, including whether the plaintiffs will be able to sustain these actions against insurers based on novel legal theories of liability. The Company believes it has meritorious defenses to these claims and has received favorable rulings in certain jurisdictions. Travelers Property Casualty Corp. (TPC), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, had entered into settlement agreements, which are subject to a number of contingencies, in connection with a number of these direct action claims. These settlement agreements had been approved by the court in connection with proceedings initiated by TPC in the Johns Manville bankruptcy court. On March 29, 2006, the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York substantially affirmed the bankruptcy courts orders, while vacating that portion of the bankruptcy courts orders which required all future direct actions against TPC to first be approved by the bankruptcy court before proceeding in state or federal court. Various parties appealed the district courts ruling to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. On February 15, 2008, the Second Circuit issued an opinion vacating on jurisdictional grounds the district courts approval of the bankruptcy courts order that barred the filing of certain direct action claims against TPC in the future. TPC and certain other parties filed Petitions for Writ of Certiorari in the United States Supreme Court seeking review of the Second Circuits decision. Those petitions were granted and on June 18, 2009, the Supreme Court ruled in favor of the Company, reversing the Second Circuits decision. However, since the Second Circuit had not ruled on several additional issues principally related to procedural matters and the adequacy of notice provided to certain parties, the Supreme Court remanded the case to the Second Circuit for further proceedings on those specific issues. Oral argument before the Second Circuit on the remaining issues was held on October 22, 2009 and the parties await a ruling. Accordingly, the settlements are not yet final. (For a description of these matters, see "Part I Item 3 Legal Proceedings"). Because each policyholder presents different liability and coverage issues, the Company generally reviews the exposure presented by each policyholder at least annually. Among the factors which the Company may consider in the course of this review are: available insurance coverage, including the role of any umbrella or excess insurance the Company has issued to the policyholder; limits and deductibles; an analysis of the policyholders potential liability; the jurisdictions involved; past and anticipated future claim activity and loss development on pending claims; past settlement values of similar claims; allocated claim adjustment expense; potential role of other insurance; the role, if any, of non asbestos claims or potential non asbestos claims in any resolution process; and applicable coverage defenses or determinations, if any, including the determination as to whether or not an asbestos claim is a product/completed operation claim subject to an aggregate limit and the available coverage, if any, for that claim. In the third quarter of 2009, the Company completed its annual in depth asbestos claim review. As in prior years, the review considered active policyholders and litigation cases for potential product and "non product" liability. The "home office and field office" category (as defined below), which accounts for the vast majority of policyholders with active asbestos related claims, again experienced an overall reduction in new claim filings. Overall gross defense and indemnity costs in these categories remained at similar levels to what the Company has experienced in recent years due to the continued high level of trial activity involving individuals alleging serious asbestos related injury, rather than decreasing 97 Table of Contents slightly as the Company had expected. While there was an aggregate decrease in the number of claims received, the number of policyholders tendering asbestos claims for the first time increased from the number tendering claims for the first time in 2008. The Company also noted the continuation of recent trends, which included: stable payment patterns for a large proportion of policyholders; a decrease in the number of claims received; a decrease in the number of large asbestos exposures confronting the Company due to additional settlement activity; continued moderate level of asbestos related bankruptcy activity; and the absence of new theories of liability or new classes of defendants. While the Company believes that these trends indicate a reduction in the volatility associated with the Companys overall asbestos exposure, there nonetheless remains a high degree of uncertainty with respect to future exposure from asbestos claims. The Companys quarterly asbestos reserve review includes an analysis of exposure and claim payment patterns by policyholder category, as well as recent settlements, policyholder bankruptcies, judicial rulings and legislative actions. Developing payment patterns among policyholders in the "home office and field office" and "assumed reinsurance and other" categories are also analyzed. In addition, the Company reviews its historical gross and net loss and expense paid experience, year by year, to assess any emerging trends, fluctuations, or characteristics suggested by the aggregate paid activity. For certain policyholders an estimate of the gross ultimate exposure for indemnity and related claim adjustment expense is determined, and for those policyholders the Company calculates, by each policy year, a ceded reinsurance projection based on any applicable facultative and treaty reinsurance, past ceded experience and reinsurance collections. Conventional actuarial methods are not utilized to establish asbestos reserves nor have the Companys evaluations resulted in any way of determining a meaningful average asbestos defense or indemnity payment. The completion of these reviews and analyses in the third quarter resulted in a $185 million increase in the Companys asbestos reserves, which was primarily driven by a slight increase in the Companys assumption for projected defense costs related to a broad range of policyholders. Overall, the companys assessment of the underlying asbestos environment did not change significantly from recent periods. The Company recorded a $70 million increase to asbestos reserves in 2008, which was driven by a change in the estimated costs associated with litigating asbestos coverage matters and a change in estimated losses for certain individual policyholders. The Company recorded no asbestos reserve additions in 2007. Net asbestos losses paid in 2009, 2008 and 2007 were $341 million, $658 million and $317 million, respectively. (Asbestos payments in 2008 included the Companys one time net payment of $365 million associated with the settlement of the ACandS, Inc. matter). Approximately 41%, 59% and 20% of total net paid losses in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, related to policyholders with whom the Company had entered into settlement agreements limiting the Companys liability. 98 Table of Contents The Company categorizes its asbestos reserves as follows: Number of Policyholders Total Net Paid Net Asbestos Reserves (at and for the year ended December 31, $ in millions) 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 Policyholders with settlement agreements 18 23 $ 139 $ 389 $ 621 $ 749 Home office and field office 1,697 1,651 176 217 1,956 1,983 Assumed reinsurance and other 26 41 181 182 International 11 Total 1,715 1,674 $ 341 $ 658 $ 2,758 $ 2,914 The "policyholders with settlement agreements" category includes structured settlements, coverage in place arrangements and, with respect to TPC, Wellington accounts. Reserves are based on the expected payout for each policyholder under the applicable agreement. Structured settlements are arrangements under which policyholders and or plaintiffs agree to fixed financial amounts to be paid at scheduled times. Included in this category are TPCs settlements of the Statutory and Hawaii Actions and the Common Law Claims (collectively the Direct Action Settlement). Unless the bankruptcy courts order approving the settlement is reinstated and becomes final, the Direct Action Settlement will be voided and TPC will have no obligation to pay the amounts under the Direct Action Settlement (other than certain administrative expenses). In that event, the reserves assigned to the settlement will be returned to TPCs unallocated asbestos reserve. (For a description of these matters, see "Item 3 Legal Proceedings"). Coverage in place arrangements represent agreements with major policyholders on specified amounts of coverage to be provided. Payment obligations may be subject to annual maximums and are only made when valid claims are presented. Wellington accounts refer to the 35 defendants that are parties to a 1985 agreement settling certain disputes concerning insurance coverage for their asbestos claims. Many of the aspects of the Wellington agreement are similar to those of coverage in place arrangements in which the parties have agreed on specific amounts of coverage and the terms under which the coverage can be accessed. The "home office and field office" category relates to all other policyholders and also includes unallocated IBNR reserves and reserves for the costs of defending asbestos related coverage litigation. Policyholders are identified for home office review based upon, among other factors: a combination of past payments and current case reserves in excess of a specified threshold (currently $100,000), perceived level of exposure, number of reported claims, products/completed operations and potential "non product" exposures, size of policyholder and geographic distribution of products or services sold by the policyholder. In addition to IBNR amounts contained in the reserves for "home office and field office" policyholders and the costs of litigating asbestos coverage matters, the Company has established a reserve for further adverse development related to existing policyholders, new claims from policyholders reporting claims for the first time and policyholders for which there is, or may be, litigation and direct actions against the Company. The "assumed reinsurance and other" category primarily consists of reinsurance of excess coverage, including various pool participations. On January 29, 2009, the Company and PPG Industries, Inc ("PPG"), along with approximately 30 other insurers of PPG, agreed in principle to an agreement to settle asbestos related coverage litigation under insurance policies issued to PPG. The tentative settlement agreement has been incorporated into the Modified Third Amended Plan of Reorganization ("Amended Plan") proposed as part of the Pittsburgh Corning Corp. ("PCC", which is 50% owned by PPG) bankruptcy proceeding. Pursuant to the proposed Amended Plan, which was filed on January 30, 2009, PCC, along with enumerated other companies (including PPG as well as the Company as a participating insurer), are to receive protections afforded by Section 524(g) of the Bankruptcy Code from certain asbestos related bodily injury claims. Under the agreement in principle, the Company has the option to make a series of payments over the next 20 years totaling approximately $620 million to the Trust to be created under the Amended Plan, 99 Table of Contents or it may elect to make a one time discounted payment, which, as of June 30, 2010, would total approximately $443 million (approximately $414 million after reinsurance). The agreement in principle with PPG is subject to numerous contingencies, including final court approval of the Amended Plan, and the Company has no obligation to make the settlement payment until all contingencies are satisfied. The Companys obligations under this agreement in principle are included in the unallocated asbestos IBNR reserve. In December 2008, the Company completed the sale of Unionamerica, which comprised its United Kingdom based runoff insurance and reinsurance businesses. Included in the claims and claim adjustment expense reserves transferred to the purchaser were gross and net asbestos reserves of $330 million and $232 million, respectively. The following table displays activity for asbestos losses and loss expenses and reserves: (at and for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Beginning reserves: Direct $ 3,299 $ 4,353 $ 4,777 Ceded (385 ) (619 ) (726 ) Net 2,914 3,734 4,051 Incurred losses and loss expenses: Direct 185 70 (1 ) Ceded 1 Net 185 70 Losses paid: Direct 387 794 423 Ceded (46 ) (136 ) (106 ) Net 341 658 317 Sale of subsidiary: Direct 330 Ceded (98 ) Net 232 Ending reserves: Direct 3,097 3,299 4,353 Ceded (339 ) (385 ) (619 ) Net $ 2,758 $ 2,914 $ 3,734 See " Uncertainty Regarding Adequacy of Asbestos and Environmental Reserves." ENVIRONMENTAL CLAIMS AND LITIGATION The Company continues to receive claims from policyholders who allege that they are liable for injury or damage arising out of their alleged disposition of toxic substances. Mostly, these claims are due to various legislative as well as regulatory efforts aimed at environmental remediation. For instance, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA), enacted in 1980 and later modified, enables private parties as well as federal and state governments to take action with respect to releases and threatened releases of hazardous substances. This federal statute permits the recovery of response costs from some liable parties and may require liable parties to undertake their own remedial action. Liability under CERCLA may be joint and several with other responsible parties. 100 Table of Contents The Company has been, and continues to be, involved in litigation involving insurance coverage issues pertaining to environmental claims. The Company believes that some court decisions have interpreted the insurance coverage to be broader than the original intent of the insurers and policyholders. These decisions often pertain to insurance policies that were issued by the Company prior to the mid 1980s. These decisions continue to be inconsistent and vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Environmental claims when submitted rarely indicate the monetary amount being sought by the claimant from the policyholder, and the Company does not keep track of the monetary amount being sought in those few claims which indicate a monetary amount. The resolution of environmental exposures by the Company generally occurs by settlement on a policyholder by policyholder basis as opposed to a claim by claim basis. Generally, the Company strives to extinguish any obligations it may have under any policy issued to the policyholder for past, present and future environmental liabilities and extinguish any pending coverage litigation dispute with the policyholder. This form of settlement is commonly referred to as a "buy back" of policies for future environmental liability. In addition, many of the agreements have also extinguished any insurance obligation which the Company may have for other claims, including but not limited to asbestos and other cumulative injury claims. The Company and its policyholders may also agree to settlements which extinguish any liability arising from known specified sites or claims. These agreements also include appropriate indemnities and hold harmless provisions to protect the Company. The Companys general purpose in executing these agreements is to reduce the Companys potential environmental exposure and eliminate the risks presented by coverage litigation with the policyholder and related costs. In establishing environmental reserves, the Company evaluates the exposure presented by each policyholder and the anticipated cost of resolution, if any. In the course of this analysis, the Company generally considers the probable liability, available coverage, relevant judicial interpretations and historical value of similar exposures. In addition, the Company considers the many variables presented, such as the nature of the alleged activities of the policyholder at each site; the allegations of environmental harm at each site; the number of sites; the total number of potentially responsible parties at each site; the nature of environmental harm and the corresponding remedy at each site; the nature of government enforcement activities at each site; the ownership and general use of each site; the overall nature of the insurance relationship between the Company and the policyholder, including the role of any umbrella or excess insurance the Company has issued to the policyholder; the involvement of other insurers; the potential for other available coverage, including the number of years of coverage; the role, if any, of non environmental claims or potential non environmental claims in any resolution process; and the applicable law in each jurisdiction. Conventional actuarial techniques are not used to estimate these reserves. In its review of environmental reserves, the Company considers: past settlement payments; changing judicial and legislative trends; its reserves for the costs of litigating environmental coverage matters; the potential for policyholders with smaller exposures to be named in new clean up actions for both on and off site waste disposal activities; the potential for adverse development; the potential for additional new claims beyond previous expectations; and the potential higher costs for new settlements. The duration of the Companys investigation and review of these claims and the extent of time necessary to determine an appropriate estimate, if any, of the value of the claim to the Company vary significantly and are dependent upon a number of factors. These factors include, but are not limited to, the cooperation of the policyholder in providing claim information, the pace of underlying litigation or claim processes, the pace of coverage litigation between the policyholder and the Company and the willingness of the policyholder and the Company to negotiate, if appropriate, a resolution of any dispute pertaining to these claims. Because these factors vary from claim to claim and policyholder by policyholder, the Company cannot provide a meaningful average of the duration of an environmental claim. However, based upon the Companys experience in resolving these claims, the duration may vary from months to several years. 101 Table of Contents The Company continues to receive notices from policyholders tendering claims for the first time. These policyholders generally present smaller exposures, have fewer sites and are lower tier defendants. Further, in many instances clean up costs have been reduced because regulatory agencies are willing to accept risk based site analyses and more efficient clean up technologies. In recent years, the Company had experienced a decline in both the number of new policyholders tendering claims for the first time and the number of pending lawsuits between the Company and its policyholders pertaining to coverage for environmental claims. However, during 2009 the Company experienced an increase in the number of policyholders tendering claims for the first time and in the number of pending environmental related coverage actions. In addition, the Company experienced upward development in the expected defense and settlement costs for certain of its pending policyholders. As a result, the Company increased its net environmental reserves by $70 million in the second quarter of 2009. In 2008, the Company increased its environmental reserves by $85 million as a result of upward development in the anticipated defense and settlement costs for certain of its pending policyholders. In 2007, the Company increased its environmental reserves by $185 million primarily in response to the moderation in the rate of decline in both the number of new policyholders tendering claims for the first time and the number of pending lawsuits between the Company and its policyholders pertaining to coverage for environmental claims. In December 2008, the Company completed the sale of Unionamerica, which comprised its United Kingdom based runoff insurance and reinsurance businesses. Included in the claims and claim adjustment expense reserves transferred to the purchaser were gross and net environmental reserves of $40 million and $33 million, respectively. Net paid losses in 2009 and 2008 were $91 million and $128 million, respectively. At December 31, 2009, approximately 93% of the net environmental reserve (approximately $365 million) was carried in a bulk reserve and included unresolved environmental claims, incurred but not reported environmental claims and the anticipated cost of coverage litigation disputes relating to these claims. The bulk reserve the Company carries is established and adjusted based upon the aggregate volume of in process environmental claims and the Companys experience in resolving those claims. The balance, approximately 7% of the net environmental reserve (approximately $28 million), consists of case reserves. 102 Table of Contents The following table displays activity for environmental losses and loss expenses and reserves: (at and for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Beginning reserves: Direct $ 400 $ 478 $ 413 Ceded 14 12 5 Net 414 490 418 Incurred losses and loss expenses: Direct 85 85 182 Ceded (15 ) 3 Net 70 85 185 Losses paid: Direct 96 123 117 Ceded (5 ) 5 (4 ) Net 91 128 113 Sale of subsidiary: Direct 40 Ceded (7 ) Net 33 Ending reserves: Direct 389 400 478 Ceded 4 14 12 Net $ 393 $ 414 $ 490 UNCERTAINTY REGARDING ADEQUACY OF ASBESTOS AND ENVIRONMENTAL RESERVES As a result of the processes and procedures described above, management believes that the reserves carried for asbestos and environmental claims at December 31, 2009 are appropriately established based upon known facts, current law and managements judgment. However, the uncertainties surrounding the final resolution of these claims continue, and it is difficult to determine the ultimate exposure for asbestos and environmental claims and related litigation. As a result, these reserves are subject to revision as new information becomes available and as claims develop. The continuing uncertainties include, without limitation, the risks and lack of predictability inherent in complex litigation, any impact from the bankruptcy protection sought by various asbestos producers and other asbestos defendants, a further increase or decrease in asbestos and environmental claims beyond that which is anticipated, the role of any umbrella or excess policies the Company has issued, the resolution or adjudication of disputes pertaining to the amount of available coverage for asbestos and environmental claims in a manner inconsistent with the Companys previous assessment of these claims, the number and outcome of direct actions against the Company, future developments pertaining to the Companys ability to recover reinsurance for asbestos and environmental claims and the unavailability of other insurance sources potentially available to policyholders, whether through exhaustion of policy limits or through the insolvency of other participating insurers. In addition, uncertainties arise from the insolvency or bankruptcy of policyholders and other defendants. It is also not possible to predict changes in the legal, regulatory and legislative environment and their impact on the future development of asbestos and environmental claims. This development will be affected by future court and regulatory decisions and interpretations, as well as changes in applicable legislation. It is also difficult to predict the ultimate outcome of complex coverage disputes until settlement negotiations near completion and significant legal questions are resolved or, failing settlement, until the dispute is adjudicated. This is 103 Table of Contents particularly the case with policyholders in bankruptcy where negotiations often involve a large number of claimants and other parties and require court approval to be effective. As part of its continuing analysis of asbestos and environmental reserves, the Company continues to study the implications of these and other developments. (Also, see "Part I Item 3, Legal Proceedings"). Because of the uncertainties set forth above, additional liabilities may arise for amounts in excess of the current related reserves. In addition, the Companys estimate of claims and claim adjustment expenses may change. These additional liabilities or increases in estimates, or a range of either, cannot now be reasonably estimated and could result in income statement charges that could be material to the Companys operating results in future periods. INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO The Companys invested assets at December 31, 2009 totaled $74.97 billion, of which 94% was invested in fixed maturity and short term investments, 1% in equity securities, 1% in real estate and 4% in other investments. Because the primary purpose of the investment portfolio is to fund future claims payments, the Company employs a conservative investment philosophy. A significant majority of funds available for investment are deployed in a widely diversified portfolio of high quality, liquid taxable U.S. government, tax exempt U.S. municipal bonds, and taxable corporate and U.S. agency mortgage backed bonds. The Companys fixed maturity portfolio at December 31, 2009 totaled $65.85 billion. The Company closely monitors the duration of its fixed maturity investments, and investment purchases and sales are executed with the objective of having adequate funds available to satisfy the Companys insurance and debt obligations. The weighted average credit quality of the Companys fixed maturity portfolio, both including and excluding U.S. Treasury securities, was "Aa2" at December 31, 2009 and "Aa1" at December 31, 2008. The slight decline in the Companys average credit quality rating was due to the downgrading of a monoline bond insurer during the second quarter of 2009 and the downgrading of non agency mortgage backed securities. Below investment grade securities represented 2.7% and 2.0% of the total fixed maturity investment portfolio at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The downgrading of non agency mortgage backed securities and an increase in the fair value of those and other below investment grade securities also resulted in an increase to our below investment grade securities. The average effective duration of fixed maturities and short term securities was 3.9 (4.2 excluding short term securities) at December 31, 2009 and 4.2 (4.6 excluding short term securities) at December 31, 2008. The decline in duration resulted from the impact of declining market yields on existing holdings of municipal bonds and mortgage backed securities (which impact the assumptions related to optional pre payments and the related estimate of effective duration for callable securities), and the purchase of shorter term fixed maturities during the second half of 2009. The following table sets forth the Companys combined fixed maturity investment portfolio rated using external ratings agencies or by the Company when a public rating does not exist: (at December 31, 2009, in millions) Carrying Value Percent of Total Carrying Value Quality Rating: Aaa $ 28,093 42.7 % Aa 24,861 37.8 A 7,000 10.6 Baa 4,091 6.2 Total investment grade 64,045 97.3 Below investment grade 1,802 2.7 Total fixed maturity investments $ 65,847 100.0 % 104 Table of Contents Included in the Companys fixed maturity portfolio at December 31, 2009 were $1.96 billion of debt securities issued by foreign governments and $14.78 billion of corporate fixed maturities and redeemable preferred stock. These credit exposures are diversified across a number of countries and industries. The following table shows the industry sectors for those exposures. (at December 31, 2009, in millions) Carrying Value Average Credit Rating Credit Sector(1) Government: Debt securities issued by foreign governments $ 1,957 Aaa Corporate: Financial Bank 2,107 Aa3 Insurance 423 A2 Finance/leasing 113 Baa3 Brokerage and asset management 34 Baa2 Total financial 2,677 Industrial 7,080 Baa1 Public utility 1,737 A3 Sovereign corporate securities(2) 1,499 Aaa Commercial mortgage backed and project loans(3) 714 Aaa Canadian municipal securities 669 Aa1 Asset backed and other 400 A3 Total corporate 14,776 Total credit exposure $ 16,733 A1 (1)Credit sectors include debt securities issued by foreign governments, corporate bonds and redeemable preferred stocks. (2)Sovereign corporate securities include corporate securities that are backed by a government and include sovereign banks and securities issued under the Temporary Liquidity Guaranty and the Federal Ship Financing Programs. (3)Included in commercial mortgage backed securities and project loans are $200 million of securities guaranteed by the U.S. government and $36 million by government sponsored enterprises. The Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio at December 31, 2009 included $41.33 billion of securities which are obligations of states, municipalities and political subdivisions (collectively referred to as the municipal bond portfolio). The municipal bond portfolio is diversified across the United States, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico, and includes general obligation and revenue bonds issued by states, cities, counties, school districts, and similar issuers. On April 2, 2009, municipal securities issued by local governments within the United States were assigned a negative outlook by Moodys Investors Service. Included in the municipal bond portfolio are $6.06 billion of advance refunded or escrowed to maturity bonds. Advance refunded and escrowed to maturity bonds are bonds for which an irrevocable trust has been established to fund the remaining payments of principal and interest. Such escrow accounts are verified as to their sufficiency by an external auditor and almost exclusively involve U.S. Treasury securities. The following table shows the geographic distribution of the remaining $35.27 billion of municipal bonds at December 31, 2009 which were not advance refunded or escrowed to maturity. 105  Table of Contents State (in millions) State General Obligation Local General Obligation Revenue Total Fair Value Average Quality Rating(1) Texas $ 438 $ 2,204 $ 1,422 $ 4,064 Aa1 California 115 1,668 436 2,219 Aa2 Illinois 350 1,020 672 2,042 Aa2 Virginia 201 693 735 1,629 Aaa/Aa1 Washington 446 756 421 1,623 Aa1 Florida 530 81 920 1,531 Aa1 Minnesota 450 663 206 1,319 Aaa/Aa1 New York 49 235 973 1,257 Aa1 Maryland 376 609 263 1,248 Aaa/Aa1 Arizona 524 708 1,232 Aa1 Georgia 444 427 331 1,202 Aa1 North Carolina 454 615 128 1,197 Aaa Ohio 392 357 374 1,123 Aa1 All Others(2) 3,490 4,245 5,850 13,585 Aa1 Total $ 7,735 $ 14,097 $ 13,439 $ 35,271 Aa1 (1)Rated using external ratings agencies or by the Company when a public rating does not exist. Ratings shown are the higher of the rating of the underlying issuer or the insurer in the case of securities enhanced by third party insurance for the payment of principal and interest in the event of issuer default. (2)No other single state accounted for 3.0% or more of the total non advance refunded or escrowed to maturity municipal bonds. The Company bases its investment decision on the credit characteristics of the municipal security; however, its municipal bond portfolio includes a number of securities that were enhanced by third party insurance for the payment of principal and interest in the event of an issuer default. The downgrade during 2009 and 2008 of credit ratings of insurers of these securities resulted in a corresponding downgrade in the ratings of the securities to the underlying rating of the respective security. Of the insured municipal securities in the Companys investment portfolio at December 31, 2009, approximately 98% were rated at A3 or above, and approximately 80% were rated at Aa3 or above, without the benefit of insurance. The Company believes that a further loss of the benefit of insurance would not result in a material adverse impact on the Companys results of operations, financial position or liquidity, due to the underlying credit strength of the issuers of the securities, as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the securities. The average credit rating of the underlying issuers of these securities was "Aa3" at December 31, 2009. The average credit rating of the entire municipal bond portfolio was "Aa1" at December 31, 2009 with and without the third party insurance. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company held commercial mortgage backed securities (CMBS, including FHA project loans) of $714 million and $766 million, respectively. At December 31, 2009, approximately $236 million of these securities, or the loans backing such securities, contained guarantees by the U.S. government or a government sponsored enterprise and $20 million were comprised of Canadian non guaranteed securities. The average credit rating of the $478 million of non guaranteed securities at December 31, 2009 was "Aaa," and 91% of those securities were issued in 2004 and prior years. The CMBS portfolio is supported by loans that are diversified across economic sectors and geographical areas. The Company does not believe this portfolio exposes it to a material adverse impact on its results of operations, financial position or liquidity, due to the portfolios relatively small size and the underlying credit strength of these securities. 106 Table of Contents The Company makes investments in residential collateralized mortgage obligations (CMOs) that typically have high credit quality, offer good liquidity and are expected to provide an advantage in yield compared to U.S. Treasury securities. The Companys investment strategy is to purchase CMO tranches which offer the most favorable return given the risks involved. One significant risk evaluated is prepayment sensitivity. While prepayment risk (either shortening or lengthening of duration) and its effect on total return cannot be fully controlled, particularly when interest rates move dramatically, the investment process generally favors securities that control this risk within expected interest rate ranges. The Company does invest in other types of CMO tranches if a careful assessment indicates a favorable risk/return tradeoff. The Company does not purchase residual interests in CMOs. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company held CMOs classified as available for sale with a fair value of $2.58 billion and $2.84 billion, respectively (in addition to the CMBS securities of $714 million and $766 million, respectively, described above). Approximately 37% and 35% of the Companys CMO holdings are guaranteed by or fully collateralized by securities issued by GNMA, FNMA or FHLMC at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In addition, at December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company held $2.63 billion and $3.22 billion, respectively, of GNMA, FNMA, FHLMC (excluding FHA project loans which are included with CMBS) mortgage backed pass through securities classified as available for sale. The average credit rating of all of the above securities was "Aa1" at December 31, 2009, and "Aaa" at December 31, 2008. The Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio at December 31, 2009 and 2008 included asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages and collateralized mortgage obligations backed by alternative documentation mortgages with a collective fair value of $270 million and $206 million, respectively (comprising approximately 0.4% and 0.3% of the Companys total fixed maturity investments at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively). The disruption in secondary investment markets for mortgage backed securities provided the Company with the opportunity to selectively acquire additional asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages at discounted prices. The Company purchased $74 million and $47 million of such securities in the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The Company defines sub prime mortgage backed securities as investments in which the underlying loans primarily exhibit one or more of the following characteristics: low FICO scores, above prime interest rates, high loan to value ratios or high debt to income ratios. Alternative documentation securitizations are those in which the underlying loans primarily meet the government sponsored entitys requirements for credit score but do not meet the government sponsored entitys guidelines for documentation, property type, debt and loan to value ratios. The average credit rating on these securities and obligations held by the Company was "A3" and "Aa2" at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Approximately $114 million of the Companys asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime and alternative documentation mortgages were downgraded in 2009. An additional $39 million of such securities were placed on credit watch during 2009. Approximately $81 million of the Companys asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime and alternative documentation mortgages were downgraded in 2008. The Companys real estate investments include warehouses and office buildings and other commercial land and properties that are directly owned. The Companys other investments are primarily comprised of private equity limited partnerships, hedge funds, real estate partnerships, joint ventures, mortgage loans, venture capital (through direct ownership and limited partnerships) and trading securities, which are subject to more volatility than the Companys fixed maturity investments. While these asset classes have historically provided a higher return than fixed maturities, in 2009 and 2008 the returns were significantly lower than in prior periods and, in the aggregate, produced negative investment income, reflecting market conditions. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the carrying value of the Companys other investments was $2.95 billion and $3.04 billion, respectively. The Company has engaged in securities lending activities from which it generates net investment income from the lending of certain of its investments to other institutions for short periods of time. 107 Table of Contents Borrowers of these securities provide collateral equal to at least 102% of the market value of the loaned securities plus accrued interest. This collateral is held by a third party custodian, and the Company has the right to access the collateral only in the event that the institution borrowing the Companys securities is in default under the lending agreement. Therefore, the Company does not recognize the receipt of the collateral held by the third party custodian or the obligation to return the collateral. The loaned securities remain a recorded asset of the Company. The Company accepts only cash as collateral for securities on loan and restricts the manner in which that cash is invested. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company had $90 million and $8 million, respectively, of securities on loan to others. The Company has not incurred any investment losses in its securities lending program for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. The net unrealized investment gains (losses) that were included as a separate component of accumulated other changes in equity from nonowner sources were as follows: (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Fixed maturities $ 2,536 $ (294 ) $ 768 Equity securities 78 (82 ) 15 Other investments 216 123 155 Unrealized investment gains (losses) before tax 2,830 (253 ) 938 Tax expense (benefit) 969 (109 ) 318 Net unrealized investment gains (losses) at end of year $ 1,861 $ (144 ) $ 620 Net pretax unrealized investment gains totaled $2.83 billion at December 31, 2009, compared with net pretax unrealized investment losses of $253 million at December 31, 2008. The improvement in the Companys net unrealized gain position at December 31, 2009 over the prior year is primarily attributable to the Companys fixed maturity investments. The improved valuations on these holdings reflect the changing market conditions in 2009 which included a significant narrowing of credit spreads. Net pretax unrealized investment losses totaled $253 million at December 31, 2008, compared with net pretax unrealized investment gains of $938 million at December 31, 2007. The net unrealized loss position at December 31, 2008 reflected the impact of rising interest rates on longer dated fixed maturity securities (primarily due to the widening of credit spreads generally), as well as net unrealized investment losses on equity securities, which reflected current market conditions. 108 Table of Contents Impairment charges included in net realized investment gains (losses) were as follows: (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Fixed maturities U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. Government and government agencies and authorities $ $ $ Obligations of states, municipalities and political subdivisions 1 Debt securities issued by foreign governments Mortgage backed securities, collateralized mortgage obligations and pass through securities 81 36 All other corporate bonds 88 283 37 Redeemable preferred stock 4 Total fixed maturities 169 324 37 Equity securities Common stock 15 34 7 Non redeemable preferred stock 64 40 Total equity securities 79 74 7 Other investments 10 22 26 Total $ 258 $ 420 $ 70 For the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company recognized the following other than temporary impairments: $169 million in the fixed maturities portfolio, consisting of $81 million related to structured mortgage securities, $70 million related to the deteriorated financial position of various issuers and $18 million related to securities the Company either had the intent to sell or did not have the ability to assert an intention to hold until recovery in market value; $79 million in the equity portfolio related to securities with respect to which it was determined that the cost basis of those securities would not be recovered over the expected holding period. The majority of these impairments were related to issuers in the financial industry; and $10 million in other investments related to the decline in the financial condition of various issuers. For the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company recognized the following other than temporary impairments: $324 million in the fixed maturities portfolio, consisting of $210 million related to the deteriorated financial position of various issuers (of which $70 million related to securities issued by Lehman Brothers Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries), $81 million related to externally managed securities with respect to which the Company does not have the ability to assert an intention to hold until recovery in market value and $33 million resulting from the intent or potential to sell various holdings prior to a recovery in market value; $74 million in the equity portfolio consisting of $26 million related to externally managed securities with respect to which the Company does not have the ability to assert an intention to hold until recovery in fair value, $26 million related to securities with respect to which it was determined that the cost basis of those securities would not be recovered over the expected holding period and $22 million resulting from the intent or potential to sell prior to a recovery in fair value; 109 Table of Contents $14 million in the venture capital portfolio on 16 holdings, consisting of $6 million related to six holdings which were externally managed securities with respect to which the Company does not have the ability to assert an intention to hold until recovery in fair value and ten holdings which experienced fundamental economic deterioration; and $8 million in other investments of which $6 million related to the decline in the financial condition of a privately held investment and $2 million resulted from the intent or potential to sell prior to a recovery in fair value. For the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company recognized the following other than temporary impairments: $37 million in the fixed maturities portfolio, consisting of $23 million related to externally managed securities with respect to which the Company does not have the ability to assert an intention to hold until recovery in fair value, and $14 million related to credit risk associated with various issuers deteriorated financial position; $7 million in the equity portfolio related to externally managed securities with respect to which the Company does not have the ability to assert an intention to hold until recovery in fair value; $10 million in the real estate portfolio, related to the decline in the financial condition of one real estate development property; and $16 million in the venture capital portfolio on 14 holdings. Three of the holdings were public securities whose cost basis was not anticipated to be recovered over the expected holding period. Nine holdings experienced economic deterioration (characterized by less than expected revenues or a change in product). The remaining two holdings were impaired due to the impending sale, liquidation or shutdown of the entity. The Company had a net pretax unrealized gain of $2.54 billion in its fixed maturities portfolio at December 31, 2009, compared with a net pretax unrealized loss of $294 million at December 31, 2008. In 2009, yields on municipal fixed maturity securities declined, which increased the market value of the Companys portfolio of such securities. In addition, credit spreads narrowed on other non municipal fixed maturity securities which also resulted in an increase in the market value of those securities. The following table summarizes, for all fixed maturities and equity securities available for sale and for equity securities reported at fair value for which fair value is less than 80% of amortized cost at December 31, 2009, the gross unrealized investment loss by length of time those securities have continuously been in an unrealized loss position of greater than 20% of amortized cost: Period For Which Fair Value Is Less Than 80% of Amortized Cost (in millions) Less Than 3 Months Greater Than 3 Months, Less Than 6 Months Greater Than 6 Months, Less Than 12 Months Greater Than 12 Months Total Fixed maturities: Mortgage backed securities $ 11 $ 4 $ 24 $ 55 $ 94 Other 2 2 9 32 45 Total fixed maturities 13 6 33 87 139 Equity securities 6 5 11 Total $ 19 $ 11 $ 33 $ 87 $ 150 These unrealized investment losses at December 31, 2009 represent less than 1% of the combined fixed maturity and equity security portfolios on a pretax basis and less than 1% of shareholders equity on an after tax basis. 110 Table of Contents For fixed maturity investments where fair value is less than the carrying value and the Company did not reach a decision to impair, the Company continues to have the intent and ability to hold such investments to a projected recovery in value, which may not be until maturity. At December 31, 2009, below investment grade securities comprised 2.7% of the Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio. Included in below investment grade securities at December 31, 2009 were securities in an unrealized loss position that, in the aggregate, had an amortized cost of $1.06 billion and a fair value of $927 million, resulting in a net pretax unrealized investment loss of $136 million. These securities in an unrealized loss position represented less than 2% of both the total amortized cost and the fair value of the fixed maturity portfolio at December 31, 2009. These securities accounted for 42% of the total pretax unrealized investment loss in the fixed maturity portfolio at December 31, 2009. Following are the pretax realized losses on investments sold during the year ended December 31, 2009: (in millions) Loss Fair Value Fixed maturities $ 19 $ 866 Equity securities 2 24 Other 2 2 Total $ 23 $ 892 Purchases and sales of investments are based on cash requirements, the characteristics of the insurance liabilities and current market conditions. The Company identifies investments to be sold to achieve its primary investment goals of assuring the Companys ability to meet policyholder obligations as well as to optimize investment returns, given these obligations. CATASTROPHE MODELING The Company uses various analyses and methods, including computer modeling techniques, to analyze catastrophic events and the risks associated with them. The Company uses these analyses and methods to make underwriting and reinsurance decisions designed to manage its exposure to catastrophic events. In making underwriting and reinsurance decisions for hurricane and earthquake exposures, the company uses third party proprietary computer modeling in an attempt to estimate the likelihood that the loss from a single event occurring in a one year timeframe will equal or exceed a particular amount. The tables below set forth the estimated probabilities that losses from a single event occurring in a one year timeframe will equal or exceed the indicated loss amounts (expressed in dollars and as a percentage of the Companys common equity). For example, on the basis described below the tables, the Company estimates that there is a one percent chance that the Companys loss from a single U.S. hurricane occurring in a one year timeframe would equal or exceed $1.1 billion, or 4 percent of the Companys common equity at December 31, 2009. Dollars (in billions) Likelihood of Exceedance(1) Single Hurricane Single Earthquake 2.0% (1 in 50) $ 0.9 $ 0.4 1.0% (1 in 100) $ 1.1 $ 0.6 0.4% (1 in 250) $ 2.1 $ 0.9 0.1% (1 in 1,000) $ 4.5 $ 2.2 111 Table of Contents Percentage of Common Equity(2) Likelihood of Exceedance Single Hurricane Single Earthquake 2.0% (1 in 50) 4 % 2 % 1.0% (1 in 100) 4 % 2 % 0.4% (1 in 250) 8 % 4 % 0.1% (1 in 1,000) 18 % 9 % (1)An event that has, for example, a 2% likelihood of exceedance is sometimes described as a "1 in 50 year event." As noted above, however, the probabilities in the table represent the likelihood of losses from a single event equaling or exceeding the indicated threshold loss amount in a one year timeframe, not over a multi year timeframe. Also, because the probabilities relate to a single event, the probabilities do not address the likelihood of more than one event occurring in a particular period, and, therefore, the amounts do not address potential aggregate catastrophe losses occurring in a one year timeframe. (2)The percentage of common equity is calculated by dividing (a) indicated loss amounts in dollars by (b) total common equity excluding net unrealized investment gain (loss) on investments, net of taxes. Net unrealized investment gains and losses can be significantly impacted by both discretionary and other economic factors and are not necessarily indicative of operating trends. Accordingly, in the opinion of the Companys management, the percentage of common equity calculated on this basis provides a useful metric for investors to understand the potential impact of a single hurricane or single earthquake on the Companys financial position. The threshold loss amounts in the tables above are net of reinsurance, after tax and exclude loss adjustment expense, which historically has been less than 10% of loss estimates. The above threshold loss amounts reflect the most recent version of the modeling software. The amounts for hurricanes reflect U.S. exposures and include property exposures (other than offshore energy and marine exposures), property residual market exposures and an adjustment for certain non property exposures. The amounts for earthquakes reflect U.S. and Canadian exposures and include property exposures and workers compensation exposures. The Company does not believe that the inclusion of hurricane or earthquake losses arising from other geographical areas or other exposures would materially change the estimated threshold loss amounts. This information in the tables is based on the Companys in force portfolio and catastrophic reinsurance program as of December 31, 2009. Catastrophe modeling requires a significant amount of judgment and a number of assumptions and relies upon inputs based on experience, science, engineering and history. As a result, such models may fail to account for risks that are outside the range of normal probability or that are otherwise unforeseeable. Catastrophe modeling assumptions include, among others, the portion of purchased reinsurance that is collectible after a catastrophic event, which may prove to be materially incorrect. Consequently, catastrophe modeling estimates are subject to significant uncertainty. In the tables above, the uncertainty associated with the estimated threshold loss amounts increases significantly as the likelihood of exceedance decreases. In other words, in the case of a relatively more remote event (e.g., 1 in 1,000), the estimated threshold loss amount is relatively less reliable. Actual losses from an event could materially exceed the indicated threshold loss amount. In addition, more than one such event could occur in any period. Moreover, the Company is exposed to the risk of material losses from other than property and workers compensation coverages arising out of hurricanes and earthquakes, and it is exposed to catastrophe losses from perils other than hurricanes and earthquakes, for example, floods, tornadoes and acts of terrorism. 112 Table of Contents There are no industry standard methodologies or assumptions for projecting catastrophe exposure. Accordingly, catastrophe estimates provided by different insurers may not be comparable. For more information about the Companys exposure to catastrophe losses, see "Item 1A Risk Factors Catastrophe losses could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, our financial position and or liquidity, and could adversely impact our ratings, our ability to raise capital and the availability and cost of reinsurance." CHANGING CLIMATE CONDITIONS Severe weather events over the last several years have underscored the unpredictability of future climate trends and created uncertainty regarding insurers exposures to financial loss as a result of catastrophe and other weather related events. Some scientists believe that, in recent years, changing climate conditions have added to the unpredictability, frequency and severity of natural disasters. Accordingly, if climate conditions change in the future, the Companys catastrophe models may be less reliable. The Company discusses how potentially changing climate conditions may present other issues for its business under "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of this report and under " Outlook" herein. For example, among other things: Increasingly unpredictable and severe weather conditions could result in increased frequency and severity of claims under policies issued by the Company. See "Risk Factors Catastrophe losses could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, our financial position and or liquidity, and could adversely impact our ratings, our ability to raise capital and the availability and cost of reinsurance" and " Outlook Underwriting Profitability." Such changing climate conditions could also impact the creditworthiness of issuers of municipal and corporate securities in which the Company invests. For example, water supply adequacy could impact the creditworthiness of municipal bond issuers in the Southwestern U.S. and more frequent and or severe hurricanes could impact the creditworthiness of issuers in the Southeastern U.S., among other areas. See "Risk Factors Our investment portfolio may suffer reduced returns or material losses." Increased regulation adopted in response to potential changes in climate conditions may impact the Company and its customers. For example, state insurance regulation could impact the Companys ability to manage property exposures in areas vulnerable to significant climate driven losses. If the Company is unable to implement risk based pricing, modify policy terms or reduce exposures to the extent necessary to address rising losses related to catastrophes and smaller scale weather events (should those increased losses occur), its business may be adversely affected. See "Risk Factors Catastrophe losses could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, our financial position and or liquidity, and could adversely impact our ratings, our ability to raise capital and the availability and cost of reinsurance." The full range of potential liability exposures related to climate change continues to evolve. Through the Companys Emerging Issues Committee and its Committee on Climate, Energy and the Environment, the Company works with its business units and corporate groups as appropriate to identify and try to assess climate change related liability issues, which are continually evolving and often hard to fully evaluate. See "Risk Factors The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain." Climate change regulation also could increase the Companys customers costs of doing business. For example, insureds faced with carbon management regulatory requirements may have less available capital for investment in loss prevention and safety features which may, over time, increase loss exposures. Also, increased regulation may result in reduced economic activity, which would decrease the amount of insurable assets and businesses. 113 Table of Contents The Company regularly reviews emerging issues, such as changing climate conditions, to consider potential changes to its modeling and the use of such modeling, as well as to help determine the need for new underwriting strategies, coverage modifications or new products. There can be no assurance that these efforts will be successful. REINSURANCE RECOVERABLES Ceded reinsurance involves credit risk, except with regard to mandatory pools, and is generally subject to aggregate loss limits. Although the reinsurer is liable to the Company to the extent of the reinsurance ceded, the Company remains liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. Reinsurance recoverables are reported after reductions for known insolvencies and after allowances for uncollectible amounts. The Company also holds collateral, including trust agreements, escrow funds and letters of credit, under certain reinsurance agreements. The Company monitors the financial condition of reinsurers on an ongoing basis and reviews its reinsurance arrangements periodically. Reinsurers are selected based on their financial condition, business practices and the price of their product offerings. After reinsurance is purchased, the Company has limited ability to manage the credit risk to a reinsurer. In addition, in a number of jurisdictions, particularly the European Union and the United Kingdom, a reinsurer is permitted to transfer a reinsurance arrangement to another reinsurer, which may be less creditworthy, without a counterpartys consent, provided that the transfer has been approved by the applicable regulatory and or court authority. The Companys reinsurance recoverables totaled $12.82 billion at December 31, 2009, a decline of $1.42 billion from year end 2008, primarily reflecting various commutation agreements and collections on reinsurance recoverables, including those related to prior years hurricane losses. The Company has also entered into Master Security Agreements with certain reinsurers. These agreements define conditions that require the reinsurer to provide collateral. The specific conditions and the amounts and form of collateral to be provided by these agreements vary based on a number of factors including, but not limited to, the reinsurers legal structure and trading history with the Company. The following table presents the Companys top five reinsurer groups by reinsurance recoverable at December 31, 2009 (in millions). Also included is the A.M. Best rating of each reinsurer group at February 18, 2010: Reinsurer Group Reinsurance Recoverable A.M. Best Rating of Groups Predominant Reinsurer Swiss Re Group $ 895 A third highest of 16 ratings Munich Re Group 779 A+ second highest of 16 ratings Transatlantic Holdings, Inc. 485 A third highest of 16 ratings XL Capital Group 398 A third highest of 16 ratings Berkshire Hathaway Group 386 A++ highest of 16 ratings At December 31, 2009, $2.4 billion of reinsurance recoverables were collateralized by letters of credit, trust agreements and funds held. Included in reinsurance recoverables are certain amounts related to structured settlements. Structured settlements comprise annuities purchased from various life insurance companies to settle certain personal physical injury claims, of which workers compensation claims comprise a significant portion. In cases where the Company did not receive a release from the claimant, the structured settlement is included in reinsurance recoverables as the Company retains the contingent liability to the claimant. In the event that the life insurance company fails to make the required annuity payments, the Company would be required to make such payments. The following table presents the Companys top 114 Table of Contents five groups by structured settlements at December 31, 2009 (in millions). Also included is the A.M. Best rating of the Companys predominant insurer from each insurer group at February 18, 2010: Group Structured Settlements A.M. Best Rating of Groups Predominant Insurer Old Mutual $ 1,050 A fourth highest of 16 ratings MetLife 529 A+ second highest of 16 ratings Genworth 472 A third highest of 16 ratings Symetra 286 A third highest of 16 ratings ING Group 235 A third highest of 16 ratings Many reinsurance companies and life insurance companies were negatively impacted by turbulent economic conditions during 2009 and 2008. A number of such companies have been subjected to downgrades and or negative outlook changes by various ratings agencies, including those with which the Company conducts business. The Company considers these factors in assessing the adequacy of its allowance for uncollectible amounts. OUTLOOK The following discussion provides outlook information for certain key drivers of the Companys results of operations and capital position. Premiums. The Companys earned premiums are a function of net written premium volume. Net written premiums comprise both renewal business and new business, including the impact of audit premium adjustments, policy endorsements and mid term cancellations, and are recognized as earned premium over the life of the underlying policies. When business renews, the amount of net written premiums associated with that business may increase or decrease (renewal premium change) as a result of increases or decreases in rate and or insured exposures, which the Company considers as a measure of units of exposure. Net written premiums from both renewal and new business, and therefore earned premiums, are impacted by competitive market conditions and general economic conditions. The Company expects retention levels (the amount of expiring premium that renews, before the impact of renewal premium changes) will remain high, generally consistent with recent periods, in each of its business segments. In the Business Insurance and the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segments, the Company expects renewal premium changes in 2010 will be similar to 2009 levels or modestly higher. With regard to the components comprising renewal premium changes, the Company expects that positive rate changes during 2010 will be largely offset by a decline in insured exposures. In the Personal Insurance segment, the Company expects that Agency Automobile renewal premium changes, while positive, will decrease slightly in 2010 from 2009 levels. For its Agency Homeowners and Other business, the Company expects renewal premium changes in 2010 will remain generally consistent with 2009 levels. The pricing environment for new business generally has less of an impact on underwriting profitability than renewal rate changes, given the volume of new business relative to renewal business. While property and casualty insurance market conditions are expected to remain competitive in 2010 for new business, the Company believes it is well positioned to capitalize on new business opportunities as agents, brokers and customers seek to place business with high quality carriers. In addition, the Company announced in 2009 that it launched a new distribution channel that markets personal insurance products directly to consumers, which is expected to generate modest growth in premium volume for Personal Insurance in 2010. While economic conditions have recently improved and U.S. gross domestic product experienced growth in the latter part of 2009, that trend may not continue and the U.S. economy may enter into a "double dip" recession. Further, if growth continues, it may be at a slow rate for an extended period of time. In addition, other economic conditions, such as the commercial and residential real estate 115 Table of Contents environment and employment rates, may continue to be weak. If weak economic conditions persist or deteriorate, low levels of economic activity could impact exposure changes at renewal and our ability to write business at acceptable rates. Additionally, such low levels of economic activity could adversely impact audit premium adjustments, policy endorsements and mid term cancellations after policies are written. All of the foregoing, in turn, could adversely impact net written premiums in 2010. Since earned premiums lag net written premiums, earned premiums could be adversely impacted in 2010 and into 2011. Underwriting Gain/Loss. The anticipated impact of competitive market conditions and general economic conditions on the Companys earned premiums, as discussed above, coupled with an expected modest increase in loss costs, will likely result in modestly reduced underwriting profitability during 2010, as compared with 2009. In addition, the Companys direct to consumer initiative in the Personal Insurance segment, discussed above, while intended to enhance the Companys long term ability to compete successfully in a consumer driven marketplace, is expected to remain unprofitable for a number of years as this book of business grows and matures. In recent periods, the Company has experienced net favorable prior year reserve development, driven by better than expected loss experience in all of the Companys segments for prior loss years. If better than expected loss experience continues, the Company may recognize additional net favorable prior year reserve development in 2010. However, better than expected loss experience may not continue or may reverse, in which case the Company may recognize no favorable prior year reserve development or unfavorable prior year reserve development in future periods. The ongoing review of prior year claim and claim adjustment expense reserves, or other changes in current period circumstances, may result in the Company revising current year loss estimates upward or downward in future periods. Catastrophe losses are inherently unpredictable from year to year, and the Companys results of operations would be adversely impacted by a significant increase in such losses in 2010. Investments. The Company expects to continue to focus its investment strategy on maintaining a high quality investment portfolio and a relatively low average effective duration. The Companys invested assets at December 31, 2009 totaled $74.97 billion, of which 94% was invested in fixed maturity and short term securities, with the remaining 6% invested in equity securities, real estate, private equity limited partnerships, hedge funds, and real estate partnerships. Net investment income is a material contributor to the Companys results of operations. While investment returns are difficult to predict and inherently uncertain, in 2010 the Company expects investment returns for its fixed maturity investment portfolio to be generally consistent with recent periods, and returns for its short term and non fixed maturity investment portfolios to remain challenged. Short term interest rates are expected to remain at or near historically low levels. The Company expects investment income in its non fixed maturity investment portfolio to improve from 2009 levels, which were negative. However, if general economic conditions and or capital market conditions deteriorate in 2010, the Company could also experience a reduction in net investment income and or significant realized investment losses, including impairments. Capital Position. The Company believes it has a strong capital position and expects to continue its common share repurchase program in 2010 as part of its continuing efforts to maximize shareholder value. During 2010, the Company expects to repurchase between $3.5 billion and $4.0 billion of its common shares under its share repurchase authorization. The actual amount of share repurchases may be materially less and will depend on a variety of factors, including the Companys earnings, corporate and regulatory requirements, share price, catastrophe losses, strategic initiatives and other market conditions. The Company had a net after tax unrealized investment gain of $1.67 billion in its fixed maturity investment portfolio at December 31, 2009. While the Company does not attempt to predict future 116 Table of Contents interest rate movements, a rising interest rate environment would reduce the market value of fixed maturity investments and, therefore, reduce shareholders equity, and a declining interest rate environment would have the opposite effects. Many of the statements in this "Outlook" section are forward looking statements, which are subject to risks and uncertainties that are often difficult to predict and beyond the Companys control. Actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward looking statements. Further, such forward looking statements speak only as of the date of this report and the Company undertakes no obligation to update them. See " Forward Looking Statements." For a discussion of potential risks and uncertainties that could impact the Companys results of operations or financial position, see "Item 1A Risk Factors" and "Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates" in this report. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Liquidity is a measure of a companys ability to generate sufficient cash flows to meet the short and long term cash requirements of its business operations. The liquidity requirements of the Companys business have been met primarily by funds generated from operations, asset maturities and income received on investments. Cash provided from these sources is used primarily for claims and claim adjustment expense payments and operating expenses. The timing and amount of catastrophe claims are inherently unpredictable. Such claims increase liquidity requirements. The timing and amount of reinsurance recoveries may be affected by reinsurer solvency and reinsurance coverage disputes. Additionally, the variability of asbestos related claim payments, as well as the volatility of potential judgments and settlements arising out of litigation, may also result in increased liquidity requirements. It is the opinion of the Companys management that the Companys future liquidity needs will be adequately met from all of the above sources. At December 31, 2009, total cash, short term invested assets and other readily marketable securities aggregating $2.14 billion were held at the holding company. The assets held at the holding company are sufficient to meet the holding companys current liquidity requirements and are almost twice the Companys target level. These liquidity requirements primarily include shareholder dividends and debt service. The Company intends to reduce the amount of holding company liquidity in 2010, subject to profitability, market conditions and other factors. The Company has a shelf registration with the Securities and Exchange Commission which permits it to issue securities from time to time. The Company also has a $1.0 billion line of credit facility with several financial institutions that expires in the second quarter of 2010. This line of credit also backs up the Companys $800 million commercial paper program, of which $100 million was outstanding at December 31, 2009. The Company is not reliant on its commercial paper program to meet its operating cash flow needs. The Company may decide to replace the existing credit agreement with a new credit agreement of a different amount or duration, or it could decide to replace the credit facility with other alternatives. The Company currently utilizes uncollateralized letters of credit issued by major banks with an aggregate limit of approximately $474 million to provide much of the capital needed to support its operations at Lloyds. If uncollateralized letters of credit are not available at a reasonable price or at all in the future, the Company can collateralize these letters of credit or may have to seek alternative means of supporting its operations at Lloyds, which could include utilizing holding company funds on hand. Operating Activities Net cash flows provided by operating activities totaled $4.23 billion, $3.14 billion and $5.29 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Cash flows in 2009 reflected a decline in catastrophe loss payments, a higher level of reinsurance recoveries, a reduction in the amount of contributions to the Companys pension plan and lower claims and claim adjustment expense payments related to operations in runoff. Those runoff payments in 2008 included the Companys one time net payment of $365 million associated with the final settlement of asbestos claims related to ACandS, Inc. During 2009 and 2008, the Company contributed $260 million and $450 million, respectively, to its pension plan. 117  Table of Contents Cash flows in 2008 reflected an increase in claim payments (including the impact of higher catastrophe losses and the $365 million net asbestos settlement payment related to ACandS, Inc.) and a reduction in reinsurance recoveries compared with 2007. In addition, the Company made a $450 million contribution to its pension plan in 2008. No pension plan contribution was made in 2007. Cash flows in 2007 reflected higher levels of collected premiums and net investment income, lower claim payments on catastrophe losses, as well as lower runoff claim payments. Cash flows from operations in 2007 benefited from significant collections on reinsurance recoverables in both years, including those related to 2005 hurricane losses, operations in runoff (primarily Gulf) and various commutation agreements. These factors were partially offset by an increase in tax payments in 2007 resulting from higher profitability, expenses related to increased business volume and continued expenditures to support business growth and product development, and higher interest payments. Investing Activities Net cash flows used in investing activities totaled $899 million, $162 million and $2.53 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Fixed maturity securities accounted for the majority of investment purchases in all three years. Net cash available for use in investing activities in 2009 was principally provided by $4.23 billion of cash flows from operating activities, partially offset by $3.44 billion of cash used in financing activities (principally $3.29 billion for common share repurchases). In 2008, substantially all of the $3.14 billion in cash provided by operating activities was deployed for financing activities, principally for $2.20 billion of common share repurchases. The Companys consolidated total investments at December 31, 2009 increased by $4.23 billion from year end 2008, primarily reflecting a $3.08 billion pretax increase in the unrealized appreciation of investments since year end 2008 and investment purchases resulting from strong cash flows from operations, partially offset by $3.29 billion of common share repurchases made during 2009. The improvement in the Companys net unrealized investment gain position at December 31, 2009 over the prior year is primarily attributable to the Companys fixed maturity investments. The improved valuations on these holdings reflect the changing market conditions in 2009 which included a significant narrowing of credit spreads. The Companys management of the duration of the fixed maturity investment portfolio generally produces a duration that exceeds the estimated duration of the Companys net insurance liabilities. The average duration of fixed maturities and short term securities was 3.9 (4.2 excluding short term securities) at December 31, 2009 and 4.2 (4.6 excluding short term securities) at December 31, 2008. The decline in duration resulted from the impact of declining market yields on existing holdings of municipal bonds and mortgage backed securities (which impact the assumptions related to optional pre payments and the related estimate of effective duration for callable securities), and the purchase of shorter term fixed maturities during the second half of 2009. The primary goals of the Companys asset liability management process are to satisfy the insurance liabilities, manage the interest rate risk embedded in those insurance liabilities and maintain sufficient liquidity to cover fluctuations in projected liability cash flows. Generally, the expected principal and interest payments produced by the Companys fixed maturity portfolio adequately fund the estimated runoff of the Companys insurance reserves. Although this is not an exact cash flow match in each period, the substantial degree by which the market value of the fixed maturity portfolio exceeds the expected present value of the net insurance liabilities, as well as the positive cash flow from newly sold policies and the large amount of high quality liquid bonds, provide assurance of the Companys ability to fund claim payments without having to sell illiquid assets or access credit facilities. 118 Table of Contents Financing Activities Net cash flows used in financing activities totaled $3.44 billion, $2.87 billion and $2.95 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The 2009 and 2008 totals primarily reflected common share repurchases, dividends to shareholders and the repayment of debt, partially offset by the proceeds from employee stock option exercises and the issuance of debt. The 2007 total primarily reflected common share repurchases, the early redemption of debt, the repayment of maturing debt and dividends to shareholders, partially offset by the issuance of debt and proceeds from employee stock option exercises. Debt Transactions. 2009. On June 2, 2009, the Company issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of 5.90% senior notes that will mature on June 2, 2019. The net proceeds of the issuance, after original issuance discount and the deduction of underwriting expenses and commissions and other expenses, totaled approximately $494 million. Interest on the senior notes is payable semi annually in arrears on June 2 and December 2 of each year. The senior notes are redeemable in whole at any time or in part from time to time, at the Companys option, at a redemption price equal to the greater of (a) 100% of the principal amount of senior notes to be redeemed or (b) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the senior notes to be redeemed (exclusive of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the date of redemption on a semi annual basis (assuming a 360 day year consisting of twelve 30 day months) at the then current Treasury rate (as defined) plus 35 basis points for the senior notes. On March 3, 2009, the Companys zero coupon convertible notes with an effective yield of 4.17% and a remaining principal balance of $141 million matured and were fully paid. 2008. On March 15, 2008, the Companys $400 million, 3.75% senior notes matured and were fully paid. On May 13, 2008, the Company issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of 5.80% senior notes that will mature on May 15, 2018. The net proceeds of the issuance, after original issuance discount and the deduction of underwriting expenses and commissions and other expenses, totaled approximately $496 million. Interest on the senior notes is payable semi annually on May 15 and November 15. The senior notes are redeemable in whole at any time or in part from time to time, at the Companys option, at a redemption price equal to the greater of (a) 100% of the principal amount of senior notes to be redeemed or (b) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the senior notes to be redeemed (exclusive of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the date of redemption on a semi annual basis (assuming a 360 day year consisting of twelve 30 day months) at the then current Treasury rate plus 30 basis points for the senior notes. On December 15, 2008, two medium term notes with a cumulative par value of $149 million, each bearing an interest rate of 6.38%, matured and were fully paid. 2007. In January 2007, the Company redeemed $81 million of 8.47% subordinated debentures originally issued in 1997 and due January 10, 2027. The debentures were redeemable by the Company on or after January 10, 2007. In January 1997, USF&G Capital II, a business trust, issued $100 million of capital securities, the proceeds of which, along with $3 million in capital provided by the Company, were used to purchase the subordinated debentures issued by USF&G Corporation and subsequently assumed by the Company after the merger of The St. Paul Companies Inc. (SPC) and Travelers Property Casualty Corp. (TPC). During the period prior to redemption, the Company had repurchased and retired $22 million of the debentures in open market transactions. Upon the Companys redemption of the remaining $81 million of subordinated debentures in January 2007, USF&G Capital II in turn used the proceeds to redeem its remaining capital securities outstanding. USF&G Capital II was then liquidated, and the Company received a $3 million distribution of capital. The Company 119 Table of Contents recorded a $3 million pretax gain on the redemption of the subordinated debentures, due to the remaining unamortized fair value adjustment recorded at the merger date, less the redemption premium paid. In March 2007, the Company issued $1 billion aggregate principal amount of 6.25% fixed to floating rate junior subordinated debentures due March 15, 2067 for net proceeds of $986 million (after original issue discount and the deduction of underwriting expenses and commissions and other expenses). The debentures were issued at a discount, resulting in an effective interest rate of 6.447%. The debentures bear interest at an annual rate of 6.25% from the date of issuance to, but excluding, March 15, 2017, payable semi annually in arrears on March 15 and September 15. From and including March 15, 2017, the debentures will bear interest at an annual rate equal to three month LIBOR plus 2.215%, payable quarterly on March 15, June 15, September 15 and December 15 of each year. The Company has the right, on one or more occasions, to defer the payment of interest on the debentures. The Company will not be required to settle deferred interest until it has deferred interest for five consecutive years or, if earlier, made a payment of current interest during a deferral period. The Company may defer interest for up to ten consecutive years without giving rise to an event of default. Deferred interest will accumulate additional interest at an annual rate equal to the annual interest rate then applicable to the debentures. The debentures carry a 60 year final maturity and a scheduled maturity date in year thirty. During the 180 day period ending not more than fifteen and not less than ten business days prior to the scheduled maturity date, the Company is required to use commercially reasonable efforts to sell enough qualifying capital securities, or at its option, common stock, qualifying warrants, mandatorily convertible preferred stock, debt exchangeable for common equity or debt exchangeable for preferred equity to permit repayment of the debentures at the scheduled maturity date. If any debentures remain outstanding after the scheduled maturity date, the unpaid amount will remain outstanding until the Company has raised sufficient proceeds from the sale of qualifying capital securities or, at its option, common stock, qualifying warrants, mandatorily convertible preferred stock, debt exchangeable for common equity or debt exchangeable for preferred equity to permit the repayment in full of the debentures. If there are remaining debentures at the final maturity date, the Company is required to redeem the debentures using any source of funds. Qualifying capital securities are securities (other than common stock, qualifying warrants, mandatorily convertible preferred stock, debt exchangeable for common equity, and debt exchangeable for preferred equity) which generally are treated by the ratings agencies as having similar equity content to the debentures. The Company can redeem the debentures at its option, in whole or in part, at any time on or after March 15, 2017 at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount being redeemed plus accrued but unpaid interest. The Company can redeem the debentures at its option prior to March 15, 2017 (a) in whole at any time or in part from time to time or (b) in whole, but not in part, in the event of certain tax or rating agency events relating to the debentures, at a redemption price equal to the greater of 100% of the principal amount being redeemed and the applicable make whole amount, in each case plus any accrued and unpaid interest. In connection with the offering of the debentures, the Company entered into a "replacement capital covenant" for the benefit of holders of one or more designated series of the Companys indebtedness (which will initially be the 6.750% senior notes due 2036). Under the terms of the replacement capital covenant, if the Company redeems the debentures at any time prior to March 15, 2047 it can only do so with the proceeds of securities that are treated by the rating agencies as having similar equity content to the debentures. In March 2007, the Companys $500 million, 5.75% senior notes matured and were fully paid. In April 2007, the Company completed the redemption of its outstanding $893 million, 4.50% convertible junior subordinated notes due in 2032 (the notes). The notes were originally issued by 120 Table of Contents Travelers Property Casualty Corp., and the Company assumed certain obligations relating to the notes pursuant to a Second Supplemental Indenture dated April 1, 2004. Each note had a principal amount of $25.00. The redemption price for each note was $25.5625 plus $0.009375 of accrued and unpaid interest. Any note called for redemption could be surrendered for conversion into common stock before the close of business on April 17, 2007. Each note was convertible into 0.4684 shares of common stock of The Travelers Companies, Inc. Holders of $36 million of the notes tendered their certificates in exchange for the issuance of 670,910 of the Companys common shares. The remaining $857 million of notes were redeemed for cash, along with accrued interest to the date of redemption. The Company recorded a $39 million pretax loss ($25 million after tax) in other revenues in the second quarter of 2007 related to the redemption, consisting of the redemption premium paid and the write off of remaining unamortized issuance costs. In May 2007, the Company issued $250 million aggregate principal amount of 5.375% senior notes due June 15, 2012 (the 2012 senior notes), $450 million aggregate principal amount of 5.75% senior notes due December 15, 2017 (the 2017 senior notes), and $800 million aggregate principal amount of 6.25% senior notes due June 15, 2037 (the 2037 senior notes). The total net proceeds of these three senior note issuances, after original issuance discounts and the deduction of underwriting expenses and commissions and other expenses, were approximately $1.47 billion. Interest on each of the senior note issuances is payable semi annually on June 15 and December 15. Each series of senior notes is redeemable in whole at any time or in part from time to time, at the Companys option, at a redemption price equal to the greater of (a) 100% of the principal amount of senior notes to be redeemed, or (b) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the senior notes to be redeemed (exclusive of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the date of redemption on a semi annual basis (assuming a 360 day year consisting of twelve 30 day months) at the then current Treasury rate plus 12.5 basis points for the 2012 senior notes, 15 basis points for the 2017 senior notes and 20 basis points for the 2037 senior notes. The Company applied a portion of the net proceeds of this offering to repay approximately $442 million of senior notes maturing on August 16, 2007 and to repay approximately $42 million of medium term notes maturing in the third quarter of 2007. The remaining proceeds were used for general corporate purposes. Prior to applying these proceeds, the Company invested them in investment grade, marketable securities. In August 2007, the Companys $442 million, 5.01% senior notes matured and were fully paid. In 2007, medium term notes with a cumulative par value of $72 million and interest rates ranging from 6.85% to 7.37% matured and were fully paid. The amounts of debt obligations, other than commercial paper, that becomes due in 2010, 2011 and 2012 are $273 million, $11 million and $250 million, respectively. Dividends. Dividends paid to shareholders totaled $693 million, $715 million and $742 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. On February 3, 2010, the Companys board of directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.33 per share, payable March 31, 2010 to shareholders of record on March 10, 2010. The declaration and payment of future dividends to holders of the Companys common stock will be at the discretion of the Companys board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including the Companys financial position, earnings, capital requirements of the Companys operating subsidiaries, legal requirements, regulatory constraints and other factors as the board of directors deems relevant. Dividends would be paid by the Company only if declared by its board of directors out of funds legally available, subject to any other restrictions that may be applicable to the Company. Share Repurchases. Since May 2006, the Companys board of directors has approved four common share repurchase authorizations, for a cumulative authorization of up to $16 billion of shares of the Companys common stock. Under these authorizations, the most recent of which totaled $6 billion and was approved by the board of directors in October 2009, repurchases may be made from time to time 121 Table of Contents in the open market, pursuant to preset trading plans meeting the requirements of Rule 10b5 1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, in private transactions or otherwise. The authorizations do not have a stated expiration date. The timing and actual number of shares to be repurchased in the future will depend on a variety of factors, including the Companys earnings, corporate and regulatory requirements, share price, catastrophe losses, strategic initiatives and other market conditions. The following table summarizes repurchase activity in 2009 under these authorizations and remaining repurchase capacity at December 31, 2009. Quarterly Period Ending Number of shares purchased Cost of shares repurchased Average price paid per share Remaining capacity under share repurchase authorization March 31, 2009 $ $ $ 3,809,857,539 June 30, 2009 18,450,066 750,030,914 40.65 3,059,826,625 September 30, 2009 20,826,981 1,000,035,439 48.02 2,059,791,186 December 31, 2009 30,095,982 1,550,088,479 51.50 6,509,702,707 Total 69,373,029 $ 3,300,154,832 $ 47.57 $ 6,509,702,707 Since the inception of the repurchase authorizations in May 2006, the Company has repurchased a cumulative total of 193.2 million shares for a total cost of $9.49 billion, or $49.12 per share, through December 31, 2009. In 2009, 2008 and 2007, the Company acquired 1.5 million, 0.8 million and 1.7 million shares, respectively, of common stock from employees as treasury stock primarily to cover payroll withholding taxes related to the vesting of restricted stock awards and exercises of stock options. Capital Resources Capital resources reflect the overall financial strength of the Company and its ability to borrow funds at competitive rates and raise new capital to meet its needs. The following table summarizes the components of the Companys capital structure at December 31, 2009 and 2008. (at December 31, in millions) 2009 2008 Debt: Short term $ 373 $ 242 Long term 6,165 5,938 Net unamortized fair value adjustments and debt issuance costs (11 ) 1 Total debt 6,527 6,181 Preferred shareholders equity 79 89 Common shareholders equity: Common stock and retained earnings, less treasury stock 26,117 26,130 Accumulated other changes in equity from nonowner sources 1,219 (900 ) Total shareholders equity 27,415 25,319 Total capitalization $ 33,942 $ 31,500 The $2.44 billion increase in total capitalization from year end 2008 reflected an increase in unrealized appreciation on investment securities, net income in 2009 and the issuance of debt, partially offset by common share repurchases, dividends to shareholders and debt maturities. The improvement in the Companys net unrealized gain position at December 31, 2009 over the prior year is primarily attributable to the Companys fixed maturity investments. The improved valuations on these holdings reflect the changing market conditions in 2009 which included a significant narrowing of credit spreads. 122 Table of Contents The following table provides a reconciliation of total capitalization excluding net unrealized gain (loss) on investments to total capitalization presented in the foregoing table. (at December 31, dollars in millions) 2009 2008 Total capitalization excluding net unrealized gain (loss) on investments $ 32,081 $ 31,644 Net unrealized gain (loss) on investments, net of taxes 1,861 (144 ) Total capitalization $ 33,942 $ 31,500 Debt to total capital ratio 19.2 % 19.6 % Debt to total capital ratio excluding net unrealized gain (loss) on investments 20.3 % 19.5 % The debt to total capital ratio excluding net unrealized gain (loss) on investments is calculated by dividing (a) debt by (b) total capitalization excluding net unrealized investment gain (loss) on investments, net of taxes. Net unrealized investment gains and losses can be significantly impacted by both discretionary and other economic factors and are not necessarily indicative of operating trends. Accordingly, in the opinion of the Companys management, the debt to total capital ratio calculated on this basis provides another useful metric for investors to understand the Companys financial leverage position. The Companys debt to total capital ratio of 20.3% at December 31, 2009 calculated on this basis approximated its targeted level. Line of Credit Agreement. The Company has a $1.0 billion, five year revolving credit agreement (the "credit agreement") with a syndicate of financial institutions that expires on June 10, 2010. Pursuant to covenants in the credit agreement, the Company must maintain an excess of consolidated net worth over goodwill and other intangible assets of not less than $10 billion at all times. The Company must also maintain a ratio of total consolidated debt to the sum of total consolidated debt plus consolidated net worth of not greater than 0.40 to 1.00. In addition, the credit agreement contains other customary restrictive covenants as well as certain customary events of default, including with respect to a change in control. At December 31, 2009, the Company was in compliance with these covenants and all other covenants related to its outstanding debt instruments. There was no amount outstanding under the credit agreement as of December 31, 2009. The Company is evaluating its options with regard to the forthcoming expiration of the credit agreement. The credit agreement provides back up liquidity for the Companys $800 million commercial paper program, of which $100 million was outstanding at December 31, 2009. In December 2008, the Company filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission a universal shelf registration statement for the potential offering and sale of securities to replace its expiring universal shelf registration statement. The Company may offer these securities from time to time at prices and on other terms to be determined at the time of offering. During 2009, the Company issued securities with a principal amount of $500 million under the new shelf registration statement, and in 2008, the Company issued securities with a principal amount of $500 million under the prior shelf registration statement. Share Repurchase Authorization. At December 31, 2009, the Company had $6.51 billion of capacity remaining under its share repurchase authorization approved by the board of directors. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes, as of December 31, 2009, the Companys future payments under contractual obligations and estimated claims and claims related payments. The table excludes short term obligations and includes only liabilities at December 31, 2009 that are expected to be settled in cash. 123 Table of Contents The table below includes the amount and estimated future timing of claims and claim related payments. The amounts do not represent the exact liability, but instead represent estimates, generally utilizing actuarial projections techniques, at a given accounting date. These estimates include expectations of what the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost based on the Companys assessment of facts and circumstances then known, review of historical settlement patterns, estimates of trends in claims severity, frequency, legal theories of liability and other factors. Variables in the reserve estimation process can be affected by both internal and external events, such as changes in claims handling procedures, economic inflation or deflation, legal trends and legislative changes. Many of these items are not directly quantifiable, particularly on a prospective basis. Additionally, there may be significant reporting lags between the occurrence of the policyholder event and the time it is actually reported to the insurer. The future cash flows related to the items contained in the table below required estimation of both amount (including severity considerations) and timing. Amount and timing are frequently estimated separately. An estimation of both amount and timing of future cash flows related to claims and claim related payments is generally reliable only in the aggregate with some unavoidable estimation uncertainty. The contractual obligations related to debt, operating leases, purchase obligations, long term unfunded investment commitments, estimated claims and claims related payments (gross of the 124 Table of Contents estimated reinsurance recoveries) and liabilities related to unrecognized tax benefits, at December 31, 2009 were as follows: Payments Due by Period (in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years Debt Medium term notes $ 21 $ 21 $ $ $ Senior notes 5,150 250 250 500 4,150 Junior subordinated debentures 1,254 1,254 Private placement notes 13 2 11 Total debt principal 6,438 273 261 500 5,404 Interest 5,294 390 748 690 3,466 Total long term debt obligations(1) 11,732 663 1,009 1,190 8,870 Operating leases(2) 681 174 252 148 107 Purchase obligations Information systems administration and maintenance commitments(3) 117 55 54 8 Reinsurance brokerage commitment(4) 44 20 24 Other purchase commitments(5) 75 23 10 10 32 Total purchase obligations 236 98 88 18 32 Long term unfunded investment commitments(6) 1,319 297 377 457 188 Estimated claims and claims related payments Claims and claim adjustment expenses(7) 54,290 12,030 14,549 8,797 18,914 Claims from large deductible policies (8) Loss based assessments(9) 238 34 55 25 124 Reinsurance contracts accounted for as deposits(10) 1 1 Payout from ceded funds withheld(11) 250 6 129 11 104 Total estimated claims and claims related payments 54,779 12,071 14,733 8,833 19,142 Liabilities related to unrecognized tax benefits(12) 2,126 1,734 392 Total $ 70,873 $ 13,303 $ 18,193 $ 11,038 $ 28,339 (1)See note 8 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements for a further discussion of outstanding indebtedness. Because the amounts reported in the foregoing table include principal and interest, the total long term debt obligations will not agree with the amounts reported in note 8. (2)Represents agreements entered into in the ordinary course of business to lease office space, equipment and furniture. (3)Includes agreements with vendors to purchase system software administration and maintenance services. (4)In connection with the sale of its insurance brokerage operations, the Company committed to acquire brokerage services from the buyer through May 16, 2012. See note 15 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements. 125 Table of Contents (5)Includes commitments to vendors entered into in the ordinary course of business for goods and services including office supplies, archival services, etc. (6)Represents estimated timing for fulfilling unfunded commitments for private equity limited partnerships and real estate partnerships. (7)The amounts in "Claims and claim adjustment expenses" in the table above represent the estimated timing of future payments for both reported and unreported claims incurred and related claim adjustment expenses, gross of reinsurance recoverables. The Company has entered into reinsurance agreements to protect itself from potential losses in excess of the amount it is prepared to accept as described in note 5 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements. In order to qualify for reinsurance accounting, a reinsurance agreement must indemnify the insurer from insurance risk, i.e., the agreement must transfer amount and timing risk. Since the timing and amount of cash inflows from such reinsurance agreements are directly related to the underlying payment of claims and claim adjustment expenses by the insurer, reinsurance recoverables are recognized in a manner consistent with the liabilities (the estimated liability for claims and claim adjustment expenses) relating to the underlying reinsured contracts. The presence of any feature that can delay timely reimbursement of claims by a reinsurer results in the reinsurance contract being accounted for as a deposit rather than reinsurance (see below). The assumptions used in estimating the amount and timing of the reinsurance recoverables are consistent with those used in estimating the amount and timing of the related liabilities. Reinsurance agreements that do not transfer both amount and timing risk are accounted for as deposits and included in "Reinsurance contracts accounted for as deposits" in the table above. The estimated future cash inflows from the Companys reinsurance contracts that qualify for reinsurance accounting are as follows: (in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years Reinsurance recoverables $ 12,459 $ 2,582 $ 3,199 $ 2,027 $ 4,651 The Company manages its business and evaluates its liabilities for claims and claim adjustment expense on a net of reinsurance basis. The estimated cash flows on a net of reinsurance basis are as follows: (in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years Claims and claim adjustment expenses, net $ 41,831 $ 9,448 $ 11,350 $ 6,770 $ 14,263 For business underwritten by non U.S. operations, future cash flows related to reported and unreported claims incurred and related claim adjustment expenses were translated at the spot rate on December 31, 2009. The amounts reported in the table above and in the table of reinsurance recoverables above are presented on a nominal basis and have not been adjusted to reflect the time value of money. Accordingly, the amounts above will differ from the Companys balance sheet to the extent that the liability for claims and claim adjustment expenses and the related reinsurance recoverables have been discounted in the balance sheet. (See note 1 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements.) (8)Workers compensation large deductible policies provide third party coverage in which the Company typically is responsible for paying the entire loss under such policies and then seeks 126 Table of Contents reimbursement from the insured for the deductible amount. "Claims from large deductible policies" represent the estimated future payment for claims and claim related expenses below the deductible amount, net of the estimated recovery of the deductible. The liability and the related deductible receivable for unpaid claims are presented in the consolidated balance sheet as "contractholder payables" and "contractholder receivables," respectively. Most deductibles for such policies are paid directly from the policyholders escrow which is periodically replenished by the policyholder. The payment of the loss amounts above the deductible are reported within "Claims and claim adjustment expenses" in the above table. Because the timing of the collection of the deductible (contractholder receivables) occurs shortly after the payment of the deductible to a claimant (contractholder payables), these cash flows offset each other in the table. The estimated timing of the payment of the contractholder payables and the collection of contractholder receivables for workers compensation policies is presented below: (in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years Contractholder payables/receivables $ 5,797 $ 1,442 $ 1,608 $ 854 $ 1,893 (9)The amounts in "Loss based assessments" relate to estimated future payments of second injury fund assessments which would result from payment of current claim liabilities. Second injury funds cover the cost of any additional benefits for aggravation of a pre existing condition. For loss based assessments, the cost is shared by the insurance industry and self insureds, funded through assessments to insurance companies and self insureds based on losses. Amounts relating to second injury fund assessments are included in "other liabilities" in the consolidated balance sheet. (10)The amounts in "Reinsurance contracts accounted for as deposits" represent estimated future nominal payments for reinsurance agreements that are accounted for as deposits. Amounts payable under deposit agreements are included in "other liabilities" in the consolidated balance sheet. The amounts reported in the table are presented on a nominal basis and have not been adjusted to reflect the time value of money. Accordingly, the amounts above will differ from the Companys balance sheet to the extent that deposit values in the balance sheet have been discounted using deposit accounting. (11)The amounts in "Payout from ceded funds withheld" represent estimated payments for losses and return of funds held related to certain reinsurance arrangements whereby the Company holds a portion of the premium due to the reinsurer and is allowed to pay claims from the amounts held. (12)The Companys gross current and deferred liabilities related to unrecognized tax benefits from uncertain tax positions are $2,126 million. Offsetting these liabilities are current and deferred tax assets in the following amounts associated with the temporary differences that would exist if these positions become realized: (in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years Receivables related to unrecognized tax benefits $ 2,060 $ $ 1,669 $ 391 $ The above table does not include an analysis of liabilities reported for structured settlements for which the Company has purchased annuities and remains contingently liable in the event of default by the company issuing the annuity. The Company is not reasonably likely to incur material future payment obligations under such agreements. In addition, the Company does not have a best estimate of contributions expected to be paid to its qualified pension plan. Accordingly, any future contributions are not included in the foregoing table. 127  Table of Contents Dividend Availability The Companys principal insurance subsidiaries are domiciled in the states of Connecticut and Minnesota. The insurance holding company laws of both states applicable to the Companys subsidiaries requires notice to, and approval by, the state insurance commissioner for the declaration or payment of any dividend that, together with other distributions made within the preceding twelve months, exceeds the greater of 10% of the insurers capital and surplus as of the preceding December 31, or the insurers net income for the twelve month period ending the preceding December 31, in each case determined in accordance with statutory accounting practices and by state regulation. This declaration or payment is further limited by adjusted unassigned surplus, as determined in accordance with statutory accounting practices. The insurance holding company laws of other states in which the Companys subsidiaries are domiciled generally contain similar, although in some instances somewhat more restrictive, limitations on the payment of dividends. A maximum of $3.49 billion is available by the end of 2010 for such dividends without prior approval of the Connecticut Insurance Department for Connecticut domiciled subsidiaries and the Minnesota Department of Commerce for Minnesota domiciled subsidiaries. The Company may choose to accelerate the timing within 2010 and or increase the amount of dividends from its insurance subsidiaries in 2010, which could result in certain dividends being subject to approval by those Insurance Departments. The holding company received $3.54 billion of dividends from its domestic insurance subsidiaries in 2009, including a $500 million dividend that received regulatory approval. Risk Based Capital The NAIC adopted RBC requirements for property casualty companies to be used as minimum capital requirements by the NAIC and states to identify companies that merit further regulatory action. The formulas have not been designed to differentiate among adequately capitalized companies that operate with levels of capital higher than RBC requirements. Therefore, it is inappropriate and ineffective to use the formulas to rate or to rank these companies. At December 31, 2009, all of the Companys insurance subsidiaries had adjusted capital in excess of amounts requiring any company or regulatory action. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company has entered into certain contingent obligations for guarantees related to letters of credit, issuance of debt securities, certain investments and various indemnifications, including those related to the sale of business entities. See note 15 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements. The Company does not expect these arrangements to have a material effect on the Companys financial position, changes in financial position, revenues and expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES The Company considers its most significant accounting estimates to be those applied to claims and claim adjustment expense reserves and related reinsurance recoverables, investment valuation and impairments, and goodwill impairments. Claims and Claim Adjustment Expense Reserves Claims and claim adjustment expense reserves (loss reserves) represent managements estimate of ultimate unpaid costs of losses and loss adjustment expenses for claims that have been reported and claims that have been incurred but not yet reported. Loss reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability, but instead represent management estimates, generally utilizing actuarial expertise and 128 Table of Contents projection techniques, at a given accounting date. These loss reserve estimates are expectations of what the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost upon final resolution in the future, based on the Companys assessment of facts and circumstances then known, review of historical settlement patterns, estimates of trends in claims severity and frequency, expected interpretations of legal theories of liability and other factors. In establishing loss reserves, the Company also takes into account estimated recoveries, reinsurance, salvage and subrogation. The loss reserves are reviewed regularly by qualified actuaries employed by the Company. The process of estimating loss reserves involves a high degree of judgment and is subject to a number of variables. These variables can be affected by both internal and external events, such as changes in claims handling procedures, changes in individuals involved in the reserve estimation process, economic inflation, legal trends and legislative changes, among others. The impact of many of these items on ultimate costs for claims and claim adjustment expenses is difficult to estimate. Loss reserve estimation difficulties also differ significantly by product line due to differences in claim complexity, the volume of claims, the potential severity of individual claims, the determination of occurrence date for a claim and reporting lags (the time between the occurrence of the policyholder event and when it is actually reported to the insurer). Informed judgment is applied throughout the process, including the application of various individual experiences and expertise to multiple sets of data and analyses. The Company continually refines its loss reserve estimates in a regular ongoing process as historical loss experience develops and additional claims are reported and settled. The Company rigorously attempts to consider all significant facts and circumstances known at the time loss reserves are established. Due to the inherent uncertainty underlying loss reserve estimates including, but not limited to, the future settlement environment, final resolution of the estimated liability for claims and claim adjustment expenses may be higher or lower than the related loss reserves at the reporting date. Therefore, actual paid losses, as claims are settled in the future, may be materially different in amount than current loss reserves favorable or unfavorable. Because establishment of loss reserves is an inherently uncertain process involving estimates, currently established loss reserves may change. The Company reflects adjustments to loss reserves in the results of operations in the period the estimates are changed. There are also additional risks which impact the estimation of ultimate costs for catastrophes. For example, the estimation of reserves related to hurricanes can be affected by the inability of the Company and its insureds to access portions of the impacted areas, the complexity of factors contributing to the losses, the legal and regulatory uncertainties and the nature of the information available to establish the reserves. Complex factors include, but are not limited to: determining whether damage was caused by flooding versus wind; evaluating general liability and pollution exposures; estimating additional living expenses; estimating the impact of demand surge, infrastructure disruption, fraud, the effect of mold damage and business interruption costs; and reinsurance collectibility. The timing of a catastrophe, such as at or near the end of a reporting period, can also affect the information available to the Company in estimating reserves for that reporting period. The estimates related to catastrophes are adjusted as actual claims emerge. A portion of the Companys gross claims and claim adjustment expense reserves are for asbestos and environmental claims and related litigation, which totaled $3.49 billion at December 31, 2009. While the ongoing review of asbestos and environmental claims and associated liabilities considers the inconsistencies of court decisions as to coverage, plaintiffs expanded theories of liability and the risks inherent in complex litigation and other uncertainties, in the opinion of the Companys management, it is possible that the outcome of the continued uncertainties regarding these claims could result in liability in future periods that differs from current reserves by an amount that could be material to the Companys future operating results. See the preceding discussion of "Asbestos Claims and Litigation" and "Environmental Claims and Litigation." 129 Table of Contents Gross claims and claim adjustment expense reserves by product line were as follows: 2009 2008 (at December 31, in millions) Case IBNR Total Case IBNR Total General liability $ 6,368 $ 11,542 $ 17,910 $ 6,529 $ 11,912 $ 18,441 Property 1,211 771 1,982 1,414 858 2,272 Commercial multi peril 1,878 1,762 3,640 1,988 1,968 3,956 Commercial automobile 2,262 1,294 3,556 2,413 1,408 3,821 Workers compensation 9,355 7,122 16,477 9,419 6,872 16,291 Fidelity and surety 661 1,091 1,752 677 1,081 1,758 Personal automobile 1,457 994 2,451 1,448 1,043 2,491 Homeowners and personal other 633 717 1,350 633 800 1,433 International and other 2,003 1,933 3,936 2,140 2,043 4,183 Property casualty 25,828 27,226 53,054 26,661 27,985 54,646 Accident and health 64 9 73 68 9 77 Claims and claim adjustment expense reserves $ 25,892 $ 27,235 $ 53,127 $ 26,729 $ 27,994 $ 54,723 The amounts previously disclosed above at December 31, 2008 for general liability and commercial auto IBNR reserves have been increased and decreased by $103 million, respectively, to correct a classification error at December 31, 2008. In addition, the amounts previously disclosed at December 31, 2008 for commercial multi peril case and IBNR reserves, as well as the total case and IBNR reserves, have been increased and decreased by $172 million, respectively, to correct a classification error at December 31, 2008. These reclassifications had no impact on total claims and claim adjustment expense reserves reported at December 31, 2008. The $1.60 billion decline in gross claims and claim adjustment expense reserves since December 31, 2008 primarily reflected ongoing claims and claim adjustment expense activity, including losses incurred and payments, as well as favorable prior year reserve development and payments related to operations in runoff. Asbestos and environmental reserves are included in the General liability, Commercial multi peril and International and other lines in the summary table. Asbestos and environmental reserves are discussed separately; see "Asbestos Claims and Litigation", "Environmental Claims and Litigation" and "Uncertainty Regarding Adequacy of Asbestos and Environmental Reserves." General Discussion The process for estimating the liabilities for claims and claim adjustment expenses begins with the collection and analysis of claim data. Data on individual reported claims, both current and historical, including paid amounts and individual claim adjuster estimates, are grouped by common characteristics (components) and evaluated by actuaries in their analyses of ultimate claim liabilities by product line. Such data is occasionally supplemented with external data as available and when appropriate. The process of analyzing reserves for a component is undertaken on a regular basis, generally quarterly, in light of continually updated information. Multiple estimation methods are available for the analysis of ultimate claim liabilities. Each estimation method has its own set of assumption variables and its own advantages and disadvantages, with no single estimation method being better than the others in all situations and no one set of assumption variables being meaningful for all product line components. The relative strengths and weaknesses of the particular estimation methods when applied to a particular group of claims can also change over time. Therefore, the actual choice of estimation method(s) can change with each 130 Table of Contents evaluation. The estimation method(s) chosen are those that are believed to produce the most reliable indication at that particular evaluation date for the claim liabilities being evaluated. In most cases, multiple estimation methods will be valid for the particular facts and circumstances of the claim liabilities being evaluated. This will result in a range of reasonable estimates for any particular claim liability. The Company uses such range analyses to back test whether previously established estimates for reserves at the reporting segments are reasonable, given subsequent information. Reported values found to be closer to the endpoints of a range of reasonable estimates are subject to further detailed reviews. These reviews may substantiate the validity of managements recorded estimate or lead to a change in the reported estimate. The exact boundary points of these ranges are more qualitative than quantitative in nature, as no clear line of demarcation exists to determine when the set of underlying assumptions for an estimation method switches from being reasonable to unreasonable. As a result, the Company does not believe that the endpoints of these ranges are or would be comparable across companies. In addition, potential interactions among the different estimation assumptions for different product lines make the aggregation of individual ranges a highly judgmental and inexact process. Property casualty insurance policies are either written on a claims made or on an occurrence basis. Claims made policies generally cover, subject to requirements in individual policies, claims reported during the policy period. Policies that are written on an occurrence basis require that the insured demonstrate that a loss occurred in the policy period, even if the insured reports the loss many years later. Most general liability policies are written on an occurrence basis. These policies are subject to substantial loss development over time as facts and circumstances change in the years following the policy issuance. The occurrence form, which accounts for much of the reserve development in asbestos and environmental exposures, is also used to provide coverage for construction general liability, including construction defect. Occurrence based forms of insurance for general liability exposures require substantial projection of various trends, including future inflation and judicial interpretations and societal litigation dynamics, among others. A basic premise in most actuarial analyses is that past patterns demonstrated in the data will repeat themselves in the future, absent a material change in the associated risk factors discussed below. To the extent a material change affecting the ultimate claim liability is known, such change is quantified to the extent possible through an analysis of internal company data and, if available and when appropriate, external data. Such a measurement is specific to the facts and circumstances of the particular claim portfolio and the known change being evaluated. Significant structural changes to the available data, product mix or organization can materially impact the reserve estimation process. Informed judgment is applied throughout the reserving process. This includes the application of various individual experiences and expertise to multiple sets of data and analyses. In addition to actuaries, experts involved with the reserving process also include underwriting and claims personnel and lawyers, as well as other company management. Therefore, management may have to consider varying individual viewpoints as part of its estimation of loss reserves. It is also likely that during periods of significant change, such as a merger, consistent application of informed judgment becomes even more complicated and difficult. The variables discussed above in this general discussion have different impacts on reserve estimation uncertainty for a given product line, depending on the length of the claim tail, the reporting lag, the impact of individual claims and the complexity of the claim process for a given product line. Product lines are generally classifiable as either long tail or short tail, based on the average length of time between the event triggering claims under a policy and the final resolution of those claims. Short tail claims are reported and settled quickly, resulting in less estimation variability. The longer the 131 Table of Contents time before final claim resolution, the greater the exposure to estimation risks and hence the greater the estimation uncertainty. A major component of the claim tail is the reporting lag. The reporting lag, which is the time between the event triggering a claim and the reporting of the claim to the insurer, makes estimating IBNR inherently more uncertain. In addition, the greater the reporting lag, the greater the proportion of IBNR to the total claim liability for the product line. Writing new products with material reporting lags can result in adding several years worth of IBNR claim exposure before the reporting lag exposure becomes clearly observable, thereby increasing the risk associated with pricing and reserving such products. The most extreme example of claim liabilities with long reporting lags are asbestos claims. For some lines, the impact of large individual claims can be material to the analysis. These lines are generally referred to as being "low frequency/high severity," while lines without this "large claim" sensitivity are referred to as "high frequency/low severity." Estimates of claim liabilities for low frequency/high severity lines can be sensitive to the impact of a small number of potentially large claims. As a result, the role of judgment is much greater for these reserve estimates. In contrast, for high frequency/low severity lines the impact of individual claims is relatively minor and the range of reasonable reserve estimates is narrower and more stable. Claim complexity can also greatly affect the estimation process by impacting the number of assumptions needed to produce the estimate, the potential stability of the underlying data and claim process, and the ability to gain an understanding of the data. Product lines with greater claim complexity, such as for certain surety and construction exposures, have inherently greater estimation uncertainty. Actuaries have to exercise a considerable degree of judgment in the evaluation of all these factors in their analysis of reserves. The human element in the application of actuarial judgment is unavoidable when faced with material uncertainty. Different actuaries may choose different assumptions when faced with such uncertainty, based on their individual backgrounds, professional experiences and areas of focus. Hence, the estimates selected by the various actuaries may differ materially from each other. Lastly, significant structural changes to the available data, product mix or organization can also materially impact the reserve estimation process. Events such as mergers increase the inherent uncertainty of reserve estimates for a period of time, until stable trends re establish themselves within the new organization. Risk factors The major causes of material uncertainty ("risk factors") generally will vary for each product line, as well as for each separately analyzed component of the product line. In a few cases, such risk factors are explicit assumptions of the estimation method, but in most cases, they are implicit. For example, a method may explicitly assume that a certain percentage of claims will close each year, but will implicitly assume that the legal interpretation of existing contract language will remain unchanged. Actual results will likely vary from expectations for each of these assumptions, causing actual paid losses, as claims are settled in the future, to be different in amount than the reserves being estimated currently. Some risk factors will affect more than one product line. Examples include changes in claim department practices, changes in settlement patterns, regulatory and legislative actions, court actions, timeliness of claim reporting, state mix of claimants and degree of claimant fraud. The extent of the impact of a risk factor will also vary by components within a product line. Individual risk factors are also subject to interactions with other risk factors within product line components. The effect of a particular risk factor on estimates of claim liabilities cannot be isolated in most cases. For example, estimates of potential claim settlements may be impacted by the risk associated 132 Table of Contents with potential court rulings, but the final settlement agreement typically does not delineate how much of the settled amount is due to this and other factors. The evaluation of data is also subject to distortion from extreme events or structural shifts, sometimes in unanticipated ways. For example, the timing of claims payments in one geographic region will be impacted if claim adjusters are temporarily reassigned from that region to help settle catastrophe claims in another region. While some changes in the claim environment are sudden in nature (such as a new court ruling affecting the interpretation of all contracts in that jurisdiction), others are more evolutionary. Evolutionary changes can occur when multiple factors affect final claim values, with the uncertainty surrounding each factor being resolved separately, in stepwise fashion. The final impact is not known until all steps have occurred. Sudden changes generally cause a one time shift in claim liability estimates, although there may be some lag in reliable quantification of their impact. Evolutionary changes generally cause a series of shifts in claim liability estimates, as each component of the evolutionary change becomes evident and estimable. Actuarial methods for analyzing and estimating claims and claim adjustment expense reserves The principal estimation and analysis methods utilized by the Companys actuaries are the paid development method, the case incurred development method, the Bornhuetter Ferguson (BF) method, and average value analysis combined with the reported claim development method. The BF method is usually utilized for more recent accident periods, with a transition to other methods as the underlying claim data becomes more voluminous and therefore more credible. These are typically referred to as traditional actuarial methods. (See Glossary for an explanation of these methods). While these are the principal methods utilized throughout the Company, actuaries evaluating a particular component for a product line have available to them the full range of methods developed within the casualty actuarial profession. The Companys actuaries are also continually monitoring developments within the profession for advances in existing techniques or the creation of new techniques that might improve current and future estimates. Some components of product line reserves are susceptible to relatively infrequent large claims that can materially impact the total estimate for that component. In such cases, the Companys actuarial analysis generally isolates and analyzes separately such large claims. The reserves excluding such large claims are generally analyzed using the traditional methods described above. The reserves associated with large claims are then analyzed utilizing various methods, such as: Estimating the number of large claims and their average values based on historical trends from prior accident periods, adjusted for the current environment and supplemented with actual data for the accident year analyzed to the extent available. Utilizing individual claim adjuster estimates of the large claims, combined with continual monitoring of the aggregate accuracy of such claim adjuster estimates. (This monitoring may lead to supplemental adjustments to the aggregate of such claim estimates.) Utilizing historic longer term average ratios of large claims to small claims, and applying such ratios to the estimated ultimate small claims from traditional analysis. Ground up analysis of the underlying exposure (typically used for asbestos and environmental). The results of such methodologies are subjected to various reasonability and diagnostic tests, including paid to incurred loss ratios, implied incurred loss to earned premium ratios and non zero claim severity trends. An actual versus expected analysis is also performed comparing actual loss 133 Table of Contents development to expected development based on the prior review. Additional analyses may be performed based on the results of these diagnostics, including the investigation of other actuarial methods. The methods described above are generally utilized to evaluate managements existing estimate for prior accident periods. For the initial estimate of the current accident year, the available claim data is typically insufficient to produce a reliable indication. Hence, the initial estimate for an accident year is generally based on a loss ratio projection method, which uses the earned premium for the current year multiplied by a projected loss ratio. The projected loss ratio is determined through an analysis of prior periods experience, using loss trend, rate level differences, mix of business changes and other known or observed factors influencing the current accident year relative to prior accident years. The exact number of prior accident years utilized varies by product line component, based on the volume of business for that component and the reliability of an individual accident year estimate. Managements estimates At least once per quarter, certain Company management meets with its actuaries to review the latest claims and claim adjustment expense reserve analyses. Based on these analyses, management determines whether its ultimate claim liability estimates should be changed. In doing so, it must evaluate whether the new data provided represents credible actionable information or an anomaly that will have no effect on estimated ultimate claim liability. For example, as described above, payments may have decreased in one geographic region due to fewer claim adjusters being available to process claims. The resulting claim payment patterns would be analyzed to determine whether or not the change in payment pattern represents a change in ultimate claim liability. Such an assessment requires considerable judgment. It is frequently not possible to determine whether a change in the data is an anomaly until sometime after the event. Even if a change is determined to be permanent, it is not always possible to reliably determine the extent of the change until sometime later. The overall detailed analyses supporting such an effort can take several months to perform. This is because the underlying causes of the trends observed need to be evaluated, which may require the gathering or assembling of data not previously available. It may also include interviews with experts involved with the underlying processes. As a result, there can be a time lag between the emergence of a change and a determination that the change should be reflected in the Companys estimated claim liabilities. The final estimate selected by management in a reporting period is based on these various detailed analyses of past data, adjusted to reflect any new actionable information. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors is responsible for providing oversight of reserving propriety, and annually reviews the process by which the Company establishes reserves. Discussion of Product Lines The following section details reserving considerations and common risk factors by product line. There are many additional risk factors that may impact ultimate claim costs. Each risk factor presented will have a different impact on required reserves. Also, risk factors can have offsetting or compounding effects on required reserves. For example, in workers compensation, the use of expensive medical procedures that result in medical cost inflation may enable workers to return to work faster, thereby lowering indemnity costs. Thus, in almost all cases, it is impossible to discretely measure the effect of a single risk factor and construct a meaningful sensitivity expectation. In order to provide information on reasonably possible reserving changes by product line, the historical changes in year end loss reserves over a one year period are provided for the U.S. product lines. This information is provided for both the Company and the industry for the nine most recent years, and is based on the most recent publicly available data for the reported line(s) that most closely match the individual product line being discussed. These changes were calculated, net of reinsurance, 134 Table of Contents from statutory annual statement data found in Schedule P of those statements, and represent the reported reserve development on the beginning of the year claim liabilities divided by the beginning claim liabilities, all accident years combined, excluding non defense related claim adjustment expense. Data presented for the Company includes history for the entire Travelers group (U.S. companies only), whether or not the individual subsidiaries were originally part of SPC or TPC. This treatment is required by the statutory reporting instructions promulgated by state regulatory authorities for Schedule P. Comparable data for non U.S. companies is not available. General Liability General liability is generally considered a long tail line, as it takes a relatively long period of time to finalize and settle claims from a given accident year. The speed of claim reporting and claim settlement is a function of the specific coverage provided, the jurisdiction and specific policy provisions such as self insured retentions. There are numerous components underlying the general liability product line. Some of these have relatively moderate payment patterns (with most of the claims for a given accident year closed within 5 to 7 years), while others can have extreme lags in both reporting and payment of claims (e.g., a reporting lag of a decade or more for "construction defect" claims). While the majority of general liability coverages are written on an "occurrence" basis, certain general liability coverages (such as those covering directors and officers or professional liability) are typically insured on a "claims made" basis. General liability reserves are generally analyzed as two components: primary and excess/umbrella, with the primary component generally analyzed separately for bodily injury and property damage. Bodily injury liability payments reimburse the claimant for damages pertaining to physical injury as a result of the policyholders legal obligation arising from non intentional acts such as negligence, subject to the insurance policy provisions. In some cases the damages can include future wage loss (which is a function of future earnings power and wage inflation) and future medical treatment costs. Property damage liability payments result from damages to the claimants private property arising from the policyholders legal obligation for non intentional acts. In most cases, property damage losses are a function of costs as of the loss date, or soon thereafter. In addition, sizable or unique exposures are reviewed separately. These exposures include asbestos, environmental, other mass torts, construction defect, medical malpractice and large unique accounts that would otherwise distort the analysis. These unique categories often require a very high degree of judgment and require reserve analyses that do not rely on traditional actuarial methods. Defense costs are also a part of the insured costs covered by liability policies and can be significant, sometimes greater than the cost of the actual paid claims. For some products this risk is mitigated by policy language such that the insured portion of defense costs erodes the amount of policy limit available to pay the claim. Such "defense within the limits" policies are most common for "claims made" products. When defense costs are outside of the limits, amounts paid for defense costs do not erode the policy limits. This line is typically the largest source of reserve estimate uncertainty in the United States (excluding assumed reinsurance contracts covering the same risk). Major contributors to this reserve estimate uncertainty include the reporting lag (i.e., the length of time between the event triggering coverage and the actual reporting of the claim), the number of parties involved in the underlying tort action, whether the "event" triggering coverage is confined to only one time period or is spread over multiple time periods, the potential dollars involved (in the individual claim actions), whether such claims were reasonably foreseeable and intended to be covered at the time the contracts were written (i.e., coverage dispute potential), and the potential for mass claim actions. Claims with longer reporting lags result in greater inherent risk. This is especially true for alleged claims with a latency feature, particularly where courts have ruled that coverage is spread over multiple policy years, hence involving 135 Table of Contents multiple defendants (and their insurers and reinsurers) and multiple policies (thereby increasing the potential dollars involved and the underlying settlement complexity). Claims with long latencies also increase the potential recognition lag (i.e., the lag between writing a type of policy in a certain market and the recognition that such policies have potential mass tort and or latent claim exposure). The amount of reserve estimate uncertainty also varies significantly by component for the general liability product line. The components in this product line with the longest latency, longest reporting lags, largest potential dollars involved and greatest claim settlement complexity are asbestos and environmental. Components that include latency, reporting lag and or complexity issues, but to a materially lesser extent than asbestos and environmental, include construction defect, medical malpractice and other mass tort actions. Many components of general liability are not subject to material latency or claim complexity risks and hence have materially less uncertainty than the previously mentioned components. In general, policies providing coverage with shorter reporting lags, fewer parties involved in settlement negotiations, only one policy potentially triggered per claim, fewer potential settlement dollars, reasonably foreseeable (and stable) potential hazards/claims and no mass tort potential result in much less reserve estimate uncertainty than policies without those characteristics. In addition to the traditional actuarial methods mentioned in the general discussion section, the company utilizes various report year development and S curve methods for the construction defect components of this product line. The Construction Defect report year development analysis is supplemented with projected claim counts and average values for IBNR claim counts. For components with greater lags in claim reporting, such as excess and umbrella components of this product line, the company relies more heavily on the BF method than on the paid and case incurred development methods. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required general liability reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: General liability risk factors Changes in claim handling philosophies Changes in policy provisions or court interpretation of such provisions New theories of liability Trends in jury awards Changes in the propensity to sue, in general with specificity to particular issues Changes in statutes of limitations Changes in the underlying court system Distortions from losses resulting from large single accounts or single issues Changes in tort law Shifts in law suit mix between federal and state courts Changes in claim adjuster office structure (causing distortions in the data) Changes in settlement patterns (e.g., medical malpractice) General liability book of business risk factors Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements) Changes in underwriting standards Product mix (e.g., size of account, industries insured, jurisdiction mix) Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for general liability (excluding asbestos and environmental), a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.5% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line, excluding estimated asbestos and environmental amounts, over the last nine years has varied from 5% to 14% (averaging 136 Table of Contents 4%) for the Company and from 5% to 7% (averaging 1%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. Because the high end of the Companys range of historical adverse development comes from certain businesses that the Company has since exited, the Company believes that the industrys range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. General liability reserves (excluding asbestos and environmental) represent approximately 28% of the Companys total loss reserves. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line, excluding estimated asbestos and environmental amounts, was 5% for 2009, 5% for 2008 and 2% for 2007. The 2009 and 2008 changes primarily reflected significant favorable prior year reserve development, driven by several factors, including improved legal and judicial environments, as well as enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. The 2007 change was driven by better than expected loss development for recent accident years attributable to several factors, including improved legal and judicial environments, as well as enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. Property Property is generally considered a short tail line with a simpler and faster claim reporting and adjustment process than liability coverages, and less uncertainty in the reserve setting process (except for more complex business interruption claims). It is generally viewed as a moderate frequency, low to moderate severity line, except for catastrophes and coverage related to large properties. The claim reporting and settlement process for property coverage claim reserves is generally restricted to the insured and the insurer. Overall, the claim liabilities for this line create a low estimation risk, except possibly for catastrophes and business interruption claims. Property reserves are typically analyzed in two components, one for catastrophic or other large single events, and another for all other events. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required property reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Property risk factors Physical concentration of policyholders Availability and cost of local contractors For the more severe catastrophic events, "demand surge" inflation, which refers to significant short term increases in building material and labor costs due to a sharp increase in demand for those materials and services Local building codes Amount of time to return property to full usage (for business interruption claims) Court interpretation of policy provisions (such as occurrence definition, or wind versus flooding) Lags in reporting claims (e.g., winter damage to summer homes, hidden damage after an earthquake) Court or legislative changes to the statute of limitations Property book of business risk factors Policy provisions mix (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements) Changes in underwriting standards Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for property, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.1% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 34% to 26% (averaging 7%) for the Company, and from 14% to 7% 137 Table of Contents (averaging 3%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. Because the high end of the Companys range of historical adverse development comes from certain businesses that the Company has since exited, the Company believes that the industrys range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Property reserves represent approximately 4% of the Companys total loss reserves. While property is considered a short tail coverage, the one year change for property can be more volatile than that for the longer tail product lines. This is due to the fact that the majority of the reserve for property relates to the most recent accident year, which is subject to the most uncertainty for all product lines. This recent accident year uncertainty is relevant to property because of weather related events which tend to be concentrated in the second half of the year, and generally are not completely resolved until the following year. Reserve estimates associated with major catastrophes may take even longer to resolve. The reserve estimates for this product line are also potentially subject to material changes due to uncertainty in measuring ultimate losses for unprecedented significant catastrophes such as the events of September 11, 2001 and Hurricane Katrina. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 9% for 2009, 22% for 2008 and 18% for 2007. The 2009 change was primarily driven by better than expected loss development in the 2007 and 2008 accident years for certain large national property and inland marine exposures. In addition, the 2005 accident year experience improved due to the litigation environment relating to, and ongoing claim settlements for, Hurricane Katrina. The 2008 change was primarily driven by favorable development in the 2007 accident year for certain large property, national programs and ocean marine claim exposures, and improvements in the litigation environment relating to, and ongoing claim settlements for, Hurricane Katrina. The 2007 change was due to fewer than expected late reported claims related to non catastrophe weather events that occurred late in 2006 as well as better than expected frequency and severity due in part to changes in the marketplace, such as higher deductibles and lower policy limits. In addition, the property product line experienced better than expected large loss outcomes which were partially attributable to favorable litigation resolutions. Commercial Multi Peril Commercial multi peril provides a combination of property and liability coverage typically for small businesses and, therefore, includes both short and long tail coverages. For property coverage, it generally takes a relatively short period of time to close claims, while for the other coverages, generally for the liability coverages, it takes a longer period of time to close claims. The reserving risk for this line is dominated by the liability coverage portion of this product, except occasionally in the event of catastrophic or large single losses. The reserving risk for this line differs from that of the general liability product line and the property product line due to the nature of the customer. Commercial multi peril is generally sold to smaller sized accounts, while the customer profile for general liability and property includes larger customers. See "Property risk factors" and "General liability risk factors," discussed above, with regard to reserving risk for commercial multi peril. Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for commercial multi peril (excluding asbestos and environmental), a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.2% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 16% to 2% (averaging 5%) for the Company, and from 5% to 6% (averaging 1%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes 138 Table of Contents is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Commercial multi peril reserves (excluding asbestos and environmental reserves) represent approximately 7% of the Companys total loss reserves. As discussed above, this line combines general liability and property coverages and it has been impacted in the past by many of the same events as those two lines. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 8% for 2009, 16% for 2008 and 8% for 2007. The 2009 and 2008 changes were attributable to several factors, including improved legal and judicial environments, and enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. Also contributing to the change was improvement in the litigation environment relating to, and ongoing claim settlements for, Hurricane Katrina. The 2007 change was attributable to better than expected results due to, among other factors, increasingly favorable legal and judicial environments as well as enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. Commercial Automobile The commercial automobile product line is a mix of property and liability coverages and, therefore, includes both short and long tail coverages. The payments that are made quickly typically pertain to auto physical damage (property) claims and property damage (liability) claims. The payments that take longer to finalize and are more difficult to estimate relate to bodily injury claims. In general, claim reporting lags are minor, claim complexity is not a major issue, and the line is viewed as high frequency, low to moderate severity. Overall, the claim liabilities for this line create a moderate estimation risk. Commercial automobile reserves are typically analyzed in four components: bodily injury liability; property damage liability; collision claims; and comprehensive claims. These last two components have minimum reserve risk and fast payouts and, accordingly, separate risk factors are not presented. The Company utilizes the traditional actuarial methods mentioned in the general discussion above in estimating claim liabilities for this line. This is supplemented with detailed custom analyses where needed. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required commercial automobile reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Bodily injury and property damage liability risk factors Trends in jury awards Changes in the underlying court system Changes in case law Litigation trends Frequency of claims with payment capped by policy limits Change in average severity of accidents, or proportion of severe accidents Changes in auto safety technology Subrogation opportunities Changes in claim handling philosophies Frequency of visits to health providers Number of medical procedures given during visits to health providers Types of health providers used Types of medical treatments received Changes in cost of medical treatments Degree of patient responsiveness to treatment Commercial automobile book of business risk factors Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements, etc.) Changes in mix of insured vehicles (e.g., long haul trucks versus local and smaller vehicles, fleet risks versus non fleets) Changes in underwriting standards 139 Table of Contents Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for commercial automobile, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.2% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 10% to 9% (averaging 2%) for the Company, and from 3% to 9% (averaging 2%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Commercial automobile reserves represent approximately 7% of the Companys total loss reserves. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 6% for 2009, 7% for 2008 and 10% for 2007. The 2009 and 2008 changes were a result of better than expected loss development, primarily for recent accident years, which was attributable to several factors, including improved legal and judicial environments, and enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. The 2007 change was due to better than expected loss development, for recent accident years, as a result of more favorable legal and judicial environments, claim handling initiatives and, the Company believes, improvements in auto safety technology. Workers Compensation Workers compensation is generally considered a long tail coverage, as it takes a relatively long period of time to finalize claims from a given accident year. While certain payments such as initial medical treatment or temporary wage replacement for the injured worker are made quickly, some other payments are made over the course of several years, such as awards for permanent partial injuries. In addition, some payments can run as long as the injured workers life, such as permanent disability benefits and on going medical care. Despite the possibility of long payment tails, the reporting lags are generally short, settlements are generally not complex, and most of the liability can be considered high frequency with moderate severity. The largest reserve risk generally comes from the low frequency, high severity claims providing lifetime coverage for medical expense arising from a workers injury. Overall, the claim liabilities for this line create a somewhat greater than moderate estimation risk. Workers compensation reserves are typically analyzed in three components: indemnity losses, medical losses and claim adjustment expenses. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required workers compensation reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Indemnity risk factors Time required to recover from the injury Degree of available transitional jobs Degree of legal involvement Changes in the interpretations and processes of the workers compensation commissions oversight of claims(1) Future wage inflation for states that index benefits Changes in the administrative policies of second injury funds (1)These are administrative bodies that evaluate whether or not a given claim for workers compensation benefits is valid. Their duties include the determination of whether a given injury arose out of the scope of employment or the determination of the degree of injury where disputes exist. 140 Table of Contents Medical risk factors Changes in the cost of medical treatments (including prescription drugs) and underlying fee schedules ("inflation") Frequency of visits to health providers Number of medical procedures given during visits to health providers Types of health providers used Type of medical treatments received Use of preferred provider networks and other medical cost containment practices Availability of new medical processes and equipment Changes in the use of pharmaceutical drugs Degree of patient responsiveness to treatment General workers compensation risk factors Frequency of claim reopenings on claims previously closed Mortality trends of injured workers with lifetime benefits and medical treatment Degree of cost shifting between workers compensation and health insurance Workers compensation book of business risk factors Product mix Injury type mix Changes in underwriting standards Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for workers compensation, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.2% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 2% to 2% (averaging 0%) for the Company, and from 1% to 4% (averaging 1%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Workers compensation reserves represent approximately 31% of the Companys total loss reserves. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 1% in 2009, 1% for 2008 and 0% for 2007. Fidelity and Surety Fidelity is generally considered a short tail coverage. It takes a relatively short period of time to finalize and settle fidelity claims. The volatility of fidelity reserves is generally related to the type of business of the insured, the size and complexity of the insureds business operations, amount of policy limit and attachment point of coverage. The uncertainty surrounding reserves for small, commercial insureds is typically less than the uncertainty for large commercial or financial institutions. The high frequency, low severity nature of small commercial fidelity losses provides for stability in loss estimates whereas, the low frequency, high severity nature of losses for large insureds results in a wider range of ultimate loss outcomes. Actuarial techniques that rely on a stable pattern of loss development are generally not applicable to low frequency, high severity policies. 141  Table of Contents Surety has certain components that are generally considered short tail coverages with short reporting lags, although large individual construction and commercial surety contracts can result in a long settlement tail, based on the length and complexity of the construction project or commercial transaction being insured. (Large construction projects can take many years to complete.) The frequency of losses in surety correlates with economic cycles as the primary cause of surety loss is the inability of the Companys insureds to perform financially. The volatility of surety losses is generally related to the type of business performed by the insured, the type of bonded obligation, the amount of limit exposed to loss and the amount of assets available to the insurer to mitigate losses, such as unbilled contract funds, collateral, first and third party indemnity, and other security positions of an insureds assets. Certain classes of surety claims are very high severity, low frequency in nature. These can include large construction contractors involved with one or multiple large, complex projects as well as certain large commercial surety exposures. Other claim factors affecting reserve variability of surety include litigation related to amounts owed by and due the insured (e.g., salvage and subrogation efforts) and the results of financial restructuring of an insured. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required fidelity and surety reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Fidelity risk factors Type of business of insured Policy limit and attachment points Third party claims Coverage litigation Complexity of claims Growth in insureds operations Surety risk factors Economic trends, including the general level of construction activity Concentration of reserves in a relatively few large claims Type of business insured Type of obligation insured Cumulative limits of liability for insured Assets available to mitigate loss Defective workmanship/latent defects Financial strategy of insured Changes in statutory obligations Geographic spread of business Fidelity and Surety book of business risk factors Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, limits, endorsements) Changes in underwriting standards Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for fidelity and surety, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.4% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 10% to 138% (averaging 21%) for the Company, and from 13% to 24% (averaging 5%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. Because the high end of the Companys range was due to acquired business in 2004, the Company believes that the industrys range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Fidelity and surety reserves represent approximately 3% of the Companys total loss reserves. 142 Table of Contents In general, developments on single large claims (both adverse and favorable) are a primary source of changes in reserve estimates for this product line. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 7% for 2009, 10% for 2008 and 1% for 2007. The 2009 and 2008 changes were a result of better than expected loss experience for the contract surety business within this product line, primarily driven by favorable settlements on large claims from older accident years. Personal Automobile Personal automobile includes both short and long tail coverages. The payments that are made quickly typically pertain to auto physical damage (property) claims and property damage (liability) claims. The payments that take longer to finalize and are more difficult to estimate relate to bodily injury claims. Reporting lags are relatively short and the claim settlement process for personal automobile liability generally is the least complex of the liability products. It is generally viewed as a high frequency, low to moderate severity product line. Overall, the claim liabilities for this line create a moderate estimation risk. Personal automobile reserves are typically analyzed in five components: bodily injury liability, property damage liability, no fault losses, collision claims and comprehensive claims. These last two components have minimum reserve risk and fast payouts and, accordingly, separate factors are not presented. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required personal automobile reserves (beyond those included in the general reserve discussion section) include: Bodily injury and property damage liability risk factors Trends in jury awards Changes in the underlying court system and its philosophy Changes in case law Litigation trends Frequency of claims with payment capped by policy limits Change in average severity of accidents, or proportion of severe accidents Subrogation opportunities Degree of patient responsiveness to treatment Changes in claim handling philosophies No fault risk factors (for selected states and time periods) Effectiveness of no fault laws Frequency of visits to health providers Number of medical procedures given during visits to health providers Types of health providers used Types of medical treatments received Changes in cost of medical treatments Degree of patient responsiveness to treatment Personal automobile book of business risk factors Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements, etc.) Changes in underwriting standards Changes in the use of credit data for rating and underwriting Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for personal automobile, a 1% increase 143 Table of Contents (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.1% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 9% to 1% (averaging 3%) for the Company, and from 4% to 0% (averaging 2%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Personal automobile reserves represent approximately 5% of the Companys total loss reserves. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 0% for 2009, 1% for 2008 and 5% for 2007. The decreases in 2008 and 2007 were primarily due to better than expected results from changes in claim handling practices as well as initiatives to fight fraud. Homeowners and Personal Lines Other Homeowners is generally considered a short tail coverage. Most payments are related to the property portion of the policy, where the claim reporting and settlement process is generally restricted to the insured and the insurer. Claims on property coverage are typically reported soon after the actual damage occurs, although delays of several months are not unusual. The claim is settled when the two parties agree on the amount due in accordance with the policy contract language and the appropriate payment is made (or alternatively, the property replacement/repair is performed by the insurer). The resulting settlement process is typically fairly short term, although exceptions do exist. The liability portion of the homeowners policy generates claims which take longer to pay due to the involvement of litigation and negotiation, but with generally small reporting lags. In addition, reserves related to umbrella coverages have greater uncertainty since umbrella liability payments are often made far into the future. Overall, the line is generally high frequency, low to moderate severity (except for catastrophes), with simple to moderate claim complexity. Homeowners reserves are typically analyzed in two components: non catastrophe related losses and catastrophe loss payments. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required homeowners reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Non catastrophe risk factors Salvage opportunities Amount of time to return property to residential use Changes in weather patterns Local building codes Litigation trends Trends in jury awards Catastrophe risk factors Physical concentration of policyholders Availability and cost of local contractors Local building codes Quality of construction of damaged homes Amount of time to return property to residential use For the more severe catastrophic events, "demand surge" inflation, which refers to significant short term increases in building material and labor costs due to a sharp increase in demand for those materials and services 144 Table of Contents Homeowners book of business risk factors Policy provisions mix (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements, etc.) Degree of concentration of policyholders Changes in underwriting standards Changes in the use of credit data for rating and underwriting Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for homeowners and personal lines other, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.1% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 31% to 3% (averaging 12%) for the Company, and from 8% to 11% (averaging 2%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Homeowners and personal lines other reserves represent approximately 2% of the Companys total loss reserves. This line combines both liability and property coverages; however, the majority of the reserves relate to property. While property is considered a short tail coverage, the one year change for property can be more volatile than that for the longer tail product lines. This is due to the fact that the majority of the reserve for property relates to the most recent accident year, which is subject to the most uncertainty for all product lines. This recent accident year uncertainty is relevant to property because of weather related events which tend to be concentrated in the second half of the year, and generally are not completely resolved until the following year. Reserve estimates associated with major catastrophes may take even longer to resolve. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 14% for 2009, 13% for 2008 and 3% for 2007. The 2009 change primarily reflected favorable loss experience related to Hurricanes Ike and Katrina, as well as the 2007 California wildfires. The 2008 change was primarily driven by favorable loss experience related to Hurricane Katrina, by claim initiatives, by better than expected outcomes on 2007 catastrophe related claims and by improvements in older accident years for the umbrella line. The 2007 change was due to fewer than expected late reported claims related to non catastrophe weather events that occurred in the fourth quarter of 2006. In addition, a portion of the change was attributable to a decrease in the number of claims due to changes in the marketplace, including higher deductibles and fewer small dollar claims. International and other International and other includes products written by International and other products not discussed above. The principal component of "other" claim reserves is assumed reinsurance written on an excess of loss basis, which may include reinsurance of non U.S. exposures, and is runoff business. International and other claim liabilities result from a mix of coverages, currencies and jurisdictions/countries. The common characteristic is the need to customize the analysis to the individual component, and the inability to rely on data characterizations and reporting requirements in the U.S. statutory reporting framework. Due to changes in the business mix for this line over time, the recently incurred claim liabilities are relatively short term (due to both the products and the jurisdictions involved, e.g., the Republic of Ireland and the United Kingdom), while the older liabilities include some from runoff operations that are extremely long tail (e.g., U.S. excess liabilities reinsured through the London market, and several underwriting pools in runoff). The speed of claim reporting and claim settlement is a function of the 145 Table of Contents specific coverage provided, the jurisdiction, the distribution system (e.g., underwriting pool versus direct) and the proximity of the insurance sale to the insured hazard (e.g., insured and insurer located in different countries). In particular, liabilities arising from the underwriting pools in runoff may result in significant reporting lags, settlement lags and claim complexity, due to the need to coordinate with other pool members or co insurers through a broker or lead insurer for claim settlement purposes. International and other reserves are generally analyzed by program/pool, country and general coverage category (e.g., U.S. Liability excess of loss reinsurance, or General Liability Municipalities by country). The business is also generally split by direct versus assumed reinsurance for a given coverage/jurisdiction. Where the underlying insured hazard is outside the United States, the underlying coverages are generally similar to those described under the General Liability and Automobile discussion above, but under a different legal system. Where the underlying hazard is within the U.S., the coverage involved is typically that of General Liability, but on an excess or excess of loss reinsurance basis. Excess exposure requires the insured to "prove" not only claims under the policy, but also the prior payment of claims reaching up to the excess policys attachment point. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required International and other reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: International and other risk factors Changes in claim handling procedures, including those of the primary carriers Changes in policy provisions or court interpretation of such provision New theories of liability Trends in jury awards Changes in the propensity to sue Changes in statutes of limitations Changes in the underlying court system Distortions from losses resulting from large single accounts or single issues Changes in tort law Changes in claim adjuster office structure (causing distortions in the data) International and other book of business risk factors Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements, "claims made" language) Changes in underwriting standards Product mix (e.g., size of account, industries insured, jurisdiction mix) Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for International and other (excluding asbestos and environmental), a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.3% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. International and other reserves (excluding asbestos and environmental) represent approximately 7% of the Companys total loss reserves. International and other represents a combination of different product lines, some of which are in runoff. Comparative historical information is not available for international product lines as insurers domiciled outside of the U.S. do not file U.S. statutory reports. Comparative historical information on runoff business is not indicative of reasonably possible one year changes in the reserve estimate for this mix of runoff business. Accordingly, the Company has not included comparative analyses for International and other. 146 Table of Contents Reinsurance Recoverables Amounts recoverable from reinsurers are estimated in a manner consistent with the associated claim liability. The Company evaluates and monitors the financial condition of its reinsurers under voluntary reinsurance arrangements to minimize its exposure to significant losses from reinsurer insolvencies. In addition, in the ordinary course of business, the Company becomes involved in coverage disputes with its reinsurers. Some of these disputes could result in lawsuits and arbitrations brought by or against the reinsurers to determine the Companys rights and obligations under the various reinsurance agreements. The Company employs dedicated specialists and aggressive strategies to manage reinsurance collections and disputes. The reinsurance agreements that the Company entered into as part of its catastrophe bond programs are dual trigger contracts and meet the requirements to be accounted for as reinsurance in accordance with guidance for accounting for reinsurance contracts. The Companys catastrophe bond programs are described in more detail in the "Catastrophe Reinsurance Coverage" section herein. The Company reports its reinsurance recoverables net of an allowance for estimated uncollectible reinsurance recoverables. The allowance is based upon the Companys ongoing review of amounts outstanding, length of collection periods, changes in reinsurer credit standing, disputes, applicable coverage defenses and other relevant factors. Accordingly, the establishment of reinsurance recoverables and the related allowance for uncollectible reinsurance recoverables is also an inherently uncertain process involving estimates. From time to time, as a result of the long tailed nature of the underlying liabilities, coverage complexities and potential for disputes, the Company considers the commutation of reinsurance contracts. Changes in estimated reinsurance recoverables and commutation activity could result in additional income statement charges. Recoverables attributable to structured settlements relate primarily to personal injury claims, of which workers compensation claims comprise a significant portion, for which the Company has purchased annuities and remains contingently liable in the event of a default by the companies issuing the annuities. Recoverables attributable to mandatory pools and associations relate primarily to workers compensation service business. These recoverables are supported by the participating insurance companies obligation to pay a pro rata share based on each companys voluntary market share of written premium in each state in which it is a pool participant. In the event a member of a mandatory pool or association defaults on its share of the pools or associations obligations, the other members share of such obligation increases proportionally. The following table summarizes the composition of the Companys reinsurance recoverable assets: (at December 31, in millions) 2009 2008 Gross reinsurance recoverables on paid and unpaid claims and claim adjustment expenses $ 8,138 $ 9,376 Allowance for uncollectible reinsurance (523 ) (618 ) Net reinsurance recoverables 7,615 8,758 Structured settlements 3,456 3,517 Mandatory pools and associations 1,745 1,957 Total reinsurance recoverables $ 12,816 $ 14,232 The $1.14 billion decline in net reinsurance recoverables since year end 2008 reflected cash collections, several commutation agreements and the impact of net favorable prior year reserve development. 147 Table of Contents Investment Valuation and Impairments Fair Value Measurements The Companys estimates of fair value for financial assets and financial liabilities are based on the framework established in the fair value accounting guidance. The framework is based on the inputs used in valuation, gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets, and requires that observable inputs be used in the valuations when available. The disclosure of fair value estimates in the fair value accounting guidance hierarchy is based on whether the significant inputs into the valuation are observable. In determining the level of the hierarchy in which the estimate is disclosed, the highest priority is given to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs that reflect the Companys significant market assumptions. The three levels of the hierarchy are as follows: Level 1 Unadjusted quoted market prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets that the Company has the ability to access. Level 2 Quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in inactive markets; or valuations based on models where the significant inputs are observable (e.g., interest rates, yield curves, prepayment speeds, default rates, loss severities, etc.) or can be corroborated by observable market data. Level 3 Valuations based on models where significant inputs are not observable. The unobservable inputs reflect the Companys own assumptions about the inputs that market participants would use. Valuation of Investments Reported at Fair Value in Financial Statements The fair value of a financial instrument is the estimated amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in an orderly transaction between knowledgeable, unrelated willing parties, i.e., not in a forced transaction. The estimated fair value of a financial instrument may differ from the amount that could be realized if the security was sold in an immediate sale, e.g., a forced transaction. Additionally, the valuation of fixed maturity investments is more subjective when markets are less liquid due to the lack of market based inputs, which may increase the potential that the estimated fair value of an investment is not reflective of the price at which an actual transaction would occur. For investments that have quoted market prices in active markets, the Company uses the quoted market prices as fair value and includes these prices in the amounts disclosed in Level 1 of the hierarchy. The Company receives the quoted market prices from a third party, nationally recognized pricing service (pricing service). When quoted market prices are unavailable, the Company utilizes a pricing service to determine an estimate of fair value, which is mainly used for its fixed maturity investments. The fair value estimates provided from this pricing service are included in the amount disclosed in Level 2 of the hierarchy. If quoted market prices and an estimate from a pricing service are unavailable, the Company produces an estimate of fair value based on internally developed valuation techniques, which, depending on the level of observable market inputs, will render the fair value estimate as Level 2 or Level 3. The Company bases all of its estimates of fair value for assets on the bid price as it represents what a third party market participant would be willing to pay in an arms length transaction. Fixed Maturities The Company utilizes a pricing service to estimate fair value measurements for approximately 99% of its fixed maturities. The pricing service utilizes market quotations for fixed maturity securities that have quoted prices in active markets. Since fixed maturities other than U.S. Treasury securities generally do not trade on a daily basis, the pricing service prepares estimates of fair value 148 Table of Contents measurements for these securities using its proprietary pricing applications, which include available relevant market information, benchmark curves, benchmarking of like securities, sector groupings and matrix pricing. Additionally, the pricing service uses an Option Adjusted Spread model to develop prepayment and interest rate scenarios. The pricing service evaluates each asset class based on relevant market information, relevant credit information, perceived market movements and sector news. The market inputs utilized in the pricing evaluation, listed in the approximate order of priority, include: benchmark yields, reported trades, broker/dealer quotes, issuer spreads, two sided markets, benchmark securities, bids, offers, reference data, and industry and economic events. The extent of the use of each market input depends on the asset class and the market conditions. Depending on the security, the priority of the use of inputs may change or some market inputs may not be relevant. For some securities, additional inputs may be necessary. The pricing service utilized by the Company has indicated that they will only produce an estimate of fair value if there is objectively verifiable information to produce a valuation. If the pricing service discontinues pricing an investment, the Company would be required to produce an estimate of fair value using some of the same methodologies as the pricing service but would have to make assumptions for market based inputs that are unavailable due to market conditions. The fair value estimates of most fixed maturity investments are based on observable market information rather than market quotes. Accordingly, the estimates of fair value for such fixed maturities, other than U.S. Treasury securities, provided by the pricing service are included in the amount disclosed in Level 2 of the hierarchy. The estimated fair value of U.S. Treasury securities is included in the amount disclosed in Level 1 as the estimates are based on unadjusted market prices. The Company reviews the estimates of fair value provided by the pricing service and compares the estimates to the Companys knowledge of the market to determine if the estimates obtained are representative of the prices in the market. The Company produces a report monthly that lists all price changes from the previous month in excess of 10%. The Company reviews the report and will challenge any prices deemed not to be representative of fair value. In addition, the Company has implemented various other processes including randomly selecting purchased or sold securities and comparing execution prices to the estimates from the pricing service as well as reviewing reports that contain securities whose valuation did not change from their previous valuation (stale price review). The Company also uses an additional independent pricing service to further test the primary pricing services valuation of the Companys fixed maturity portfolio. These processes have not highlighted any significant issues with the fair value estimates received from the pricing service. The Company holds privately placed corporate bonds and estimates the fair value of these bonds using an internal matrix that is based on market information regarding interest rates, credit spreads and liquidity. The underlying source data for calculating the matrix of credit spreads relative to the U.S. Treasury curve are the Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate Index and the Merrill Lynch High Yield BB Rated Index. The Company includes the fair value estimates of these corporate bonds in Level 2, since all significant inputs are market observable. As many of these securities are issued by public companies, the Company compares the estimates of fair value to the fair values of these companies publicly traded debt to test the validity of the internal pricing matrix. While the vast majority of the Companys municipal bonds are included in Level 2, the Company holds a small number of municipal bonds which are not valued by the pricing service and estimates the fair value of these bonds using an internal pricing matrix with some unobservable inputs that are significant to the valuation. Due to the limited amount of observable market information, the Company includes the fair value estimates for these particular bonds in Level 3. Additionally, the Company holds a small amount of fixed maturities that have characteristics that make them unsuitable for matrix pricing. For these fixed maturities, the Company obtains a quote from a broker (typically a market 149 Table of Contents maker). Due to the disclaimers on the quotes that indicate that the price is indicative only, the Company includes these fair value estimates in Level 3. Equities Public Common and Preferred For public common and preferred stocks, the Company receives prices from a nationally recognized pricing service that are based on observable market transactions and includes these estimates in the amount disclosed in Level 1. Infrequently, current market quotes in active markets are unavailable for certain non redeemable preferred stocks held by the Company. In these instances, the Company receives an estimate of fair value from the pricing service that provides fair value estimates for the Companys fixed maturities. The service utilizes some of the same methodologies to price the non redeemable preferred stocks as it does for the fixed maturities. The Company includes the fair value estimate for these non redeemable preferred stocks in the amount disclosed in Level 2. Other Investments Common Stock with Transfer Restrictions and Other The Company holds one public common stock with transfer restrictions, with a fair value of $213 million. At December 31, 2009, the fair value of this common stock was determined by adjusting the observed market price of the security for a liquidity discount which takes into consideration the restriction on the common stock that existed at December 31, 2009 and is based on market observable inputs. As a result of adjusting the market price to consider the transfer restriction, the Company discloses this security in Level 2. The Company holds investments in non public common and preferred equity securities, with a fair value estimate of $60 million at December 31, 2009, reported in other investments, where the fair value estimate is determined either internally or by an external fund manager based on recent filings, operating results, balance sheet stability, growth and other business and market sector fundamentals. Due to the significant unobservable inputs in these valuations, the Company includes the total fair value estimate for all of these investments at December 31, 2009 in the amount disclosed in Level 3. The Company holds investments in various publicly traded securities which are reported in other investments. The $46 million fair value of these investments at December 31, 2009 is disclosed in Level 1. These investments include securities in the Companys trading portfolio ($24 million), mutual funds ($15 million) and other small holdings ($7 million). Derivatives The Company holds non public warrants in a public company and has convertible bonds containing embedded conversion options that are valued separately from the host bond contract. The Company estimates fair value for the warrants using an option pricing model with observable market inputs. Because the warrants are not market traded and information concerning market participants is not available, the Company includes the fair value estimate of $94 million at December 31, 2009 in the amount disclosed in Level 3 other investments. The valuation of the warrants is comprised of two components: the intrinsic value (i.e., the difference between the warrant strike price and the current share price of the underlying stock) and a modeled value that represents the additional price that a market participant would be willing to pay to purchase the warrants based on the remaining time to the warrants expiration, the volatility of the underlying stock, expected dividends and current interest rates. The estimated fair value at December 31, 2009, of $94 million was comprised of $68 million of intrinsic value and $26 million of modeled value. While the value of both components will change as a result of changes in the fair value of the underlying stock, the modeled value will eventually decrease to zero as the expiration date of the warrants, which is November 1, 2012, is approached. 150  Table of Contents Valuation of Investments Not Reported at Fair Value in Financial Statements Short term Securities The Companys short term securities consist of Aaa rated registered money market funds and high quality commercial paper (primarily A1/P1) with a combined average of 27 days to maturity at December 31, 2009. It is the Companys policy to not invest in structured products for its short term securities. The Company believes that there is insignificant credit risk in its short term portfolio and that amortized cost approximates fair value. The Company includes short term securities in its impairment monitoring to identify any credit issues. Real Estate Real estate is recorded on the purchase date at the purchase price, which generally represents fair value, and is supported by internal analysis or external appraisals, using discounted cash flow analyses and other acceptable valuation techniques. Real estate held for investment purposes is subsequently carried at the Companys cost, less accumulated depreciation. Other Investments The Companys investment portfolio includes other investments not carried at fair value which include private equity limited partnerships, hedge funds, real estate partnerships (together, partnerships) and mortgage loans. The Company uses the equity method of accounting for its investments in partnerships, and amortized cost is used for mortgage loans. The partnerships and the hedge funds generally report investments on their balance sheet at fair value. The financial statements prepared by the investee are received by the Company on a lag basis, with the lag period generally dependent upon the type of underlying investments. The private equity and real estate partnerships provide financial information quarterly which is generally available to investors, including the Company, within three to six months following the date of the reporting period. The hedge funds provide financial information monthly, which is generally available to investors within one month following the date of the reporting period. The Company regularly requests financial information from the partnerships prior to the receipt of the partnerships financial statements, and records any material information obtained from these requests in the financial statements. Investment Impairments The Company conducts a periodic review to identify and evaluate invested assets having other than temporary impairments. Some of the factors considered in identifying other than temporary impairments include: (1) for fixed maturity investments, whether the Company intends to sell the investment or whether it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell the investment prior to an anticipated recovery in value; (2) for non fixed maturity investments, the Companys ability and intent to retain the investment for a reasonable period of time sufficient to allow for an anticipated recovery in value; (3) the likelihood of the recoverability of principal and interest for fixed maturity securities (i.e., whether there is a credit loss), or cost for equity securities; (4) the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than amortized cost for fixed maturity securities or cost for equity securities; and (5) the financial condition, near term and long term prospects for the issuer, including the relevant industry conditions and trends, and implications of rating agency actions and offering prices. Reporting of Other Than Temporary Impairments For fixed maturity investments that the Company does not intend to sell or for which it is more likely than not that the Company would not be required to sell before an anticipated recovery in value, 151 Table of Contents the Company separates the credit loss component of the impairment from the amount related to all other factors and reports the credit loss component in net realized investment gains (losses). The impairment related to all other factors is reported in accumulated other changes in equity from nonowner sources. For non fixed maturity investments and fixed maturity investments the Company intends to sell or for which it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell before an anticipated recovery in value, the full amount of the impairment is included in net realized investment gains (losses). Upon recognizing an other than temporary impairment, the new cost basis of the investment is the previous amortized cost basis less the other than temporary impairment recognized in net realized investment gains (losses). The new cost basis is not adjusted for any subsequent recoveries in fair value; however, for fixed maturity investments, the difference between the new cost basis and the expected cash flows is accreted on a quarterly basis to net investment income over the remaining expected life of the investment. Due to the subjective nature of the Companys analysis and estimates of future cash flows, along with the judgment that must be applied in the analysis, it is possible that the Company could reach a different conclusion whether or not to impair a security if it had access to additional information about the issuer. Additionally, it is possible that the issuers actual ability to meet contractual obligations may be different than what the Company determined during its analysis, which may lead to a different impairment conclusion in future periods. Determination of Credit Loss The Company determines the credit loss component of fixed maturity investments by utilizing discounted cash flow modeling to determine the present value of the security and comparing the present value with the amortized cost of the security. If the amortized cost is greater than the present value of the expected cash flows, the difference is considered a credit loss and recognized in net realized investment gains (losses). For non structured fixed maturities (U.S. Treasury securities, obligations of U.S. Government and government agencies and authorities, obligations of states, municipalities and political subdivisions, debt securities issued by foreign governments and certain corporate debt) the estimate of expected cash flows is determined by projecting a recovery value and a recovery time frame and assessing whether further principal and interest will be received. The determination of recovery value incorporates an issuer valuation assumption utilizing one or a combination of valuation methods as deemed appropriate by the Company. The Company determines the undiscounted recovery value by allocating the estimated value of the issuer to the Companys assessment of the priority of claims. The present value of the cash flows is determined by applying the effective yield of the security at the date of acquisition (or the most recent implied rate used to accrete the security if the implied rate has changed as a result of a previous impairment) and an estimated recovery time frame. Generally, that time frame for securities for which the issuer is in bankruptcy is 12 months. For securities for which the issuer is financially troubled but not in bankruptcy, that time frame is generally 24 months. Included in the present value calculation are expected principal and interest payments; however, for securities for which the issuer is classified as bankrupt or in default, the present value calculation assumes no interest payments and a single recovery amount. In estimating the recovery value, significant judgment is involved in the development of assumptions relating to a myriad of factors related to the issuer including, but not limited to, revenue, margin and earnings projections, the likely market or liquidation values of assets, potential additional debt to be incurred pre or post bankruptcy/restructuring, the ability to shift existing or new debt to different priority layers, the amount of restructuring/bankruptcy expenses, the size and priority of 152 Table of Contents unfunded pension obligations, litigation or other contingent claims, the treatment of intercompany claims and the likely outcome with respect to inter creditor conflicts. For structured fixed maturity securities (primarily residential and commercial mortgage backed securities, collateralized mortgage obligations and pass through securities), the Company estimates the present value of the security by projecting future cash flows of the assets underlying the securitization, allocating the flows to the various tranches based on the structure of the securitization, and determining the present value of the cash flows using the effective yield of the security at the date of acquisition (or the most recent implied rate used to accrete the security if the implied rate has changed as a result of a previous impairment or changes in expected cash flows). The Company incorporates levels of delinquencies, defaults and severities as well as credit attributes of the remaining assets in the securitization, along with other economic data, to arrive at its best estimate of the parameters applied to the assets underlying the securitization. In order to project cash flows, the following assumptions are applied to the assets underlying the securitization: (1) voluntary prepayment rates, (2) default rates and (3) loss severity. The key assumptions made for the Prime, Alt A and Sub Prime mortgage backed securities at December 31, 2009 were as follows: (at December 31, 2009) Prime Alt A Sub Prime Voluntary prepayment rates 2% 15% 1% 8% 1% 6% Percentage of remaining pool liquidated due to defaults 5% 55% 23% 75% 31% 90% Loss severity 35% 60% 50% 75% 70% 80% Changes in Intent to Sell Temporarily Impaired Assets The Company may, from time to time, sell invested assets subsequent to the balance sheet date that it did not intend to sell at the balance sheet date. Conversely, the Company may not sell invested assets that it asserted that it intended to sell at the balance sheet date. Such changes in intent are generally due to events occurring subsequent to the balance sheet date. The types of events that may result in a change in intent include, but are not limited to, significant changes in the economic facts and circumstances related to the invested asset (e.g., a downgrade or upgrade from a rating agency), significant unforeseen changes in liquidity needs, or changes in tax laws or the regulatory environment. Real Estate Investments On at least an annual basis, the Company obtains independent appraisals for substantially all of its real estate investments. In addition, the carrying value of all real estate property is reviewed for impairment on a quarterly basis or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The review for impairment considers the valuation from the independent appraisal, when applicable, and incorporates an estimate of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the real estate property. An impairment loss is recognized if the expected future undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the real estate property. The impairment loss is the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds fair value. Other Investments Investments in Private Equity Limited Partnerships, Hedge Funds and Real Estate Partnerships The Company reviews these investments for impairment no less frequently than quarterly and monitors the performance throughout the year through discussions with the managers/general partners. If the Company becomes aware of an impairment of a partnerships investments at the balance sheet date prior to receiving the partnerships financial statements, it will recognize an impairment by recording a reduction in the carrying value of the partnership with a corresponding charge to net investment income. 153 Table of Contents Mortgage Loans A mortgage loan is considered impaired when it is probable that the Company will be unable to collect principal and interest amounts due. For mortgage loans that are determined to be impaired, a reserve is established for the difference between the amortized cost and the fair market value of the underlying collateral. In estimating fair value, the Company uses interest rates reflecting the current real estate financing market returns. The Company did not have any impaired mortgage loans at December 31, 2009 and 2008. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Impairments The Company performs a review, on at least an annual basis, of goodwill held by the reporting units which are the Companys three operating and reportable segments: Business Insurance, Financial, Professional & International Insurance, and Personal Insurance. The Company estimates the fair value of its reporting units and compares it to their carrying value, including goodwill. If the carrying values of the reporting units exceed their fair value, the amount of the impairment is calculated and goodwill is adjusted accordingly. In the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company changed its methodology for estimating the fair value of its reporting units from a multiple of earnings model to a discounted cash flow model. This change was made as a result of the effects of a severe disruption of the credit and equity markets and significant changes in the insurance industry that caused disparities between the multiple of earnings of the Company and the observed multiple of earnings of its competitors. The discounted cash flow model is an income approach to valuation that is based on a more detailed analysis for deriving a current fair value of reporting units and is more representative of the Companys reporting units current and expected future financial performance. The change in methodology resulted in a change in estimate of the fair value of the reporting units for purposes of testing goodwill for impairment. Other indefinite lived intangible assets held by the Company are also reviewed for impairment on at least an annual basis. The classification of the asset as indefinite lived is reassessed, and an impairment is recognized if the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value. Intangible assets that are deemed to have a finite useful life are amortized over their useful lives. The carrying amount of intangible assets with a finite useful life is regularly reviewed for indicators of impairment in value. Impairment is recognized only if the carrying amount of the intangible asset is not recoverable from its undiscounted cash flows and is measured as the difference between the carrying amount and the fair value of the asset. The Companys review did not result in an impairment of its indefinite lived or finite lived intangible assets for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. OTHER UNCERTAINTIES For a discussion of other risks and uncertainties that could impact the Companys results of operations or financial position, see note 15 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements and "Item 1A Risk Factors." FUTURE APPLICATION OF ACCOUNTING STANDARDS See note 1 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements for a discussion of recently issued accounting standards updates. The Company is currently required to prepare its financial statements in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), as promulgated by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB). During 2008, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) issued a proposed Roadmap for comment for the potential use in filings with the SEC of financial statements 154 Table of Contents for U.S. issuers prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as promulgated by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), instead of in accordance with GAAP. The Roadmap contains milestones that, if achieved, may lead the SEC to decide in 2011 to require the use of IFRS for large accelerated filers, including the Company, in 2014. The SEC is expected to re deliberate the proposed Roadmap in 2011 based on the comments received. The IASB and the FASB are in the process of developing a global insurance standard that may involve methodologies for valuing insurance contract liabilities that may be significantly different from the methodologies required by current GAAP. The FASB and the IASB are also embarked on a long term project to converge GAAP and IFRS. The Company is not able to predict whether it will choose to, or be required to, adopt IFRS or how the adoption of IFRS (or the convergence of GAAP and IFRS) may impact the Companys financial statements in the future. FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS This report contains, and management may make, certain "forward looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, may be forward looking statements. Specifically, statements in "Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Outlook," earnings guidance, statements about the Companys share repurchase plans (which repurchase plans depend on a variety of factors, including the Companys financial position, earnings, capital requirements of the Companys operating subsidiaries, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, other investment opportunities (including mergers and acquisitions), and other factors), statements about the potential impact of recent or future disruption in the investment markets and other economic conditions on the Companys investment portfolio and underwriting results are forward looking, and the Company may make forward looking statements about its results of operations (including, among others, premium volume, premium rates (either for new or renewal business), net and operating income, investment income, return on equity, expected current returns and combined ratio), and financial condition (including, among others, invested assets and liquidity); the sufficiency of the Companys asbestos and other reserves (including, among others, asbestos claim payment patterns); the cost and availability of reinsurance coverage; catastrophe losses; investment performance; investment, economic and underwriting market conditions; and strategic initiatives. Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the Companys control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward looking information and statements. For a discussion of some of the factors that could cause actual results to differ, see "Item 1A Risk Factors" and "Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates." The Companys forward looking statements speak only as of the date of this report or as of the date they are made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update its forward looking statements.  Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK MARKET RISK Market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates (inclusive of credit spreads), foreign currency exchange rates and other relevant market rate or price changes. Market risk is directly influenced by the volatility and liquidity in the markets in which the related underlying assets are traded. The following is a discussion of the Companys primary market risk exposures and how those exposures are managed as of December 31, 2009. The Companys 155 Table of Contents market risk sensitive instruments, including derivatives, are primarily entered into for purposes other than trading. The carrying value of the Companys investment portfolio at December 31, 2009 and 2008 was $74.97 billion and $70.74 billion, respectively, of which 88% and 87% was invested in fixed maturity securities, respectively. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, approximately 5.8% and 5.5%, respectively, of the Companys invested assets were denominated in foreign currencies. The Companys exposure to equity price risk is not significant. The Company has no direct commodity risk and is not a party to any credit default swaps. The Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio at December 31, 2009 and 2008 included asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages and collateralized mortgage obligations backed by alternative documentation mortgages with a collective fair value of $270 million and $206 million, respectively (comprising approximately 0.4% and 0.3% of the Companys total fixed maturity investments, respectively). The disruption in secondary investment markets for mortgage backed securities provided the Company with the opportunity to selectively acquire additional asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages at discounted prices. The Company purchased $74 million and $47 million of such securities in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The Company defines sub prime mortgage backed securities as investments in which the underlying loans primarily exhibit one or more of the following characteristics: low FICO scores, above prime interest rates, high loan to value ratios or high debt to income ratios. Alternative documentation securitizations are those in which the underlying loans primarily meet the government sponsored entitys requirements for credit score but do not meet the government sponsored entitys guidelines for documentation, property type, debt and loan to value ratios. The average credit rating on these securities and obligations held by the Company was "A3" and "Aa2" at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Approximately $114 million and $81 million of asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime and alternative documentation mortgages were downgraded in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio at December 31, 2009 included securities issued by numerous states, municipalities and political subdivisions (collectively referred to as the municipal bond portfolio), a number of which were enhanced by third party insurance for the payment of principal and interest in the event of an issuer default. The downgrade of credit ratings of insurers of these securities has resulted in a corresponding downgrade in the ratings of the securities to the underlying rating of the respective security. Of the insured municipal bond portfolio, approximately 98% were rated at A3 or above, and approximately 80% were rated at Aa3 or above, without the benefit of insurance. The Company believes, based on current market conditions, that a further loss of the benefit of insurance would not result in a material adverse impact on the Companys results of operations, financial position or liquidity, due to the underlying credit strength of the issuers of the securities, as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the securities. The average credit rating of the underlying issuers of these securities was "Aa3" at December 31, 2009. The average credit rating of the entire municipal bond portfolio was "Aa1" at December 31, 2009 with and without the third party insurance and includes pre funded and escrowed to maturity securities, as well as securities issued without third party insurance. On April 2, 2009, municipal securities issued by local governments within the United States were assigned a negative outlook by Moodys Investors Service. Notwithstanding the relatively low historical rates of default on many of these obligations, during an economic downturn, the Companys municipal bond portfolio could be subject to a higher risk of default or impairment due to declining municipal tax bases and revenue. The prolonged economic downturn that began in 2008 has resulted in many states and local governments operating under deficits or projected deficits. The severity and duration of these deficits could have an adverse impact on the collectability and valuation of the Companys municipal bond portfolio. In addition, some issuers have been unable or may be unwilling to increase tax revenue, or to reduce spending, to fund maturing municipal bonds. 156 Table of Contents The primary market risk to the investment portfolio is interest rate and credit risk associated with investments in fixed maturity securities. The portfolio duration relative to the liabilities duration is primarily managed through cash market transactions and treasury futures transactions. The Companys tax exempt fixed maturity investment portfolio totaled $40.84 billion and $38.79 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Federal and or state tax legislation could be enacted that would lessen or improve some or all of the tax advantages currently benefiting the Company and result in an adverse or favorable impact on the value of these holdings. The primary market risk for all of the Companys debt is interest rate risk at the time of refinancing. The Company monitors the interest rate environment and evaluates refinancing opportunities as maturity dates approach. For additional information regarding the Companys debt see note 8 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements as well as the "Liquidity and Capital Resources" section of "Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." The Companys foreign exchange market risk exposure is concentrated in the Companys invested assets and insurance reserves denominated in foreign currencies. Cash flows from the Companys foreign operations are the primary source of funds for the purchase of investments denominated in foreign currencies. The Company purchases these investments primarily to fund insurance reserves and other liabilities denominated in the same currency, effectively reducing its foreign currency exchange rate exposure. Invested assets denominated in the British Pound Sterling comprised approximately 2.5% and 2.3% of the total invested assets at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Invested assets denominated in the Canadian dollar comprised approximately 2.1% of the total invested assets at December 31, 2009 and 2008. Invested assets denominated in other currencies at December 31, 2009 and 2008 were not material. There were no other significant changes in the Companys primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures were managed for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the year ended December 31, 2008. The Company does not currently anticipate significant changes in its primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures are managed in future reporting periods based upon what is known or expected to be in effect in future reporting periods. SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS Sensitivity analysis is defined as the measurement of potential loss in future earnings, fair values or cash flows of market sensitive instruments resulting from one or more selected hypothetical changes in interest rates and other market rates or prices over a selected period of time. In the Companys sensitivity analysis model, a hypothetical change in market rates is selected that is expected to reflect reasonably possible near term changes in those rates. "Near term" means a period of time going forward up to one year from the date of the consolidated financial statements. Actual results may differ from the hypothetical change in market rates assumed in this disclosure, especially since this sensitivity analysis does not reflect the results of any actions that would be taken by the Company to mitigate such hypothetical losses in fair value. Interest Rate Risk In this sensitivity analysis model, the Company uses fair values to measure its potential loss. The sensitivity analysis model includes the following financial instruments entered into for purposes other than trading: fixed maturities, non redeemable preferred stocks, mortgage loans, short term securities, debt and derivative financial instruments. The primary market risk to the Companys market sensitive instruments is interest rate risk (inclusive of credit spreads). The sensitivity analysis model uses a 100 basis point change in interest rates to measure the hypothetical change in fair value of financial instruments included in the model. 157 Table of Contents For invested assets with primary exposure to interest rate risk, estimates of portfolio duration and convexity are used to model the loss of fair value that would be expected to result from a parallel increase in interest rates. Durations on invested assets are adjusted for call, put and interest rate reset features. Durations on tax exempt securities are adjusted for the fact that the yields on such securities do not normally move in lockstep with changes in the U.S. Treasury curve. Fixed maturity portfolio durations are calculated on a market value weighted basis, including accrued interest, using holdings as of December 31, 2009 and 2008. For debt, the change in fair value is determined by calculating hypothetical December 31, 2009 and 2008 ending prices based on yields adjusted to reflect a 100 basis point change, comparing such hypothetical ending prices to actual ending prices, and multiplying the difference by the par or securities outstanding. The sensitivity analysis model used by the Company produces a loss in fair value of market sensitive instruments of approximately $2.34 billion and $2.48 billion based on a 100 basis point increase in interest rates as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The loss estimates do not take into account the impact of possible interventions that the Company might reasonably undertake in order to mitigate or avoid losses that would result from emerging interest rate trends. In addition, the loss value only reflects the impact of an interest rate increase on the fair value of the Companys financial instruments. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk The Company uses fair values of investment securities to measure its potential loss from foreign denominated investments. A hypothetical 10% reduction in value of foreign denominated investments is used to estimate the impact on the market value of the foreign denominated holdings. The Companys analysis indicates that a hypothetical 10% reduction in the value of foreign denominated investments would be expected to produce a loss in fair value of approximately $431 million and $386 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 158  Table of Contents  
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates" in this report. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Liquidity is a measure of a companys ability to generate sufficient cash flows to meet the short and long term cash requirements of its business operations. The liquidity requirements of the Companys business have been met primarily by funds generated from operations, asset maturities and income received on investments. Cash provided from these sources is used primarily for claims and claim adjustment expense payments and operating expenses. The timing and amount of catastrophe claims are inherently unpredictable. Such claims increase liquidity requirements. The timing and amount of reinsurance recoveries may be affected by reinsurer solvency and reinsurance coverage disputes. Additionally, the variability of asbestos related claim payments, as well as the volatility of potential judgments and settlements arising out of litigation, may also result in increased liquidity requirements. It is the opinion of the Companys management that the Companys future liquidity needs will be adequately met from all of the above sources. At December 31, 2009, total cash, short term invested assets and other readily marketable securities aggregating $2.14 billion were held at the holding company. The assets held at the holding company are sufficient to meet the holding companys current liquidity requirements and are almost twice the Companys target level. These liquidity requirements primarily include shareholder dividends and debt service. The Company intends to reduce the amount of holding company liquidity in 2010, subject to profitability, market conditions and other factors. The Company has a shelf registration with the Securities and Exchange Commission which permits it to issue securities from time to time. The Company also has a $1.0 billion line of credit facility with several financial institutions that expires in the second quarter of 2010. This line of credit also backs up the Companys $800 million commercial paper program, of which $100 million was outstanding at December 31, 2009. The Company is not reliant on its commercial paper program to meet its operating cash flow needs. The Company may decide to replace the existing credit agreement with a new credit agreement of a different amount or duration, or it could decide to replace the credit facility with other alternatives. The Company currently utilizes uncollateralized letters of credit issued by major banks with an aggregate limit of approximately $474 million to provide much of the capital needed to support its operations at Lloyds. If uncollateralized letters of credit are not available at a reasonable price or at all in the future, the Company can collateralize these letters of credit or may have to seek alternative means of supporting its operations at Lloyds, which could include utilizing holding company funds on hand. Operating Activities Net cash flows provided by operating activities totaled $4.23 billion, $3.14 billion and $5.29 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Cash flows in 2009 reflected a decline in catastrophe loss payments, a higher level of reinsurance recoveries, a reduction in the amount of contributions to the Companys pension plan and lower claims and claim adjustment expense payments related to operations in runoff. Those runoff payments in 2008 included the Companys one time net payment of $365 million associated with the final settlement of asbestos claims related to ACandS, Inc. During 2009 and 2008, the Company contributed $260 million and $450 million, respectively, to its pension plan. 117  Table of Contents Cash flows in 2008 reflected an increase in claim payments (including the impact of higher catastrophe losses and the $365 million net asbestos settlement payment related to ACandS, Inc.) and a reduction in reinsurance recoveries compared with 2007. In addition, the Company made a $450 million contribution to its pension plan in 2008. No pension plan contribution was made in 2007. Cash flows in 2007 reflected higher levels of collected premiums and net investment income, lower claim payments on catastrophe losses, as well as lower runoff claim payments. Cash flows from operations in 2007 benefited from significant collections on reinsurance recoverables in both years, including those related to 2005 hurricane losses, operations in runoff (primarily Gulf) and various commutation agreements. These factors were partially offset by an increase in tax payments in 2007 resulting from higher profitability, expenses related to increased business volume and continued expenditures to support business growth and product development, and higher interest payments. Investing Activities Net cash flows used in investing activities totaled $899 million, $162 million and $2.53 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Fixed maturity securities accounted for the majority of investment purchases in all three years. Net cash available for use in investing activities in 2009 was principally provided by $4.23 billion of cash flows from operating activities, partially offset by $3.44 billion of cash used in financing activities (principally $3.29 billion for common share repurchases). In 2008, substantially all of the $3.14 billion in cash provided by operating activities was deployed for financing activities, principally for $2.20 billion of common share repurchases. The Companys consolidated total investments at December 31, 2009 increased by $4.23 billion from year end 2008, primarily reflecting a $3.08 billion pretax increase in the unrealized appreciation of investments since year end 2008 and investment purchases resulting from strong cash flows from operations, partially offset by $3.29 billion of common share repurchases made during 2009. The improvement in the Companys net unrealized investment gain position at December 31, 2009 over the prior year is primarily attributable to the Companys fixed maturity investments. The improved valuations on these holdings reflect the changing market conditions in 2009 which included a significant narrowing of credit spreads. The Companys management of the duration of the fixed maturity investment portfolio generally produces a duration that exceeds the estimated duration of the Companys net insurance liabilities. The average duration of fixed maturities and short term securities was 3.9 (4.2 excluding short term securities) at December 31, 2009 and 4.2 (4.6 excluding short term securities) at December 31, 2008. The decline in duration resulted from the impact of declining market yields on existing holdings of municipal bonds and mortgage backed securities (which impact the assumptions related to optional pre payments and the related estimate of effective duration for callable securities), and the purchase of shorter term fixed maturities during the second half of 2009. The primary goals of the Companys asset liability management process are to satisfy the insurance liabilities, manage the interest rate risk embedded in those insurance liabilities and maintain sufficient liquidity to cover fluctuations in projected liability cash flows. Generally, the expected principal and interest payments produced by the Companys fixed maturity portfolio adequately fund the estimated runoff of the Companys insurance reserves. Although this is not an exact cash flow match in each period, the substantial degree by which the market value of the fixed maturity portfolio exceeds the expected present value of the net insurance liabilities, as well as the positive cash flow from newly sold policies and the large amount of high quality liquid bonds, provide assurance of the Companys ability to fund claim payments without having to sell illiquid assets or access credit facilities. 118 Table of Contents Financing Activities Net cash flows used in financing activities totaled $3.44 billion, $2.87 billion and $2.95 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The 2009 and 2008 totals primarily reflected common share repurchases, dividends to shareholders and the repayment of debt, partially offset by the proceeds from employee stock option exercises and the issuance of debt. The 2007 total primarily reflected common share repurchases, the early redemption of debt, the repayment of maturing debt and dividends to shareholders, partially offset by the issuance of debt and proceeds from employee stock option exercises. Debt Transactions. 2009. On June 2, 2009, the Company issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of 5.90% senior notes that will mature on June 2, 2019. The net proceeds of the issuance, after original issuance discount and the deduction of underwriting expenses and commissions and other expenses, totaled approximately $494 million. Interest on the senior notes is payable semi annually in arrears on June 2 and December 2 of each year. The senior notes are redeemable in whole at any time or in part from time to time, at the Companys option, at a redemption price equal to the greater of (a) 100% of the principal amount of senior notes to be redeemed or (b) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the senior notes to be redeemed (exclusive of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the date of redemption on a semi annual basis (assuming a 360 day year consisting of twelve 30 day months) at the then current Treasury rate (as defined) plus 35 basis points for the senior notes. On March 3, 2009, the Companys zero coupon convertible notes with an effective yield of 4.17% and a remaining principal balance of $141 million matured and were fully paid. 2008. On March 15, 2008, the Companys $400 million, 3.75% senior notes matured and were fully paid. On May 13, 2008, the Company issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of 5.80% senior notes that will mature on May 15, 2018. The net proceeds of the issuance, after original issuance discount and the deduction of underwriting expenses and commissions and other expenses, totaled approximately $496 million. Interest on the senior notes is payable semi annually on May 15 and November 15. The senior notes are redeemable in whole at any time or in part from time to time, at the Companys option, at a redemption price equal to the greater of (a) 100% of the principal amount of senior notes to be redeemed or (b) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the senior notes to be redeemed (exclusive of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the date of redemption on a semi annual basis (assuming a 360 day year consisting of twelve 30 day months) at the then current Treasury rate plus 30 basis points for the senior notes. On December 15, 2008, two medium term notes with a cumulative par value of $149 million, each bearing an interest rate of 6.38%, matured and were fully paid. 2007. In January 2007, the Company redeemed $81 million of 8.47% subordinated debentures originally issued in 1997 and due January 10, 2027. The debentures were redeemable by the Company on or after January 10, 2007. In January 1997, USF&G Capital II, a business trust, issued $100 million of capital securities, the proceeds of which, along with $3 million in capital provided by the Company, were used to purchase the subordinated debentures issued by USF&G Corporation and subsequently assumed by the Company after the merger of The St. Paul Companies Inc. (SPC) and Travelers Property Casualty Corp. (TPC). During the period prior to redemption, the Company had repurchased and retired $22 million of the debentures in open market transactions. Upon the Companys redemption of the remaining $81 million of subordinated debentures in January 2007, USF&G Capital II in turn used the proceeds to redeem its remaining capital securities outstanding. USF&G Capital II was then liquidated, and the Company received a $3 million distribution of capital. The Company 119 Table of Contents recorded a $3 million pretax gain on the redemption of the subordinated debentures, due to the remaining unamortized fair value adjustment recorded at the merger date, less the redemption premium paid. In March 2007, the Company issued $1 billion aggregate principal amount of 6.25% fixed to floating rate junior subordinated debentures due March 15, 2067 for net proceeds of $986 million (after original issue discount and the deduction of underwriting expenses and commissions and other expenses). The debentures were issued at a discount, resulting in an effective interest rate of 6.447%. The debentures bear interest at an annual rate of 6.25% from the date of issuance to, but excluding, March 15, 2017, payable semi annually in arrears on March 15 and September 15. From and including March 15, 2017, the debentures will bear interest at an annual rate equal to three month LIBOR plus 2.215%, payable quarterly on March 15, June 15, September 15 and December 15 of each year. The Company has the right, on one or more occasions, to defer the payment of interest on the debentures. The Company will not be required to settle deferred interest until it has deferred interest for five consecutive years or, if earlier, made a payment of current interest during a deferral period. The Company may defer interest for up to ten consecutive years without giving rise to an event of default. Deferred interest will accumulate additional interest at an annual rate equal to the annual interest rate then applicable to the debentures. The debentures carry a 60 year final maturity and a scheduled maturity date in year thirty. During the 180 day period ending not more than fifteen and not less than ten business days prior to the scheduled maturity date, the Company is required to use commercially reasonable efforts to sell enough qualifying capital securities, or at its option, common stock, qualifying warrants, mandatorily convertible preferred stock, debt exchangeable for common equity or debt exchangeable for preferred equity to permit repayment of the debentures at the scheduled maturity date. If any debentures remain outstanding after the scheduled maturity date, the unpaid amount will remain outstanding until the Company has raised sufficient proceeds from the sale of qualifying capital securities or, at its option, common stock, qualifying warrants, mandatorily convertible preferred stock, debt exchangeable for common equity or debt exchangeable for preferred equity to permit the repayment in full of the debentures. If there are remaining debentures at the final maturity date, the Company is required to redeem the debentures using any source of funds. Qualifying capital securities are securities (other than common stock, qualifying warrants, mandatorily convertible preferred stock, debt exchangeable for common equity, and debt exchangeable for preferred equity) which generally are treated by the ratings agencies as having similar equity content to the debentures. The Company can redeem the debentures at its option, in whole or in part, at any time on or after March 15, 2017 at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount being redeemed plus accrued but unpaid interest. The Company can redeem the debentures at its option prior to March 15, 2017 (a) in whole at any time or in part from time to time or (b) in whole, but not in part, in the event of certain tax or rating agency events relating to the debentures, at a redemption price equal to the greater of 100% of the principal amount being redeemed and the applicable make whole amount, in each case plus any accrued and unpaid interest. In connection with the offering of the debentures, the Company entered into a "replacement capital covenant" for the benefit of holders of one or more designated series of the Companys indebtedness (which will initially be the 6.750% senior notes due 2036). Under the terms of the replacement capital covenant, if the Company redeems the debentures at any time prior to March 15, 2047 it can only do so with the proceeds of securities that are treated by the rating agencies as having similar equity content to the debentures. In March 2007, the Companys $500 million, 5.75% senior notes matured and were fully paid. In April 2007, the Company completed the redemption of its outstanding $893 million, 4.50% convertible junior subordinated notes due in 2032 (the notes). The notes were originally issued by 120 Table of Contents Travelers Property Casualty Corp., and the Company assumed certain obligations relating to the notes pursuant to a Second Supplemental Indenture dated April 1, 2004. Each note had a principal amount of $25.00. The redemption price for each note was $25.5625 plus $0.009375 of accrued and unpaid interest. Any note called for redemption could be surrendered for conversion into common stock before the close of business on April 17, 2007. Each note was convertible into 0.4684 shares of common stock of The Travelers Companies, Inc. Holders of $36 million of the notes tendered their certificates in exchange for the issuance of 670,910 of the Companys common shares. The remaining $857 million of notes were redeemed for cash, along with accrued interest to the date of redemption. The Company recorded a $39 million pretax loss ($25 million after tax) in other revenues in the second quarter of 2007 related to the redemption, consisting of the redemption premium paid and the write off of remaining unamortized issuance costs. In May 2007, the Company issued $250 million aggregate principal amount of 5.375% senior notes due June 15, 2012 (the 2012 senior notes), $450 million aggregate principal amount of 5.75% senior notes due December 15, 2017 (the 2017 senior notes), and $800 million aggregate principal amount of 6.25% senior notes due June 15, 2037 (the 2037 senior notes). The total net proceeds of these three senior note issuances, after original issuance discounts and the deduction of underwriting expenses and commissions and other expenses, were approximately $1.47 billion. Interest on each of the senior note issuances is payable semi annually on June 15 and December 15. Each series of senior notes is redeemable in whole at any time or in part from time to time, at the Companys option, at a redemption price equal to the greater of (a) 100% of the principal amount of senior notes to be redeemed, or (b) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the senior notes to be redeemed (exclusive of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the date of redemption on a semi annual basis (assuming a 360 day year consisting of twelve 30 day months) at the then current Treasury rate plus 12.5 basis points for the 2012 senior notes, 15 basis points for the 2017 senior notes and 20 basis points for the 2037 senior notes. The Company applied a portion of the net proceeds of this offering to repay approximately $442 million of senior notes maturing on August 16, 2007 and to repay approximately $42 million of medium term notes maturing in the third quarter of 2007. The remaining proceeds were used for general corporate purposes. Prior to applying these proceeds, the Company invested them in investment grade, marketable securities. In August 2007, the Companys $442 million, 5.01% senior notes matured and were fully paid. In 2007, medium term notes with a cumulative par value of $72 million and interest rates ranging from 6.85% to 7.37% matured and were fully paid. The amounts of debt obligations, other than commercial paper, that becomes due in 2010, 2011 and 2012 are $273 million, $11 million and $250 million, respectively. Dividends. Dividends paid to shareholders totaled $693 million, $715 million and $742 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. On February 3, 2010, the Companys board of directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.33 per share, payable March 31, 2010 to shareholders of record on March 10, 2010. The declaration and payment of future dividends to holders of the Companys common stock will be at the discretion of the Companys board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including the Companys financial position, earnings, capital requirements of the Companys operating subsidiaries, legal requirements, regulatory constraints and other factors as the board of directors deems relevant. Dividends would be paid by the Company only if declared by its board of directors out of funds legally available, subject to any other restrictions that may be applicable to the Company. Share Repurchases. Since May 2006, the Companys board of directors has approved four common share repurchase authorizations, for a cumulative authorization of up to $16 billion of shares of the Companys common stock. Under these authorizations, the most recent of which totaled $6 billion and was approved by the board of directors in October 2009, repurchases may be made from time to time 121 Table of Contents in the open market, pursuant to preset trading plans meeting the requirements of Rule 10b5 1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, in private transactions or otherwise. The authorizations do not have a stated expiration date. The timing and actual number of shares to be repurchased in the future will depend on a variety of factors, including the Companys earnings, corporate and regulatory requirements, share price, catastrophe losses, strategic initiatives and other market conditions. The following table summarizes repurchase activity in 2009 under these authorizations and remaining repurchase capacity at December 31, 2009. Quarterly Period Ending Number of shares purchased Cost of shares repurchased Average price paid per share Remaining capacity under share repurchase authorization March 31, 2009 $ $ $ 3,809,857,539 June 30, 2009 18,450,066 750,030,914 40.65 3,059,826,625 September 30, 2009 20,826,981 1,000,035,439 48.02 2,059,791,186 December 31, 2009 30,095,982 1,550,088,479 51.50 6,509,702,707 Total 69,373,029 $ 3,300,154,832 $ 47.57 $ 6,509,702,707 Since the inception of the repurchase authorizations in May 2006, the Company has repurchased a cumulative total of 193.2 million shares for a total cost of $9.49 billion, or $49.12 per share, through December 31, 2009. In 2009, 2008 and 2007, the Company acquired 1.5 million, 0.8 million and 1.7 million shares, respectively, of common stock from employees as treasury stock primarily to cover payroll withholding taxes related to the vesting of restricted stock awards and exercises of stock options. Capital Resources Capital resources reflect the overall financial strength of the Company and its ability to borrow funds at competitive rates and raise new capital to meet its needs. The following table summarizes the components of the Companys capital structure at December 31, 2009 and 2008. (at December 31, in millions) 2009 2008 Debt: Short term $ 373 $ 242 Long term 6,165 5,938 Net unamortized fair value adjustments and debt issuance costs (11 ) 1 Total debt 6,527 6,181 Preferred shareholders equity 79 89 Common shareholders equity: Common stock and retained earnings, less treasury stock 26,117 26,130 Accumulated other changes in equity from nonowner sources 1,219 (900 ) Total shareholders equity 27,415 25,319 Total capitalization $ 33,942 $ 31,500 The $2.44 billion increase in total capitalization from year end 2008 reflected an increase in unrealized appreciation on investment securities, net income in 2009 and the issuance of debt, partially offset by common share repurchases, dividends to shareholders and debt maturities. The improvement in the Companys net unrealized gain position at December 31, 2009 over the prior year is primarily attributable to the Companys fixed maturity investments. The improved valuations on these holdings reflect the changing market conditions in 2009 which included a significant narrowing of credit spreads. 122 Table of Contents The following table provides a reconciliation of total capitalization excluding net unrealized gain (loss) on investments to total capitalization presented in the foregoing table. (at December 31, dollars in millions) 2009 2008 Total capitalization excluding net unrealized gain (loss) on investments $ 32,081 $ 31,644 Net unrealized gain (loss) on investments, net of taxes 1,861 (144 ) Total capitalization $ 33,942 $ 31,500 Debt to total capital ratio 19.2 % 19.6 % Debt to total capital ratio excluding net unrealized gain (loss) on investments 20.3 % 19.5 % The debt to total capital ratio excluding net unrealized gain (loss) on investments is calculated by dividing (a) debt by (b) total capitalization excluding net unrealized investment gain (loss) on investments, net of taxes. Net unrealized investment gains and losses can be significantly impacted by both discretionary and other economic factors and are not necessarily indicative of operating trends. Accordingly, in the opinion of the Companys management, the debt to total capital ratio calculated on this basis provides another useful metric for investors to understand the Companys financial leverage position. The Companys debt to total capital ratio of 20.3% at December 31, 2009 calculated on this basis approximated its targeted level. Line of Credit Agreement. The Company has a $1.0 billion, five year revolving credit agreement (the "credit agreement") with a syndicate of financial institutions that expires on June 10, 2010. Pursuant to covenants in the credit agreement, the Company must maintain an excess of consolidated net worth over goodwill and other intangible assets of not less than $10 billion at all times. The Company must also maintain a ratio of total consolidated debt to the sum of total consolidated debt plus consolidated net worth of not greater than 0.40 to 1.00. In addition, the credit agreement contains other customary restrictive covenants as well as certain customary events of default, including with respect to a change in control. At December 31, 2009, the Company was in compliance with these covenants and all other covenants related to its outstanding debt instruments. There was no amount outstanding under the credit agreement as of December 31, 2009. The Company is evaluating its options with regard to the forthcoming expiration of the credit agreement. The credit agreement provides back up liquidity for the Companys $800 million commercial paper program, of which $100 million was outstanding at December 31, 2009. In December 2008, the Company filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission a universal shelf registration statement for the potential offering and sale of securities to replace its expiring universal shelf registration statement. The Company may offer these securities from time to time at prices and on other terms to be determined at the time of offering. During 2009, the Company issued securities with a principal amount of $500 million under the new shelf registration statement, and in 2008, the Company issued securities with a principal amount of $500 million under the prior shelf registration statement. Share Repurchase Authorization. At December 31, 2009, the Company had $6.51 billion of capacity remaining under its share repurchase authorization approved by the board of directors. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes, as of December 31, 2009, the Companys future payments under contractual obligations and estimated claims and claims related payments. The table excludes short term obligations and includes only liabilities at December 31, 2009 that are expected to be settled in cash. 123 Table of Contents The table below includes the amount and estimated future timing of claims and claim related payments. The amounts do not represent the exact liability, but instead represent estimates, generally utilizing actuarial projections techniques, at a given accounting date. These estimates include expectations of what the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost based on the Companys assessment of facts and circumstances then known, review of historical settlement patterns, estimates of trends in claims severity, frequency, legal theories of liability and other factors. Variables in the reserve estimation process can be affected by both internal and external events, such as changes in claims handling procedures, economic inflation or deflation, legal trends and legislative changes. Many of these items are not directly quantifiable, particularly on a prospective basis. Additionally, there may be significant reporting lags between the occurrence of the policyholder event and the time it is actually reported to the insurer. The future cash flows related to the items contained in the table below required estimation of both amount (including severity considerations) and timing. Amount and timing are frequently estimated separately. An estimation of both amount and timing of future cash flows related to claims and claim related payments is generally reliable only in the aggregate with some unavoidable estimation uncertainty. The contractual obligations related to debt, operating leases, purchase obligations, long term unfunded investment commitments, estimated claims and claims related payments (gross of the 124 Table of Contents estimated reinsurance recoveries) and liabilities related to unrecognized tax benefits, at December 31, 2009 were as follows: Payments Due by Period (in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years Debt Medium term notes $ 21 $ 21 $ $ $ Senior notes 5,150 250 250 500 4,150 Junior subordinated debentures 1,254 1,254 Private placement notes 13 2 11 Total debt principal 6,438 273 261 500 5,404 Interest 5,294 390 748 690 3,466 Total long term debt obligations(1) 11,732 663 1,009 1,190 8,870 Operating leases(2) 681 174 252 148 107 Purchase obligations Information systems administration and maintenance commitments(3) 117 55 54 8 Reinsurance brokerage commitment(4) 44 20 24 Other purchase commitments(5) 75 23 10 10 32 Total purchase obligations 236 98 88 18 32 Long term unfunded investment commitments(6) 1,319 297 377 457 188 Estimated claims and claims related payments Claims and claim adjustment expenses(7) 54,290 12,030 14,549 8,797 18,914 Claims from large deductible policies (8) Loss based assessments(9) 238 34 55 25 124 Reinsurance contracts accounted for as deposits(10) 1 1 Payout from ceded funds withheld(11) 250 6 129 11 104 Total estimated claims and claims related payments 54,779 12,071 14,733 8,833 19,142 Liabilities related to unrecognized tax benefits(12) 2,126 1,734 392 Total $ 70,873 $ 13,303 $ 18,193 $ 11,038 $ 28,339 (1)See note 8 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements for a further discussion of outstanding indebtedness. Because the amounts reported in the foregoing table include principal and interest, the total long term debt obligations will not agree with the amounts reported in note 8. (2)Represents agreements entered into in the ordinary course of business to lease office space, equipment and furniture. (3)Includes agreements with vendors to purchase system software administration and maintenance services. (4)In connection with the sale of its insurance brokerage operations, the Company committed to acquire brokerage services from the buyer through May 16, 2012. See note 15 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements. 125 Table of Contents (5)Includes commitments to vendors entered into in the ordinary course of business for goods and services including office supplies, archival services, etc. (6)Represents estimated timing for fulfilling unfunded commitments for private equity limited partnerships and real estate partnerships. (7)The amounts in "Claims and claim adjustment expenses" in the table above represent the estimated timing of future payments for both reported and unreported claims incurred and related claim adjustment expenses, gross of reinsurance recoverables. The Company has entered into reinsurance agreements to protect itself from potential losses in excess of the amount it is prepared to accept as described in note 5 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements. In order to qualify for reinsurance accounting, a reinsurance agreement must indemnify the insurer from insurance risk, i.e., the agreement must transfer amount and timing risk. Since the timing and amount of cash inflows from such reinsurance agreements are directly related to the underlying payment of claims and claim adjustment expenses by the insurer, reinsurance recoverables are recognized in a manner consistent with the liabilities (the estimated liability for claims and claim adjustment expenses) relating to the underlying reinsured contracts. The presence of any feature that can delay timely reimbursement of claims by a reinsurer results in the reinsurance contract being accounted for as a deposit rather than reinsurance (see below). The assumptions used in estimating the amount and timing of the reinsurance recoverables are consistent with those used in estimating the amount and timing of the related liabilities. Reinsurance agreements that do not transfer both amount and timing risk are accounted for as deposits and included in "Reinsurance contracts accounted for as deposits" in the table above. The estimated future cash inflows from the Companys reinsurance contracts that qualify for reinsurance accounting are as follows: (in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years Reinsurance recoverables $ 12,459 $ 2,582 $ 3,199 $ 2,027 $ 4,651 The Company manages its business and evaluates its liabilities for claims and claim adjustment expense on a net of reinsurance basis. The estimated cash flows on a net of reinsurance basis are as follows: (in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years Claims and claim adjustment expenses, net $ 41,831 $ 9,448 $ 11,350 $ 6,770 $ 14,263 For business underwritten by non U.S. operations, future cash flows related to reported and unreported claims incurred and related claim adjustment expenses were translated at the spot rate on December 31, 2009. The amounts reported in the table above and in the table of reinsurance recoverables above are presented on a nominal basis and have not been adjusted to reflect the time value of money. Accordingly, the amounts above will differ from the Companys balance sheet to the extent that the liability for claims and claim adjustment expenses and the related reinsurance recoverables have been discounted in the balance sheet. (See note 1 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements.) (8)Workers compensation large deductible policies provide third party coverage in which the Company typically is responsible for paying the entire loss under such policies and then seeks 126 Table of Contents reimbursement from the insured for the deductible amount. "Claims from large deductible policies" represent the estimated future payment for claims and claim related expenses below the deductible amount, net of the estimated recovery of the deductible. The liability and the related deductible receivable for unpaid claims are presented in the consolidated balance sheet as "contractholder payables" and "contractholder receivables," respectively. Most deductibles for such policies are paid directly from the policyholders escrow which is periodically replenished by the policyholder. The payment of the loss amounts above the deductible are reported within "Claims and claim adjustment expenses" in the above table. Because the timing of the collection of the deductible (contractholder receivables) occurs shortly after the payment of the deductible to a claimant (contractholder payables), these cash flows offset each other in the table. The estimated timing of the payment of the contractholder payables and the collection of contractholder receivables for workers compensation policies is presented below: (in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years Contractholder payables/receivables $ 5,797 $ 1,442 $ 1,608 $ 854 $ 1,893 (9)The amounts in "Loss based assessments" relate to estimated future payments of second injury fund assessments which would result from payment of current claim liabilities. Second injury funds cover the cost of any additional benefits for aggravation of a pre existing condition. For loss based assessments, the cost is shared by the insurance industry and self insureds, funded through assessments to insurance companies and self insureds based on losses. Amounts relating to second injury fund assessments are included in "other liabilities" in the consolidated balance sheet. (10)The amounts in "Reinsurance contracts accounted for as deposits" represent estimated future nominal payments for reinsurance agreements that are accounted for as deposits. Amounts payable under deposit agreements are included in "other liabilities" in the consolidated balance sheet. The amounts reported in the table are presented on a nominal basis and have not been adjusted to reflect the time value of money. Accordingly, the amounts above will differ from the Companys balance sheet to the extent that deposit values in the balance sheet have been discounted using deposit accounting. (11)The amounts in "Payout from ceded funds withheld" represent estimated payments for losses and return of funds held related to certain reinsurance arrangements whereby the Company holds a portion of the premium due to the reinsurer and is allowed to pay claims from the amounts held. (12)The Companys gross current and deferred liabilities related to unrecognized tax benefits from uncertain tax positions are $2,126 million. Offsetting these liabilities are current and deferred tax assets in the following amounts associated with the temporary differences that would exist if these positions become realized: (in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years Receivables related to unrecognized tax benefits $ 2,060 $ $ 1,669 $ 391 $ The above table does not include an analysis of liabilities reported for structured settlements for which the Company has purchased annuities and remains contingently liable in the event of default by the company issuing the annuity. The Company is not reasonably likely to incur material future payment obligations under such agreements. In addition, the Company does not have a best estimate of contributions expected to be paid to its qualified pension plan. Accordingly, any future contributions are not included in the foregoing table. 127  Table of Contents Dividend Availability The Companys principal insurance subsidiaries are domiciled in the states of Connecticut and Minnesota. The insurance holding company laws of both states applicable to the Companys subsidiaries requires notice to, and approval by, the state insurance commissioner for the declaration or payment of any dividend that, together with other distributions made within the preceding twelve months, exceeds the greater of 10% of the insurers capital and surplus as of the preceding December 31, or the insurers net income for the twelve month period ending the preceding December 31, in each case determined in accordance with statutory accounting practices and by state regulation. This declaration or payment is further limited by adjusted unassigned surplus, as determined in accordance with statutory accounting practices. The insurance holding company laws of other states in which the Companys subsidiaries are domiciled generally contain similar, although in some instances somewhat more restrictive, limitations on the payment of dividends. A maximum of $3.49 billion is available by the end of 2010 for such dividends without prior approval of the Connecticut Insurance Department for Connecticut domiciled subsidiaries and the Minnesota Department of Commerce for Minnesota domiciled subsidiaries. The Company may choose to accelerate the timing within 2010 and or increase the amount of dividends from its insurance subsidiaries in 2010, which could result in certain dividends being subject to approval by those Insurance Departments. The holding company received $3.54 billion of dividends from its domestic insurance subsidiaries in 2009, including a $500 million dividend that received regulatory approval. Risk Based Capital The NAIC adopted RBC requirements for property casualty companies to be used as minimum capital requirements by the NAIC and states to identify companies that merit further regulatory action. The formulas have not been designed to differentiate among adequately capitalized companies that operate with levels of capital higher than RBC requirements. Therefore, it is inappropriate and ineffective to use the formulas to rate or to rank these companies. At December 31, 2009, all of the Companys insurance subsidiaries had adjusted capital in excess of amounts requiring any company or regulatory action. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company has entered into certain contingent obligations for guarantees related to letters of credit, issuance of debt securities, certain investments and various indemnifications, including those related to the sale of business entities. See note 15 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements. The Company does not expect these arrangements to have a material effect on the Companys financial position, changes in financial position, revenues and expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES The Company considers its most significant accounting estimates to be those applied to claims and claim adjustment expense reserves and related reinsurance recoverables, investment valuation and impairments, and goodwill impairments. Claims and Claim Adjustment Expense Reserves Claims and claim adjustment expense reserves (loss reserves) represent managements estimate of ultimate unpaid costs of losses and loss adjustment expenses for claims that have been reported and claims that have been incurred but not yet reported. Loss reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability, but instead represent management estimates, generally utilizing actuarial expertise and 128 Table of Contents projection techniques, at a given accounting date. These loss reserve estimates are expectations of what the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost upon final resolution in the future, based on the Companys assessment of facts and circumstances then known, review of historical settlement patterns, estimates of trends in claims severity and frequency, expected interpretations of legal theories of liability and other factors. In establishing loss reserves, the Company also takes into account estimated recoveries, reinsurance, salvage and subrogation. The loss reserves are reviewed regularly by qualified actuaries employed by the Company. The process of estimating loss reserves involves a high degree of judgment and is subject to a number of variables. These variables can be affected by both internal and external events, such as changes in claims handling procedures, changes in individuals involved in the reserve estimation process, economic inflation, legal trends and legislative changes, among others. The impact of many of these items on ultimate costs for claims and claim adjustment expenses is difficult to estimate. Loss reserve estimation difficulties also differ significantly by product line due to differences in claim complexity, the volume of claims, the potential severity of individual claims, the determination of occurrence date for a claim and reporting lags (the time between the occurrence of the policyholder event and when it is actually reported to the insurer). Informed judgment is applied throughout the process, including the application of various individual experiences and expertise to multiple sets of data and analyses. The Company continually refines its loss reserve estimates in a regular ongoing process as historical loss experience develops and additional claims are reported and settled. The Company rigorously attempts to consider all significant facts and circumstances known at the time loss reserves are established. Due to the inherent uncertainty underlying loss reserve estimates including, but not limited to, the future settlement environment, final resolution of the estimated liability for claims and claim adjustment expenses may be higher or lower than the related loss reserves at the reporting date. Therefore, actual paid losses, as claims are settled in the future, may be materially different in amount than current loss reserves favorable or unfavorable. Because establishment of loss reserves is an inherently uncertain process involving estimates, currently established loss reserves may change. The Company reflects adjustments to loss reserves in the results of operations in the period the estimates are changed. There are also additional risks which impact the estimation of ultimate costs for catastrophes. For example, the estimation of reserves related to hurricanes can be affected by the inability of the Company and its insureds to access portions of the impacted areas, the complexity of factors contributing to the losses, the legal and regulatory uncertainties and the nature of the information available to establish the reserves. Complex factors include, but are not limited to: determining whether damage was caused by flooding versus wind; evaluating general liability and pollution exposures; estimating additional living expenses; estimating the impact of demand surge, infrastructure disruption, fraud, the effect of mold damage and business interruption costs; and reinsurance collectibility. The timing of a catastrophe, such as at or near the end of a reporting period, can also affect the information available to the Company in estimating reserves for that reporting period. The estimates related to catastrophes are adjusted as actual claims emerge. A portion of the Companys gross claims and claim adjustment expense reserves are for asbestos and environmental claims and related litigation, which totaled $3.49 billion at December 31, 2009. While the ongoing review of asbestos and environmental claims and associated liabilities considers the inconsistencies of court decisions as to coverage, plaintiffs expanded theories of liability and the risks inherent in complex litigation and other uncertainties, in the opinion of the Companys management, it is possible that the outcome of the continued uncertainties regarding these claims could result in liability in future periods that differs from current reserves by an amount that could be material to the Companys future operating results. See the preceding discussion of "Asbestos Claims and Litigation" and "Environmental Claims and Litigation." 129 Table of Contents Gross claims and claim adjustment expense reserves by product line were as follows: 2009 2008 (at December 31, in millions) Case IBNR Total Case IBNR Total General liability $ 6,368 $ 11,542 $ 17,910 $ 6,529 $ 11,912 $ 18,441 Property 1,211 771 1,982 1,414 858 2,272 Commercial multi peril 1,878 1,762 3,640 1,988 1,968 3,956 Commercial automobile 2,262 1,294 3,556 2,413 1,408 3,821 Workers compensation 9,355 7,122 16,477 9,419 6,872 16,291 Fidelity and surety 661 1,091 1,752 677 1,081 1,758 Personal automobile 1,457 994 2,451 1,448 1,043 2,491 Homeowners and personal other 633 717 1,350 633 800 1,433 International and other 2,003 1,933 3,936 2,140 2,043 4,183 Property casualty 25,828 27,226 53,054 26,661 27,985 54,646 Accident and health 64 9 73 68 9 77 Claims and claim adjustment expense reserves $ 25,892 $ 27,235 $ 53,127 $ 26,729 $ 27,994 $ 54,723 The amounts previously disclosed above at December 31, 2008 for general liability and commercial auto IBNR reserves have been increased and decreased by $103 million, respectively, to correct a classification error at December 31, 2008. In addition, the amounts previously disclosed at December 31, 2008 for commercial multi peril case and IBNR reserves, as well as the total case and IBNR reserves, have been increased and decreased by $172 million, respectively, to correct a classification error at December 31, 2008. These reclassifications had no impact on total claims and claim adjustment expense reserves reported at December 31, 2008. The $1.60 billion decline in gross claims and claim adjustment expense reserves since December 31, 2008 primarily reflected ongoing claims and claim adjustment expense activity, including losses incurred and payments, as well as favorable prior year reserve development and payments related to operations in runoff. Asbestos and environmental reserves are included in the General liability, Commercial multi peril and International and other lines in the summary table. Asbestos and environmental reserves are discussed separately; see "Asbestos Claims and Litigation", "Environmental Claims and Litigation" and "Uncertainty Regarding Adequacy of Asbestos and Environmental Reserves." General Discussion The process for estimating the liabilities for claims and claim adjustment expenses begins with the collection and analysis of claim data. Data on individual reported claims, both current and historical, including paid amounts and individual claim adjuster estimates, are grouped by common characteristics (components) and evaluated by actuaries in their analyses of ultimate claim liabilities by product line. Such data is occasionally supplemented with external data as available and when appropriate. The process of analyzing reserves for a component is undertaken on a regular basis, generally quarterly, in light of continually updated information. Multiple estimation methods are available for the analysis of ultimate claim liabilities. Each estimation method has its own set of assumption variables and its own advantages and disadvantages, with no single estimation method being better than the others in all situations and no one set of assumption variables being meaningful for all product line components. The relative strengths and weaknesses of the particular estimation methods when applied to a particular group of claims can also change over time. Therefore, the actual choice of estimation method(s) can change with each 130 Table of Contents evaluation. The estimation method(s) chosen are those that are believed to produce the most reliable indication at that particular evaluation date for the claim liabilities being evaluated. In most cases, multiple estimation methods will be valid for the particular facts and circumstances of the claim liabilities being evaluated. This will result in a range of reasonable estimates for any particular claim liability. The Company uses such range analyses to back test whether previously established estimates for reserves at the reporting segments are reasonable, given subsequent information. Reported values found to be closer to the endpoints of a range of reasonable estimates are subject to further detailed reviews. These reviews may substantiate the validity of managements recorded estimate or lead to a change in the reported estimate. The exact boundary points of these ranges are more qualitative than quantitative in nature, as no clear line of demarcation exists to determine when the set of underlying assumptions for an estimation method switches from being reasonable to unreasonable. As a result, the Company does not believe that the endpoints of these ranges are or would be comparable across companies. In addition, potential interactions among the different estimation assumptions for different product lines make the aggregation of individual ranges a highly judgmental and inexact process. Property casualty insurance policies are either written on a claims made or on an occurrence basis. Claims made policies generally cover, subject to requirements in individual policies, claims reported during the policy period. Policies that are written on an occurrence basis require that the insured demonstrate that a loss occurred in the policy period, even if the insured reports the loss many years later. Most general liability policies are written on an occurrence basis. These policies are subject to substantial loss development over time as facts and circumstances change in the years following the policy issuance. The occurrence form, which accounts for much of the reserve development in asbestos and environmental exposures, is also used to provide coverage for construction general liability, including construction defect. Occurrence based forms of insurance for general liability exposures require substantial projection of various trends, including future inflation and judicial interpretations and societal litigation dynamics, among others. A basic premise in most actuarial analyses is that past patterns demonstrated in the data will repeat themselves in the future, absent a material change in the associated risk factors discussed below. To the extent a material change affecting the ultimate claim liability is known, such change is quantified to the extent possible through an analysis of internal company data and, if available and when appropriate, external data. Such a measurement is specific to the facts and circumstances of the particular claim portfolio and the known change being evaluated. Significant structural changes to the available data, product mix or organization can materially impact the reserve estimation process. Informed judgment is applied throughout the reserving process. This includes the application of various individual experiences and expertise to multiple sets of data and analyses. In addition to actuaries, experts involved with the reserving process also include underwriting and claims personnel and lawyers, as well as other company management. Therefore, management may have to consider varying individual viewpoints as part of its estimation of loss reserves. It is also likely that during periods of significant change, such as a merger, consistent application of informed judgment becomes even more complicated and difficult. The variables discussed above in this general discussion have different impacts on reserve estimation uncertainty for a given product line, depending on the length of the claim tail, the reporting lag, the impact of individual claims and the complexity of the claim process for a given product line. Product lines are generally classifiable as either long tail or short tail, based on the average length of time between the event triggering claims under a policy and the final resolution of those claims. Short tail claims are reported and settled quickly, resulting in less estimation variability. The longer the 131 Table of Contents time before final claim resolution, the greater the exposure to estimation risks and hence the greater the estimation uncertainty. A major component of the claim tail is the reporting lag. The reporting lag, which is the time between the event triggering a claim and the reporting of the claim to the insurer, makes estimating IBNR inherently more uncertain. In addition, the greater the reporting lag, the greater the proportion of IBNR to the total claim liability for the product line. Writing new products with material reporting lags can result in adding several years worth of IBNR claim exposure before the reporting lag exposure becomes clearly observable, thereby increasing the risk associated with pricing and reserving such products. The most extreme example of claim liabilities with long reporting lags are asbestos claims. For some lines, the impact of large individual claims can be material to the analysis. These lines are generally referred to as being "low frequency/high severity," while lines without this "large claim" sensitivity are referred to as "high frequency/low severity." Estimates of claim liabilities for low frequency/high severity lines can be sensitive to the impact of a small number of potentially large claims. As a result, the role of judgment is much greater for these reserve estimates. In contrast, for high frequency/low severity lines the impact of individual claims is relatively minor and the range of reasonable reserve estimates is narrower and more stable. Claim complexity can also greatly affect the estimation process by impacting the number of assumptions needed to produce the estimate, the potential stability of the underlying data and claim process, and the ability to gain an understanding of the data. Product lines with greater claim complexity, such as for certain surety and construction exposures, have inherently greater estimation uncertainty. Actuaries have to exercise a considerable degree of judgment in the evaluation of all these factors in their analysis of reserves. The human element in the application of actuarial judgment is unavoidable when faced with material uncertainty. Different actuaries may choose different assumptions when faced with such uncertainty, based on their individual backgrounds, professional experiences and areas of focus. Hence, the estimates selected by the various actuaries may differ materially from each other. Lastly, significant structural changes to the available data, product mix or organization can also materially impact the reserve estimation process. Events such as mergers increase the inherent uncertainty of reserve estimates for a period of time, until stable trends re establish themselves within the new organization. Risk factors The major causes of material uncertainty ("risk factors") generally will vary for each product line, as well as for each separately analyzed component of the product line. In a few cases, such risk factors are explicit assumptions of the estimation method, but in most cases, they are implicit. For example, a method may explicitly assume that a certain percentage of claims will close each year, but will implicitly assume that the legal interpretation of existing contract language will remain unchanged. Actual results will likely vary from expectations for each of these assumptions, causing actual paid losses, as claims are settled in the future, to be different in amount than the reserves being estimated currently. Some risk factors will affect more than one product line. Examples include changes in claim department practices, changes in settlement patterns, regulatory and legislative actions, court actions, timeliness of claim reporting, state mix of claimants and degree of claimant fraud. The extent of the impact of a risk factor will also vary by components within a product line. Individual risk factors are also subject to interactions with other risk factors within product line components. The effect of a particular risk factor on estimates of claim liabilities cannot be isolated in most cases. For example, estimates of potential claim settlements may be impacted by the risk associated 132 Table of Contents with potential court rulings, but the final settlement agreement typically does not delineate how much of the settled amount is due to this and other factors. The evaluation of data is also subject to distortion from extreme events or structural shifts, sometimes in unanticipated ways. For example, the timing of claims payments in one geographic region will be impacted if claim adjusters are temporarily reassigned from that region to help settle catastrophe claims in another region. While some changes in the claim environment are sudden in nature (such as a new court ruling affecting the interpretation of all contracts in that jurisdiction), others are more evolutionary. Evolutionary changes can occur when multiple factors affect final claim values, with the uncertainty surrounding each factor being resolved separately, in stepwise fashion. The final impact is not known until all steps have occurred. Sudden changes generally cause a one time shift in claim liability estimates, although there may be some lag in reliable quantification of their impact. Evolutionary changes generally cause a series of shifts in claim liability estimates, as each component of the evolutionary change becomes evident and estimable. Actuarial methods for analyzing and estimating claims and claim adjustment expense reserves The principal estimation and analysis methods utilized by the Companys actuaries are the paid development method, the case incurred development method, the Bornhuetter Ferguson (BF) method, and average value analysis combined with the reported claim development method. The BF method is usually utilized for more recent accident periods, with a transition to other methods as the underlying claim data becomes more voluminous and therefore more credible. These are typically referred to as traditional actuarial methods. (See Glossary for an explanation of these methods). While these are the principal methods utilized throughout the Company, actuaries evaluating a particular component for a product line have available to them the full range of methods developed within the casualty actuarial profession. The Companys actuaries are also continually monitoring developments within the profession for advances in existing techniques or the creation of new techniques that might improve current and future estimates. Some components of product line reserves are susceptible to relatively infrequent large claims that can materially impact the total estimate for that component. In such cases, the Companys actuarial analysis generally isolates and analyzes separately such large claims. The reserves excluding such large claims are generally analyzed using the traditional methods described above. The reserves associated with large claims are then analyzed utilizing various methods, such as: Estimating the number of large claims and their average values based on historical trends from prior accident periods, adjusted for the current environment and supplemented with actual data for the accident year analyzed to the extent available. Utilizing individual claim adjuster estimates of the large claims, combined with continual monitoring of the aggregate accuracy of such claim adjuster estimates. (This monitoring may lead to supplemental adjustments to the aggregate of such claim estimates.) Utilizing historic longer term average ratios of large claims to small claims, and applying such ratios to the estimated ultimate small claims from traditional analysis. Ground up analysis of the underlying exposure (typically used for asbestos and environmental). The results of such methodologies are subjected to various reasonability and diagnostic tests, including paid to incurred loss ratios, implied incurred loss to earned premium ratios and non zero claim severity trends. An actual versus expected analysis is also performed comparing actual loss 133 Table of Contents development to expected development based on the prior review. Additional analyses may be performed based on the results of these diagnostics, including the investigation of other actuarial methods. The methods described above are generally utilized to evaluate managements existing estimate for prior accident periods. For the initial estimate of the current accident year, the available claim data is typically insufficient to produce a reliable indication. Hence, the initial estimate for an accident year is generally based on a loss ratio projection method, which uses the earned premium for the current year multiplied by a projected loss ratio. The projected loss ratio is determined through an analysis of prior periods experience, using loss trend, rate level differences, mix of business changes and other known or observed factors influencing the current accident year relative to prior accident years. The exact number of prior accident years utilized varies by product line component, based on the volume of business for that component and the reliability of an individual accident year estimate. Managements estimates At least once per quarter, certain Company management meets with its actuaries to review the latest claims and claim adjustment expense reserve analyses. Based on these analyses, management determines whether its ultimate claim liability estimates should be changed. In doing so, it must evaluate whether the new data provided represents credible actionable information or an anomaly that will have no effect on estimated ultimate claim liability. For example, as described above, payments may have decreased in one geographic region due to fewer claim adjusters being available to process claims. The resulting claim payment patterns would be analyzed to determine whether or not the change in payment pattern represents a change in ultimate claim liability. Such an assessment requires considerable judgment. It is frequently not possible to determine whether a change in the data is an anomaly until sometime after the event. Even if a change is determined to be permanent, it is not always possible to reliably determine the extent of the change until sometime later. The overall detailed analyses supporting such an effort can take several months to perform. This is because the underlying causes of the trends observed need to be evaluated, which may require the gathering or assembling of data not previously available. It may also include interviews with experts involved with the underlying processes. As a result, there can be a time lag between the emergence of a change and a determination that the change should be reflected in the Companys estimated claim liabilities. The final estimate selected by management in a reporting period is based on these various detailed analyses of past data, adjusted to reflect any new actionable information. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors is responsible for providing oversight of reserving propriety, and annually reviews the process by which the Company establishes reserves. Discussion of Product Lines The following section details reserving considerations and common risk factors by product line. There are many additional risk factors that may impact ultimate claim costs. Each risk factor presented will have a different impact on required reserves. Also, risk factors can have offsetting or compounding effects on required reserves. For example, in workers compensation, the use of expensive medical procedures that result in medical cost inflation may enable workers to return to work faster, thereby lowering indemnity costs. Thus, in almost all cases, it is impossible to discretely measure the effect of a single risk factor and construct a meaningful sensitivity expectation. In order to provide information on reasonably possible reserving changes by product line, the historical changes in year end loss reserves over a one year period are provided for the U.S. product lines. This information is provided for both the Company and the industry for the nine most recent years, and is based on the most recent publicly available data for the reported line(s) that most closely match the individual product line being discussed. These changes were calculated, net of reinsurance, 134 Table of Contents from statutory annual statement data found in Schedule P of those statements, and represent the reported reserve development on the beginning of the year claim liabilities divided by the beginning claim liabilities, all accident years combined, excluding non defense related claim adjustment expense. Data presented for the Company includes history for the entire Travelers group (U.S. companies only), whether or not the individual subsidiaries were originally part of SPC or TPC. This treatment is required by the statutory reporting instructions promulgated by state regulatory authorities for Schedule P. Comparable data for non U.S. companies is not available. General Liability General liability is generally considered a long tail line, as it takes a relatively long period of time to finalize and settle claims from a given accident year. The speed of claim reporting and claim settlement is a function of the specific coverage provided, the jurisdiction and specific policy provisions such as self insured retentions. There are numerous components underlying the general liability product line. Some of these have relatively moderate payment patterns (with most of the claims for a given accident year closed within 5 to 7 years), while others can have extreme lags in both reporting and payment of claims (e.g., a reporting lag of a decade or more for "construction defect" claims). While the majority of general liability coverages are written on an "occurrence" basis, certain general liability coverages (such as those covering directors and officers or professional liability) are typically insured on a "claims made" basis. General liability reserves are generally analyzed as two components: primary and excess/umbrella, with the primary component generally analyzed separately for bodily injury and property damage. Bodily injury liability payments reimburse the claimant for damages pertaining to physical injury as a result of the policyholders legal obligation arising from non intentional acts such as negligence, subject to the insurance policy provisions. In some cases the damages can include future wage loss (which is a function of future earnings power and wage inflation) and future medical treatment costs. Property damage liability payments result from damages to the claimants private property arising from the policyholders legal obligation for non intentional acts. In most cases, property damage losses are a function of costs as of the loss date, or soon thereafter. In addition, sizable or unique exposures are reviewed separately. These exposures include asbestos, environmental, other mass torts, construction defect, medical malpractice and large unique accounts that would otherwise distort the analysis. These unique categories often require a very high degree of judgment and require reserve analyses that do not rely on traditional actuarial methods. Defense costs are also a part of the insured costs covered by liability policies and can be significant, sometimes greater than the cost of the actual paid claims. For some products this risk is mitigated by policy language such that the insured portion of defense costs erodes the amount of policy limit available to pay the claim. Such "defense within the limits" policies are most common for "claims made" products. When defense costs are outside of the limits, amounts paid for defense costs do not erode the policy limits. This line is typically the largest source of reserve estimate uncertainty in the United States (excluding assumed reinsurance contracts covering the same risk). Major contributors to this reserve estimate uncertainty include the reporting lag (i.e., the length of time between the event triggering coverage and the actual reporting of the claim), the number of parties involved in the underlying tort action, whether the "event" triggering coverage is confined to only one time period or is spread over multiple time periods, the potential dollars involved (in the individual claim actions), whether such claims were reasonably foreseeable and intended to be covered at the time the contracts were written (i.e., coverage dispute potential), and the potential for mass claim actions. Claims with longer reporting lags result in greater inherent risk. This is especially true for alleged claims with a latency feature, particularly where courts have ruled that coverage is spread over multiple policy years, hence involving 135 Table of Contents multiple defendants (and their insurers and reinsurers) and multiple policies (thereby increasing the potential dollars involved and the underlying settlement complexity). Claims with long latencies also increase the potential recognition lag (i.e., the lag between writing a type of policy in a certain market and the recognition that such policies have potential mass tort and or latent claim exposure). The amount of reserve estimate uncertainty also varies significantly by component for the general liability product line. The components in this product line with the longest latency, longest reporting lags, largest potential dollars involved and greatest claim settlement complexity are asbestos and environmental. Components that include latency, reporting lag and or complexity issues, but to a materially lesser extent than asbestos and environmental, include construction defect, medical malpractice and other mass tort actions. Many components of general liability are not subject to material latency or claim complexity risks and hence have materially less uncertainty than the previously mentioned components. In general, policies providing coverage with shorter reporting lags, fewer parties involved in settlement negotiations, only one policy potentially triggered per claim, fewer potential settlement dollars, reasonably foreseeable (and stable) potential hazards/claims and no mass tort potential result in much less reserve estimate uncertainty than policies without those characteristics. In addition to the traditional actuarial methods mentioned in the general discussion section, the company utilizes various report year development and S curve methods for the construction defect components of this product line. The Construction Defect report year development analysis is supplemented with projected claim counts and average values for IBNR claim counts. For components with greater lags in claim reporting, such as excess and umbrella components of this product line, the company relies more heavily on the BF method than on the paid and case incurred development methods. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required general liability reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: General liability risk factors Changes in claim handling philosophies Changes in policy provisions or court interpretation of such provisions New theories of liability Trends in jury awards Changes in the propensity to sue, in general with specificity to particular issues Changes in statutes of limitations Changes in the underlying court system Distortions from losses resulting from large single accounts or single issues Changes in tort law Shifts in law suit mix between federal and state courts Changes in claim adjuster office structure (causing distortions in the data) Changes in settlement patterns (e.g., medical malpractice) General liability book of business risk factors Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements) Changes in underwriting standards Product mix (e.g., size of account, industries insured, jurisdiction mix) Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for general liability (excluding asbestos and environmental), a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.5% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line, excluding estimated asbestos and environmental amounts, over the last nine years has varied from 5% to 14% (averaging 136 Table of Contents 4%) for the Company and from 5% to 7% (averaging 1%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. Because the high end of the Companys range of historical adverse development comes from certain businesses that the Company has since exited, the Company believes that the industrys range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. General liability reserves (excluding asbestos and environmental) represent approximately 28% of the Companys total loss reserves. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line, excluding estimated asbestos and environmental amounts, was 5% for 2009, 5% for 2008 and 2% for 2007. The 2009 and 2008 changes primarily reflected significant favorable prior year reserve development, driven by several factors, including improved legal and judicial environments, as well as enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. The 2007 change was driven by better than expected loss development for recent accident years attributable to several factors, including improved legal and judicial environments, as well as enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. Property Property is generally considered a short tail line with a simpler and faster claim reporting and adjustment process than liability coverages, and less uncertainty in the reserve setting process (except for more complex business interruption claims). It is generally viewed as a moderate frequency, low to moderate severity line, except for catastrophes and coverage related to large properties. The claim reporting and settlement process for property coverage claim reserves is generally restricted to the insured and the insurer. Overall, the claim liabilities for this line create a low estimation risk, except possibly for catastrophes and business interruption claims. Property reserves are typically analyzed in two components, one for catastrophic or other large single events, and another for all other events. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required property reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Property risk factors Physical concentration of policyholders Availability and cost of local contractors For the more severe catastrophic events, "demand surge" inflation, which refers to significant short term increases in building material and labor costs due to a sharp increase in demand for those materials and services Local building codes Amount of time to return property to full usage (for business interruption claims) Court interpretation of policy provisions (such as occurrence definition, or wind versus flooding) Lags in reporting claims (e.g., winter damage to summer homes, hidden damage after an earthquake) Court or legislative changes to the statute of limitations Property book of business risk factors Policy provisions mix (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements) Changes in underwriting standards Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for property, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.1% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 34% to 26% (averaging 7%) for the Company, and from 14% to 7% 137 Table of Contents (averaging 3%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. Because the high end of the Companys range of historical adverse development comes from certain businesses that the Company has since exited, the Company believes that the industrys range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Property reserves represent approximately 4% of the Companys total loss reserves. While property is considered a short tail coverage, the one year change for property can be more volatile than that for the longer tail product lines. This is due to the fact that the majority of the reserve for property relates to the most recent accident year, which is subject to the most uncertainty for all product lines. This recent accident year uncertainty is relevant to property because of weather related events which tend to be concentrated in the second half of the year, and generally are not completely resolved until the following year. Reserve estimates associated with major catastrophes may take even longer to resolve. The reserve estimates for this product line are also potentially subject to material changes due to uncertainty in measuring ultimate losses for unprecedented significant catastrophes such as the events of September 11, 2001 and Hurricane Katrina. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 9% for 2009, 22% for 2008 and 18% for 2007. The 2009 change was primarily driven by better than expected loss development in the 2007 and 2008 accident years for certain large national property and inland marine exposures. In addition, the 2005 accident year experience improved due to the litigation environment relating to, and ongoing claim settlements for, Hurricane Katrina. The 2008 change was primarily driven by favorable development in the 2007 accident year for certain large property, national programs and ocean marine claim exposures, and improvements in the litigation environment relating to, and ongoing claim settlements for, Hurricane Katrina. The 2007 change was due to fewer than expected late reported claims related to non catastrophe weather events that occurred late in 2006 as well as better than expected frequency and severity due in part to changes in the marketplace, such as higher deductibles and lower policy limits. In addition, the property product line experienced better than expected large loss outcomes which were partially attributable to favorable litigation resolutions. Commercial Multi Peril Commercial multi peril provides a combination of property and liability coverage typically for small businesses and, therefore, includes both short and long tail coverages. For property coverage, it generally takes a relatively short period of time to close claims, while for the other coverages, generally for the liability coverages, it takes a longer period of time to close claims. The reserving risk for this line is dominated by the liability coverage portion of this product, except occasionally in the event of catastrophic or large single losses. The reserving risk for this line differs from that of the general liability product line and the property product line due to the nature of the customer. Commercial multi peril is generally sold to smaller sized accounts, while the customer profile for general liability and property includes larger customers. See "Property risk factors" and "General liability risk factors," discussed above, with regard to reserving risk for commercial multi peril. Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for commercial multi peril (excluding asbestos and environmental), a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.2% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 16% to 2% (averaging 5%) for the Company, and from 5% to 6% (averaging 1%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes 138 Table of Contents is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Commercial multi peril reserves (excluding asbestos and environmental reserves) represent approximately 7% of the Companys total loss reserves. As discussed above, this line combines general liability and property coverages and it has been impacted in the past by many of the same events as those two lines. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 8% for 2009, 16% for 2008 and 8% for 2007. The 2009 and 2008 changes were attributable to several factors, including improved legal and judicial environments, and enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. Also contributing to the change was improvement in the litigation environment relating to, and ongoing claim settlements for, Hurricane Katrina. The 2007 change was attributable to better than expected results due to, among other factors, increasingly favorable legal and judicial environments as well as enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. Commercial Automobile The commercial automobile product line is a mix of property and liability coverages and, therefore, includes both short and long tail coverages. The payments that are made quickly typically pertain to auto physical damage (property) claims and property damage (liability) claims. The payments that take longer to finalize and are more difficult to estimate relate to bodily injury claims. In general, claim reporting lags are minor, claim complexity is not a major issue, and the line is viewed as high frequency, low to moderate severity. Overall, the claim liabilities for this line create a moderate estimation risk. Commercial automobile reserves are typically analyzed in four components: bodily injury liability; property damage liability; collision claims; and comprehensive claims. These last two components have minimum reserve risk and fast payouts and, accordingly, separate risk factors are not presented. The Company utilizes the traditional actuarial methods mentioned in the general discussion above in estimating claim liabilities for this line. This is supplemented with detailed custom analyses where needed. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required commercial automobile reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Bodily injury and property damage liability risk factors Trends in jury awards Changes in the underlying court system Changes in case law Litigation trends Frequency of claims with payment capped by policy limits Change in average severity of accidents, or proportion of severe accidents Changes in auto safety technology Subrogation opportunities Changes in claim handling philosophies Frequency of visits to health providers Number of medical procedures given during visits to health providers Types of health providers used Types of medical treatments received Changes in cost of medical treatments Degree of patient responsiveness to treatment Commercial automobile book of business risk factors Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements, etc.) Changes in mix of insured vehicles (e.g., long haul trucks versus local and smaller vehicles, fleet risks versus non fleets) Changes in underwriting standards 139 Table of Contents Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for commercial automobile, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.2% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 10% to 9% (averaging 2%) for the Company, and from 3% to 9% (averaging 2%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Commercial automobile reserves represent approximately 7% of the Companys total loss reserves. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 6% for 2009, 7% for 2008 and 10% for 2007. The 2009 and 2008 changes were a result of better than expected loss development, primarily for recent accident years, which was attributable to several factors, including improved legal and judicial environments, and enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. The 2007 change was due to better than expected loss development, for recent accident years, as a result of more favorable legal and judicial environments, claim handling initiatives and, the Company believes, improvements in auto safety technology. Workers Compensation Workers compensation is generally considered a long tail coverage, as it takes a relatively long period of time to finalize claims from a given accident year. While certain payments such as initial medical treatment or temporary wage replacement for the injured worker are made quickly, some other payments are made over the course of several years, such as awards for permanent partial injuries. In addition, some payments can run as long as the injured workers life, such as permanent disability benefits and on going medical care. Despite the possibility of long payment tails, the reporting lags are generally short, settlements are generally not complex, and most of the liability can be considered high frequency with moderate severity. The largest reserve risk generally comes from the low frequency, high severity claims providing lifetime coverage for medical expense arising from a workers injury. Overall, the claim liabilities for this line create a somewhat greater than moderate estimation risk. Workers compensation reserves are typically analyzed in three components: indemnity losses, medical losses and claim adjustment expenses. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required workers compensation reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Indemnity risk factors Time required to recover from the injury Degree of available transitional jobs Degree of legal involvement Changes in the interpretations and processes of the workers compensation commissions oversight of claims(1) Future wage inflation for states that index benefits Changes in the administrative policies of second injury funds (1)These are administrative bodies that evaluate whether or not a given claim for workers compensation benefits is valid. Their duties include the determination of whether a given injury arose out of the scope of employment or the determination of the degree of injury where disputes exist. 140 Table of Contents Medical risk factors Changes in the cost of medical treatments (including prescription drugs) and underlying fee schedules ("inflation") Frequency of visits to health providers Number of medical procedures given during visits to health providers Types of health providers used Type of medical treatments received Use of preferred provider networks and other medical cost containment practices Availability of new medical processes and equipment Changes in the use of pharmaceutical drugs Degree of patient responsiveness to treatment General workers compensation risk factors Frequency of claim reopenings on claims previously closed Mortality trends of injured workers with lifetime benefits and medical treatment Degree of cost shifting between workers compensation and health insurance Workers compensation book of business risk factors Product mix Injury type mix Changes in underwriting standards Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for workers compensation, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.2% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 2% to 2% (averaging 0%) for the Company, and from 1% to 4% (averaging 1%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Workers compensation reserves represent approximately 31% of the Companys total loss reserves. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 1% in 2009, 1% for 2008 and 0% for 2007. Fidelity and Surety Fidelity is generally considered a short tail coverage. It takes a relatively short period of time to finalize and settle fidelity claims. The volatility of fidelity reserves is generally related to the type of business of the insured, the size and complexity of the insureds business operations, amount of policy limit and attachment point of coverage. The uncertainty surrounding reserves for small, commercial insureds is typically less than the uncertainty for large commercial or financial institutions. The high frequency, low severity nature of small commercial fidelity losses provides for stability in loss estimates whereas, the low frequency, high severity nature of losses for large insureds results in a wider range of ultimate loss outcomes. Actuarial techniques that rely on a stable pattern of loss development are generally not applicable to low frequency, high severity policies. 141  Table of Contents Surety has certain components that are generally considered short tail coverages with short reporting lags, although large individual construction and commercial surety contracts can result in a long settlement tail, based on the length and complexity of the construction project or commercial transaction being insured. (Large construction projects can take many years to complete.) The frequency of losses in surety correlates with economic cycles as the primary cause of surety loss is the inability of the Companys insureds to perform financially. The volatility of surety losses is generally related to the type of business performed by the insured, the type of bonded obligation, the amount of limit exposed to loss and the amount of assets available to the insurer to mitigate losses, such as unbilled contract funds, collateral, first and third party indemnity, and other security positions of an insureds assets. Certain classes of surety claims are very high severity, low frequency in nature. These can include large construction contractors involved with one or multiple large, complex projects as well as certain large commercial surety exposures. Other claim factors affecting reserve variability of surety include litigation related to amounts owed by and due the insured (e.g., salvage and subrogation efforts) and the results of financial restructuring of an insured. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required fidelity and surety reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Fidelity risk factors Type of business of insured Policy limit and attachment points Third party claims Coverage litigation Complexity of claims Growth in insureds operations Surety risk factors Economic trends, including the general level of construction activity Concentration of reserves in a relatively few large claims Type of business insured Type of obligation insured Cumulative limits of liability for insured Assets available to mitigate loss Defective workmanship/latent defects Financial strategy of insured Changes in statutory obligations Geographic spread of business Fidelity and Surety book of business risk factors Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, limits, endorsements) Changes in underwriting standards Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for fidelity and surety, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.4% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 10% to 138% (averaging 21%) for the Company, and from 13% to 24% (averaging 5%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. Because the high end of the Companys range was due to acquired business in 2004, the Company believes that the industrys range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Fidelity and surety reserves represent approximately 3% of the Companys total loss reserves. 142 Table of Contents In general, developments on single large claims (both adverse and favorable) are a primary source of changes in reserve estimates for this product line. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 7% for 2009, 10% for 2008 and 1% for 2007. The 2009 and 2008 changes were a result of better than expected loss experience for the contract surety business within this product line, primarily driven by favorable settlements on large claims from older accident years. Personal Automobile Personal automobile includes both short and long tail coverages. The payments that are made quickly typically pertain to auto physical damage (property) claims and property damage (liability) claims. The payments that take longer to finalize and are more difficult to estimate relate to bodily injury claims. Reporting lags are relatively short and the claim settlement process for personal automobile liability generally is the least complex of the liability products. It is generally viewed as a high frequency, low to moderate severity product line. Overall, the claim liabilities for this line create a moderate estimation risk. Personal automobile reserves are typically analyzed in five components: bodily injury liability, property damage liability, no fault losses, collision claims and comprehensive claims. These last two components have minimum reserve risk and fast payouts and, accordingly, separate factors are not presented. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required personal automobile reserves (beyond those included in the general reserve discussion section) include: Bodily injury and property damage liability risk factors Trends in jury awards Changes in the underlying court system and its philosophy Changes in case law Litigation trends Frequency of claims with payment capped by policy limits Change in average severity of accidents, or proportion of severe accidents Subrogation opportunities Degree of patient responsiveness to treatment Changes in claim handling philosophies No fault risk factors (for selected states and time periods) Effectiveness of no fault laws Frequency of visits to health providers Number of medical procedures given during visits to health providers Types of health providers used Types of medical treatments received Changes in cost of medical treatments Degree of patient responsiveness to treatment Personal automobile book of business risk factors Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements, etc.) Changes in underwriting standards Changes in the use of credit data for rating and underwriting Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for personal automobile, a 1% increase 143 Table of Contents (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.1% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 9% to 1% (averaging 3%) for the Company, and from 4% to 0% (averaging 2%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Personal automobile reserves represent approximately 5% of the Companys total loss reserves. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 0% for 2009, 1% for 2008 and 5% for 2007. The decreases in 2008 and 2007 were primarily due to better than expected results from changes in claim handling practices as well as initiatives to fight fraud. Homeowners and Personal Lines Other Homeowners is generally considered a short tail coverage. Most payments are related to the property portion of the policy, where the claim reporting and settlement process is generally restricted to the insured and the insurer. Claims on property coverage are typically reported soon after the actual damage occurs, although delays of several months are not unusual. The claim is settled when the two parties agree on the amount due in accordance with the policy contract language and the appropriate payment is made (or alternatively, the property replacement/repair is performed by the insurer). The resulting settlement process is typically fairly short term, although exceptions do exist. The liability portion of the homeowners policy generates claims which take longer to pay due to the involvement of litigation and negotiation, but with generally small reporting lags. In addition, reserves related to umbrella coverages have greater uncertainty since umbrella liability payments are often made far into the future. Overall, the line is generally high frequency, low to moderate severity (except for catastrophes), with simple to moderate claim complexity. Homeowners reserves are typically analyzed in two components: non catastrophe related losses and catastrophe loss payments. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required homeowners reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Non catastrophe risk factors Salvage opportunities Amount of time to return property to residential use Changes in weather patterns Local building codes Litigation trends Trends in jury awards Catastrophe risk factors Physical concentration of policyholders Availability and cost of local contractors Local building codes Quality of construction of damaged homes Amount of time to return property to residential use For the more severe catastrophic events, "demand surge" inflation, which refers to significant short term increases in building material and labor costs due to a sharp increase in demand for those materials and services 144 Table of Contents Homeowners book of business risk factors Policy provisions mix (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements, etc.) Degree of concentration of policyholders Changes in underwriting standards Changes in the use of credit data for rating and underwriting Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for homeowners and personal lines other, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.1% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 31% to 3% (averaging 12%) for the Company, and from 8% to 11% (averaging 2%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Homeowners and personal lines other reserves represent approximately 2% of the Companys total loss reserves. This line combines both liability and property coverages; however, the majority of the reserves relate to property. While property is considered a short tail coverage, the one year change for property can be more volatile than that for the longer tail product lines. This is due to the fact that the majority of the reserve for property relates to the most recent accident year, which is subject to the most uncertainty for all product lines. This recent accident year uncertainty is relevant to property because of weather related events which tend to be concentrated in the second half of the year, and generally are not completely resolved until the following year. Reserve estimates associated with major catastrophes may take even longer to resolve. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 14% for 2009, 13% for 2008 and 3% for 2007. The 2009 change primarily reflected favorable loss experience related to Hurricanes Ike and Katrina, as well as the 2007 California wildfires. The 2008 change was primarily driven by favorable loss experience related to Hurricane Katrina, by claim initiatives, by better than expected outcomes on 2007 catastrophe related claims and by improvements in older accident years for the umbrella line. The 2007 change was due to fewer than expected late reported claims related to non catastrophe weather events that occurred in the fourth quarter of 2006. In addition, a portion of the change was attributable to a decrease in the number of claims due to changes in the marketplace, including higher deductibles and fewer small dollar claims. International and other International and other includes products written by International and other products not discussed above. The principal component of "other" claim reserves is assumed reinsurance written on an excess of loss basis, which may include reinsurance of non U.S. exposures, and is runoff business. International and other claim liabilities result from a mix of coverages, currencies and jurisdictions/countries. The common characteristic is the need to customize the analysis to the individual component, and the inability to rely on data characterizations and reporting requirements in the U.S. statutory reporting framework. Due to changes in the business mix for this line over time, the recently incurred claim liabilities are relatively short term (due to both the products and the jurisdictions involved, e.g., the Republic of Ireland and the United Kingdom), while the older liabilities include some from runoff operations that are extremely long tail (e.g., U.S. excess liabilities reinsured through the London market, and several underwriting pools in runoff). The speed of claim reporting and claim settlement is a function of the 145 Table of Contents specific coverage provided, the jurisdiction, the distribution system (e.g., underwriting pool versus direct) and the proximity of the insurance sale to the insured hazard (e.g., insured and insurer located in different countries). In particular, liabilities arising from the underwriting pools in runoff may result in significant reporting lags, settlement lags and claim complexity, due to the need to coordinate with other pool members or co insurers through a broker or lead insurer for claim settlement purposes. International and other reserves are generally analyzed by program/pool, country and general coverage category (e.g., U.S. Liability excess of loss reinsurance, or General Liability Municipalities by country). The business is also generally split by direct versus assumed reinsurance for a given coverage/jurisdiction. Where the underlying insured hazard is outside the United States, the underlying coverages are generally similar to those described under the General Liability and Automobile discussion above, but under a different legal system. Where the underlying hazard is within the U.S., the coverage involved is typically that of General Liability, but on an excess or excess of loss reinsurance basis. Excess exposure requires the insured to "prove" not only claims under the policy, but also the prior payment of claims reaching up to the excess policys attachment point. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required International and other reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: International and other risk factors Changes in claim handling procedures, including those of the primary carriers Changes in policy provisions or court interpretation of such provision New theories of liability Trends in jury awards Changes in the propensity to sue Changes in statutes of limitations Changes in the underlying court system Distortions from losses resulting from large single accounts or single issues Changes in tort law Changes in claim adjuster office structure (causing distortions in the data) International and other book of business risk factors Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements, "claims made" language) Changes in underwriting standards Product mix (e.g., size of account, industries insured, jurisdiction mix) Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for International and other (excluding asbestos and environmental), a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.3% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. International and other reserves (excluding asbestos and environmental) represent approximately 7% of the Companys total loss reserves. International and other represents a combination of different product lines, some of which are in runoff. Comparative historical information is not available for international product lines as insurers domiciled outside of the U.S. do not file U.S. statutory reports. Comparative historical information on runoff business is not indicative of reasonably possible one year changes in the reserve estimate for this mix of runoff business. Accordingly, the Company has not included comparative analyses for International and other. 146 Table of Contents Reinsurance Recoverables Amounts recoverable from reinsurers are estimated in a manner consistent with the associated claim liability. The Company evaluates and monitors the financial condition of its reinsurers under voluntary reinsurance arrangements to minimize its exposure to significant losses from reinsurer insolvencies. In addition, in the ordinary course of business, the Company becomes involved in coverage disputes with its reinsurers. Some of these disputes could result in lawsuits and arbitrations brought by or against the reinsurers to determine the Companys rights and obligations under the various reinsurance agreements. The Company employs dedicated specialists and aggressive strategies to manage reinsurance collections and disputes. The reinsurance agreements that the Company entered into as part of its catastrophe bond programs are dual trigger contracts and meet the requirements to be accounted for as reinsurance in accordance with guidance for accounting for reinsurance contracts. The Companys catastrophe bond programs are described in more detail in the "Catastrophe Reinsurance Coverage" section herein. The Company reports its reinsurance recoverables net of an allowance for estimated uncollectible reinsurance recoverables. The allowance is based upon the Companys ongoing review of amounts outstanding, length of collection periods, changes in reinsurer credit standing, disputes, applicable coverage defenses and other relevant factors. Accordingly, the establishment of reinsurance recoverables and the related allowance for uncollectible reinsurance recoverables is also an inherently uncertain process involving estimates. From time to time, as a result of the long tailed nature of the underlying liabilities, coverage complexities and potential for disputes, the Company considers the commutation of reinsurance contracts. Changes in estimated reinsurance recoverables and commutation activity could result in additional income statement charges. Recoverables attributable to structured settlements relate primarily to personal injury claims, of which workers compensation claims comprise a significant portion, for which the Company has purchased annuities and remains contingently liable in the event of a default by the companies issuing the annuities. Recoverables attributable to mandatory pools and associations relate primarily to workers compensation service business. These recoverables are supported by the participating insurance companies obligation to pay a pro rata share based on each companys voluntary market share of written premium in each state in which it is a pool participant. In the event a member of a mandatory pool or association defaults on its share of the pools or associations obligations, the other members share of such obligation increases proportionally. The following table summarizes the composition of the Companys reinsurance recoverable assets: (at December 31, in millions) 2009 2008 Gross reinsurance recoverables on paid and unpaid claims and claim adjustment expenses $ 8,138 $ 9,376 Allowance for uncollectible reinsurance (523 ) (618 ) Net reinsurance recoverables 7,615 8,758 Structured settlements 3,456 3,517 Mandatory pools and associations 1,745 1,957 Total reinsurance recoverables $ 12,816 $ 14,232 The $1.14 billion decline in net reinsurance recoverables since year end 2008 reflected cash collections, several commutation agreements and the impact of net favorable prior year reserve development. 147 Table of Contents Investment Valuation and Impairments Fair Value Measurements The Companys estimates of fair value for financial assets and financial liabilities are based on the framework established in the fair value accounting guidance. The framework is based on the inputs used in valuation, gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets, and requires that observable inputs be used in the valuations when available. The disclosure of fair value estimates in the fair value accounting guidance hierarchy is based on whether the significant inputs into the valuation are observable. In determining the level of the hierarchy in which the estimate is disclosed, the highest priority is given to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs that reflect the Companys significant market assumptions. The three levels of the hierarchy are as follows: Level 1 Unadjusted quoted market prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets that the Company has the ability to access. Level 2 Quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in inactive markets; or valuations based on models where the significant inputs are observable (e.g., interest rates, yield curves, prepayment speeds, default rates, loss severities, etc.) or can be corroborated by observable market data. Level 3 Valuations based on models where significant inputs are not observable. The unobservable inputs reflect the Companys own assumptions about the inputs that market participants would use. Valuation of Investments Reported at Fair Value in Financial Statements The fair value of a financial instrument is the estimated amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in an orderly transaction between knowledgeable, unrelated willing parties, i.e., not in a forced transaction. The estimated fair value of a financial instrument may differ from the amount that could be realized if the security was sold in an immediate sale, e.g., a forced transaction. Additionally, the valuation of fixed maturity investments is more subjective when markets are less liquid due to the lack of market based inputs, which may increase the potential that the estimated fair value of an investment is not reflective of the price at which an actual transaction would occur. For investments that have quoted market prices in active markets, the Company uses the quoted market prices as fair value and includes these prices in the amounts disclosed in Level 1 of the hierarchy. The Company receives the quoted market prices from a third party, nationally recognized pricing service (pricing service). When quoted market prices are unavailable, the Company utilizes a pricing service to determine an estimate of fair value, which is mainly used for its fixed maturity investments. The fair value estimates provided from this pricing service are included in the amount disclosed in Level 2 of the hierarchy. If quoted market prices and an estimate from a pricing service are unavailable, the Company produces an estimate of fair value based on internally developed valuation techniques, which, depending on the level of observable market inputs, will render the fair value estimate as Level 2 or Level 3. The Company bases all of its estimates of fair value for assets on the bid price as it represents what a third party market participant would be willing to pay in an arms length transaction. Fixed Maturities The Company utilizes a pricing service to estimate fair value measurements for approximately 99% of its fixed maturities. The pricing service utilizes market quotations for fixed maturity securities that have quoted prices in active markets. Since fixed maturities other than U.S. Treasury securities generally do not trade on a daily basis, the pricing service prepares estimates of fair value 148 Table of Contents measurements for these securities using its proprietary pricing applications, which include available relevant market information, benchmark curves, benchmarking of like securities, sector groupings and matrix pricing. Additionally, the pricing service uses an Option Adjusted Spread model to develop prepayment and interest rate scenarios. The pricing service evaluates each asset class based on relevant market information, relevant credit information, perceived market movements and sector news. The market inputs utilized in the pricing evaluation, listed in the approximate order of priority, include: benchmark yields, reported trades, broker/dealer quotes, issuer spreads, two sided markets, benchmark securities, bids, offers, reference data, and industry and economic events. The extent of the use of each market input depends on the asset class and the market conditions. Depending on the security, the priority of the use of inputs may change or some market inputs may not be relevant. For some securities, additional inputs may be necessary. The pricing service utilized by the Company has indicated that they will only produce an estimate of fair value if there is objectively verifiable information to produce a valuation. If the pricing service discontinues pricing an investment, the Company would be required to produce an estimate of fair value using some of the same methodologies as the pricing service but would have to make assumptions for market based inputs that are unavailable due to market conditions. The fair value estimates of most fixed maturity investments are based on observable market information rather than market quotes. Accordingly, the estimates of fair value for such fixed maturities, other than U.S. Treasury securities, provided by the pricing service are included in the amount disclosed in Level 2 of the hierarchy. The estimated fair value of U.S. Treasury securities is included in the amount disclosed in Level 1 as the estimates are based on unadjusted market prices. The Company reviews the estimates of fair value provided by the pricing service and compares the estimates to the Companys knowledge of the market to determine if the estimates obtained are representative of the prices in the market. The Company produces a report monthly that lists all price changes from the previous month in excess of 10%. The Company reviews the report and will challenge any prices deemed not to be representative of fair value. In addition, the Company has implemented various other processes including randomly selecting purchased or sold securities and comparing execution prices to the estimates from the pricing service as well as reviewing reports that contain securities whose valuation did not change from their previous valuation (stale price review). The Company also uses an additional independent pricing service to further test the primary pricing services valuation of the Companys fixed maturity portfolio. These processes have not highlighted any significant issues with the fair value estimates received from the pricing service. The Company holds privately placed corporate bonds and estimates the fair value of these bonds using an internal matrix that is based on market information regarding interest rates, credit spreads and liquidity. The underlying source data for calculating the matrix of credit spreads relative to the U.S. Treasury curve are the Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate Index and the Merrill Lynch High Yield BB Rated Index. The Company includes the fair value estimates of these corporate bonds in Level 2, since all significant inputs are market observable. As many of these securities are issued by public companies, the Company compares the estimates of fair value to the fair values of these companies publicly traded debt to test the validity of the internal pricing matrix. While the vast majority of the Companys municipal bonds are included in Level 2, the Company holds a small number of municipal bonds which are not valued by the pricing service and estimates the fair value of these bonds using an internal pricing matrix with some unobservable inputs that are significant to the valuation. Due to the limited amount of observable market information, the Company includes the fair value estimates for these particular bonds in Level 3. Additionally, the Company holds a small amount of fixed maturities that have characteristics that make them unsuitable for matrix pricing. For these fixed maturities, the Company obtains a quote from a broker (typically a market 149 Table of Contents maker). Due to the disclaimers on the quotes that indicate that the price is indicative only, the Company includes these fair value estimates in Level 3. Equities Public Common and Preferred For public common and preferred stocks, the Company receives prices from a nationally recognized pricing service that are based on observable market transactions and includes these estimates in the amount disclosed in Level 1. Infrequently, current market quotes in active markets are unavailable for certain non redeemable preferred stocks held by the Company. In these instances, the Company receives an estimate of fair value from the pricing service that provides fair value estimates for the Companys fixed maturities. The service utilizes some of the same methodologies to price the non redeemable preferred stocks as it does for the fixed maturities. The Company includes the fair value estimate for these non redeemable preferred stocks in the amount disclosed in Level 2. Other Investments Common Stock with Transfer Restrictions and Other The Company holds one public common stock with transfer restrictions, with a fair value of $213 million. At December 31, 2009, the fair value of this common stock was determined by adjusting the observed market price of the security for a liquidity discount which takes into consideration the restriction on the common stock that existed at December 31, 2009 and is based on market observable inputs. As a result of adjusting the market price to consider the transfer restriction, the Company discloses this security in Level 2. The Company holds investments in non public common and preferred equity securities, with a fair value estimate of $60 million at December 31, 2009, reported in other investments, where the fair value estimate is determined either internally or by an external fund manager based on recent filings, operating results, balance sheet stability, growth and other business and market sector fundamentals. Due to the significant unobservable inputs in these valuations, the Company includes the total fair value estimate for all of these investments at December 31, 2009 in the amount disclosed in Level 3. The Company holds investments in various publicly traded securities which are reported in other investments. The $46 million fair value of these investments at December 31, 2009 is disclosed in Level 1. These investments include securities in the Companys trading portfolio ($24 million), mutual funds ($15 million) and other small holdings ($7 million). Derivatives The Company holds non public warrants in a public company and has convertible bonds containing embedded conversion options that are valued separately from the host bond contract. The Company estimates fair value for the warrants using an option pricing model with observable market inputs. Because the warrants are not market traded and information concerning market participants is not available, the Company includes the fair value estimate of $94 million at December 31, 2009 in the amount disclosed in Level 3 other investments. The valuation of the warrants is comprised of two components: the intrinsic value (i.e., the difference between the warrant strike price and the current share price of the underlying stock) and a modeled value that represents the additional price that a market participant would be willing to pay to purchase the warrants based on the remaining time to the warrants expiration, the volatility of the underlying stock, expected dividends and current interest rates. The estimated fair value at December 31, 2009, of $94 million was comprised of $68 million of intrinsic value and $26 million of modeled value. While the value of both components will change as a result of changes in the fair value of the underlying stock, the modeled value will eventually decrease to zero as the expiration date of the warrants, which is November 1, 2012, is approached. 150  Table of Contents Valuation of Investments Not Reported at Fair Value in Financial Statements Short term Securities The Companys short term securities consist of Aaa rated registered money market funds and high quality commercial paper (primarily A1/P1) with a combined average of 27 days to maturity at December 31, 2009. It is the Companys policy to not invest in structured products for its short term securities. The Company believes that there is insignificant credit risk in its short term portfolio and that amortized cost approximates fair value. The Company includes short term securities in its impairment monitoring to identify any credit issues. Real Estate Real estate is recorded on the purchase date at the purchase price, which generally represents fair value, and is supported by internal analysis or external appraisals, using discounted cash flow analyses and other acceptable valuation techniques. Real estate held for investment purposes is subsequently carried at the Companys cost, less accumulated depreciation. Other Investments The Companys investment portfolio includes other investments not carried at fair value which include private equity limited partnerships, hedge funds, real estate partnerships (together, partnerships) and mortgage loans. The Company uses the equity method of accounting for its investments in partnerships, and amortized cost is used for mortgage loans. The partnerships and the hedge funds generally report investments on their balance sheet at fair value. The financial statements prepared by the investee are received by the Company on a lag basis, with the lag period generally dependent upon the type of underlying investments. The private equity and real estate partnerships provide financial information quarterly which is generally available to investors, including the Company, within three to six months following the date of the reporting period. The hedge funds provide financial information monthly, which is generally available to investors within one month following the date of the reporting period. The Company regularly requests financial information from the partnerships prior to the receipt of the partnerships financial statements, and records any material information obtained from these requests in the financial statements. Investment Impairments The Company conducts a periodic review to identify and evaluate invested assets having other than temporary impairments. Some of the factors considered in identifying other than temporary impairments include: (1) for fixed maturity investments, whether the Company intends to sell the investment or whether it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell the investment prior to an anticipated recovery in value; (2) for non fixed maturity investments, the Companys ability and intent to retain the investment for a reasonable period of time sufficient to allow for an anticipated recovery in value; (3) the likelihood of the recoverability of principal and interest for fixed maturity securities (i.e., whether there is a credit loss), or cost for equity securities; (4) the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than amortized cost for fixed maturity securities or cost for equity securities; and (5) the financial condition, near term and long term prospects for the issuer, including the relevant industry conditions and trends, and implications of rating agency actions and offering prices. Reporting of Other Than Temporary Impairments For fixed maturity investments that the Company does not intend to sell or for which it is more likely than not that the Company would not be required to sell before an anticipated recovery in value, 151 Table of Contents the Company separates the credit loss component of the impairment from the amount related to all other factors and reports the credit loss component in net realized investment gains (losses). The impairment related to all other factors is reported in accumulated other changes in equity from nonowner sources. For non fixed maturity investments and fixed maturity investments the Company intends to sell or for which it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell before an anticipated recovery in value, the full amount of the impairment is included in net realized investment gains (losses). Upon recognizing an other than temporary impairment, the new cost basis of the investment is the previous amortized cost basis less the other than temporary impairment recognized in net realized investment gains (losses). The new cost basis is not adjusted for any subsequent recoveries in fair value; however, for fixed maturity investments, the difference between the new cost basis and the expected cash flows is accreted on a quarterly basis to net investment income over the remaining expected life of the investment. Due to the subjective nature of the Companys analysis and estimates of future cash flows, along with the judgment that must be applied in the analysis, it is possible that the Company could reach a different conclusion whether or not to impair a security if it had access to additional information about the issuer. Additionally, it is possible that the issuers actual ability to meet contractual obligations may be different than what the Company determined during its analysis, which may lead to a different impairment conclusion in future periods. Determination of Credit Loss The Company determines the credit loss component of fixed maturity investments by utilizing discounted cash flow modeling to determine the present value of the security and comparing the present value with the amortized cost of the security. If the amortized cost is greater than the present value of the expected cash flows, the difference is considered a credit loss and recognized in net realized investment gains (losses). For non structured fixed maturities (U.S. Treasury securities, obligations of U.S. Government and government agencies and authorities, obligations of states, municipalities and political subdivisions, debt securities issued by foreign governments and certain corporate debt) the estimate of expected cash flows is determined by projecting a recovery value and a recovery time frame and assessing whether further principal and interest will be received. The determination of recovery value incorporates an issuer valuation assumption utilizing one or a combination of valuation methods as deemed appropriate by the Company. The Company determines the undiscounted recovery value by allocating the estimated value of the issuer to the Companys assessment of the priority of claims. The present value of the cash flows is determined by applying the effective yield of the security at the date of acquisition (or the most recent implied rate used to accrete the security if the implied rate has changed as a result of a previous impairment) and an estimated recovery time frame. Generally, that time frame for securities for which the issuer is in bankruptcy is 12 months. For securities for which the issuer is financially troubled but not in bankruptcy, that time frame is generally 24 months. Included in the present value calculation are expected principal and interest payments; however, for securities for which the issuer is classified as bankrupt or in default, the present value calculation assumes no interest payments and a single recovery amount. In estimating the recovery value, significant judgment is involved in the development of assumptions relating to a myriad of factors related to the issuer including, but not limited to, revenue, margin and earnings projections, the likely market or liquidation values of assets, potential additional debt to be incurred pre or post bankruptcy/restructuring, the ability to shift existing or new debt to different priority layers, the amount of restructuring/bankruptcy expenses, the size and priority of 152 Table of Contents unfunded pension obligations, litigation or other contingent claims, the treatment of intercompany claims and the likely outcome with respect to inter creditor conflicts. For structured fixed maturity securities (primarily residential and commercial mortgage backed securities, collateralized mortgage obligations and pass through securities), the Company estimates the present value of the security by projecting future cash flows of the assets underlying the securitization, allocating the flows to the various tranches based on the structure of the securitization, and determining the present value of the cash flows using the effective yield of the security at the date of acquisition (or the most recent implied rate used to accrete the security if the implied rate has changed as a result of a previous impairment or changes in expected cash flows). The Company incorporates levels of delinquencies, defaults and severities as well as credit attributes of the remaining assets in the securitization, along with other economic data, to arrive at its best estimate of the parameters applied to the assets underlying the securitization. In order to project cash flows, the following assumptions are applied to the assets underlying the securitization: (1) voluntary prepayment rates, (2) default rates and (3) loss severity. The key assumptions made for the Prime, Alt A and Sub Prime mortgage backed securities at December 31, 2009 were as follows: (at December 31, 2009) Prime Alt A Sub Prime Voluntary prepayment rates 2% 15% 1% 8% 1% 6% Percentage of remaining pool liquidated due to defaults 5% 55% 23% 75% 31% 90% Loss severity 35% 60% 50% 75% 70% 80% Changes in Intent to Sell Temporarily Impaired Assets The Company may, from time to time, sell invested assets subsequent to the balance sheet date that it did not intend to sell at the balance sheet date. Conversely, the Company may not sell invested assets that it asserted that it intended to sell at the balance sheet date. Such changes in intent are generally due to events occurring subsequent to the balance sheet date. The types of events that may result in a change in intent include, but are not limited to, significant changes in the economic facts and circumstances related to the invested asset (e.g., a downgrade or upgrade from a rating agency), significant unforeseen changes in liquidity needs, or changes in tax laws or the regulatory environment. Real Estate Investments On at least an annual basis, the Company obtains independent appraisals for substantially all of its real estate investments. In addition, the carrying value of all real estate property is reviewed for impairment on a quarterly basis or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The review for impairment considers the valuation from the independent appraisal, when applicable, and incorporates an estimate of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the real estate property. An impairment loss is recognized if the expected future undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the real estate property. The impairment loss is the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds fair value. Other Investments Investments in Private Equity Limited Partnerships, Hedge Funds and Real Estate Partnerships The Company reviews these investments for impairment no less frequently than quarterly and monitors the performance throughout the year through discussions with the managers/general partners. If the Company becomes aware of an impairment of a partnerships investments at the balance sheet date prior to receiving the partnerships financial statements, it will recognize an impairment by recording a reduction in the carrying value of the partnership with a corresponding charge to net investment income. 153 Table of Contents Mortgage Loans A mortgage loan is considered impaired when it is probable that the Company will be unable to collect principal and interest amounts due. For mortgage loans that are determined to be impaired, a reserve is established for the difference between the amortized cost and the fair market value of the underlying collateral. In estimating fair value, the Company uses interest rates reflecting the current real estate financing market returns. The Company did not have any impaired mortgage loans at December 31, 2009 and 2008. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Impairments The Company performs a review, on at least an annual basis, of goodwill held by the reporting units which are the Companys three operating and reportable segments: Business Insurance, Financial, Professional & International Insurance, and Personal Insurance. The Company estimates the fair value of its reporting units and compares it to their carrying value, including goodwill. If the carrying values of the reporting units exceed their fair value, the amount of the impairment is calculated and goodwill is adjusted accordingly. In the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company changed its methodology for estimating the fair value of its reporting units from a multiple of earnings model to a discounted cash flow model. This change was made as a result of the effects of a severe disruption of the credit and equity markets and significant changes in the insurance industry that caused disparities between the multiple of earnings of the Company and the observed multiple of earnings of its competitors. The discounted cash flow model is an income approach to valuation that is based on a more detailed analysis for deriving a current fair value of reporting units and is more representative of the Companys reporting units current and expected future financial performance. The change in methodology resulted in a change in estimate of the fair value of the reporting units for purposes of testing goodwill for impairment. Other indefinite lived intangible assets held by the Company are also reviewed for impairment on at least an annual basis. The classification of the asset as indefinite lived is reassessed, and an impairment is recognized if the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value. Intangible assets that are deemed to have a finite useful life are amortized over their useful lives. The carrying amount of intangible assets with a finite useful life is regularly reviewed for indicators of impairment in value. Impairment is recognized only if the carrying amount of the intangible asset is not recoverable from its undiscounted cash flows and is measured as the difference between the carrying amount and the fair value of the asset. The Companys review did not result in an impairment of its indefinite lived or finite lived intangible assets for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. OTHER UNCERTAINTIES For a discussion of other risks and uncertainties that could impact the Companys results of operations or financial position, see note 15 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements and "Item 1A Risk Factors." FUTURE APPLICATION OF ACCOUNTING STANDARDS See note 1 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements for a discussion of recently issued accounting standards updates. The Company is currently required to prepare its financial statements in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), as promulgated by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB). During 2008, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) issued a proposed Roadmap for comment for the potential use in filings with the SEC of financial statements 154 Table of Contents for U.S. issuers prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as promulgated by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), instead of in accordance with GAAP. The Roadmap contains milestones that, if achieved, may lead the SEC to decide in 2011 to require the use of IFRS for large accelerated filers, including the Company, in 2014. The SEC is expected to re deliberate the proposed Roadmap in 2011 based on the comments received. The IASB and the FASB are in the process of developing a global insurance standard that may involve methodologies for valuing insurance contract liabilities that may be significantly different from the methodologies required by current GAAP. The FASB and the IASB are also embarked on a long term project to converge GAAP and IFRS. The Company is not able to predict whether it will choose to, or be required to, adopt IFRS or how the adoption of IFRS (or the convergence of GAAP and IFRS) may impact the Companys financial statements in the future. FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS This report contains, and management may make, certain "forward looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, may be forward looking statements. Specifically, statements in "Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Outlook," earnings guidance, statements about the Companys share repurchase plans (which repurchase plans depend on a variety of factors, including the Companys financial position, earnings, capital requirements of the Companys operating subsidiaries, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, other investment opportunities (including mergers and acquisitions), and other factors), statements about the potential impact of recent or future disruption in the investment markets and other economic conditions on the Companys investment portfolio and underwriting results are forward looking, and the Company may make forward looking statements about its results of operations (including, among others, premium volume, premium rates (either for new or renewal business), net and operating income, investment income, return on equity, expected current returns and combined ratio), and financial condition (including, among others, invested assets and liquidity); the sufficiency of the Companys asbestos and other reserves (including, among others, asbestos claim payment patterns); the cost and availability of reinsurance coverage; catastrophe losses; investment performance; investment, economic and underwriting market conditions; and strategic initiatives. Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the Companys control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward looking information and statements. For a discussion of some of the factors that could cause actual results to differ, see "Item 1A Risk Factors" and "Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates." The Companys forward looking statements speak only as of the date of this report or as of the date they are made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update its forward looking statements.  Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK MARKET RISK Market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates (inclusive of credit spreads), foreign currency exchange rates and other relevant market rate or price changes. Market risk is directly influenced by the volatility and liquidity in the markets in which the related underlying assets are traded. The following is a discussion of the Companys primary market risk exposures and how those exposures are managed as of December 31, 2009. The Companys 155 Table of Contents market risk sensitive instruments, including derivatives, are primarily entered into for purposes other than trading. The carrying value of the Companys investment portfolio at December 31, 2009 and 2008 was $74.97 billion and $70.74 billion, respectively, of which 88% and 87% was invested in fixed maturity securities, respectively. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, approximately 5.8% and 5.5%, respectively, of the Companys invested assets were denominated in foreign currencies. The Companys exposure to equity price risk is not significant. The Company has no direct commodity risk and is not a party to any credit default swaps. The Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio at December 31, 2009 and 2008 included asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages and collateralized mortgage obligations backed by alternative documentation mortgages with a collective fair value of $270 million and $206 million, respectively (comprising approximately 0.4% and 0.3% of the Companys total fixed maturity investments, respectively). The disruption in secondary investment markets for mortgage backed securities provided the Company with the opportunity to selectively acquire additional asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages at discounted prices. The Company purchased $74 million and $47 million of such securities in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The Company defines sub prime mortgage backed securities as investments in which the underlying loans primarily exhibit one or more of the following characteristics: low FICO scores, above prime interest rates, high loan to value ratios or high debt to income ratios. Alternative documentation securitizations are those in which the underlying loans primarily meet the government sponsored entitys requirements for credit score but do not meet the government sponsored entitys guidelines for documentation, property type, debt and loan to value ratios. The average credit rating on these securities and obligations held by the Company was "A3" and "Aa2" at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Approximately $114 million and $81 million of asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime and alternative documentation mortgages were downgraded in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio at December 31, 2009 included securities issued by numerous states, municipalities and political subdivisions (collectively referred to as the municipal bond portfolio), a number of which were enhanced by third party insurance for the payment of principal and interest in the event of an issuer default. The downgrade of credit ratings of insurers of these securities has resulted in a corresponding downgrade in the ratings of the securities to the underlying rating of the respective security. Of the insured municipal bond portfolio, approximately 98% were rated at A3 or above, and approximately 80% were rated at Aa3 or above, without the benefit of insurance. The Company believes, based on current market conditions, that a further loss of the benefit of insurance would not result in a material adverse impact on the Companys results of operations, financial position or liquidity, due to the underlying credit strength of the issuers of the securities, as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the securities. The average credit rating of the underlying issuers of these securities was "Aa3" at December 31, 2009. The average credit rating of the entire municipal bond portfolio was "Aa1" at December 31, 2009 with and without the third party insurance and includes pre funded and escrowed to maturity securities, as well as securities issued without third party insurance. On April 2, 2009, municipal securities issued by local governments within the United States were assigned a negative outlook by Moodys Investors Service. Notwithstanding the relatively low historical rates of default on many of these obligations, during an economic downturn, the Companys municipal bond portfolio could be subject to a higher risk of default or impairment due to declining municipal tax bases and revenue. The prolonged economic downturn that began in 2008 has resulted in many states and local governments operating under deficits or projected deficits. The severity and duration of these deficits could have an adverse impact on the collectability and valuation of the Companys municipal bond portfolio. In addition, some issuers have been unable or may be unwilling to increase tax revenue, or to reduce spending, to fund maturing municipal bonds. 156 Table of Contents The primary market risk to the investment portfolio is interest rate and credit risk associated with investments in fixed maturity securities. The portfolio duration relative to the liabilities duration is primarily managed through cash market transactions and treasury futures transactions. The Companys tax exempt fixed maturity investment portfolio totaled $40.84 billion and $38.79 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Federal and or state tax legislation could be enacted that would lessen or improve some or all of the tax advantages currently benefiting the Company and result in an adverse or favorable impact on the value of these holdings. The primary market risk for all of the Companys debt is interest rate risk at the time of refinancing. The Company monitors the interest rate environment and evaluates refinancing opportunities as maturity dates approach. For additional information regarding the Companys debt see note 8 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements as well as the "Liquidity and Capital Resources" section of "Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." The Companys foreign exchange market risk exposure is concentrated in the Companys invested assets and insurance reserves denominated in foreign currencies. Cash flows from the Companys foreign operations are the primary source of funds for the purchase of investments denominated in foreign currencies. The Company purchases these investments primarily to fund insurance reserves and other liabilities denominated in the same currency, effectively reducing its foreign currency exchange rate exposure. Invested assets denominated in the British Pound Sterling comprised approximately 2.5% and 2.3% of the total invested assets at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Invested assets denominated in the Canadian dollar comprised approximately 2.1% of the total invested assets at December 31, 2009 and 2008. Invested assets denominated in other currencies at December 31, 2009 and 2008 were not material. There were no other significant changes in the Companys primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures were managed for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the year ended December 31, 2008. The Company does not currently anticipate significant changes in its primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures are managed in future reporting periods based upon what is known or expected to be in effect in future reporting periods. SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS Sensitivity analysis is defined as the measurement of potential loss in future earnings, fair values or cash flows of market sensitive instruments resulting from one or more selected hypothetical changes in interest rates and other market rates or prices over a selected period of time. In the Companys sensitivity analysis model, a hypothetical change in market rates is selected that is expected to reflect reasonably possible near term changes in those rates. "Near term" means a period of time going forward up to one year from the date of the consolidated financial statements. Actual results may differ from the hypothetical change in market rates assumed in this disclosure, especially since this sensitivity analysis does not reflect the results of any actions that would be taken by the Company to mitigate such hypothetical losses in fair value. Interest Rate Risk In this sensitivity analysis model, the Company uses fair values to measure its potential loss. The sensitivity analysis model includes the following financial instruments entered into for purposes other than trading: fixed maturities, non redeemable preferred stocks, mortgage loans, short term securities, debt and derivative financial instruments. The primary market risk to the Companys market sensitive instruments is interest rate risk (inclusive of credit spreads). The sensitivity analysis model uses a 100 basis point change in interest rates to measure the hypothetical change in fair value of financial instruments included in the model. 157 Table of Contents For invested assets with primary exposure to interest rate risk, estimates of portfolio duration and convexity are used to model the loss of fair value that would be expected to result from a parallel increase in interest rates. Durations on invested assets are adjusted for call, put and interest rate reset features. Durations on tax exempt securities are adjusted for the fact that the yields on such securities do not normally move in lockstep with changes in the U.S. Treasury curve. Fixed maturity portfolio durations are calculated on a market value weighted basis, including accrued interest, using holdings as of December 31, 2009 and 2008. For debt, the change in fair value is determined by calculating hypothetical December 31, 2009 and 2008 ending prices based on yields adjusted to reflect a 100 basis point change, comparing such hypothetical ending prices to actual ending prices, and multiplying the difference by the par or securities outstanding. The sensitivity analysis model used by the Company produces a loss in fair value of market sensitive instruments of approximately $2.34 billion and $2.48 billion based on a 100 basis point increase in interest rates as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The loss estimates do not take into account the impact of possible interventions that the Company might reasonably undertake in order to mitigate or avoid losses that would result from emerging interest rate trends. In addition, the loss value only reflects the impact of an interest rate increase on the fair value of the Companys financial instruments. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk The Company uses fair values of investment securities to measure its potential loss from foreign denominated investments. A hypothetical 10% reduction in value of foreign denominated investments is used to estimate the impact on the market value of the foreign denominated holdings. The Companys analysis indicates that a hypothetical 10% reduction in the value of foreign denominated investments would be expected to produce a loss in fair value of approximately $431 million and $386 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 158  Table of Contents  
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Outlook," earnings guidance, statements about the Companys share repurchase plans (which repurchase plans depend on a variety of factors, including the Companys financial position, earnings, capital requirements of the Companys operating subsidiaries, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, other investment opportunities (including mergers and acquisitions), and other factors), statements about the potential impact of recent or future disruption in the investment markets and other economic conditions on the Companys investment portfolio and underwriting results are forward looking, and the Company may make forward looking statements about its results of operations (including, among others, premium volume, premium rates (either for new or renewal business), net and operating income, investment income, return on equity, expected current returns and combined ratio), and financial condition (including, among others, invested assets and liquidity); the sufficiency of the Companys asbestos and other reserves (including, among others, asbestos claim payment patterns); the cost and availability of reinsurance coverage; catastrophe losses; investment performance; investment, economic and underwriting market conditions; and strategic initiatives. Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the Companys control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward looking information and statements. For a discussion of some of the factors that could cause actual results to differ, see "Item 1A Risk Factors" and "Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates." The Companys forward looking statements speak only as of the date of this report or as of the date they are made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update its forward looking statements.  Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK MARKET RISK Market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates (inclusive of credit spreads), foreign currency exchange rates and other relevant market rate or price changes. Market risk is directly influenced by the volatility and liquidity in the markets in which the related underlying assets are traded. The following is a discussion of the Companys primary market risk exposures and how those exposures are managed as of December 31, 2009. The Companys 155 Table of Contents market risk sensitive instruments, including derivatives, are primarily entered into for purposes other than trading. The carrying value of the Companys investment portfolio at December 31, 2009 and 2008 was $74.97 billion and $70.74 billion, respectively, of which 88% and 87% was invested in fixed maturity securities, respectively. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, approximately 5.8% and 5.5%, respectively, of the Companys invested assets were denominated in foreign currencies. The Companys exposure to equity price risk is not significant. The Company has no direct commodity risk and is not a party to any credit default swaps. The Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio at December 31, 2009 and 2008 included asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages and collateralized mortgage obligations backed by alternative documentation mortgages with a collective fair value of $270 million and $206 million, respectively (comprising approximately 0.4% and 0.3% of the Companys total fixed maturity investments, respectively). The disruption in secondary investment markets for mortgage backed securities provided the Company with the opportunity to selectively acquire additional asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages at discounted prices. The Company purchased $74 million and $47 million of such securities in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The Company defines sub prime mortgage backed securities as investments in which the underlying loans primarily exhibit one or more of the following characteristics: low FICO scores, above prime interest rates, high loan to value ratios or high debt to income ratios. Alternative documentation securitizations are those in which the underlying loans primarily meet the government sponsored entitys requirements for credit score but do not meet the government sponsored entitys guidelines for documentation, property type, debt and loan to value ratios. The average credit rating on these securities and obligations held by the Company was "A3" and "Aa2" at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Approximately $114 million and $81 million of asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime and alternative documentation mortgages were downgraded in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio at December 31, 2009 included securities issued by numerous states, municipalities and political subdivisions (collectively referred to as the municipal bond portfolio), a number of which were enhanced by third party insurance for the payment of principal and interest in the event of an issuer default. The downgrade of credit ratings of insurers of these securities has resulted in a corresponding downgrade in the ratings of the securities to the underlying rating of the respective security. Of the insured municipal bond portfolio, approximately 98% were rated at A3 or above, and approximately 80% were rated at Aa3 or above, without the benefit of insurance. The Company believes, based on current market conditions, that a further loss of the benefit of insurance would not result in a material adverse impact on the Companys results of operations, financial position or liquidity, due to the underlying credit strength of the issuers of the securities, as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the securities. The average credit rating of the underlying issuers of these securities was "Aa3" at December 31, 2009. The average credit rating of the entire municipal bond portfolio was "Aa1" at December 31, 2009 with and without the third party insurance and includes pre funded and escrowed to maturity securities, as well as securities issued without third party insurance. On April 2, 2009, municipal securities issued by local governments within the United States were assigned a negative outlook by Moodys Investors Service. Notwithstanding the relatively low historical rates of default on many of these obligations, during an economic downturn, the Companys municipal bond portfolio could be subject to a higher risk of default or impairment due to declining municipal tax bases and revenue. The prolonged economic downturn that began in 2008 has resulted in many states and local governments operating under deficits or projected deficits. The severity and duration of these deficits could have an adverse impact on the collectability and valuation of the Companys municipal bond portfolio. In addition, some issuers have been unable or may be unwilling to increase tax revenue, or to reduce spending, to fund maturing municipal bonds. 156 Table of Contents The primary market risk to the investment portfolio is interest rate and credit risk associated with investments in fixed maturity securities. The portfolio duration relative to the liabilities duration is primarily managed through cash market transactions and treasury futures transactions. The Companys tax exempt fixed maturity investment portfolio totaled $40.84 billion and $38.79 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Federal and or state tax legislation could be enacted that would lessen or improve some or all of the tax advantages currently benefiting the Company and result in an adverse or favorable impact on the value of these holdings. The primary market risk for all of the Companys debt is interest rate risk at the time of refinancing. The Company monitors the interest rate environment and evaluates refinancing opportunities as maturity dates approach. For additional information regarding the Companys debt see note 8 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements as well as the "Liquidity and Capital Resources" section of "Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." The Companys foreign exchange market risk exposure is concentrated in the Companys invested assets and insurance reserves denominated in foreign currencies. Cash flows from the Companys foreign operations are the primary source of funds for the purchase of investments denominated in foreign currencies. The Company purchases these investments primarily to fund insurance reserves and other liabilities denominated in the same currency, effectively reducing its foreign currency exchange rate exposure. Invested assets denominated in the British Pound Sterling comprised approximately 2.5% and 2.3% of the total invested assets at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Invested assets denominated in the Canadian dollar comprised approximately 2.1% of the total invested assets at December 31, 2009 and 2008. Invested assets denominated in other currencies at December 31, 2009 and 2008 were not material. There were no other significant changes in the Companys primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures were managed for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the year ended December 31, 2008. The Company does not currently anticipate significant changes in its primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures are managed in future reporting periods based upon what is known or expected to be in effect in future reporting periods. SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS Sensitivity analysis is defined as the measurement of potential loss in future earnings, fair values or cash flows of market sensitive instruments resulting from one or more selected hypothetical changes in interest rates and other market rates or prices over a selected period of time. In the Companys sensitivity analysis model, a hypothetical change in market rates is selected that is expected to reflect reasonably possible near term changes in those rates. "Near term" means a period of time going forward up to one year from the date of the consolidated financial statements. Actual results may differ from the hypothetical change in market rates assumed in this disclosure, especially since this sensitivity analysis does not reflect the results of any actions that would be taken by the Company to mitigate such hypothetical losses in fair value. Interest Rate Risk In this sensitivity analysis model, the Company uses fair values to measure its potential loss. The sensitivity analysis model includes the following financial instruments entered into for purposes other than trading: fixed maturities, non redeemable preferred stocks, mortgage loans, short term securities, debt and derivative financial instruments. The primary market risk to the Companys market sensitive instruments is interest rate risk (inclusive of credit spreads). The sensitivity analysis model uses a 100 basis point change in interest rates to measure the hypothetical change in fair value of financial instruments included in the model. 157 Table of Contents For invested assets with primary exposure to interest rate risk, estimates of portfolio duration and convexity are used to model the loss of fair value that would be expected to result from a parallel increase in interest rates. Durations on invested assets are adjusted for call, put and interest rate reset features. Durations on tax exempt securities are adjusted for the fact that the yields on such securities do not normally move in lockstep with changes in the U.S. Treasury curve. Fixed maturity portfolio durations are calculated on a market value weighted basis, including accrued interest, using holdings as of December 31, 2009 and 2008. For debt, the change in fair value is determined by calculating hypothetical December 31, 2009 and 2008 ending prices based on yields adjusted to reflect a 100 basis point change, comparing such hypothetical ending prices to actual ending prices, and multiplying the difference by the par or securities outstanding. The sensitivity analysis model used by the Company produces a loss in fair value of market sensitive instruments of approximately $2.34 billion and $2.48 billion based on a 100 basis point increase in interest rates as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The loss estimates do not take into account the impact of possible interventions that the Company might reasonably undertake in order to mitigate or avoid losses that would result from emerging interest rate trends. In addition, the loss value only reflects the impact of an interest rate increase on the fair value of the Companys financial instruments. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk The Company uses fair values of investment securities to measure its potential loss from foreign denominated investments. A hypothetical 10% reduction in value of foreign denominated investments is used to estimate the impact on the market value of the foreign denominated holdings. The Companys analysis indicates that a hypothetical 10% reduction in the value of foreign denominated investments would be expected to produce a loss in fair value of approximately $431 million and $386 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 158  Table of Contents  
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates." The Companys forward looking statements speak only as of the date of this report or as of the date they are made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update its forward looking statements.  Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK MARKET RISK Market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates (inclusive of credit spreads), foreign currency exchange rates and other relevant market rate or price changes. Market risk is directly influenced by the volatility and liquidity in the markets in which the related underlying assets are traded. The following is a discussion of the Companys primary market risk exposures and how those exposures are managed as of December 31, 2009. The Companys 155 Table of Contents market risk sensitive instruments, including derivatives, are primarily entered into for purposes other than trading. The carrying value of the Companys investment portfolio at December 31, 2009 and 2008 was $74.97 billion and $70.74 billion, respectively, of which 88% and 87% was invested in fixed maturity securities, respectively. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, approximately 5.8% and 5.5%, respectively, of the Companys invested assets were denominated in foreign currencies. The Companys exposure to equity price risk is not significant. The Company has no direct commodity risk and is not a party to any credit default swaps. The Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio at December 31, 2009 and 2008 included asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages and collateralized mortgage obligations backed by alternative documentation mortgages with a collective fair value of $270 million and $206 million, respectively (comprising approximately 0.4% and 0.3% of the Companys total fixed maturity investments, respectively). The disruption in secondary investment markets for mortgage backed securities provided the Company with the opportunity to selectively acquire additional asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages at discounted prices. The Company purchased $74 million and $47 million of such securities in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The Company defines sub prime mortgage backed securities as investments in which the underlying loans primarily exhibit one or more of the following characteristics: low FICO scores, above prime interest rates, high loan to value ratios or high debt to income ratios. Alternative documentation securitizations are those in which the underlying loans primarily meet the government sponsored entitys requirements for credit score but do not meet the government sponsored entitys guidelines for documentation, property type, debt and loan to value ratios. The average credit rating on these securities and obligations held by the Company was "A3" and "Aa2" at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Approximately $114 million and $81 million of asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime and alternative documentation mortgages were downgraded in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio at December 31, 2009 included securities issued by numerous states, municipalities and political subdivisions (collectively referred to as the municipal bond portfolio), a number of which were enhanced by third party insurance for the payment of principal and interest in the event of an issuer default. The downgrade of credit ratings of insurers of these securities has resulted in a corresponding downgrade in the ratings of the securities to the underlying rating of the respective security. Of the insured municipal bond portfolio, approximately 98% were rated at A3 or above, and approximately 80% were rated at Aa3 or above, without the benefit of insurance. The Company believes, based on current market conditions, that a further loss of the benefit of insurance would not result in a material adverse impact on the Companys results of operations, financial position or liquidity, due to the underlying credit strength of the issuers of the securities, as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the securities. The average credit rating of the underlying issuers of these securities was "Aa3" at December 31, 2009. The average credit rating of the entire municipal bond portfolio was "Aa1" at December 31, 2009 with and without the third party insurance and includes pre funded and escrowed to maturity securities, as well as securities issued without third party insurance. On April 2, 2009, municipal securities issued by local governments within the United States were assigned a negative outlook by Moodys Investors Service. Notwithstanding the relatively low historical rates of default on many of these obligations, during an economic downturn, the Companys municipal bond portfolio could be subject to a higher risk of default or impairment due to declining municipal tax bases and revenue. The prolonged economic downturn that began in 2008 has resulted in many states and local governments operating under deficits or projected deficits. The severity and duration of these deficits could have an adverse impact on the collectability and valuation of the Companys municipal bond portfolio. In addition, some issuers have been unable or may be unwilling to increase tax revenue, or to reduce spending, to fund maturing municipal bonds. 156 Table of Contents The primary market risk to the investment portfolio is interest rate and credit risk associated with investments in fixed maturity securities. The portfolio duration relative to the liabilities duration is primarily managed through cash market transactions and treasury futures transactions. The Companys tax exempt fixed maturity investment portfolio totaled $40.84 billion and $38.79 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Federal and or state tax legislation could be enacted that would lessen or improve some or all of the tax advantages currently benefiting the Company and result in an adverse or favorable impact on the value of these holdings. The primary market risk for all of the Companys debt is interest rate risk at the time of refinancing. The Company monitors the interest rate environment and evaluates refinancing opportunities as maturity dates approach. For additional information regarding the Companys debt see note 8 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements as well as the "Liquidity and Capital Resources" section of "Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." The Companys foreign exchange market risk exposure is concentrated in the Companys invested assets and insurance reserves denominated in foreign currencies. Cash flows from the Companys foreign operations are the primary source of funds for the purchase of investments denominated in foreign currencies. The Company purchases these investments primarily to fund insurance reserves and other liabilities denominated in the same currency, effectively reducing its foreign currency exchange rate exposure. Invested assets denominated in the British Pound Sterling comprised approximately 2.5% and 2.3% of the total invested assets at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Invested assets denominated in the Canadian dollar comprised approximately 2.1% of the total invested assets at December 31, 2009 and 2008. Invested assets denominated in other currencies at December 31, 2009 and 2008 were not material. There were no other significant changes in the Companys primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures were managed for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the year ended December 31, 2008. The Company does not currently anticipate significant changes in its primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures are managed in future reporting periods based upon what is known or expected to be in effect in future reporting periods. SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS Sensitivity analysis is defined as the measurement of potential loss in future earnings, fair values or cash flows of market sensitive instruments resulting from one or more selected hypothetical changes in interest rates and other market rates or prices over a selected period of time. In the Companys sensitivity analysis model, a hypothetical change in market rates is selected that is expected to reflect reasonably possible near term changes in those rates. "Near term" means a period of time going forward up to one year from the date of the consolidated financial statements. Actual results may differ from the hypothetical change in market rates assumed in this disclosure, especially since this sensitivity analysis does not reflect the results of any actions that would be taken by the Company to mitigate such hypothetical losses in fair value. Interest Rate Risk In this sensitivity analysis model, the Company uses fair values to measure its potential loss. The sensitivity analysis model includes the following financial instruments entered into for purposes other than trading: fixed maturities, non redeemable preferred stocks, mortgage loans, short term securities, debt and derivative financial instruments. The primary market risk to the Companys market sensitive instruments is interest rate risk (inclusive of credit spreads). The sensitivity analysis model uses a 100 basis point change in interest rates to measure the hypothetical change in fair value of financial instruments included in the model. 157 Table of Contents For invested assets with primary exposure to interest rate risk, estimates of portfolio duration and convexity are used to model the loss of fair value that would be expected to result from a parallel increase in interest rates. Durations on invested assets are adjusted for call, put and interest rate reset features. Durations on tax exempt securities are adjusted for the fact that the yields on such securities do not normally move in lockstep with changes in the U.S. Treasury curve. Fixed maturity portfolio durations are calculated on a market value weighted basis, including accrued interest, using holdings as of December 31, 2009 and 2008. For debt, the change in fair value is determined by calculating hypothetical December 31, 2009 and 2008 ending prices based on yields adjusted to reflect a 100 basis point change, comparing such hypothetical ending prices to actual ending prices, and multiplying the difference by the par or securities outstanding. The sensitivity analysis model used by the Company produces a loss in fair value of market sensitive instruments of approximately $2.34 billion and $2.48 billion based on a 100 basis point increase in interest rates as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The loss estimates do not take into account the impact of possible interventions that the Company might reasonably undertake in order to mitigate or avoid losses that would result from emerging interest rate trends. In addition, the loss value only reflects the impact of an interest rate increase on the fair value of the Companys financial instruments. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk The Company uses fair values of investment securities to measure its potential loss from foreign denominated investments. A hypothetical 10% reduction in value of foreign denominated investments is used to estimate the impact on the market value of the foreign denominated holdings. The Companys analysis indicates that a hypothetical 10% reduction in the value of foreign denominated investments would be expected to produce a loss in fair value of approximately $431 million and $386 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 158  Table of Contents  
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." The Companys foreign exchange market risk exposure is concentrated in the Companys invested assets and insurance reserves denominated in foreign currencies. Cash flows from the Companys foreign operations are the primary source of funds for the purchase of investments denominated in foreign currencies. The Company purchases these investments primarily to fund insurance reserves and other liabilities denominated in the same currency, effectively reducing its foreign currency exchange rate exposure. Invested assets denominated in the British Pound Sterling comprised approximately 2.5% and 2.3% of the total invested assets at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Invested assets denominated in the Canadian dollar comprised approximately 2.1% of the total invested assets at December 31, 2009 and 2008. Invested assets denominated in other currencies at December 31, 2009 and 2008 were not material. There were no other significant changes in the Companys primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures were managed for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the year ended December 31, 2008. The Company does not currently anticipate significant changes in its primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures are managed in future reporting periods based upon what is known or expected to be in effect in future reporting periods. SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS Sensitivity analysis is defined as the measurement of potential loss in future earnings, fair values or cash flows of market sensitive instruments resulting from one or more selected hypothetical changes in interest rates and other market rates or prices over a selected period of time. In the Companys sensitivity analysis model, a hypothetical change in market rates is selected that is expected to reflect reasonably possible near term changes in those rates. "Near term" means a period of time going forward up to one year from the date of the consolidated financial statements. Actual results may differ from the hypothetical change in market rates assumed in this disclosure, especially since this sensitivity analysis does not reflect the results of any actions that would be taken by the Company to mitigate such hypothetical losses in fair value. Interest Rate Risk In this sensitivity analysis model, the Company uses fair values to measure its potential loss. The sensitivity analysis model includes the following financial instruments entered into for purposes other than trading: fixed maturities, non redeemable preferred stocks, mortgage loans, short term securities, debt and derivative financial instruments. The primary market risk to the Companys market sensitive instruments is interest rate risk (inclusive of credit spreads). The sensitivity analysis model uses a 100 basis point change in interest rates to measure the hypothetical change in fair value of financial instruments included in the model. 157 Table of Contents For invested assets with primary exposure to interest rate risk, estimates of portfolio duration and convexity are used to model the loss of fair value that would be expected to result from a parallel increase in interest rates. Durations on invested assets are adjusted for call, put and interest rate reset features. Durations on tax exempt securities are adjusted for the fact that the yields on such securities do not normally move in lockstep with changes in the U.S. Treasury curve. Fixed maturity portfolio durations are calculated on a market value weighted basis, including accrued interest, using holdings as of December 31, 2009 and 2008. For debt, the change in fair value is determined by calculating hypothetical December 31, 2009 and 2008 ending prices based on yields adjusted to reflect a 100 basis point change, comparing such hypothetical ending prices to actual ending prices, and multiplying the difference by the par or securities outstanding. The sensitivity analysis model used by the Company produces a loss in fair value of market sensitive instruments of approximately $2.34 billion and $2.48 billion based on a 100 basis point increase in interest rates as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The loss estimates do not take into account the impact of possible interventions that the Company might reasonably undertake in order to mitigate or avoid losses that would result from emerging interest rate trends. In addition, the loss value only reflects the impact of an interest rate increase on the fair value of the Companys financial instruments. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk The Company uses fair values of investment securities to measure its potential loss from foreign denominated investments. A hypothetical 10% reduction in value of foreign denominated investments is used to estimate the impact on the market value of the foreign denominated holdings. The Companys analysis indicates that a hypothetical 10% reduction in the value of foreign denominated investments would be expected to produce a loss in fair value of approximately $431 million and $386 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 158  Table of Contents  
 
