Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations") are affected by both internal and external events, such as changes in claims handling procedures, inflation, judicial trends and legislative changes, among others. The impact of many of these items on ultimate costs for claims and claim adjustment expenses is difficult to estimate. Reserve estimation difficulties also differ significantly by product line due to differences in the underlying insurance contract (e.g., claims made versus occurrence), claim complexity, the volume of claims, the potential severity of individual claims, the determination of the occurrence date for a claim, and reporting lags (the time between the occurrence of the insured event and when it is actually reported to the insurer). Informed judgment is applied throughout the process. The Company derives estimates for unreported claims and development on reported claims principally from actuarial analyses of historical patterns of loss development by accident year for each type of exposure and business unit. Similarly, the Company derives estimates of unpaid loss adjustment expenses principally from actuarial analyses of historical development patterns of the relationship of loss adjustment expenses to losses for each line of business and type of exposure. For a description of the Companys reserving methods for asbestos and environmental claims, see "Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Asbestos Claims and Litigation," and " Environmental Claims and Litigation." Discounting The claims and claim adjustment expense reserves for most long term disability and annuity claim payments, primarily arising from workers compensation insurance and workers compensation excess insurance policies, were discounted to the present value of estimated future payments using a rate of 5% at both December 31, 2010 and 2009. These discounted reserves totaled $2.09 billion and $2.16 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009 respectively. Claims and Claim Adjustment Expense Development Table The table that follows sets forth the year end reserves from 2000 through 2010 and the subsequent changes in those reserves, presented on a historical basis. The original estimates, cumulative amounts paid and re estimated reserves in the table for the years 2000 through 2003 have not been restated to reflect the acquisition by Travelers Property Casualty Corp. (TPC) of The St. Paul Companies, Inc. (SPC) in 2004 (referred to hereafter as the Merger). The table includes SPC reserves beginning at December 31, 2004. In addition, the original estimates, cumulative amounts paid and re estimated reserves in the table for 2000 have not been restated to reflect the acquisition of Northland and Commercial Guaranty Casualty. Beginning in 2001, the table includes the reserve activity of Northland and Commercial Guaranty Casualty. The data in the table is presented in accordance with reporting requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Care must be taken to avoid misinterpretation by those unfamiliar with this information or familiar with other data commonly reported by the insurance 23 Table of Contents industry. The data in the table is not accident year data, but rather a display of 2000 to 2010 year end reserves and the subsequent changes in those reserves. For instance, the "cumulative deficiency (redundancy)" shown in the table for each year represents the aggregate amount by which original estimates of reserves as of that year end have changed in subsequent years. Accordingly, the cumulative deficiency for a year relates only to reserves at that year end and those amounts are not additive. Expressed another way, if the original reserves at the end of 2000 included $4 million for a loss that is finally paid in 2005 for $5 million, the $1 million deficiency (the excess of the actual payment of $5 million over the original estimate of $4 million) would be included in the cumulative deficiencies in each of the years 2000 to 2004 shown in the accompanying table. Various factors may distort the re estimated reserves and cumulative deficiency or redundancy shown in the table. For example, a substantial portion of the cumulative deficiencies shown in the table arise from claims on policies written prior to the mid 1980s involving liability exposures such as asbestos and environmental claims. In the post 1984 period, the Company has developed more stringent underwriting standards and policy exclusions and has significantly contracted or terminated the writing of these risks. See "Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Asbestos Claims and Litigation," and " Environmental Claims and Litigation." General conditions and trends that have affected the development of these liabilities in the past will not necessarily recur in the future. Other factors that affect the data in the table include the discounting of certain reserves (as discussed above) and the use of retrospectively rated insurance policies. For example, reserves for long term disability and annuity claim payments (tabular reserves), primarily arising from workers compensation insurance and workers compensation excess insurance policies, are discounted to reflect the time value of money. Apparent deficiencies will continue to occur as the discount on these workers compensation reserves is accreted at the appropriate interest rates. Also, a portion of National Accounts business is underwritten with retrospectively rated insurance policies in which the ultimate loss experience is primarily borne by the insured. For this business, increases in loss experience result in an increase in reserves and an offsetting increase in amounts recoverable from insureds. Likewise, decreases in loss experience result in a decrease in reserves and an offsetting decrease in amounts recoverable from these insureds. The amounts recoverable on these retrospectively rated policies mitigate the impact of the cumulative deficiencies or redundancies on the Companys earnings but are not reflected in the table. Because of these and other factors, it is difficult to develop a meaningful extrapolation of estimated future redundancies or deficiencies in loss reserves from the data in the table. 24  Table of Contents (at December 31, in millions) 2000 2001(a) 2002(a) 2003(a) 2004(a)(b)(c) 2005(a)(b)(c) 2006(a)(b)(c) 2007(a)(b)(c) 2008(a)(b)(c) 2009(a)(b) 2010(a)(b) Reserves for claims and claim adjustment expense originally estimated $ 19,435 $ 20,197 $ 23,268 $ 24,055 $ 41,446 $ 42,895 $ 42,844 $ 43,098 $ 41,312 $ 40,941 $ 40,255 Cumulative amounts paid as of One year later 4,374 5,018 5,170 4,651 8,871 8,632 7,417 8,146 7,519 7,748 Two years later 7,517 8,745 8,319 8,686 14,666 13,837 13,181 12,798 12,454 Three years later 10,218 11,149 11,312 11,541 18,733 18,466 16,545 16,264 Four years later 12,000 13,402 13,548 13,708 22,514 21,025 19,113 Five years later 13,603 15,115 15,229 15,574 24,572 22,992 Six years later 14,958 16,473 16,836 16,624 26,189 Seven years later 16,063 17,877 17,738 17,558 Eight years later 17,283 18,662 18,563 Nine years later 17,945 19,416 Ten years later 18,571 Reserves re estimated as of One year later 19,394 23,228 23,658 24,222 41,706 42,466 42,172 41,373 39,863 39,524 Two years later 22,233 24,083 24,592 25,272 42,565 42,311 40,837 39,925 38,640 Three years later 22,778 25,062 25,553 26,042 42,940 41,692 39,739 38,842 Four years later 23,871 25,953 26,288 26,501 43,148 40,855 38,734 Five years later 24,872 26,670 26,731 26,803 42,655 40,026 Six years later 25,521 27,179 27,055 26,619 42,068 Seven years later 26,039 27,556 27,022 26,342 Eight years later 26,364 27,580 26,815 Nine years later 26,380 27,496 Ten years later 26,397 Cumulative deficiency (redundancy) (a)(b) 6,962 7,299 3,547 2,287 622 (2,869 ) (4,110 ) (4,256 ) (2,672 ) (1,417 ) Gross liability end of year $ 28,312 $ 30,617 $ 33,628 $ 34,474 $ 58,984 $ 61,007 $ 59,202 $ 57,619 $ 54,646 $ 53,054 $ 51,062 Reinsurance recoverables 8,877 10,420 10,360 10,419 17,538 18,112 16,358 14,521 13,334 12,113 10,807 Net liability end of year $ 19,435 $ 20,197 $ 23,268 $ 24,055 $ 41,446 $ 42,895 $ 42,844 $ 43,098 $ 41,312 $ 40,941 $ 40,255 Gross re estimated liability latest $ 37,357 $ 40,001 $ 38,606 $ 37,270 $ 59,656 $ 57,824 $ 54,123 $ 52,606 $ 51,144 $ 51,116 Re estimated reinsurance recoverables latest 10,960 12,505 11,791 10,928 17,588 17,798 15,389 13,764 12,504 11,592 Net re estimated liability latest $ 26,397 $ 27,496 $ 26,815 $ 26,342 $ 42,068 $ 40,026 $ 38,734 $ 38,842 $ 38,640 $ 39,524 Gross cumulative deficiency (redundancy) $ 9,045 $ 9,384 $ 4,978 $ 2,796 $ 672 $ (3,183 ) $ (5,079 ) $ (5,013 ) $ (3,502 ) $ (1,938 ) Included in the cumulative deficiency (redundancy) by year is the following impact of unfavorable prior year reserve development related to asbestos and environmental claims and claim adjustment expenses, in millions: Asbestos 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Gross $ 5,953 $ 5,680 $ 2,020 $ 1,995 $ 1,547 $ 713 $ 516 $ 517 $ 447 $ 262 Net $ 4,493 $ 4,311 $ 1,366 $ 1,342 $ 1,382 $ 551 $ 395 $ 395 $ 325 $ 140 Environmental 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Gross $ 940 $ 887 $ 733 $ 674 $ 522 $ 505 $ 397 $ 215 $ 130 $ 45 Net $ 893 $ 851 $ 701 $ 642 $ 525 $ 495 $ 375 $ 190 $ 105 $ 35 (a)Includes reserves of the subsidiaries of Jupiter Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries and Commercial Guaranty Lloyds Insurance Company, which were acquired from Citigroup on October 1, 2001. Also includes reserves of Commercial Guaranty Casualty Insurance Company, which was contributed to TPC by Citigroup on October 3, 2001. At December 31, 2001, these gross reserves were $867 million, and net reserves were $633 million. (b)For years prior to 2004, excludes SPC reserves, which were acquired on April 1, 2004. Accordingly, the reserve development (net reserves for claims and claim adjustment expense re estimated as of subsequent years less net reserves recorded at the end of the year, as originally estimated) for years prior to 2004 relates only to losses recorded by TPC and does not include reserve development recorded by SPC. For 2004 and subsequent years, includes SPC reserves and subsequent development recorded by SPC. At December 31, 2004, SPC gross reserves were $23,274 million, and net reserves were $15,959 million. (c)In December 2008, the Company completed the sale of Unionamerica Holdings Limited (Unionamerica), which comprised its United Kingdom (U.K.) based runoff insurance and reinsurance businesses. (Unionamerica was acquired in 2004 as part of the Merger.) Immediately before the sale, the claims and claim adjustment expense reserves of Unionamerica totaled $790 million. As a result of the sale, those obligations ceased being the responsibility of the Company and its affiliates. The sale is reflected in the table as a reduction in December 31, 2008 net reserves of $790 million and as a $790 million increase in paid losses for each of the years 2004 through 2007 to reflect the transfer (payment) of the reserves to the buyer, resulting in no impact to incurred losses. 25  Table of Contents Reserves on Statutory Accounting Basis At December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, claims and claim adjustment expense reserves (net of reinsurance) shown in the preceding table, which are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP reserves), were $20 million, $18 million and $5 million higher, respectively, than those reported in the Companys respective annual reports filed with insurance regulators, which are prepared in accordance with statutory accounting practices (statutory reserves). The differences between GAAP and statutory reserves are primarily due to the differences in GAAP and statutory accounting for two items, (1) fees associated with billing of required reimbursements under large deductible business, and (2) the accounting for retroactive reinsurance. For large deductible business, the Company pays the deductible portion of a casualty insurance claim and then seeks reimbursement from the insured, plus a fee. This fee is reported as fee income for GAAP reporting, but as an offset to claim expenses paid for statutory reporting. Retroactive reinsurance balances result from reinsurance placed to cover losses on insured events occurring prior to the inception of a reinsurance contract. For GAAP reporting, retroactive reinsurance balances are included in reinsurance recoverables and result in lower net reserve amounts. Statutory accounting practices require retroactive reinsurance balances to be recorded in other liabilities as contra liabilities rather than in loss reserves. Asbestos and Environmental Claims Asbestos and environmental claims are segregated from other claims and are handled separately by the Companys Special Liability Group, a separate unit staffed by dedicated legal, claim, finance and engineering professionals. For additional information on asbestos and environmental claims, see "Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Asbestos Claims and Litigation" and " Environmental Claims and Litigation." INTERCOMPANY REINSURANCE POOLING ARRANGEMENTS Most of the Companys insurance subsidiaries are members of an intercompany property and casualty reinsurance pooling arrangement. Pooling arrangements permit the participating companies to rely on the capacity of the entire pools capital and surplus rather than just on its own capital and surplus. Under such arrangements, the members share substantially all insurance business that is written and allocate the combined premiums, losses and expenses. RATINGS Ratings are an important factor in assessing the Companys competitive position in the insurance industry. The Company receives ratings from the following major rating agencies: A.M. Best Company (A.M. Best), Fitch Ratings (Fitch), Moodys Investors Service (Moodys) and Standard & Poors Corp. (S&P). Rating agencies typically issue two types of ratings for insurance companies: claims paying (or financial strength) ratings which reflect the rating agencys assessment of an insurers ability to meet its financial obligations to policyholders and debt ratings which reflect the rating agencys assessment of a companys prospects for repaying its debts and are considered by lenders in connection with the setting of interest rates and terms for a companys short and long term borrowings. Agency ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold any security, and they may be revised or withdrawn at any time by the rating agency. Each agencys rating should be evaluated independently of any other agencys rating. The system and the number of rating categories can vary widely from rating agency to rating agency. Customers usually focus on claims paying ratings, while creditors focus on debt ratings. Investors use both to evaluate a companys overall financial strength. The ratings issued on the Company or its subsidiaries by any of these agencies are announced publicly and are available on the Companys website and from the agencies. 26 Table of Contents A downgrade in one or more of the Companys claims paying ratings could negatively impact the Companys business volumes and competitive position because demand for certain of its products may be reduced, particularly because many customers require that the Company maintain minimum ratings to enter into or renew business with it. Additionally, a downgrade in one or more of the Companys debt ratings could adversely impact the Companys ability to access the capital markets and other sources of funds, including in the syndicated bank loan market, and or result in higher financing costs. For example, downgrades in the Companys debt ratings could result in higher interest expense under the Companys revolving credit agreement (under which the cost of borrowing could range from LIBOR plus 100 basis points to LIBOR plus 175 basis points, depending on the Companys debt ratings), the Companys commercial paper program, or in the event that the Company were to access the capital markets by issuing debt or similar types of securities. See "Item 7 "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources" for a discussion of the Companys revolving credit agreement and commercial paper program. The Company considers the level of increased cash funding requirements in the event of a ratings downgrade as part of the evaluation of the Companys liquidity requirements. The Company currently believes that a one to two notch downgrade in its debt ratings would not result in a material increase in interest expense under its existing credit agreement and commercial paper programs. In addition, the Company considers the impact of a ratings downgrade as part of the evaluation of its common share repurchases. Claims Paying Ratings The following table summarizes the current claims paying (or financial strength) ratings of the Travelers Reinsurance Pool, Travelers C&S Co. of America, Travelers Personal single state companies, Travelers C&S Co. of Europe, Ltd., Travelers Guarantee Company of Canada and Travelers Insurance Company Limited as of February 17, 2011. The table also presents S&Ps Lloyds Syndicate Assessment rating for Travelers Syndicate Management Limited Syndicate 5000. The table presents the position of each rating in the applicable agencys rating scale. A.M. Best Moodys S&P Fitch Travelers Reinsurance Pool(a)(b) A+ (2nd of 16 ) Aa2 (3rd of 21 ) AA (4th of 21 ) AA (3rd of 21 ) Travelers C&S Co. of America A+ (2nd of 16 ) Aa2 (3rd of 21 ) AA (4th of 21 ) AA (3rd of 21 ) First Floridian Auto and Home Ins. Co. A (4th of 16 ) AA (3rd of 21 ) First Trenton Indemnity Company A (3rd of 16 ) AA (3rd of 21 ) The Premier Insurance Company of Massachusetts A (3rd of 16 ) Travelers C&S Co. of Europe, Ltd. A+ (2nd of 16 ) Aa2 (3rd of 21 ) AA (4th of 21 ) Travelers Guarantee Company of Canada A+ (2nd of 16 ) Travelers Insurance Company Limited A (3rd of 16 ) AA (4th of 21 ) Travelers Syndicate Management Limited Syndicate 5000 3 (9th of 15 ) (a)The Travelers Reinsurance Pool consists of: The Travelers Indemnity Company, The Charter Oak Fire Insurance Company, The Phoenix Insurance Company, The Travelers Indemnity Company of Connecticut, The Travelers Indemnity Company of America, Travelers Property Casualty Company of America, Travelers Commercial Casualty Company, TravCo Insurance Company, The Travelers Home and Marine Insurance Company, Travelers Casualty and Surety Company, Northland Insurance Company, Northfield Insurance Company, Northland Casualty Company, American Equity Specialty Insurance Company, The Standard Fire Insurance Company, The Automobile Insurance Company of Hartford, Connecticut, Travelers Casualty Insurance Company of America, Farmington Casualty Company, Travelers Commercial Insurance Company, Travelers Casualty Company of Connecticut, Travelers Property Casualty Insurance Company, Travelers Personal Security Insurance Company, Travelers Personal Insurance Company, Travelers Excess and Surplus Lines Company, St. Paul Fire and Marine Insurance Company, St. Paul Surplus Lines Insurance Company, 27 Table of Contents Athena Assurance Company, St. Paul Protective Insurance Company, St. Paul Medical Liability Insurance Company, St. Paul Guardian Insurance Company, St. Paul Mercury Insurance Company, Fidelity and Guaranty Insurance Underwriters, Inc., Discover Property & Casualty Insurance Company, Discover Specialty Insurance Company and United States Fidelity and Guaranty Company. (b)The following affiliated companies are 100% reinsured by one of the pool participants noted in (a) above: Fidelity and Guaranty Insurance Company, Gulf Underwriters Insurance Company, American Equity Insurance Company, Select Insurance Company, St. Paul Fire and Casualty Insurance Company, The Travelers Lloyds Insurance Company and Travelers Lloyds of Texas Insurance Company. Debt Ratings The following table summarizes the current debt, preferred stock and commercial paper ratings of the Company and its subsidiaries as of February 17, 2011. The table also presents the position of each rating in the applicable agencys rating scale. A.M. Best Moodys S&P Fitch Senior debt a (6th of 22 ) A2 (6th of 21 ) A (7th of 22 ) A (6th of 22 ) Subordinated debt a (7th of 22 ) A3 (7th of 21 ) BBB+ (8th of 22 ) BBB+ (8th of 22 ) Junior subordinated debt bbb+ (8th of 22 ) A3 (7th of 21 ) BBB (9th of 22 ) BBB+ (8th of 22 ) Trust preferred securities bbb+ (8th of 22 ) A3 (7th of 21 ) BBB (9th of 22 ) BBB+ (8th of 22 ) Preferred stock bbb+ (8th of 22 ) Baa1 (8th of 21 ) BBB (9th of 22 ) Commercial paper AMB 1 (2nd of 6 ) P 1 (1st of 4 ) A 2 (3rd of 10 ) F 1 (2nd of 8 ) Rating Agency Actions The following rating agency actions were taken with respect to the Company from February 18, 2010 (the date on which the Company filed its Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2009), through February 17, 2011: On June 8, 2010, A.M. Best upgraded the Companys debt ratings for The Travelers Companies, Inc. one notch and reaffirmed the claims paying ratings for Travelers Reinsurance Pool, Travelers C&S Co. of America, First Floridian Auto and Home Ins. Co., First Trenton Indemnity Company, The Premier Insurance Company of Massachusetts, Travelers C&S Co. of Europe, Ltd. and Travelers Guarantee Company of Canada. The outlook for all ratings is stable. On June 10, 2010, Fitch affirmed all ratings for the Company. The outlook remained stable. On August 10, 2010, Standard & Poors affirmed all ratings for the Company. The outlook remained positive. On October 15, 2010, Moodys affirmed all ratings for the Company. The outlook remained stable. On October 15, 2010, A.M. Best affirmed all ratings of Travelers Insurance Company Limited. The outlook remained stable. On October 27, 2010, Fitch affirmed all ratings for the Company. The outlook remained stable. On February 1, 2011, Fitch affirmed all ratings for the Company. The outlook remained stable. INVESTMENT OPERATIONS The majority of funds available for investment are deployed in a widely diversified portfolio of high quality, liquid taxable U.S. Government, tax exempt U.S. municipal, and taxable corporate and U.S. agency mortgage backed bonds. The Company closely monitors the duration of its fixed maturity investments, and investment purchases and sales are executed with the objective of having adequate 28 Table of Contents funds available to satisfy the Companys insurance and debt obligations. The Companys management of the duration of the fixed maturity investment portfolio has historically produced a duration that exceeds the estimated duration of the Companys net insurance liabilities. Recently, the estimated average effective duration of the Companys portfolio of fixed maturity and short term security investments has declined, primarily due to the impact of declining market yields and tightening investment spreads on existing holdings of mortgage backed securities (both of which impact the assumptions related to optional pre payments), an increase in pre refunded municipal bonds and general portfolio management decisions. The Company has also recently experienced an increase in the estimated average effective duration of its net insurance liabilities, primarily reflecting the impact of declining market interest rates, as well as an increase in workers compensation insurance business volume. As a result, the estimated average effective duration of the Companys net insurance liabilities exceeded that of its portfolio of fixed maturity and short term security investments at December 31, 2010. The substantial degree by which the market value of the fixed maturity portfolio exceeds the expected present value of the net insurance liabilities, as well as the positive cash flow from newly sold policies and the large amount of high quality liquid bonds, contributes to the Companys ability to fund claim payments without having to sell illiquid assets or access credit facilities. The primary goals of the Companys asset liability management process are to satisfy the insurance liabilities and maintain sufficient liquidity to cover fluctuations in projected liability cash flows. Generally, the expected principal and interest payments produced by the Companys fixed maturity portfolio adequately fund the estimated runoff of the Companys insurance reserves. Although this is not an exact cash flow match in each period, the substantial degree by which the market value of the fixed maturity portfolio exceeds the expected present value of the net insurance liabilities, as well as the positive cash flow from newly sold policies and the large amount of high quality liquid bonds, provide assurance of the Companys ability to fund claim payments without having to sell illiquid assets or access its credit facilities. The Company also invests much smaller amounts in equity securities, real estate, private equity limited partnerships, real estate partnerships, hedge funds and trading securities. These investment classes have the potential for higher returns but also involve varying degrees of risk, including less stable rates of return and less liquidity. See note 3 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the Companys investment portfolio. REGULATION U.S. State and Federal Regulation TRVs insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation in the various states and jurisdictions in which they transact business. The extent of regulation varies, but generally derives from statutes that delegate regulatory, supervisory and administrative authority to a department of insurance in each state. The regulation, supervision and administration relate, among other things, to standards of solvency that must be met and maintained, the licensing of insurers and their agents, the nature of and limitations on investments, premium rates, restrictions on the size of risks that may be insured under a single policy, reserves and provisions for unearned premiums, losses and other obligations, deposits of securities for the benefit of policyholders, approval of policy forms and the regulation of market conduct, including the use of credit information in underwriting as well as other underwriting and claims practices. In addition, many states have enacted variations of competitive ratemaking laws, which allow insurers to set certain premium rates for certain classes of insurance without having to obtain the prior approval of the state insurance department. State insurance departments also conduct periodic examinations of the financial condition and market conduct of insurance companies and require the filing of financial and other reports on a quarterly and annual basis. TRVs insurance subsidiaries are collectively licensed to 29 Table of Contents transact insurance business in all U.S. states, the District of Columbia, Guam, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Although the U.S. federal government has not historically regulated the insurance business, there have been proposals from time to time, including after the financial crisis in 2008 and 2009, to impose federal regulation on the insurance industry. On July 21, 2010, the President signed into law the Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Dodd Frank Act). Among other things, the Dodd Frank Act establishes a Federal Insurance Office within the U.S. Department of the Treasury. The Federal Insurance Office initially has limited regulatory authority and is empowered to gather data and information regarding the insurance industry and insurers, including conducting a study for submission to the U.S. Congress on how to modernize and improve insurance regulation in the U.S. Further, the Dodd Frank Act gives the Federal Reserve supervisory authority over a number of financial services companies, including insurance companies, if they are designated by a two thirds vote of a Financial Stability Oversight Council (the Council) as "systemically important." While the Company does not believe that it is systemically important, as defined in the Dodd Frank Act, it is possible that, at some point in the future, the Council may disagree with the Company. The Council has recently issued proposed rules that do not resolve this uncertainty. If the Company were designated as systemically important, the Federal Reserves supervisory authority could include the ability to impose heightened financial regulation and could impact requirements regarding the Companys capital, liquidity and leverage as well as its business and investment conduct. As a result of the foregoing, the Dodd Frank Act, or other additional federal regulation that is adopted in the future, could impose significant burdens on the Company, including impacting the ways in which it conducts its business, increasing compliance costs and duplicating state regulation, and could result in a competitive disadvantage. Insurance Regulation Concerning Dividends. TRVs principal insurance subsidiaries are domiciled in the state of Connecticut. The Connecticut insurance holding company laws require notice to, and approval by, the state insurance commissioner for the declaration or payment of any dividend, that together with other distributions made within the preceding twelve months, exceeds the greater of 10% of the insurers capital and surplus as of the preceding December 31, or the insurers net income for the twelve month period ending the preceding December 31, in each case determined in accordance with statutory accounting practices and by state regulation. This declaration or payment is further limited by adjusted unassigned surplus, as determined in accordance with statutory accounting practices. The insurance holding company laws of other states in which TRVs insurance subsidiaries are domiciled generally contain similar, although in some instances somewhat more restrictive, limitations on the payment of dividends. Rate and Rule Approvals. TRVs insurance subsidiaries are subject to each states laws and regulations regarding rate and rule approvals. The applicable laws and regulations are used by states to establish standards to ensure that rates are not excessive, inadequate, unfairly discriminatory or used to engage in unfair price competition. An insurers ability to increase rates and the relative timing of the process are dependent upon each respective states requirements. Requirements for Exiting Geographic Markets and or Canceling or Nonrenewing Policies. Several states have laws and regulations which may impact the timing and or the ability of an insurer to either discontinue or substantially reduce its writings in that state. These laws and regulations typically require prior notice, and in some instances insurance department approval, prior to discontinuing a line of business or withdrawing from that state, and they allow insurers to cancel or non renew certain policies only for certain specified reasons. Assessments for Guaranty Funds and Second Injury Funds and Other Mandatory Pooling and Reinsurance Arrangements. Virtually all states require insurers licensed to do business in their state, 30 Table of Contents including TRVs insurance subsidiaries, to bear a portion of the loss suffered by some claimants because of the insolvency of other insurers. Many states also have laws that establish second injury funds to provide compensation to injured employees for aggravation of a prior condition or injury. TRVs insurance subsidiaries are also required to participate in various involuntary assigned risk pools, principally involving workers compensation, automobile insurance, property windpools in states prone to property damage from hurricanes, and FAIR plans, which provide various insurance coverages to individuals or other entities that otherwise are unable to purchase that coverage in the voluntary market. Assessments may include any charge mandated by statute or regulatory authority that is related directly or indirectly to underwriting activities. Examples of such mechanisms include, but are not limited to, the Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund, Florida Citizens Property Insurance Corporation, Louisiana Citizens Property Insurance Corporation, and the Texas Windstorm Insurance Association. Amounts payable or paid as a result of arrangements that are in substance reinsurance, including certain involuntary pools where insurers are required to assume premiums and losses from those pools, are accounted for as reinsurance (e.g., National Workers Compensation Reinsurance Pool, North Carolina Beach Plan). Amounts related to assessments from arrangements that are not reinsurance are reported as a component of "General and Administrative Expenses." For additional information concerning assessments for guaranty funds and second injury funds and other mandatory pooling and reinsurance agreements including state funding mechanisms, see Item 1A "Risk Factors." Insurance Regulatory Information System. The National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) developed the Insurance Regulatory Information System (IRIS) to help state regulators identify companies that may require special attention. Financial examiners review annual statements and key financial ratios based on year end data. These ratios assist state insurance departments in executing their statutory mandate to oversee the financial condition of insurance companies. Each ratio has an established "usual range" of results. A ratio result falling outside the usual range of IRIS ratios, however, is not considered a failing result; rather, unusual values are viewed as part of the regulatory early monitoring system. Furthermore, in some years, it may not be unusual for financially sound companies to have several ratios with results outside the usual ranges. Generally, an insurance company will become subject to regulatory scrutiny if it falls outside the usual ranges of four or more of the ratios. Based on preliminary 2010 IRIS ratios calculated by the Company, the following lead insurance subsidiaries had results outside the normal range due to the actions taken by the Company during 2010 to dividend excess capital to the holding company: The Travelers Indemnity Company had results outside the normal range for one IRIS ratio due to the amount of dividends received from its subsidiaries and for three IRIS ratios due to the amount of dividends paid to its parent; Travelers Casualty and Surety Company and The Standard Fire Insurance Company had results outside the normal range for one IRIS ratio due to the amount of dividends received from its subsidiaries and for two IRIS ratios due to the amount of dividends paid to its parent; and St. Paul Fire and Marine Insurance Company had results outside the normal range for three IRIS ratios due to the amount of dividends paid to its parent. In 2009, Travelers Casualty and Surety Company had results outside the normal range for one IRIS ratio due to the amount of dividends received from its subsidiaries. Management does not anticipate regulatory action as a result of the 2010 IRIS ratio results for the lead insurance subsidiaries or their insurance subsidiaries. In all instances in prior years, regulators have been satisfied upon follow up that no regulatory action was required. Risk Based Capital (RBC) Requirements. The NAIC has an RBC requirement for most property and casualty insurance companies. The RBC requirement determines minimum capital requirements 31 Table of Contents and is intended to raise the level of protection for policyholder obligations. Under laws adopted by individual states, insurers having total adjusted capital less than that required by the RBC calculation will be subject to varying degrees of regulatory action, depending on the level of capital inadequacy. The formulas have not been designed to differentiate among adequately capitalized companies that operate with higher levels of capital. Therefore, it is inappropriate and ineffective to use the formulas to rate or to rank these companies. At December 31, 2010, all of TRVs insurance subsidiaries had total adjusted capital in excess of the RBC requirement. Investment Regulation. Insurance company investments must comply with applicable laws and regulations which prescribe the kind, quality and concentration of investments. In general, these laws and regulations permit investments in federal, state and municipal obligations, corporate bonds, preferred and common equity securities, mortgage loans, real estate and certain other investments, subject to specified limits and certain other qualifications. At December 31, 2010, the Company was in compliance with these laws and regulations. Agent and Broker Compensation. In December 2010, the Company and the Attorneys General of New York, Illinois and Connecticut amended and restated existing settlement agreements with the Company regarding producer compensation. The amendments do not restrict the payment of contingent commissions as producer compensation. International Regulation TRVs insurance underwriting subsidiaries based in the United Kingdom, Travelers Insurance Company Limited and Travelers Casualty and Surety Company of Europe Limited, are regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA). The FSAs principal objectives are to maintain market confidence, promote public understanding of the financial system, protect consumers, and fight financial crime. TRVs managing agent (Travelers Syndicate Management Ltd.) of its Lloyds syndicate is also regulated by the FSA, which has delegated certain regulatory responsibilities to the Council of Lloyds. Through Lloyds, TRV is licensed to write business in over 70 countries throughout the world by virtue of Lloyds international licenses. In each such country, TRV is subject to the laws and insurance regulation of that country. A TRV subsidiary, Travelers Casualty and Surety Company, has a representative office in China. The representative office is regulated by the China Insurance Regulatory Commission. A TRV subsidiary, TCI Global Services, Inc., has a liaison office in India. Insurance business in India is regulated by the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority. In addition, TRVs Lloyds managing agency has a service company in Singapore, the underwriting operations of which are regulated by the Monetary Authority of Singapore. TRVs insurance operations in the Republic of Ireland are regulated by the Insurance Supervision Departments of the Central Bank of Ireland. Such operations are conducted through an Irish branch of Travelers Insurance Company Limited which, as mentioned above, is regulated by the FSA. In Canada, the conduct of TRVs insurance business is regulated by the Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions under provisions of the Insurance Companies Act, which requires insurance companies to maintain certain levels of capital depending on the type and amount of insurance policies in force. The European Unions executive body, the European Commission, is implementing new capital adequacy and risk management regulations called Solvency II that would apply to the Companys businesses across the European Union beginning as soon as the fourth quarter of 2012. Under Solvency II, it is possible that the U.S. parent of a European Union subsidiary could be subject to certain Solvency II requirements if the regulator determines that the subsidiarys capital position is dependent on the parent company and the U.S. company is not already subject to regulations deemed "equivalent" to Solvency II. In addition, regulators in countries where the Company has operations are working with the International Association of Insurance Supervisors (and in the U.S., with the National 32 Table of Contents Association of Insurance Commissioners) to consider changes to insurance company supervision, including solvency requirements and group supervision. While it is not certain how or if these actions will impact the Company, it does not currently expect the capital management strategies for its U.S. operating companies or its European Union operating companies will be materially impacted. Insurance Holding Company Statutes As a holding company, TRV is not regulated as an insurance company. However, since TRV owns capital stock in insurance subsidiaries, it is subject to state insurance holding company statutes, as well as certain other laws, of each of its insurance subsidiaries states of domicile. All holding company statutes, as well as other laws, require disclosure and, in some instances, prior approval of material transactions between an insurance company and an affiliate. The holding company statutes and other laws also require, among other things, prior approval of an acquisition of control of a domestic insurer, some transactions between affiliates and the payment of extraordinary dividends or distributions. Insurance Regulations Concerning Change of Control. Many state insurance regulatory laws contain provisions that require advance approval by state agencies of any change in control of an insurance company that is domiciled, or, in some cases, having substantial business that it is deemed to be commercially domiciled, in that state. The laws of many states also contain provisions requiring pre notification to state agencies prior to any change in control of a non domestic insurance company admitted to transact business in that state. While these pre notification statutes do not authorize the state agency to disapprove the change of control, they do authorize issuance of cease and desist orders with respect to the non domestic insurer if it is determined that some conditions, such as undue market concentration, would result from the acquisition. Any transactions that would constitute a change in control of any of TRVs insurance subsidiaries would generally require prior approval by the insurance departments of the states in which the insurance subsidiaries are domiciled or commercially domiciled. They may also require pre acquisition notification in those states that have adopted pre acquisition notification provisions and in which such insurance subsidiaries are admitted to transact business. Two of TRVs insurance subsidiaries and its operations at Lloyds are domiciled in the United Kingdom. Insurers in the United Kingdom are subject to change of control restrictions in the Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 including approval of the Financial Services Authority. Some of TRVs other insurance subsidiaries are domiciled in, or authorized to conduct insurance business in, Canada. Authorized insurers in Canada are subject to change of control restrictions in Section 407 of the Insurance Companies Act, including approval of the Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions. These requirements may deter, delay or prevent transactions affecting the control of or the ownership of common stock, including transactions that could be advantageous to TRVs shareholders. ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT As a large property and casualty insurance enterprise, the Company is exposed to many risks. These risks are a function of the environments within which the Company operates. Since certain risks can be correlated with other risks, an event or a series of events can impact multiple areas of the Company simultaneously and have a material effect on the Companys results of operations, financial position and or liquidity. These exposures require an entity wide view of risk and an understanding of the potential impact on all aspects of the Company. It also requires the Company to manage its risk taking to be within its risk appetite in a prudent and balanced effort to create and preserve value for all of the Companys stakeholders. This approach to Company wide risk evaluation and 33 Table of Contents management is commonly called Enterprise Risk Management (ERM). ERM activities involve both the identification and assessment of a broad range of risks and the execution of synchronized strategies to effectively manage such risks. Effective ERM also includes the determination of the Companys risk capital needs, which takes into account regulatory requirements and credit rating considerations, in addition to economic and other factors. ERM at the Company is an integral part of business operations. All risk owners across all functions, all corporate leaders and the board of directors are engaged in ERM. ERM involves risk based analytics, as well as reporting and feedback throughout the enterprise in support of the Companys long term financial strategies and objectives. The Company uses various methods, including sophisticated computer modeling techniques, to analyze catastrophic events and the risks associated with them. These analyses and methods are used in making underwriting and reinsurance decisions as part of managing the Companys exposure to catastrophic events. In addition to catastrophe modeling and analysis, the Company also models and analyzes its exposure to other extreme events. These analytical techniques are an integral component of the Companys ERM process and further support the Companys long term financial strategies and objectives. In addition to the day to day ERM activities within the Companys business units, other key internal risk management functions include the Management Committee (comprised of the Companys Chief Executive Officer and the other most senior members of management), the Enterprise and Underwriting Risk Committees of management, the Credit Committee, the Chief Compliance Officer, the Business Conduct Officer, the Corporate Actuarial group, the Corporate Audit group, the Accounting Policy group, the Enterprise Underwriting group and many others. A senior executive oversees the ERM process. The mission of this executive is to facilitate risk assessment and to collaborate in implementing effective risk management strategies throughout the Company. Another strategic ERM objective of this executive includes working across the Company to enhance effective and realistic risk modeling capabilities as part of the Companys overall effort to understand and manage its portfolio of risks to be within its risk appetite. Board oversight of ERM is provided by the Risk Committee of the board of directors, which reviews the strategies, processes and controls pertaining to the Companys insurance operations and oversees the implementation, execution and performance of the Companys ERM program. The Companys ERM efforts build upon the foundation of an effective internal control environment. ERM expands the internal control objectives of effective and efficient operations, reliable financial reporting and compliance with applicable laws and regulations, to fostering, leading and supporting an integrated, risk based culture within the Company that focuses on value creation and preservation. However, the Company can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that these objectives will be met. Further, the design of any risk management or control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits must be considered relative to their costs. As a result, the possibility of material financial loss remains in spite of the Companys significant ERM efforts. An investor should carefully consider the risks and all of the other information set forth in this annual report, including the discussions included in "Item 1A Risk Factors," "Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk," and "
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Also see "Item 3 Legal Proceedings." We are exposed to, and may face adverse developments involving, mass tort claims such as those relating to exposure to potentially harmful products or substances. In addition to asbestos and environmental claims, we face exposure to other types of mass tort claims, including claims related to exposure to potentially harmful products or substances, including lead paint, silica and welding rod fumes. Establishing claims and claim adjustment expense reserves for mass tort claims is subject to uncertainties because of many factors, including expanded theories of liability, disputes concerning medical causation with respect to certain diseases, geographical concentration of the lawsuits asserting the claims and the potential for a large rise in the total number of claims without underlying epidemiological developments suggesting an increase in disease rates. Moreover, evolving judicial interpretations regarding the application of various tort theories and defenses, including application of various theories of joint and several liabilities, as well as the application of insurance coverage to these claims, make it difficult to estimate our ultimate liability for such claims. Because of the uncertainties set forth above, additional liabilities may arise for amounts in excess of the current related reserves. In addition, our estimate of claims and claim adjustment expenses may change, and such change could be material. These additional liabilities or increases in estimates, or a range of either, cannot now be reasonably estimated and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claim and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. Examples of emerging claims and coverage issues include, but are not limited to: judicial expansion of policy coverage and the impact of new theories of liability; plaintiffs targeting property and casualty insurers, including us, in purported class action litigation relating to claims handling and other practices; claims relating to construction defects, which often present complex coverage and damage valuation questions; claims under directors & officers insurance policies relating to: losses from involvement in financial market activities, such as mortgage or financial product origination, distribution, structuring or servicing and foreclosure procedures; fraud, including those related to investment management businesses; possible accounting irregularities; and corporate governance issues; the assertion of "public nuisance" or similar theories of liability, pursuant to which plaintiffs seek to recover monies spent to administer public health care programs; abate hazards to public health and safety and or recover damages purportedly attributable to a "public nuisance"; medical developments that link health issues to particular causes, resulting in liability claims; claims relating to unanticipated consequences of current or new technologies; and claims relating to potentially changing climate conditions. In some instances, these emerging issues may not become apparent for some time after we have issued the affected insurance policies. As a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance policies may not be known for many years after the policies are issued. 54 Table of Contents In addition, the potential passage of new legislation designed to expand the right to sue, to remove limitations on recovery, to extend the statutes of limitations or otherwise to repeal or weaken tort reforms could have an adverse impact on our business. The effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely hard to predict and could harm our business and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. The intense competition that we face could harm our ability to maintain or increase our business volumes and our profitability. The property and casualty insurance industry is highly competitive, and we believe that it will remain highly competitive for the foreseeable future. We compete with both domestic and foreign insurers, a number of which have experienced financial difficulties in recent periods. Competitors that are experiencing financial difficulties may offer products at prices and on terms that are not consistent with our economic standards in an effort to maintain or increase their business. The property and casualty insurance industry has historically been cyclical, with periods characterized by intense price competition and less restrictive underwriting standards followed by periods of higher premium rates and more selective underwriting standards. The competitive environment in which we operate could also be impacted by current general economic conditions, which could reduce the volume of business available to us as well as to our competitors. In addition, the competitive environment could be impacted by changes in customer preferences, including customer demand for direct distribution channels. See "Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Outlook." In recent years, many independent personal insurance agents have begun to utilize price comparison rating technology, sometimes referred to as "comparative raters," as a cost efficient means of obtaining quotes from multiple companies. Comparative raters also tend to put additional focus on price over other competitive criteria. Additionally, there is potential for similar technology to be used to access comparative rates for small commercial business. Agents and brokers may also create alternate distribution channels for commercial business, such as insurance exchanges, that may adversely impact product differentiation and pricing. Our competitive position is based on many factors, including but not limited to our: ability to retain existing customers, to obtain new business and to profitably price our business; agent, broker and client relationships; speed of claims payment; premiums charged, contract terms and conditions, products and services offered (including the ability to design customized programs); ability to provide our products and services in a cost effective manner; perceived overall financial strength and corresponding ratings assigned by independent rating agencies; reputation, experience and qualifications of employees; geographic scope of business; local presence; and ability to keep pace relative to our competitors with changes in technology and information systems. We may have difficulty in continuing to compete successfully on any of these bases in the future. If competition limits our ability to retain existing business or write new business at adequate rates, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. See "Competition" sections of the discussion on business segments in "Item 1 Business." 55  Table of Contents We may not be able to collect all amounts due to us from reinsurers and reinsurance coverage may not be available to us in the future at commercially reasonable rates or at all. Although the reinsurer is liable to us to the extent of the ceded reinsurance, we remain liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. As a result, ceded reinsurance arrangements do not eliminate our obligation to pay claims. Accordingly, we are subject to credit risk with respect to our ability to recover amounts due from reinsurers. In the past, certain reinsurers have ceased writing business and entered into runoff. Some of our reinsurance claims may be disputed by the reinsurers and we may ultimately receive partial or no payment. This is a particular risk in the case of claims that relate to insurance policies written many years ago, including those relating to asbestos and environmental claims. In addition, in a number of jurisdictions, particularly the European Union and the United Kingdom, a reinsurer is permitted to transfer a reinsurance arrangement to another reinsurer, which may be less creditworthy, without a counterpartys consent, provided that the transfer has been approved by the applicable regulatory and or court authority. The ability of reinsurers to transfer their risks to other, less creditworthy reinsurers may adversely impact our ability to collect amounts due to us. Included in reinsurance recoverables are certain amounts related to structured settlements. Structured settlements comprise annuities purchased from various life insurance companies to settle certain personal physical injury claims, of which workers compensation claims comprise a significant portion. In cases where we did not receive a release from the claimant, the structured settlement is included in reinsurance recoverables as we retain the contingent liability to the claimant. In the event that the life insurance company fails to make the required annuity payments, we would be required to make such payments. Many reinsurance companies and life insurance companies were negatively impacted by the financial markets disruption and the economic downturn over the past three years. A number of these companies, including certain of those with which we conduct business, were downgraded by various rating agencies during this time period. For a discussion of our top reinsurance groups by reinsurance recoverable and the top five groups by amount of structured settlements provided, see "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Reinsurance Recoverables." The availability and cost of reinsurance are subject to prevailing market conditions, both in terms of price and available capacity. The availability of reinsurance capacity can be impacted by general economic conditions and conditions in the reinsurance market, such as the occurrence of significant reinsured events. The availability and cost of reinsurance could affect our business volume and profitability. Because of the risks set forth above, we may not be able to collect all amounts due to us from reinsurers, and reinsurance coverage may not be available to us in the future at commercially reasonable rates or at all, and or life insurance companies may fail to make required annuity payments, and thus our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We are exposed to credit risk in certain of our business operations. In addition to exposure to credit risk related to our investment portfolio and reinsurance recoverables (discussed above), we are exposed to credit risk in several other areas of our business operations, including credit risk relating to policyholders, independent agents and brokers. We are exposed to credit risk in our surety insurance operations, where we guarantee to a third party that our customer will satisfy certain performance obligations (e.g., a construction contract) or certain financial obligations. If our customer defaults, we may suffer losses and not be reimbursed by our customer. In addition, it is customary practice in the surety business for multiple insurers to participate as co sureties on large surety bonds. Under these arrangements, the co surety obligations 56 Table of Contents are typically joint and several, in which case we are also exposed to credit risk with respect to our co sureties. In addition, a portion of our business is written with large deductible insurance policies. Under workers compensation insurance contracts with deductible features, we are obligated to pay the claimant the full amount of the claim. We are subsequently reimbursed by the contractholder for the deductible amount and, as a result, we are exposed to credit risk to the policyholder. Moreover, certain policyholders purchase retrospectively rated workers compensation policies (i.e., policies in which premiums are adjusted after the policy period based on the actual loss experience of the policyholder during the policy period). Retrospectively rated policies expose us to additional credit risk to the extent that the adjusted premium is greater than the original premium. Our efforts to mitigate the credit risk that we have to our insureds may not be successful. To reduce such credit risk, we require certain insureds to post collateral for some or all of these obligations, often in the form of pledged securities, such as money market funds, or letters of credit provided by banks. In cases where we receive pledged securities and the insureds are unable to honor their obligations, we may be exposed to credit risk on the securities pledged and or the risk that our access to that collateral may be stayed during an insureds bankruptcy. In cases where we receive letters of credit from banks and the insureds are unable to honor their obligations, we are exposed to the credit risk of the banks that issued the letters of credit. In accordance with industry practice, when policyholders purchase insurance policies from us through independent agents and brokers, the premiums relating to those policies are often paid to the agents and brokers for payment to us. In most jurisdictions, the premiums will be deemed to have been paid to us whether or not they are actually received by us. Consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with amounts due from independent agents and brokers. To a large degree, the credit risk we face is a function of the economy; accordingly, we face a greater risk in an economic downturn. While we attempt to manage the risks discussed above through underwriting and investment guidelines, collateral requirements and other oversight mechanisms, our efforts may not be successful. For example, collateral obtained may subsequently have little or no value. As a result, our exposure to the above credit risks could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Our businesses are heavily regulated and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. We are extensively regulated and supervised in the jurisdictions in which we conduct business, including licensing and supervision by governmental regulatory agencies in such jurisdictions. These regulatory systems are generally designed to protect the interests of policyholders, and not necessarily the interests of insurers, their shareholders and other investors. For example, to protect policyholders whose insurance company becomes financially insolvent, guaranty funds have been established in all fifty states to pay the covered claims of policyholders in the event of an insolvency of an insurer, subject to applicable state limits. The funding of guaranty funds is provided through assessments levied against remaining insurers in the marketplace. As a result, the insolvency of one or more insurance companies could result in additional assessments levied against us. These regulatory systems also address authorization for lines of business, capital and surplus requirements, limitations on the types and amounts of certain investments, underwriting limitations, transactions with affiliates, dividend limitations, changes in control, premium rates and a variety of other financial and non financial components of an insurers business. In recent years, the state insurance regulatory framework has come under increased scrutiny, and some state legislatures have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state authority to regulate insurance companies and insurance holding companies. Further, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) and state insurance regulators continually reexamine existing laws 57 Table of Contents and regulations, specifically focusing on modifications to holding company regulations, interpretations of existing laws and the development of new laws and regulations. In a time of financial uncertainty or a prolonged economic downturn or otherwise, regulators may choose to adopt more restrictive insurance laws and regulations. For example, insurance regulators may choose to restrict the ability of insurance subsidiaries to make payments to their parent companies or reject rate increases due to the economic environment. The state insurance regulators may also increase the statutory capital requirements for our insurance subsidiaries. Although the U.S. federal government has not historically regulated the insurance business, there have been proposals from time to time, including after the financial crisis in 2008 and 2009, to impose federal regulation on the insurance industry. On July 21, 2010, the President signed into law the Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Dodd Frank Act). Among other things, the Dodd Frank Act establishes a Federal Insurance Office within the U.S. Department of the Treasury. The Federal Insurance Office initially has limited regulatory authority and is empowered to gather data and information regarding the insurance industry and insurers, including conducting a study for submission to the U.S. Congress on how to modernize and improve insurance regulation in the U.S. Further, the Dodd Frank Act gives the Federal Reserve supervisory authority over a number of financial services companies, including insurance companies, if they are designated by a two thirds vote of a Financial Stability Oversight Council (the Council) as "systemically important." While we do not believe that we are "systemically important," as defined in the Dodd Frank Act, it is possible that the Council may conclude that we are. If we were designated as "systemically important," the Federal Reserves supervisory authority could include the ability to impose heightened financial regulation and could impact requirements regarding our capital, liquidity and leverage as well as our business and investment conduct. As a result of the foregoing, the Dodd Frank Act, or other additional federal regulation that is adopted in the future, could impose significant burdens on us, including impacting the ways in which we conduct our business, increasing compliance costs and duplicating state regulation, and could result in a competitive disadvantage, particularly relative to smaller insurers who may not be subject to the same level of regulation. Even if we are not subject to additional regulation by the federal government, significant financial sector regulatory reform, including the Dodd Frank Act, could have a significant impact on us. For example, regulatory reform could have an unexpected impact on our rights as a creditor or on our competitive position. In particular, the Dodd Frank Act authorizes assessments to pay for the resolution of systemically important financial institutions that have become insolvent. We (as a financial company with more than $50 billion in assets) could be assessed, and, although any such assessment is required to be risk weighted (i.e., riskier firms pay more), such costs could be material to us and are currently difficult for us to estimate. Other potential changes in U.S. federal legislation, regulation and or administrative policies, including the potential repeal of the McCarran Ferguson Act and potential changes in federal taxation, could also significantly harm the insurance industry, including us. In addition, state tax laws that specifically impact the insurance industry, such as premium taxes or other taxes, may be enacted or changed by states to raise revenues. As a U.S. based SEC reporting company, we are currently required to prepare our financial statements in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), as promulgated by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB). The SEC is currently examining whether to require the use of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as promulgated by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), for companies such as us. The FASB and the IASB have also embarked on a long term project to converge GAAP and IFRS. Additionally, the IASB and the FASB are in the process of developing a global insurance standard that may involve methodologies for valuing insurance contract liabilities that may be significantly different from the methodologies required by current GAAP. We are not able to predict whether we will choose to, or be required to, 58 Table of Contents adopt IFRS or how the adoption of IFRS (or the convergence of GAAP and IFRS, including the project for valuing insurance contract liabilities) may impact our financial statements in the future. Changes in accounting standards, particularly those that specifically apply to insurance company operations, may impact the content and presentation of our reported financial results and could have adverse consequences to our reported financial results, including lower reported results of operations and shareholders equity and increased volatility and decreased comparability of our reported results with other insurers. The European Unions executive body, the European Commission, is implementing new capital adequacy and risk management regulations called Solvency II that would apply to our businesses across the European Union beginning as soon as the fourth quarter of 2012. Under Solvency II, it is possible that the U.S. parent of a European Union subsidiary could be subject to certain Solvency II requirements if the regulator determines that the subsidiarys capital position is dependent on the parent company and the U.S. company is not already subject to regulations deemed "equivalent" to Solvency II. In addition, regulators in countries where we have operations are working with the International Association of Insurance Supervisors (and in the U.S., with the National Association of Insurance Commissioners) to consider changes to insurance company supervision, including solvency requirements and group supervision. While it is not yet known how these actions will impact us, such regulation could result in a need for additional capital, increased costs of compliance, increased disclosure and less flexibility in our capital management. U.S. or non U.S. insurance laws or regulations that are adopted or amended may be more restrictive than current laws or regulations and may result in lower revenues and or higher costs of compliance and thus could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and limit our growth. A downgrade in our claims paying and financial strength ratings could adversely impact our business volumes, adversely impact our ability to access the capital markets and increase our borrowing costs. Claims paying and financial strength ratings are important to an insurers competitive position. Rating agencies review insurers ratings periodically, and change their ratings criteria periodically, and therefore our current ratings may not be maintained in the future. A downgrade in one or more of our ratings could negatively impact our business volumes because demand for certain of our products may be reduced, particularly because many customers may require that we maintain minimum ratings to enter into or renew business with us. Additionally, we may find it more difficult to access the capital markets and we may incur higher borrowing costs. If significant losses, including, but not limited to, those resulting from one or more major catastrophes, or significant reserve additions or significant investment losses were to cause our capital position to deteriorate significantly, or if one or more rating agencies substantially increase their capital requirements, we may need to raise equity capital in the future (which we may not be able to do at a reasonable cost or at all) in order to maintain our ratings or limit the extent of a downgrade. A continued trend of more frequent and severe weather related catastrophes or a prolonged economic downturn may lead rating agencies to substantially increase their capital requirements. For further discussion about our ratings, see, "Item 1 Business Ratings." The inability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company in sufficient amounts would harm our ability to meet our obligations, pay future shareholder dividends or make future share repurchases. Our holding company relies on dividends from our insurance subsidiaries to meet our obligations for payment of interest and principal on outstanding debt, to pay dividends to shareholders, to make contributions to our pension plan, to pay other corporate expenses and to make share repurchases. The ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company in the future will depend on their statutory surplus, earnings and regulatory restrictions. 59 Table of Contents We are subject to regulation by some states as an insurance holding company system. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to various regulatory restrictions that limit the maximum amount of dividends available to be paid to their parent without prior approval of insurance regulatory authorities. In a time of prolonged economic downturn or otherwise, regulators may choose to further restrict the ability of insurance subsidiaries to make payments to their parent companies. The ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company is also restricted by regulations that set standards of solvency that must be met and maintained. The inability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company in an amount sufficient to meet our debt service obligations and other cash requirements could harm our ability to meet our obligations, to pay future shareholder dividends and to make share repurchases. Disruptions to our relationships with our independent agents and brokers could adversely affect us. We market our insurance products primarily through independent agents and brokers. An important part of our business is written through less than a dozen such intermediaries. Loss of all or a substantial portion of the business provided through such agents and brokers could materially and adversely affect our future business volume and results of operations. We may also seek to develop new product distribution channels, including our current efforts to establish a direct to consumer platform in the Personal Insurance segment. In addition, agents and brokers may create alternate distribution channels for commercial business, such as insurance exchanges, that may adversely impact product differentiation and pricing. Our or their efforts with respect to alternate distribution channels could adversely impact our business relationship with independent agents and brokers who currently market our products, resulting in a lower volume of business generated from these sources. We rely on internet applications for the marketing and sale of certain of our products, and we may increasingly rely on internet applications and toll free numbers for distribution. In some instances, our agents and brokers are required to access separate business platforms to execute the sale of our personal insurance or commercial insurance products. Should internet disruptions occur, or frustration with our business platforms or distribution initiatives develop among our independent agents and brokers, the resulting loss of business could materially and adversely affect our future business volume and results of operations. Our efforts to develop new products or expand in targeted markets may not be successful and may create enhanced risks. A number of our recent and planned business initiatives involve developing new products or expanding existing products in targeted markets. This includes the following efforts, from time to time, to protect or grow market share: We may develop products that insure risks we have not previously insured or contain new coverage or coverage terms. We may refine our underwriting processes. For example, in certain of our businesses in recent years, we have substantially increased the volume of business that flows through our automated underwriting and pricing systems. We may seek to expand distribution channels, such as our efforts to develop a direct to consumer platform in Personal Insurance. We may focus on geographic markets within or outside of the United States where we have had relatively little or no market share. We may not be successful in introducing new products or expanding in targeted markets and, even if we are successful, these efforts may create enhanced risks. Among other risks: Demand for new products or in new markets may not meet our expectations. To the extent we are able to market new products or expand in new markets, our risk exposures may change, and the data and models we use to manage such exposures may not be as 60 Table of Contents sophisticated as those we use in existing markets or with existing products. This, in turn, could lead to losses in excess of our expectations. Models underlying automated underwriting and pricing decisions may not be effective. Efforts to develop new products or markets have the potential to create or increase distribution channel conflict, such as described above under " Disruptions to our relationships with our independent agents and brokers could adversely affect us." In connection with the conversion of existing policyholders to a new product, some policyholders pricing may increase, while the pricing for other policyholders may decrease, the net impact of which could negatively impact retention and margins. To develop new products or markets, we may need to make substantial capital and operating expenditures, which may also negatively impact results in the near term. If our efforts to develop new products or expand in targeted markets are not successful, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our net deferred tax assets could be adversely affected by a reduction in the U.S. Federal corporate income tax rate. Federal tax legislation could be enacted to reduce the existing statutory U.S. Federal corporate income tax rate from 35%, which would, accordingly, reduce our net deferred tax asset. The amount of our net deferred tax assets is volatile and significantly impacted by changes in unrealized investment gains and losses in our investment portfolio. The effect of a reduction in a tax rate on net deferred tax assets is required to be recognized, in full, as a reduction of income from continuing operations in the period when enacted and, therefore, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We may be adversely affected if our pricing and capital models are inaccurate. The profitability of our property and casualty business substantially depends on the extent to which our actual claims experience is consistent with the assumptions we use in pricing our policies. We utilize models to help us price business in a manner that is intended to be consistent, over time, with actual results and return objectives. We also use various methods, including predictive modeling, forecasting and sophisticated simulation modeling techniques, to analyze loss trends and the risks associated with our assets and liabilities. We also use these analyses and methods in making underwriting, pricing and reinsurance decisions as part of managing our exposure to catastrophes and other extreme adverse events. These models incorporate numerous assumptions and forecasts about the future level and variability of: interest rates, inflation, capital requirements, and frequency and severity of losses, among others, that are difficult to make and may be materially wrong. Future experience may be materially different from past and current experience incorporated in a models forecasts or simulations. This includes the likelihood of events occurring or continuing or the correlation among events. If we fail to appropriately price the risks we insure, or fail to change our pricing model to appropriately reflect our current experience, or if our claims experience is more frequent or severe than our underlying risk assumptions, our profit margins may be negatively affected. If we underestimate the frequency and or severity of extreme adverse events occurring, our financial condition may be adversely affected. If we overestimate the risks we are exposed to, we may overprice our products, and new business growth and retention of our existing business may be adversely affected. Further, as we expand into different markets and geographies, we will write more policies in markets and geographical areas where we have less data specific to these new markets and geographies, and, accordingly, we may be more susceptible to error in our models and strategy. We are subject to a number of risks associated with our business outside the United States. We conduct business outside the United States primarily in the United Kingdom, Canada and the Republic of Ireland. In addition, we entered into an agreement to commence a joint venture in Brazil and may 61 Table of Contents also explore opportunities in other countries, including other emerging markets such as India and China. While our business outside of the United States currently constitutes a relatively small portion of our revenues, in conducting such business we are subject to a number of significant risks, particularly in emerging economies. These risks include restrictions such as price controls, capital controls, currency exchange limits, ownership limits and other restrictive or anti competitive governmental actions, which could have an adverse effect on our business and our reputation. Our investments outside the United States may also subject us to currency risk, and, in some markets, it may be difficult to effectively hedge that risk. In addition, in some markets, we may invest as part of a joint venture with a local counterparty. Because our governance rights may be limited, we may not have control over the ability of the joint venture to make certain decisions and or mitigate risks it faces, and significant disagreements with a joint venture counterparty may adversely impact our investment. Investments outside the United States also subject us to additional domestic and foreign laws and regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar laws in other countries that prohibit the making of improper payments to foreign officials. Although we have policies and controls in place that are designed to ensure compliance with these laws, if those controls are ineffective and an employee or intermediary fails to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil and criminal penalties and our business and our reputation could be adversely affected. Some countries, particularly emerging economies, have laws and regulations that lack clarity and, even with local expertise and effective controls, it can be difficult to determine the exact requirements of, and potential liability under, the local laws. For example, in some jurisdictions, including Brazil, parties to a joint venture may, in some circumstances, have liability for some obligations of the venture and that liability may extend beyond the capital invested. Failure to comply with local laws in a particular market may result in substantial liability and could have a significant and negative effect not only on our business in that market but also on our reputation generally. Our business success and profitability depend, in part, on effective information technology systems and on continuing to develop and implement improvements in technology. We depend in large part on our technology systems for conducting business and processing claims, and thus our business success is dependent on maintaining the effectiveness of existing technology systems and on continuing to develop and enhance technology systems that support our business processes and strategic initiatives in a cost and resource efficient manner. Some system development projects are long term in nature, may negatively impact our expense ratios as we invest in the projects and may cost more than we expect to complete. In addition, system development projects may not deliver the benefits we expect once they are complete, or may be replaced or become obsolete more quickly than expected, which could result in accelerated recognition of expenses. If we do not effectively and efficiently manage and upgrade our technology portfolio, or if the costs of doing so are higher than we expect, our ability to provide competitive services to new and existing customers in a cost effective manner and our ability to implement our strategic initiatives could be adversely impacted. If we experience difficulties with technology, data security and or outsourcing relationships our ability to conduct our business could be negatively impacted. While technology can streamline many business processes and ultimately reduce the cost of operations, technology initiatives present significant risks. Our business is highly dependent upon our employees ability to perform, in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, necessary business functions. A shut down of, or inability to access, one or more of our facilities; a power outage; or a failure of one or more of our information technology, telecommunications or other systems could significantly impair our ability to perform such functions on a timely basis. In the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, terrorist attack or industrial accident, or due to a computer virus, our systems could be inaccessible for an extended period of time. In addition, because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third party systems, we could experience service denials or failures of controls if demand for 62 Table of Contents our service exceeds capacity or a third party system fails or experiences an interruption. If our business continuity plans did not sufficiently address such a business interruption, system failure or service denial, this could result in a deterioration of our ability to write and process new and renewal business, provide customer service, pay claims in a timely manner or perform other necessary business functions. Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Computer viruses, hackers, employee misconduct and other external hazards could expose our data systems to security breaches. In addition, we routinely transmit and receive personal, confidential and proprietary information by email and other electronic means. While we attempt to develop secure transmission capabilities with third party vendors and others with whom we do business, we may be unable to put in place secure capabilities with all of such vendors and third parties and, in addition, these third parties may not have appropriate controls in place to protect the confidentiality of the information. These increased risks, and expanding regulatory requirements regarding data security, could expose us to data loss, monetary and reputational damages and significant increases in compliance costs. As a result, our ability to conduct our business might be adversely affected. We outsource certain technology and business process functions to third parties and may do so increasingly in the future. If we do not effectively develop, implement and monitor our outsourcing relationships, third party providers do not perform as anticipated or we experience technological or other problems with a transition, we may not realize productivity improvements or cost efficiencies and may experience operational difficulties, increased costs and a loss of business. Our outsourcing of certain technology and business process functions to third parties may expose us to enhanced risk related to data security, which could result in monetary and reputational damages. In addition, our ability to receive services from third party providers outside of the United States might be impacted by cultural differences, political instability, unanticipated regulatory requirements or policies inside or outside of the United States. As a result, our ability to conduct our business might be adversely affected. Acquisitions and integration of acquired businesses may result in operating difficulties and other unintended consequences. From time to time we may investigate and pursue acquisition opportunities if we believe that such opportunities are consistent with our long term objectives and that the potential rewards of an acquisition exceed the risks. The process of integrating an acquired company or business can be complex and costly, however, and may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. For example, acquisitions may present significant risks, including: the potential disruption of our ongoing business; the ineffective integration of underwriting, claims handling and actuarial practices; the uncertainty of an acquirees reserve estimates; the diversion of management time and resources to acquisition integration challenges; the loss of key employees; the cultural challenges associated with integrating employees; and the impact of an acquisition on our financial position and or credit ratings. The acquired business may not perform as projected, and any cost savings and other synergies anticipated from the acquisition may not materialize. There is no guarantee that any businesses acquired in the future will be successfully integrated, and the ineffective integration of our businesses and processes may result in substantial costs or delays and adversely affect our ability to compete. 63 Table of Contents We could be adversely affected if our controls to ensure compliance with guidelines, policies and legal and regulatory standards are not effective. Our business is highly dependent on our ability to engage on a daily basis in a large number of insurance underwriting, claim processing and investment activities, many of which are highly complex. These activities often are subject to internal guidelines and policies, as well as legal and regulatory standards. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance that the control systems objectives will be met. If our controls are not effective, it could lead to financial loss, unanticipated risk exposure (including underwriting, credit and investment risk) or damage to our reputation. Our businesses may be adversely affected if we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees. There is significant competition from within the property and casualty insurance industry and from businesses outside the industry for qualified employees, especially in key positions. Our performance is largely dependent on the talents, efforts and proper conduct of highly skilled individuals; therefore, our continued ability to compete effectively in our businesses and to expand into new business areas depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees. If we are not able to successfully attract, retain and motivate our employees, our business, financial results and reputation could be materially and adversely affected. Loss of or significant restriction on the use of credit scoring in the pricing and underwriting of Personal Insurance products could reduce our future profitability. In Personal Insurance, we use credit scoring as a factor in pricing decisions where allowed by state law. Some consumer groups and regulators have questioned whether the use of credit scoring unfairly discriminates against people with low incomes, minority groups and the elderly and are calling for the prohibition or restriction on the use of credit scoring in underwriting and pricing. Laws or regulations that significantly curtail the use of credit scoring, if enacted in a large number of states, could adversely affect our future profitability.  Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS NONE.  Item 2. PROPERTIES The Company leases its principal executive offices in New York, New York, as well as 210 field and claim offices totaling approximately 5.5 million square feet throughout the United States under leases or subleases with third parties. The Company also leases offices in the United Kingdom, Canada and the Republic of Ireland that house operations (primarily for the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment) in those locations. The Company owns six buildings in Hartford, Connecticut, consisting of approximately 1.8 million square feet of office space. The Company also owns office buildings located at 385 Washington Street and 130 West Sixth Street, St. Paul, Minnesota. These buildings are adjacent to one another and consist of approximately 1.1 million square feet of gross floor space. The Company also owns other real property, including office buildings in Denver, Colorado and Fall River, Massachusetts, as well as a data center located in Norcross, Georgia. The Company owns a building in London, England, which houses a portion of its Financial, Professional & International Insurance segments operations in the United Kingdom. The Company, through its subsidiaries, owns an investment portfolio of income producing properties and real estate funds. Included in this portfolio are four office buildings in which the Company holds a 50% ownership interest located in New York, New York, which collectively accounted for approximately 12% of the carrying value of the property portfolio at December 31, 2010. In the opinion of the Companys management, the Companys properties are adequate and suitable for its business as presently conducted and are adequately maintained. 64 Table of Contents  Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS The information required with respect to this item can be found under "Contingencies" in note 15 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements in this annual report and is incorporated by reference into this Item 3.  Item 4. (REMOVED AND RESERVED) EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT Information about the Companys executive officers is incorporated by reference from Part III, Item 10 of this annual report. 65  Table of Contents  PART II  Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES The Companys common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "TRV." The number of holders of record, including individual owners, of the Companys common stock was 72,924 as of February 10, 2011. This is not the actual number of beneficial owners of the Companys common stock, as shares are held in "street name" by brokers and others on behalf of individual owners. The following table sets forth the high and low closing sales prices of the Companys common stock for each quarter during the last two fiscal years and the amount of cash dividends declared per share. High Low Cash Dividend Declared 2010 First Quarter $ 54.76 $ 47.94 $ 0.33 Second Quarter 53.92 48.00 0.36 Third Quarter 53.56 48.54 0.36 Fourth Quarter 57.44 52.12 0.36 2009 First Quarter $ 45.20 $ 33.52 $ 0.30 Second Quarter 44.04 37.48 0.30 Third Quarter 50.42 39.00 0.30 Fourth Quarter 54.31 48.02 0.33 The Company paid cash dividends per share of $1.41 in 2010 and $1.23 in 2009. Future dividend decisions will be based on, and affected by, a number of factors, including the operating results and financial requirements of the Company and the impact of dividend restrictions. For information on dividends, as well as restrictions on the ability of certain of the Companys subsidiaries to transfer funds to the Company in the form of cash dividends or otherwise, see "Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources." Dividends will be paid by the Company only if declared by its board of directors out of funds legally available, and subject to any other restrictions that may be applicable to the Company. 66  Table of Contents  SHAREHOLDER RETURN PERFORMANCE GRAPH The following graph shows a five year comparison of the cumulative total return to shareholders for the Companys common stock and the common stock of companies included in the S&P 500 Index and the S&P Property & Casualty Insurance Index, which the Company believes is the most appropriate comparative index.  COMPARISON OF CUMULATIVE FIVE YEAR TOTAL RETURN TO SHAREHOLDERS(1) (1)The cumulative return to shareholders is a concept used to compare the performance of a companys stock over time and is the ratio of the net stock price change plus the cumulative amount of dividends over the specified time period (assuming dividend reinvestment), to the stock price at the beginning of the time period. (2)Assumes $100 invested in common shares of The Travelers Companies, Inc. on December 31, 2005. (3)Companies in the S&P Property Casualty Index as of December 31, 2010 were the following: The Travelers Companies, Inc., The Chubb Corporation, Cincinnati Financial Corporation, Progressive Corporation, Allstate Corporation, XL Group, plc., ACE Ltd. and Berkshire Hathaway, Inc. Returns of each of the companies included in this index have been weighted according to their respective market capitalizations. 67  Table of Contents  ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES The table below sets forth information regarding repurchases by the Company of its common stock during the periods indicated. Period Beginning Period Ending Total number of shares purchased Average price paid per share Total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs Approximate dollar value of shares that may yet be purchased under the plans or programs Oct. 1, 2010 Oct. 31, 2010 5,090,730 $ 54.15 5,078,070 $ 2,834,442,543 Nov. 1, 2010 Nov. 30, 2010 13,053,782 55.75 12,853,247 2,118,138,783 Dec. 1, 2010 Dec. 31, 2010 11,018,077 55.26 11,017,000 1,509,393,537 Total 29,162,589 $ 55.29 28,948,317 $ 1,509,393,537 The Companys board of directors has approved common share repurchase authorizations under which repurchases may be made from time to time in the open market, pursuant to pre set trading plans meeting the requirements of Rule 10b5 1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, in private transactions or otherwise. The authorizations do not have a stated expiration date. The timing and actual number of shares to be repurchased in the future will depend on a variety of factors, including the Companys financial position, earnings, catastrophe losses, capital requirements of the Companys operating subsidiaries, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, other investment opportunities (including mergers and acquisitions), market conditions and other factors. In January 2011, the board of directors approved a share repurchase authorization that added an additional $5 billion of repurchase capacity to the $1.51 billion of capacity remaining at December 31, 2010. The Company repurchased 214,272 shares during the three months ended December 31, 2010 that were not part of the publicly announced share repurchase authorization. These shares were repurchased to cover payroll withholding taxes in connection with the vesting of restricted stock awards and exercises of stock options, and shares used by employees to cover the exercise price of certain stock options that were exercised. Information relating to compensation plans under which the Companys equity securities are authorized for issuance is set forth in Part III Item 12 of this Report. 68  Table of Contents  Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA At and for the year ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (in millions, except per share amounts) Total revenues $ 25,112 $ 24,680 $ 24,477 $ 26,017 $ 25,090 Net income $ 3,216 $ 3,622 $ 2,924 $ 4,601 $ 4,208 Total investments $ 72,722 $ 74,965 $ 70,738 $ 74,818 $ 72,268 Total assets 105,181 109,560 109,632 115,224 115,292 Claims and claim adjustment expense reserves 51,131 53,127 54,723 57,700 59,288 Total long term debt 6,502 6,154 5,939 5,590 4,646 Total liabilities 79,706 82,145 84,313 88,608 90,157 Total shareholders equity 25,475 27,415 25,319 26,616 25,135 Net income per share(1): Basic $ 6.69 $ 6.38 $ 4.87 $ 7.00 $ 6.07 Diluted $ 6.62 $ 6.33 $ 4.81 $ 6.85 $ 5.89 Year end common shares outstanding 434.6 520.3 585.1 627.8 678.3 Per common share amounts: Cash dividends $ 1.41 $ 1.23 $ 1.19 $ 1.13 $ 1.01 Book value $ 58.47 $ 52.54 $ 43.12 $ 42.22 $ 36.86 (1)On January 1, 2009, the Company adopted the FASBs updated accounting guidance related to earnings per share. The impact of the adoption of this guidance was a reduction of previously reported basic earnings per share by $0.03, $0.04 and $0.05 per share for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and a reduction of previously reported diluted earnings per share by $0.01, $0.01 and $0.02 per share for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. 69  Table of Contents  Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following is a discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of operations of The Travelers Companies, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, the Company). 2010 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 2010 Consolidated Results of Operations Net income of $3.22 billion, or $6.69 per share basic and $6.62 diluted Net earned premiums of $21.43 billion Pretax catastrophe losses of $1.11 billion ($729 million after tax) Pretax net favorable prior year reserve development of $1.25 billion ($818 million after tax) GAAP combined ratio of 93.2% Pretax net investment income of $3.06 billion ($2.47 billion after tax) Pretax net realized investment gains of $264 million ($173 million after tax) 2010 Consolidated Financial Condition Total investments of $72.72 billion; fixed maturities and short term securities comprise 94% of total investments Total assets of $105.18 billion Total debt of $6.61 billion, resulting in a debt to total capital ratio of 20.6% (21.9% excluding net unrealized investment gains (losses), net of tax) Repurchased 95.7 million common shares for total cost of $5.00 billion under share repurchase authorization Shareholders equity of $25.48 billion; book value per common share of $58.47 Holding company liquidity of $3.61 billion 70 Table of Contents CONSOLIDATED OVERVIEW Consolidated Results of Operations (for the year ended December 31, in millions except per share amounts) 2010 2009 2008 Revenues Premiums $ 21,432 $ 21,418 $ 21,579 Net investment income 3,059 2,776 2,792 Fee income 287 306 390 Net realized investment gains (losses) 264 17 (415 ) Other revenues 70 163 131 Total revenues 25,112 24,680 24,477 Claims and expenses Claims and claim adjustment expenses 13,210 12,408 12,993 Amortization of deferred acquisition costs 3,802 3,813 3,880 General and administrative expenses 3,406 3,366 3,518 Interest expense 388 382 370 Total claims and expenses 20,806 19,969 20,761 Income before income taxes 4,306 4,711 3,716 Income tax expense 1,090 1,089 792 Net income $ 3,216 $ 3,622 $ 2,924 Net income per share Basic $ 6.69 $ 6.38 $ 4.87 Diluted $ 6.62 $ 6.33 $ 4.81 GAAP combined ratio Loss and loss adjustment expense ratio 61.0 % 57.3 % 59.4 % Underwriting expense ratio 32.2 31.9 32.5 GAAP combined ratio 93.2 % 89.2 % 91.9 % Incremental impact of direct to consumer initiative on GAAP combined ratio 0.8 % 0.5 % 0.2 % The following discussions of the Companys net income and segment operating income are presented on an after tax basis. Discussions of the components of net income and segment operating income are presented on a pretax basis, unless otherwise noted. Discussions of earnings per common share are presented on a diluted basis. Overview Diluted net income per share of $6.62 in 2010 increased by 5% over diluted net income per share of $6.33 in 2009, despite a decrease in reported net income, due to the favorable impact of common share repurchases over the previous twelve months. Net income of $3.22 billion in 2010 was $406 million lower than in 2009, primarily reflecting a significant increase in catastrophe losses, a modest decline in net favorable prior year reserve development and reduced underwriting margins related to pricing and loss cost trends, partially offset by increases in net investment income and net realized investment gains. The cost of catastrophes in 2010 and 2009 totaled $1.11 billion and $457 million, respectively. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2010 and 2009 totaled $1.25 billion and $1.33 billion, respectively. In addition, net income in 2009 reflected a reduction in income tax expense of $89 million resulting from the favorable resolution of various prior year tax 71 Table of Contents matters and an $87 million reduction in the estimate of property windpool assessments related to Hurricane Ike that had been recorded in general and administrative expenses in 2008. Diluted net income per share of $6.33 in 2009 increased by 32% over diluted net income per share of $4.81 in 2008. Net income of $3.62 billion in 2009 was 24% higher than 2008 net income of $2.92 billion. The higher rate of growth in per share income compared with growth in income reflected the favorable impact of the Companys common share repurchases over the previous twelve months. The increase in net income in 2009 was primarily driven by a significant decline in catastrophe losses. In addition, the increase reflected net realized investment gains (versus net realized investment losses in 2008), lower non catastrophe weather related losses and fewer large property losses, partially offset by reductions in underwriting margins related to pricing and loss cost trends, a decline in net favorable prior year reserve development and lower fee income. Catastrophe losses in 2009 totaled $457 million, compared with $1.41 billion in 2008. The 2008 total was principally comprised of $1.26 billion of claims and claim adjustment expenses and $141 million of property windpool assessments that were included in general and administrative expenses. Net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $1.33 billion in 2009, compared with $1.54 billion in 2008. Net income in 2009 included a net benefit of $89 million due to the favorable resolution of various prior year tax matters and an $87 million benefit from a reduction in the estimate of property windpool assessments related to Hurricane Ike. These assessments had been classified as a component of the cost of catastrophes in 2008 and are discussed in more detail in the "general and administrative expenses" section that follows). Net income in 2008 reflected an $89 million tax benefit related to the sale of a subsidiary. Revenues Earned Premiums Earned premiums in 2010 totaled $21.43 billion, $14 million, or less than 1%, higher than in 2009. In the Business Insurance segment, earned premiums in 2010 declined 2% from 2009. In the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment, earned premiums in 2010 decreased by less than 1% from 2009. In the Personal Insurance segment, earned premiums in 2010 increased 3% over 2009. In 2009, earned premiums totaled $21.42 billion, a decrease of $161 million, or 1%, from 2008. In the Business Insurance segment, earned premiums in 2009 declined 2% from 2008. In the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment, earned premiums in 2009 declined 3% from 2008. In the Personal Insurance segment, earned premiums increased 2% over 2008. Factors contributing to the changes in earned premiums in each segment in 2010 and 2009 compared with the respective prior year are discussed in more detail in the segment discussions that follow. Net Investment Income The following table sets forth information regarding the Companys investments. (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Average investments(a) $ 71,637 $ 73,130 $ 74,197 Pretax net investment income 3,059 2,776 2,792 After tax net investment income 2,468 2,290 2,299 Average pretax yield(b) 4.3 % 3.8 % 3.8 % Average after tax yield(b) 3.4 % 3.1 % 3.1 % (a)Excludes net unrealized investment gains and losses, net of tax, and reflects cash, receivables for investment sales, payables on investment purchases and accrued investment income. (b)Excludes net realized investment gains and losses and net unrealized investment gains and losses. 72 Table of Contents Net investment income of $3.06 billion in 2010 was $283 million, or 10%, higher than in 2009. Non fixed maturity investments generated net investment income of $370 million in 2010, compared with negative net investment income of $40 million in 2009. The increase in net investment income from non fixed maturity investments in 2010 reflected improved investment market conditions. Investment income from fixed maturity investments in 2010 declined $112 million compared with 2009, primarily resulting from lower long term reinvestment yields available in the market, as well as a lower average level of long term fixed income invested assets that reflected the impact of the Companys common share repurchases. The average pretax yield on the total investment portfolio was 4.3% in 2010, compared with 3.8% in 2009, reflecting the improvement in non fixed maturity investment income. Net investment income of $2.78 billion in 2009 was $16 million, or less than 1%, lower than in 2008, primarily resulting from a significant decline in short term interest rates, a lower average level of long term fixed maturity invested assets and the unfavorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates. Those factors were largely offset by improved returns from non fixed maturity investments, which generated negative net investment income of $40 million in 2009, compared with negative net investment income of $222 million in 2008. The improved performance from non fixed income investments in 2009 reflected improving investment market conditions in the second half of the year. The average pretax yield on the total investment portfolio was 3.8% in both 2009 and 2008. Fee Income The National Accounts market in the Business Insurance segment is the primary source of the Companys fee based business. The declines in fee income in 2010 and 2009 compared with the respective prior years are described in the Business Insurance segment discussion that follows. Net Realized Investment Gains (Losses) The following table sets forth information regarding the Companys net realized investment gains (losses). (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Net Realized Investment Gains (Losses) Other than temporary impairment losses: Total gains (losses) $ 7 $ (323 ) $ (420 ) Non credit component of impairments recognized in accumulated other changes in equity from nonowner sources (33 ) 65 Other than temporary impairment losses (26 ) (258 ) (420 ) Other net realized investment gains 290 275 5 Net realized investment gains (losses) $ 264 $ 17 $ (415 ) In the second quarter of 2009, the Company adopted updated accounting guidance that changed the reporting of other than temporary impairments. See notes 1 and 3 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the impact of the adoption. Other Than Temporary Impairment Losses on Investments In 2010, impairments included in net income totaled $26 million. Impairments in the fixed maturity portfolio in 2010 totaled $13 million, which included $5 million related to various issuers deteriorated financial position, $4 million of impairments related to structured mortgage securities and $4 million related to fixed maturity investments that the Company had the intent to sell. Impairments in 2010 also included $10 million related to other investments and equity impairments of $3 million. 73 Table of Contents In 2009, impairments included in net income totaled $258 million. Impairments in the fixed maturity portfolio in 2009 were $169 million and included $81 million of impairments related to structured mortgage securities, $70 million related to various issuers deteriorated financial position and $18 million with respect to securities that the Company either had the intent to sell or did not have the ability to assert an intention to hold until recovery in fair value. Equity impairments in 2009 were $79 million, the majority of which were related to issuers in the financial services industry. Impairments in 2009 also included $10 million related to other investments. In 2008, impairments included $186 million related to the deteriorated financial position of various issuers (including $70 million related to securities issued by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and its subsidiaries), $113 million related to externally managed securities with respect to which the Company did not have the ability to assert an intention to hold until recovery in fair value, $64 million related to structured mortgage securities and $57 million related to securities the Company had identified for potential sale prior to a recovery in fair value. Further information regarding the nature of impairment charges in each year is included in the "Investment Portfolio" section later in this discussion. Other Net Realized Investment Gains Other net realized investment gains in 2010 totaled $290 million, compared with $275 million in 2009. In September 2010, the Company sold substantially all of its remaining common stock holdings in Verisk Analytics, Inc. (Verisk) for total proceeds of approximately $230 million as part of a secondary public offering of Verisk. The Company recorded a pretax realized investment gain of $205 million on this sale in 2010. The 2010 total also included $96 million of net realized investment gains related to fixed maturity investments and $25 million of net realized investment gains related to equity securities. These gains were partially offset by $30 million of net realized investment losses related to U.S. Treasury futures contracts, which require a daily mark to market settlement and are used to shorten the duration of the Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio. Other net realized investment gains in 2009 were $275 million, compared with $5 million in 2008. In October 2009, the Company sold a portion of its common stock holdings in Verisk for total proceeds of approximately $184 million as part of the initial public offering (IPO) of Verisk. The Company recorded a pretax realized investment gain of $159 million on this sale in 2009. Other net realized investment gains in 2009 also included $100 million of net realized investment gains related to fixed maturity investments, $23 million of net realized investment gains associated with the U.S. Treasury futures contracts and $23 million of net realized investment losses related to foreign exchange. Other net realized investment gains in 2008 included $50 million related to foreign currency exchange gains, $39 million from the sale of subsidiaries, $29 million from the sale of fixed maturity securities and $17 million of net realized investment gains from the sale of venture capital investments. Partially offsetting these realized investment gains in 2008 were net realized losses of $77 million related to convertible bonds wherein the embedded option price is marked to market through realized gains or losses and $53 million of losses related to U.S. Treasury futures contracts. Other Revenues Other revenues primarily consist of premium installment charges. In 2010, this category also included $60 million of expenses related to the Companys purchase and retirement of $885 million of its $1.0 billion 6.25% fixed to floating rate junior subordinated debentures. 74 Table of Contents Claims and Expenses Claims and Claim Adjustment Expenses Claims and claim adjustment expenses totaled $13.21 billion in 2010, $802 million, or 6%, higher than the 2009 total of $12.41 billion, primarily reflecting the significant increase in catastrophe losses, the modest decline in net favorable prior year reserve development and the impact of loss cost trends. Catastrophe losses in 2010 and 2009 totaled $1.11 billion and $457 million, respectively. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2010 and 2009 totaled $1.25 billion and $1.33 billion, respectively. Catastrophe losses in 2010 primarily resulted from several severe wind and hail storms, as well as severe winter storms. Catastrophe losses in 2009 primarily resulted from several wind and hail storms, as well as flooding. Claims and claim adjustment expenses totaled $12.41 billion in 2009, $585 million, or 5%, lower than the 2008 total of $12.99 billion, primarily reflecting the significant decline in catastrophe losses, lower non catastrophe weather related losses and fewer large property losses, mostly offset by the modest decline in net favorable prior year reserve development and the impact of loss cost trends. Total claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2009 included $457 million for the cost of catastrophes and $1.33 billion of net favorable prior year reserve development, whereas the comparable 2008 total included $1.26 billion for the cost of catastrophes and $1.54 billion of net favorable prior year reserve development. Catastrophe losses in 2008 primarily resulted from Hurricanes Ike, Gustav and Dolly. The Companys three business segments each experienced net favorable prior year reserve development in 2010, 2009 and 2008. In the Business Insurance segment, net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $901 million, $1.03 billion and $1.12 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment, net favorable prior year reserve development in 2010, 2009 and 2008 totaled $259 million, $168 million and $274 million, respectively. In the Personal Insurance segment, net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $87 million, $135 million and $143 million, respectively. Factors contributing to net favorable prior year reserve development are discussed in more detail in the segment discussions that follow. Amortization of Deferred Acquisition Costs The amortization of deferred acquisition costs in 2010 totaled $3.80 billion, virtually level with the 2009 total. In 2009, the amortization of deferred acquisition costs totaled $3.81 billion, 2% lower than the total of $3.88 billion in 2008. Changes in the amortization of deferred acquisition costs in both 2010 and 2009 were consistent with the changes in earned premiums in each year as compared to the preceding year. General and Administrative Expenses In 2010, general and administrative expenses totaled $3.41 billion, an increase of $40 million, or 1%, over the 2009 total of $3.37 billion. The 2009 total included a reduction of $87 million in the estimate of property windpool assessments related to Hurricane Ike due to a decline in estimated insurance industry losses related to Hurricane Ike. Excluding that adjustment in 2009, general and administrative expenses in 2010 were $47 million, or 1%, lower than in 2009. The decline was concentrated in the Business Insurance segment, and was largely offset by higher expenses in the Personal Insurance segment resulting from the Companys direct to consumer initiative and in the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment due to employee and technology related costs to enhance operations and support future business growth. General and administrative expenses totaled $3.37 billion in 2009, a decrease of $152 million, or 4%, from the comparable 2008 total of $3.52 billion. The decrease reflected changes in the estimates of windpool assessments related to Hurricane Ike. During 2008, the Company recorded $141 million of 75 Table of Contents hurricane related assessments in general and administrative expenses. The Company subsequently recorded an $87 million reduction in these estimated assessments in 2009 due to a decline in estimated insurance industry losses related to Hurricane Ike. Adjusting for the impact of windpool assessments in both 2009 and 2008, general and administrative expenses in 2009 increased 2% over 2008. The increase reflected the impact of continued investments to support business growth and product development, including the Companys direct to consumer initiative in the Personal Insurance segment, partially offset by the favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on expenses in the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment. Hurricane related property windpool assessments are levied on insurers periodically by state created insurance and windstorm insurance entities such as Citizens Property Insurance Corporation in Florida, Louisiana Citizens Property Insurance Corporation and the Texas Windstorm Insurance Association. These assessments are levied on the insurers writing business in those states to fund the operating deficits of such entities during periods of significant storm activity. Hurricane related assessments are reported as a component of "General and Administrative Expenses" as the amounts paid to such entities are not insured losses of the Company. Interest Expense Interest expense in 2010, 2009 and 2008 totaled $388 million, $382 million and $370 million, respectively. The increases in 2010 and 2009 over the respective prior year primarily reflected higher average levels of debt outstanding. Effective Tax Rate The Companys effective tax rate was 25%, 23% and 21% in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The effective tax rate in 2009 benefited from the favorable resolution of prior year tax matters. Excluding that benefit in 2009, the effective tax rates in 2010 and 2009 were virtually level. The increase in the effective rate in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily resulted from the change in income before taxes between years and the proportion of tax exempt investment income in each year. GAAP Combined Ratios The consolidated GAAP combined ratio of 93.2% in 2010 was 4.0 points higher than the consolidated GAAP combined ratio of 89.2% in 2009. The consolidated loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 61.0% in 2010 was 3.7 points higher than the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 57.3% in 2009. Catastrophe losses accounted for 5.2 points and 2.1 points of the 2010 and 2009 loss and loss adjustment expense ratios, respectively. The 2010 and 2009 consolidated loss and loss adjustment expense ratios included 5.8 point and 6.2 point benefits from net favorable prior year reserve development, respectively. The consolidated loss and loss adjustment expense ratios excluding catastrophe losses and prior year reserve development in 2010 was 0.2 points higher than the 2009 ratio on the same basis, primarily reflecting the impact of reduced underwriting margins related to pricing and loss cost trends in the Business Insurance segment, largely offset by earned rate increases modestly outpacing loss cost trends in the Personal Insurance segment. The consolidated underwriting expense ratio of 32.2% in 2010 was 0.3 points higher than the 2009 consolidated underwriting expense ratio of 31.9%. The 2009 ratio reflected a 0.4 point benefit resulting from the reduction in the estimate of property windpool assessments related to Hurricane Ike. Excluding that factor in 2009, the consolidated underwriting expense ratio in 2010 was 0.1 points lower than in 2009, primarily reflecting lower expenses in the Business Insurance segment, largely offset by higher expenses in the Personal Insurance segment resulting from the Companys direct to consumer initiative and in the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment due to employee and technology related costs to enhance operations and support future business growth. 76 Table of Contents The consolidated GAAP combined ratio of 89.2% in 2009 was 2.7 points lower than the consolidated GAAP combined ratio of 91.9% in 2008. The consolidated loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 57.3% in 2009 was 2.1 points lower than the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 59.4% in 2008. Catastrophe losses accounted for 2.1 points and 5.8 points of the 2009 and 2008 loss and loss adjustment expense ratios, respectively. The 2009 and 2008 loss and loss adjustment expense ratios included 6.2 point and 7.1 point benefits from net favorable prior year reserve development, respectively. The consolidated loss and loss adjustment expense ratio adjusted for catastrophe losses and prior year reserve development in 2009 was 0.7 points higher than the 2008 ratio on the same basis, primarily reflecting the impact of loss cost trends in the Business Insurance and Personal Insurance segments, partially offset by lower non catastrophe weather related losses across the Companys segments, and fewer large property losses in the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment. In 2009, the consolidated underwriting expense ratio of 31.9% was 0.6 points lower than the consolidated underwriting expense ratio of 32.5% in 2008. The underwriting expense ratio in 2009 included a 0.4 point benefit from the reduction in the estimate of windpool assessments described above, whereas the underwriting expense ratio in 2008 included a 0.7 point increase due to the impact of the windpool assessments. Adjusting for these factors in both years, the underwriting expense ratio for 2009 was 0.5 points higher than the respective 2008 underwriting expense ratio, primarily reflecting the impact of continued investments to support business growth and product development, including the Companys direct to consumer initiative in the Personal Insurance segment, as well as salary increases in the normal course of business. Written Premiums Consolidated gross and net written premiums were as follows: Gross Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Business Insurance $ 11,891 $ 12,098 $ 12,580 Financial, Professional & International Insurance 3,534 3,713 3,966 Personal Insurance 7,877 7,474 7,291 Total $ 23,302 $ 23,285 $ 23,837 Net Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Business Insurance $ 10,857 $ 10,902 $ 11,220 Financial, Professional & International Insurance 3,211 3,285 3,468 Personal Insurance 7,567 7,149 6,995 Total $ 21,635 $ 21,336 $ 21,683 Gross written premiums increased by less than 1% in 2010, while net written premiums increased by 1%. New business volume in the Business Insurance and Personal Insurance segments in 2010 increased compared with 2009, but declined in the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment. Retention rates remained strong across all business segments. The impact of renewal rate changes on premiums remained positive in the Personal Insurance and Financial, Professional & International Insurance segments but was slightly negative in the Business Insurance segment. Gross and net written premiums in 2009 both decreased 2% from 2008. Overall, business retention remained at high levels in 2009. Renewal premium changes remained stable as improving rate trends offset the impact of lower coverage demands from existing policyholders due to general economic 77 Table of Contents conditions. New business volume declined slightly from 2008, as modest growth in the Business Insurance segment was offset by lower new business volume in the Financial, Professional & International Insurance and Personal Insurance segments. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS BY SEGMENT Business Insurance Results of the Companys Business Insurance segment were as follows: (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Revenues: Earned premiums $ 10,766 $ 10,968 $ 11,180 Net investment income 2,156 1,902 1,917 Fee income 285 306 390 Other revenues 28 42 30 Total revenues $ 13,235 $ 13,218 $ 13,517 Total claims and expenses $ 10,157 $ 9,778 $ 10,506 Operating income $ 2,301 $ 2,590 $ 2,338 Loss and loss adjustment expense ratio 59.1 % 53.9 % 57.7 % Underwriting expense ratio 32.2 32.2 32.5 GAAP combined ratio 91.3 % 86.1 % 90.2 % Overview Operating income of $2.30 billion in 2010 was $289 million, or 11%, lower than 2009 operating income of $2.59 billion, primarily reflecting the significant increase in catastrophe losses, the modest decline in net favorable prior year reserve development, reduced underwriting margins related to pricing and loss cost trends and a higher number of large losses, partially offset by an increase in net investment income and a decline in general and administrative expenses. In addition, operating income in 2009 included benefits of $42 million from the favorable resolution of various prior year tax matters and a $38 million reduction in the estimate of property windpool assessments related to Hurricane Ike. Catastrophe losses in 2010 totaled $437 million, compared with $176 million in 2009. Net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $901 million in 2010, compared with $1.03 billion in 2009. In 2009, operating income of $2.59 billion was $252 million, or 11%, higher than 2008 operating income of $2.34 billion, primarily reflecting the significant decline in catastrophe losses, which was partially offset by reduced underwriting margins and fee income. Catastrophe losses in 2009 and 2008 totaled $176 million and $706 million, respectively. The 2008 total was principally comprised of $642 million of claims and claim adjustment expenses and $62 million of property windpool assessments that were included in general and administrative expenses. Net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $1.03 billion and $1.12 billion in 2009 and 2008, respectively. Operating income in 2009 also included the favorable resolution of various prior year tax matters and reduction in the estimate of property windpool assessments benefits described above. Earned Premiums Earned premiums of $10.77 billon in 2010 decreased $202 million, or 2%, from 2009. In 2009, earned premiums of $10.97 billion decreased $212 million, or 2%, from 2008. The declines in both years were primarily attributable to reduced insured exposures due to lower levels of economic activity. 78 Table of Contents Net Investment Income Refer to the "Net Investment Income" section of "Consolidated Results of Operations" herein for a discussion of the changes in the Companys net investment income in 2010 and 2009 as compared with the prior year. Fee Income National Accounts is the primary source of fee income due to its service businesses, which include claim and loss prevention services to large companies that choose to self insure a portion of their insurance risks, as well as claims and policy management services to workers compensation residual market pools. The $21 million and $84 million declines, respectively, in fee income in 2010 and 2009 compared with the preceding year primarily reflected lower new business volume due to lower levels of economic activity and lower serviced premium and claim volume due to the de population of workers compensation residual market pools. The declines in both years also reflected the impact of both lower claim volume and lower loss costs (as fees are based either on the number of claims serviced or as a percentage of losses) driven by workers compensation reforms, as well as overall lower claim frequency and increased competition. Claims and Expenses Claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2010 totaled $6.50 billion, an increase of $467 million, or 8%, over 2009, primarily reflecting the significant increase in catastrophe losses, the modest decline in net favorable prior year reserve development, a higher number of large losses and the impact of loss cost trends. Catastrophe losses in 2010 and 2009 totaled $437 million and $176 million, respectively. Catastrophe losses in 2010 primarily resulted from several severe wind and hail storms as well as severe winter storms. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2010 and 2009 totaled $901 million and $1.03 billion, respectively. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2010 was driven by better than expected loss development in the property, general liability and workers compensation product lines for multiple accident years, as well as in assumed reinsurance, which is in runoff. The property product line improvement primarily occurred in the 2008 and 2009 accident years as a result of better than expected loss development in Industry Focused Underwriting and Target Risk Underwriting. The general liability product line improvement was concentrated in excess coverages for accident years 2006 and prior and reflected what the Company believes are favorable legal and judicial environments. Net favorable prior year reserve development in the workers compensation product line was concentrated in accident years 2007 and prior and resulted from better than expected loss development. The improvement in assumed reinsurance resulted primarily from favorable resolutions of claims and disputes from accident years 2002 and prior. In addition, better than expected loss development in the Business Insurance segment in recent years resulted in a favorable re estimation of reserves for unallocated loss adjustment expenses in 2010. The net favorable prior year reserve development in these product lines in 2010 was partially offset by $140 million and $35 million increases to asbestos and environmental reserves, respectively, which are discussed in further detail in the "Asbestos Claims and Litigation" and "Environmental Claims and Litigation" sections herein. Claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2009 totaled $6.04 billion, a decrease of $571 million, or 9%, compared with 2008. The decrease in 2009 primarily reflected the significant decline in catastrophe losses, partially offset by the impact of loss cost trends and the modest decline in net favorable prior year reserve development. Catastrophe losses included in claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2009 totaled $176 million, compared with $642 million in 2008. Catastrophe losses in 2009 primarily resulted from several wind and hail storms, as well as flooding. In 2008, Hurricanes Ike, Gustav and Dolly, and other wind, rain and hail storms in several regions of the United States accounted for the majority of catastrophe losses. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2009 and 2008 totaled $1.03 billion and $1.12 billion, respectively. The 2009 total was driven by better than expected loss development 79 Table of Contents primarily concentrated in the general liability, commercial multi peril, commercial automobile and commercial property product lines for recent accident years, reflecting greater reductions in frequency than the Company expected based upon long term frequency trends that have been declining. The general liability and commercial multi peril product lines experienced better than anticipated loss development that was attributable to several factors, including what the Company believes to be improved legal and judicial environments, as well as enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. The commercial automobile line of business experienced better than expected loss development that was attributable to what the Company believes to be more favorable legal and judicial environments, claim handling initiatives and improvements in auto safety technology. The commercial property product line improvement primarily occurred in the 2007 and 2008 accident years as a result of better than expected loss development for certain large national property and inland marine exposures. In addition, the commercial property product lines 2005 accident year experience improved due to the litigation environment relating to, and ongoing claim settlements for, Hurricane Katrina. The net favorable prior year reserve development in these product lines in 2009 was partially offset by $185 million and $70 million increases to asbestos reserves and environmental reserves, respectively (discussed in more detail in the "Asbestos Claims and Litigation" and "Environmental Claims and Litigation" sections herein). Net favorable prior year development in 2008 was driven by better than expected loss development primarily concentrated in the general liability and commercial multi peril product lines, an increase in anticipated ceded reinsurance recoveries for older accident years in the general liability product line and better than anticipated loss development in the commercial property and commercial automobile product lines. The net favorable prior year reserve development in the general liability and commercial multi peril lines was attributable to several factors, including improved legal and judicial environments, as well as enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. The commercial property product line improvement occurred primarily in the 2007 accident year as a result of better than expected loss development for certain large national property, national programs, and ocean marine claim exposures and lower than expected weather related losses during the last half of 2007, as well as favorable loss development in certain large inland marine claim exposures and in ceded reinsurance recoveries for commercial property large claims. In addition, the commercial multi peril and property product lines 2005 accident year results experienced improvement due to the litigation environment relating to, and ongoing claim settlements for, Hurricane Katrina. The commercial automobile product line improvement was attributable to several factors, including improved legal and judicial environments, as well as enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. The net favorable prior year reserve development in the foregoing product lines in 2008 was partially offset by net unfavorable prior year reserve development in the workers compensation product line, primarily driven by higher than anticipated medical costs related to 2004 and prior accident years, and by $70 million and $85 million increases to asbestos and environmental reserves, respectively (discussed in more detail in the "Asbestos Claims and Litigation" and "Environmental Claims and Litigation" sections herein). The amortization of deferred acquisition costs totaled $1.75 billion in 2010, $26 million lower than the comparable total of $1.78 billion in 2009. In 2009, the total of $1.78 billion was $43 million lower than the 2008 total of $1.82 billion. The declines in both years were consistent with the declines in earned premiums. General and administrative expenses in 2010 totaled $1.90 billion, $62 million, or 3%, lower than in 2009. The 2009 total included a $38 million reduction in the estimate of property windpool assessments related to Hurricane Ike. Adjusting for that reduction in 2009, general and administrative expenses in 2010 were $100 million, or 5%, lower than in 2009, driven by a decline in loss based assessments that reflected the impact of favorable prior year reserve development and favorable rate changes, as well as a decline in employee related expenses and a reduction in the amount of the 80 Table of Contents Companys corporate advertising expense allocated to this segment resulting from a change in focus to the Personal Insurance segments direct to consumer initiative in 2010. General and administrative expenses in 2009 totaled $1.97 billion, $113 million lower than the comparable 2008 total of $2.08 billion. The majority of the decrease reflected the impact of estimates of windpool assessments related to Hurricane Ike in each year. During 2008, the Company recorded $62 million of hurricane related assessments in general and administrative expenses. Subsequently, during the first half of 2009, the Company recorded a $38 million reduction in these assessments due to a decline in estimated insurance industry losses related to Hurricane Ike. GAAP Combined Ratio The GAAP combined ratio of 91.3% in 2010 was 5.2 points higher than the GAAP combined ratio of 86.1% in 2009. In 2010, the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 59.1% was 5.2 points higher than the 2009 ratio of 53.9%. Catastrophe losses in 2010 and 2009 accounted for 4.1 points and 1.6 points of the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio, respectively. Net favorable prior year reserve development provided 8.4 point and 9.3 point benefits to the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio in 2010 and 2009, respectively. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio in 2010 excluding catastrophe losses and prior year reserve development was 1.8 points higher than the 2009 ratio on the same basis, reflecting the impact of reduced underwriting margins related to pricing and loss cost trends and a higher number of large losses. The underwriting expense ratio of 32.2% in 2010 was level with the 2009 underwriting expense ratio. The underwriting expense ratio in 2009 included a 0.3 point benefit from the reduction in the estimate of windpool assessments described above. Adjusting for that factor in 2009, the underwriting expense ratio for 2010 was 0.3 points lower than the 2009 underwriting expense ratio. The improvement in the 2010 adjusted expense ratio reflected the decline in expenses described above. The GAAP combined ratio of 86.1% in 2009 was 4.1 points lower than the GAAP combined ratio of 90.2% in 2008. In 2009, the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 53.9% was 3.8 points lower than the comparable 2008 ratio of 57.7%. The cost of catastrophes in 2009 and 2008 accounted for 1.6 points and 5.7 points of the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio, respectively. Net favorable prior year reserve development provided 9.3 point and 10.0 point benefits to the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio in 2009 adjusted for the cost of catastrophes and prior year reserve development was 0.4 points lower than the 2008 ratio on the same basis, due to lower non catastrophe weather related losses and fewer large property losses, partially offset by reduced underwriting margins related to pricing and loss cost trends. The underwriting expense ratio of 32.2% in 2009 was 0.3 points lower than the underwriting expense ratio of 32.5% in 2008. The 2009 underwriting expense ratio included a 0.3 point benefit from the reduction in the estimate of windpool assessments described above, whereas the underwriting expense ratio in 2008 included a 0.6 point increase due to the impact from the windpool assessments and reinstatement premiums. Adjusting for these factors in both years, the underwriting expense ratio for 2009 was 0.6 points higher than the 2008 underwriting expense ratio, primarily reflecting the unfavorable impact of the decline in fee income compared with 2008. A portion of fee income is accounted for as a reduction of expenses for purposes of calculating the expense ratio. 81  Table of Contents Written Premiums The Business Insurance segments gross and net written premiums by market were as follows: Gross Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Select Accounts $ 2,758 $ 2,804 $ 2,804 Commercial Accounts 2,753 2,687 2,729 National Accounts 1,111 1,321 1,577 Industry Focused Underwriting 2,368 2,363 2,485 Target Risk Underwriting 2,008 2,014 2,029 Specialized Distribution 883 901 954 Total Business Insurance Core 11,881 12,090 12,578 Business Insurance Other 10 8 2 Total Business Insurance $ 11,891 $ 12,098 $ 12,580 Net Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Select Accounts $ 2,718 $ 2,756 $ 2,756 Commercial Accounts 2,576 2,493 2,524 National Accounts 806 902 996 Industry Focused Underwriting 2,299 2,279 2,396 Target Risk Underwriting 1,573 1,568 1,593 Specialized Distribution 872 889 939 Total Business Insurance Core 10,844 10,887 11,204 Business Insurance Other 13 15 16 Total Business Insurance $ 10,857 $ 10,902 $ 11,220 In Business Insurance Core, gross and net written premiums decreased by 2% and less than 1%, respectively, from 2009. In 2009, Business Insurance Core gross and net written premiums decreased by 4% and 3% from 2008, respectively. The difference in rates of decline between gross and net written premiums in 2010 and 2009 was concentrated in National Accounts. A significant portion of gross written premiums for products offered by both Discover Re and Residual Markets is ceded to other insurers and residual market pools. As a result, the decline in gross written premiums did not have a proportional impact on net written premiums. The decline in gross and net written premiums in 2010 and 2009 was driven in large part by lower levels of economic activity that impacted exposure changes at renewal, audit premium adjustments, policy endorsements and mid term cancellations. Select Accounts. Net written premiums of $2.72 billion in 2010 decreased 1% from 2009. Business retention rates in 2010 remained strong but were slightly lower than in 2009. Renewal premium changes remained positive in 2010 and increased over 2009, reflecting positive renewal rate changes and modest exposure growth. New business volume in 2010 declined compared with 2009, driven by lower business volumes from larger accounts where marketplace competition remained high. Net written premiums of $2.76 billion in 2009 were level with 2008. Business retention rates remained strong, but declined slightly from the prior year. Renewal premium changes were positive in 2009 and increased over 2008. New business volume in 2009 increased slightly over 2008, driven by the continued success of the Companys quote to issue agency platform and multivariate pricing program for smaller businesses, partially offset by lower business volumes in larger, more complex accounts served by this market. 82 Table of Contents Commercial Accounts. Net written premiums of $2.58 billion in 2010 were 3% higher than in 2009. Business retention rates in 2010 remained strong and increased slightly over 2009. Renewal premium changes in 2010 were slightly positive, as positive renewal rate changes were largely offset by a modest decline in exposures that reflected the impact of general economic conditions. New business levels also increased over 2009. In 2009, net written premiums of $2.49 billion were 1% lower than in 2008. Business retention rates in 2009 remained strong but declined slightly from the prior year. Renewal premium changes were slightly negative in 2009 but were improved over 2008, as the impact of a continued improving rate trend was partially offset by the impact of general economic conditions. New business levels increased when compared with 2008 due to various product and customer initiatives. National Accounts. Net written premiums of $806 million in 2010 were 11% lower than in 2009, reflecting reduced insurance exposures driven by lower levels of economic activity, less prior year retrospective premium adjustments and the loss of a large account. Despite the loss of that account, business retention rates remained high in 2010. In 2009, net written premiums of $902 million were 9% lower than in 2008, driven by the loss of a large account, negative renewal premium changes that reflected the impact of general economic conditions, and lower premium volume from property and workers compensation involuntary residual markets. Despite the impact of the loss of a large account, business retention rates remained high in 2009. Industry Focused Underwriting. Net written premiums of $2.30 billion in 2010 increased 1% over 2009. Premium growth in 2010 was concentrated in the Technology, Agribusiness and Oil & Gas business units. In the Technology business unit, the 3% growth in net written premiums over 2009 reflected continued strong business retention rates and new business levels. In the Agribusiness business unit, the 5% growth in net written premiums was primarily driven by an increase in renewal premium changes and strong business retention rates. In the Oil & Gas business unit, net written premiums increased by 3% over 2009, primarily reflecting a decline in ceded premiums. In 2009, net written premiums of $2.28 billion declined 5% from 2008. Premium declines were concentrated in the Construction and Oil & Gas business units, reflecting the impact of general economic conditions in these industries. In addition, premium volume in the Technology and Public Sector business units declined, reflecting the impact of general economic conditions and competitive market pressures. These declines were partially offset by premium growth in the Agribusiness business unit in 2009. Target Risk Underwriting. Net written premiums of $1.57 billion in 2010 were slightly higher than in 2009. Premium growth in the Boiler & Machinery and Inland Marine business units was driven by increases in new business volume coupled with increases in business retention rates. Growth in these business units was largely offset by a decline in National Property premium volume, driven by reductions in renewal premium changes and new business levels. In 2009, net written premiums of $1.57 billion were 2% lower than in 2008, primarily due to the Inland Marine and Ocean Marine business units, reflecting the impact of general economic conditions and a decline in new business volume. Partially offsetting the declines in these business units was strong growth in National Property premium volume in 2009 due to significant increases in renewal premium changes. Excess Casualty written premiums also increased over 2008, due to a change in the terms of certain reinsurance treaties that resulted in a higher level of business retained. Specialized Distribution. Net written premiums of $872 million in 2010 were 2% lower than in 2009, primarily driven by negative renewal premium changes in both the Northland and National Programs business units. Business retention rates in both business units increased over 2009. 83 Table of Contents In 2009, net written premiums of $889 million were 5% lower than in 2008. The decline was attributable to both the National Programs and Northland business units, which experienced continued negative renewal premium changes that reflected competitive market conditions and the impact of general economic conditions, primarily on the commercial trucking, entertainment and leisure industries. Financial, Professional & International Insurance Results of the Companys Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment were as follows: (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Revenues: Earned premiums $ 3,317 $ 3,333 $ 3,429 Net investment income 439 452 454 Fee income 2 Other revenues 27 27 24 Total revenues $ 3,785 $ 3,812 $ 3,907 Total claims and expenses $ 2,920 $ 2,948 $ 3,004 Operating income $ 620 $ 642 $ 649 Loss and loss adjustment expense ratio 50.9 % 52.1 % 51.2 % Underwriting expense ratio 36.8 36.0 36.0 GAAP combined ratio 87.7 % 88.1 % 87.2 % Overview Operating income of $620 million in 2010 was $22 million, or 3%, lower than in 2009, primarily driven by increases in catastrophe losses, non catastrophe weather related losses, and general and administrative expenses, as well as lower business volumes, which were partially offset by an increase in net favorable prior year reserve development. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2010 and 2009 totaled $259 million and $168 million, respectively. Catastrophe losses in 2010 and 2009 totaled $82 million and $3 million, respectively. In 2009, operating income of $642 million was $7 million, or 1%, lower than in 2008. A reduction in net favorable prior year reserve development was largely offset by a decline in the cost of catastrophes and lower large losses in International. Net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $168 million and $274 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The cost of catastrophes totaled $3 million and $84 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. Earned Premiums Earned premiums of $3.32 billion in 2010 were slightly lower than in 2009, primarily reflecting the impact of intentional underwriting actions taken and competitive market conditions in the Professional Liability business unit and in the Companys operation at Lloyds. These factors were largely offset by lower reinsurance costs, the impact of changes in the structure of the Companys reinsurance during the first quarter of 2010 that modestly increased retentions to directionally align retentions in the Companys International business with its U.S. practices, and the favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates. Earned premiums of $3.33 billion in 2009 declined $96 million, or 3%, from the 2008 total due to the unfavorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates. Adjusting for the impact of 84 Table of Contents exchange rates, earned premiums in this segment in 2009 were slightly higher than in 2008, primarily reflecting growth in International. Net Investment Income Net investment income in 2010 decreased by $13 million compared with 2009. Included in the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment are certain legal entities whose invested assets and related net investment income are reported exclusively in this segment and not allocated among all business segments. As a result, reported net investment income in the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment reflects a significantly smaller proportion of allocated net investment income, including that from the Companys non fixed maturity investments that experienced a substantial increase in investment income in 2010. Refer to the "Net Investment Income" section of "Consolidated Results of Operations" herein for a discussion of the change in the Companys consolidated net investment income in 2010 and 2009 as compared with the respective prior years. In addition, refer to note 2 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the Companys net investment income allocation methodology. In 2009, the slight decline in net investment income compared with 2008 was primarily driven by the unfavorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates, which reduced reported net investment income by approximately $18 million in 2009. Claims and Expenses Claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2010 totaled $1.70 billion, a decrease of $47 million, or 3%, from 2009, primarily reflecting an increase in net favorable prior year reserve development offset by increases in catastrophe losses and non catastrophe weather related losses. In addition, the 2009 total included an increase in reserves for a non renewed professional liability program in Ireland. Net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $259 million and $168 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively In Bond & Financial Products, net favorable prior year reserve development in 2010 was driven by better than expected loss development in the surety and management liability lines of business due to lower than expected claim activity and loss severity in the 2008 and prior accident years. In International, the majority of net favorable prior year reserve development in 2010 occurred at the Companys operation at Lloyds, in Canada and in the United Kingdom. Catastrophe losses in 2010 and 2009 totaled $82 million and $3 million, respectively. An earthquake in Chile accounted for substantially all catastrophe losses incurred in 2010. Claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2009 totaled $1.75 billion, a decrease of $22 million, or 1%, from 2008. The decrease in 2009 was driven by a $73 million favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates. A decrease in net favorable prior year reserve development was largely offset by declines in catastrophe losses and large losses in International. Net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $168 million and $274 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2009 was driven by better than expected loss development in International, particularly in the United Kingdom and Canada. In addition, the Aviation and Property lines of business at Lloyds experienced net favorable prior year reserve development in 2009. In Bond & Financial Products, better than expected loss development for the contract surety business within the fidelity and surety product line for recent accident years also resulted in net favorable prior year reserve development in 2009. The catastrophe losses included in claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2009 totaled $3 million, compared with $73 million in 2008. Net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $274 million in 2008, primarily driven by better than expected loss development in International. The improvements in longer tail lines of business were attributable to several factors, including enhanced risk control and underwriting strategies throughout International. In the property line of business, the improvement primarily resulted from better than anticipated loss development in the United Kingdom, in part due to favorable claim activity 85 Table of Contents relating to 2007 flood losses. In Bond & Financial Products, better than expected loss development for the contract surety business within the fidelity and surety product line, resulting from favorable settlements on large claims (primarily from accident years prior to 2005), resulted in net favorable prior year reserve development in 2008. The amortization of deferred acquisition costs totaled $612 million in 2010, $10 million, or 2%, lower than the comparable 2009 total of $622 million, consistent with the decline in earned premiums. In 2009, the amortization of deferred acquisition costs totaled $622 million, $30 million, or 5%, lower than the comparable 2008 total of $652 million, driven by the favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates and changes in the mix of business. General and administrative expenses in 2010 totaled $608 million, $29 million, or 5%, higher than the 2009 total of $579 million. The increase in 2010 primarily reflected increases in employee and technology related costs to enhance operations and support future business growth. In 2009, general and administrative expenses of $579 million were slightly lower than the 2008 total of $581 million, primarily reflecting the favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates, which was largely offset by an increase in employee related expenses associated with growth initiatives. GAAP Combined Ratio The GAAP combined ratio of 87.7% in 2010 was 0.4 points lower than the GAAP combined ratio of 88.1% in 2009. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 50.9% in 2010 was 1.2 points lower than the 2009 ratio of 52.1%. Catastrophe losses in 2010 and 2009 accounted for 2.4 and 0.1 points of the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio, respectively. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratios in 2010 and 2009 included 7.8 point and 5.1 point benefits, respectively, from net favorable prior year reserve development. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio in 2010 excluding catastrophe losses and prior year reserve development was 0.8 points lower than the 2009 ratio on the same basis, reflecting lower reinsurance costs, partially offset by an increase in non catastrophe weather related losses. In addition, the 2009 ratio reflected a reserve increase for a non renewed professional liability program in Ireland. The underwriting expense ratio of 36.8% in 2010 was 0.8 points higher than the underwriting expense ratio of 36.0% in 2009. The increase primarily reflected the impact of increases in employee and technology related costs to enhance operations and support future business growth. The GAAP combined ratio of 88.1% in 2009 was 0.9 points higher than the GAAP combined ratio of 87.2% in 2008. In 2009, the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 52.1% was 0.9 points higher than the 2008 ratio of 51.2%. Catastrophe losses in 2009 and 2008 accounted for 0.1 and 2.3 points of the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio, respectively. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratios in 2009 and 2008 included 5.1 point and 8.0 point benefits, respectively, from net favorable prior year reserve development. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio in 2009 adjusted for catastrophe losses and prior year reserve development was 0.2 points higher than the 2008 ratio on the same basis, as the impact of loss cost trends was partially offset by the favorable impact of lower large losses in International. In 2009, the underwriting expense ratio of 36.0% was level with the underwriting expense ratio in 2008. The 2008 expense ratio included a 0.2 point impact from hurricane related assessments. Adjusting for that factor in 2008, the 2009 underwriting expense ratio was 0.2 points higher than the 2008 ratio. 86 Table of Contents Written Premiums Financial, Professional & International Insurance gross and net written premiums by market were as follows: Gross Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Bond & Financial Products $ 2,133 $ 2,262 $ 2,378 International 1,401 1,451 1,588 Total Financial, Professional & International Insurance $ 3,534 $ 3,713 $ 3,966 Net Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Bond & Financial Products $ 1,981 $ 2,040 $ 2,126 International 1,230 1,245 1,342 Total Financial, Professional & International Insurance $ 3,211 $ 3,285 $ 3,468 Gross and net written premiums in 2010 decreased 5% and 2%, respectively, compared with 2009. Net written premiums for Bond & Financial Products in 2010 declined 3% from 2009, primarily reflecting the impact of underwriting actions taken and competitive market conditions in the Professional Liability and Public Company Liability business units. In addition, construction and commercial surety gross and net written premium volume declined in 2010 compared with 2009, reflecting the impact of the economic downturn. These factors were partially offset on a net basis by a reduction in reinsurance costs. In International, the 1% decline in net written premiums in 2010 compared with 2009 primarily reflected the impact of intentional underwriting actions and competitive market conditions. Those factors were largely offset by changes in the structure of the Companys reinsurance that modestly increased retentions to directionally align retentions in the Companys International business with its U.S. practices, as well as the favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates. In late 2008, the Company commenced an exclusive relationship with a broker in the Republic of Ireland that significantly increased the 2009 volume of personal automobile coverage written and also resulted in the Company writing personal household coverages. The Company ceased writing business through this relationship in the fourth quarter of 2010. Gross written premiums of $3.71 billion in 2009 decreased 6% from 2008, and net written premiums of $3.29 billion in 2009 decreased 5% from 2008. The decline in gross and net written premiums was primarily attributable to the unfavorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates in International. The remainder of the decline was driven by the impact of the economic downturn on construction and commercial surety business volume, underwriting actions taken and competitive market conditions in the Professional Liability and Public Company Liability components of Bond & Financial Products management liability business, partially offset by growth in Ireland. In Bond & Financial Products (excluding the surety line of business, for which the following are not relevant measures), business retention rates in 2010 were strong and slightly higher than in 2009. Renewal premium changes in 2010 were negative, reflecting both a decline in renewal rate changes and reduced insured exposures due to intentional underwriting actions taken and lower levels of economic activity. New business volume in 2010 declined from 2009, which reflected increasingly competitive market conditions in 2010. For International (also excluding the surety line of business), business retention rates in 2010 declined from 2009. New business volume in International also declined in 2010, primarily due to intentional underwriting actions and the termination of a broker relationship in Ireland. Renewal premium changes were slightly positive in 2010, driven by positive renewal rate changes, partially offset by reduced insured exposures. 87 Table of Contents In 2009 in Bond & Financial Products, business retention rates remained strong but decreased from 2008, primarily in professional liability. Renewal premium changes in 2009 increased slightly over 2008, as the impact of slight positive renewal rate changes on written premiums was largely offset by reduced insured exposures due to underwriting actions and lower levels of economic activity. New business levels in 2009 were lower than in 2008. In International, business retention rates in 2009 declined from 2008, primarily due to underwriting actions taken in the United Kingdom, Ireland and at the Companys operations at Lloyds. Renewal premium changes improved over 2008 and new business levels declined when compared with 2008. Personal Insurance Results of the Companys Personal Insurance segment were as follows: (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Revenues: Earned premiums $ 7,349 $ 7,117 $ 6,970 Net investment income 464 422 421 Other revenues 75 84 75 Total revenues $ 7,888 $ 7,623 $ 7,466 Total claims and expenses $ 7,314 $ 6,824 $ 6,885 Operating income $ 440 $ 601 $ 465 Loss and loss adjustment expense ratio 68.1 % 65.0 % 66.2 % Underwriting expense ratio 30.2 29.6 30.8 GAAP combined ratio 98.3 % 94.6 % 97.0 % Incremental impact of direct to consumer initiative on GAAP combined ratio 2.2 % 1.7 % 0.5 % Overview In 2010, operating income of $440 million was $161 million, or 27%, lower than in 2009. The decline primarily reflected the significant increase in catastrophe losses, a decline in net favorable prior year reserve development and an increase in expenses related to the Companys direct to consumer initiative. These factors were partially offset by increases in net investment income and business volume, the favorable impact of earned rate increases outpacing loss cost trends and a reduction in non catastrophe weather related losses. In addition, operating income in 2009 included a $48 million reduction in the estimate of property windpool assessments related to Hurricane Ike that had been recorded in general and administrative expenses in 2008. Catastrophe losses in 2010 and 2009 totaled $594 million and $278 million, respectively. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2010 and 2009 totaled $87 million and $135 million, respectively. In 2009, operating income of $601 million was $136 million, or 29%, higher than in 2008, driven by the significant decline in catastrophe losses and a reduction in the estimate of property windpool assessments, partially offset by investments in the direct to consumer initiative and loss cost trends. Catastrophe losses in 2009 and 2008 totaled $278 million and $618 million, respectively. The 2008 total was comprised of $541 million of claims and claim adjustment expenses and $77 million of property windpool assessments that were included in general and administrative expenses. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2009 and 2008 totaled $135 million and $143 million, respectively. 88  Table of Contents Earned Premiums Earned premiums of $7.35 billion in 2010 were $232 million, or 3%, higher than in 2009. In 2009, earned premiums of $7.12 billion were $147 million, or 2%, higher than in 2008. The increases in both years reflected continued strong business retention rates and renewal premium increases, and growth in new business volume during the preceding twelve months. Net Investment Income Refer to the "Net Investment Income" section of "Consolidated Results of Operations" herein for a discussion of the change in the Companys net investment income in 2010 and 2009 as compared with the prior year. Claims and Expenses Claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2010 totaled $5.01 billion, an increase of $382 million, or 8%, over 2009. The total in 2010 reflected the significant increase in catastrophe losses, the reduction in net favorable prior year reserve development and increased business volume, partially offset by a decline in non catastrophe weather related losses and improved loss cost trends. Catastrophe losses in 2010 and 2009 totaled $594 million and $278 million, respectively. Catastrophe losses in 2010 resulted from several severe wind and hail storms. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2010 and 2009 totaled $87 million and $135 million, respectively. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2010 was concentrated in the Homeowners and Other product line, primarily driven by favorable loss development in the 2008 and prior accident years, primarily for the umbrella line of business, partially offset by unfavorable loss development in the 2009 accident year for the homeowners line of business that was driven by higher than anticipated late reported claims related to storms in 2009. In 2009, claims and claim adjustment expenses of $4.62 billion were slightly higher than in 2008, as the impacts of loss cost trends and increased business volume were largely offset by the significant decline in catastrophe losses. Catastrophe losses included in claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2009 totaled $278 million, compared with $541 million in 2008. Catastrophe losses in 2009 primarily resulted from several wind and hail storms, as well as flooding. Catastrophe losses in 2008 primarily resulted from Hurricanes Ike and Gustav, as well as tornado, wind and hail storms in various regions of the United States throughout the year. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2009 totaled $135 million, compared with $143 million in 2008. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2009 primarily reflected favorable loss development related to Hurricanes Ike and Katrina, as well as the 2007 California wildfires. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2008 was primarily driven by favorable loss development related to Hurricane Katrina and better than expected loss development from recent accident years for the Homeowners and Other product line. This improvement was driven in part by claim initiatives as well as better than expected outcomes on 2007 catastrophe related claims. In addition, the Homeowners and Other product line experienced improvement in older accident years for the umbrella line as well as favorable experience from accident year 2007 for allied coverages due to less than expected claim activity. The amortization of deferred acquisition costs totaled $1.44 billion in 2010, compared with $1.42 billion in 2009 and $1.41 billion in 2008. The increases in 2010 and 2009 over the preceding year were consistent with earned premium increases in both years. General and administrative expenses of $867 million in 2010 were $83 million higher than in 2009. The total in 2009 reflected a $48 million reduction in the estimate of property windpool assessments related to Hurricane Ike. Adjusting for the impact of the reduction in windpool assessments in 2009, general and administrative expenses in 2010 increased $35 million, or 4%, over 2009, primarily 89 Table of Contents reflecting growth in business volume and continued costs supporting business growth and product development, including the Companys direct to consumer initiative. In 2009, general and administrative expenses of $784 million were $45 million lower than the comparable 2008 total of $829 million. The decrease resulted from revised estimates of windpool assessments related to Hurricane Ike. During 2008, the Company recorded $77 million of estimated property windpool assessments in the Personal Insurance segment in general and administrative expenses. Subsequently, during the first half of 2009, the Company recorded a $48 million reduction in these estimated assessments due to a decline in estimated insurance industry losses related to Hurricane Ike. Adjusting for the impact of windpool assessments in both 2009 and 2008, general and administrative expenses in 2009 increased 11%, over 2008, primarily reflecting growth in business volume and continued investments to support business growth and product development, including the Companys direct to consumer initiative. GAAP Combined Ratio The GAAP combined ratio of 98.3% in 2010 was 3.7 points higher than the GAAP combined ratio of 94.6% in 2009. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 68.1% in 2010 was 3.1 points higher than the 2009 ratio of 65.0%. Catastrophe losses accounted for 8.1 and 3.9 points of the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio in 2010 and 2009, respectively. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratios for 2010 and 2009 included 1.2 point and 1.9 point benefits, respectively, from net favorable prior year reserve development. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio excluding catastrophe losses and prior year reserve development in 2010 was 1.8 points lower than the 2009 ratio on the same basis, reflecting the favorable impact of earned rate increases outpacing loss cost trends and a reduction in non catastrophe weather related losses. The underwriting expense ratio of 30.2% in 2010 was 0.6 points higher than the underwriting expense ratio of 29.6% in 2009. The 2009 underwriting expense ratio included a 0.7 point benefit from the reduction in the estimate of windpool assessments described above. The GAAP combined ratio of 94.6% in 2009 was 2.4 points lower than the GAAP combined ratio of 97.0% in 2008. In 2009, the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 65.0% was 1.2 points lower than the comparable 2008 ratio of 66.2%. Catastrophe losses accounted for 3.9 points and 7.8 points of the 2009 and 2008 loss and loss adjustment expense ratios, respectively. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratios for 2009 and 2008 included 1.9 point and 2.1 point benefits, respectively, from net favorable prior year reserve development. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratios adjusted for catastrophe losses and prior year reserve development for 2009 was 2.5 points higher than the 2008 ratio on the same basis, primarily reflecting the impact of loss cost trends. In 2009, the underwriting expense ratio of 29.6% was 1.2 points lower than the underwriting expense ratio of 30.8% in 2008. The 2009 underwriting expense ratio included a 0.7 point benefit from the reduction in the estimate of windpool assessments described above, whereas the 2008 underwriting expense ratio included a 1.1 point increase due to the impact related to the windpool assessments. Adjusting for these factors in both years, the underwriting expense ratio for 2009 was 0.6 points higher than the 2008 underwriting expense ratio, primarily reflecting expenses resulting from the Companys direct to consumer initiative. 90 Table of Contents Agency Written Premiums Gross and net written premiums by product line were as follows for the Personal Insurance segments Agency business, which comprises business written through agents, brokers and other intermediaries and represents almost all of the segments gross and net written premiums: Gross Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Agency Automobile $ 3,720 $ 3,610 $ 3,680 Agency Homeowners and Other 4,060 3,809 3,599 Total Agency Personal Insurance $ 7,780 $ 7,419 $ 7,279 Net Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Agency Automobile $ 3,698 $ 3,586 $ 3,651 Agency Homeowners and Other 3,772 3,508 3,333 Total Agency Personal Insurance $ 7,470 $ 7,094 $ 6,984 Gross and net Agency written premiums in 2010 both increased 5% over the respective totals in 2009. In 2009, gross and net Agency written premiums both increased by 2% over the respective 2008 totals. In 2010, net written premiums in the Agency Automobile line of business increased 3% over 2009, primarily reflecting the impact of the introduction of twelve month policy terms in certain markets in 2010. Excluding the impact of the change in policy terms in 2010, Agency Automobile net written premiums were virtually level with 2009. Business retention rates remained strong and new business levels increased over 2009. Renewal premium changes were positive in 2010 but declined slightly from 2009. In 2010, net written premiums in the Agency Homeowners and Other line of business increased 8% over 2009, primarily driven by increases in renewal premium changes, business retention rates and new business levels. In 2009, net written premiums in the Agency Automobile line of business decreased 2% from 2008. The impact of increasing renewal premium changes was more than offset by declines in new business volume and business retention rates compared with 2008. In 2009, net written premiums in the Agency Homeowners and Other line of business grew 5% over 2008, driven by increases in renewal premium changes. New business volume was consistent with 2008 and business retention rates remained strong and consistent with 2008. For its Agency business, the Personal Insurance segment had approximately 7.6 million and 7.4 million active policies at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In the Agency Automobile line of business, active policies at December 31, 2010 increased 2% over the same date in 2009. Active policies in the Agency Homeowners and Other line of business at December 31, 2010 grew by 3% over the same date in 2009. Interest Expense and Other (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Operating loss $ (318 ) $ (233 ) $ (257 ) 91 Table of Contents The $85 million increase in operating loss for Interest Expense and Other in 2010 compared with 2009 primarily reflected $39 million of expenses related to the Companys purchase and retirement of a significant portion of its 6.25% fixed to floating rate junior subordinated debentures. The operating loss in 2010 also included a $12 million increase in tax expense associated with recent federal health care legislation and an increase in interest expense. In addition, the operating loss in 2009 included a benefit of $28 million from the favorable resolution of various prior year tax matters. After tax interest expense in 2010 totaled $252 million, compared with $248 million in 2009. The $24 million decline in operating loss for Interest Expense and Other in 2009 compared with 2008 primarily reflected the benefit of $28 million in 2009 from the favorable resolution of various prior year tax matters. After tax interest expense in 2009 totaled $248 million, compared with $239 million in 2008. ASBESTOS CLAIMS AND LITIGATION The Company believes that the property and casualty insurance industry has suffered from court decisions and other trends that have attempted to expand insurance coverage for asbestos claims far beyond the intent of insurers and policyholders. While the Company has experienced a decrease in new asbestos claims over the past several years, the Company continues to receive a significant number of asbestos claims from the Companys policyholders (which includes others seeking coverage under a policy), including claims against the Companys policyholders by individuals who do not appear to be impaired by asbestos exposure. Factors underlying these claim filings include intensive advertising by lawyers seeking asbestos claimants and the focus by plaintiffs on previously peripheral defendants. The focus on these defendants is primarily the result of the number of traditional asbestos defendants who have sought bankruptcy protection in previous years. In addition to contributing to the overall number of claims, bankruptcy proceedings may increase the volatility of asbestos related losses by initially delaying the reporting of claims and later by significantly accelerating and increasing loss payments by insurers, including the Company. The bankruptcy of many traditional defendants has also caused increased settlement demands against those policyholders who are not in bankruptcy but that remain in the tort system. Currently, in many jurisdictions, those who allege very serious injury and who can present credible medical evidence of their injuries are receiving priority trial settings in the courts, while those who have not shown any credible disease manifestation are having their hearing dates delayed or placed on an inactive docket. This trend of prioritizing claims involving credible evidence of injuries, along with the focus on previously peripheral defendants, contributes to the claims and claim adjustment expense payments experienced by the Company. The Companys asbestos related claims and claim adjustment expense experience also has been impacted by the unavailability of other insurance sources potentially available to policyholders, whether through exhaustion of policy limits or through the insolvency of other participating insurers. The Company continues to be involved in coverage litigation concerning a number of policyholders, some of whom have filed for bankruptcy, who in some instances have asserted that all or a portion of their asbestos related claims are not subject to aggregate limits on coverage. In these instances, policyholders also may assert that each individual bodily injury claim should be treated as a separate occurrence under the policy. It is difficult to predict whether these policyholders will be successful on both issues. To the extent both issues are resolved in a policyholders favor and other Company defenses are not successful, the Companys coverage obligations under the policies at issue would be materially increased and bounded only by the applicable per occurrence limits and the number of asbestos bodily injury claims against the policyholders. Accordingly, although the Company has seen a moderation in the overall risk associated with these lawsuits, it remains difficult to predict the ultimate cost of these claims. Many coverage disputes with policyholders are only resolved through settlement agreements. Because many policyholders make exaggerated demands, it is difficult to predict the outcome of 92 Table of Contents settlement negotiations. Settlements involving bankrupt policyholders may include extensive releases which are favorable to the Company but which could result in settlements for larger amounts than originally anticipated. There also may be instances where a court may not approve a proposed settlement, which may result in additional litigation and potentially less beneficial outcomes for the Company. As in the past, the Company will continue to pursue settlement opportunities. In addition to claims against policyholders, proceedings have been launched directly against insurers, including the Company, by individuals challenging insurers conduct with respect to the handling of past asbestos claims and by individuals seeking damages arising from alleged asbestos related bodily injuries. The Company anticipates the filing of other direct actions against insurers, including the Company, in the future. It is difficult to predict the outcome of these proceedings, including whether the plaintiffs will be able to sustain these actions against insurers based on novel legal theories of liability. The Company believes it has meritorious defenses to these claims and has received favorable rulings in certain jurisdictions. Travelers Property Casualty Corp. (TPC), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, had entered into settlement agreements, which are subject to a number of contingencies, in connection with a number of these direct action claims. These settlement agreements had been approved by the court in connection with proceedings initiated by TPC in the Johns Manville bankruptcy court. On March 29, 2006, the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York substantially affirmed the bankruptcy courts orders, while vacating that portion of the bankruptcy courts orders which required all future direct actions against TPC to first be approved by the bankruptcy court before proceeding in state or federal court. Various parties appealed the district courts ruling to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. On February 15, 2008, the Second Circuit issued an opinion vacating on jurisdictional grounds the district courts approval of the bankruptcy courts order that barred the filing of certain direct action claims against TPC in the future. TPC and certain other parties filed Petitions for Writ of Certiorari in the United States Supreme Court seeking review of the Second Circuits decision. Those petitions were granted and on June 18, 2009, the Supreme Court ruled in favor of the Company, reversing the Second Circuits decision. However, since the Second Circuit had not ruled on several additional issues principally related to procedural matters and the adequacy of notice provided to certain parties, the Supreme Court remanded the case to the Second Circuit for further proceedings on those specific issues. On March 22, 2010, the Second Circuit issued an opinion in which it found that the notice of the 1986 Orders provided to the remaining objector was insufficient to bar contribution claims by that objector against TPC. On April 5, 2010, TPC filed a Petition for Rehearing and Rehearing En Banc with the Second Circuit, requesting further review of its March 22, 2010 opinion, which was denied on May 25, 2010. On August 18, 2010, TPC filed a Petition for Writ of Certiorari in the United States Supreme Court seeking review of the Second Circuits March 22, 2010 opinion, and a Petition for a Writ of Mandamus seeking an order from the Supreme Court requiring the Second Circuit to comply with the Supreme Courts June 18, 2009 ruling in TPCs favor. The Supreme Court denied the Petitions on November 29, 2010. The plaintiffs in the Statutory and Hawaii actions and the Common Law Claims actions (as defined in note 15 to the consolidated financial statements) filed Motions to Compel with the bankruptcy court on September 2, 2010 and September 3, 2010, respectively, arguing that all conditions precedent to the settlements have been met and seeking to require TPC to pay the settlement amounts. On September 30, 2010, TPC filed an Opposition to the plaintiffs Motions to Compel on the grounds that the conditions precedent to the settlements, principally the requirement that all contribution claims be barred, have not been met in light of the Second Circuits March 22, 2010 opinion. On December 16, 2010, the bankruptcy court granted the plaintiffs motions and ruled that TPC was required to fund the settlements. On January 20, 2011, the bankruptcy court entered judgment in accordance with its December 16, 2010 ruling and ordered TPC to pay the settlement amounts plus prejudgment interest. On January 21, 2011, TPC filed an appeal with the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York from the 93 Table of Contents bankruptcy courts January 20, 2011 judgment. (For a description of these matters, see note 15 of notes to the consolidated financial statements). Because each policyholder presents different liability and coverage issues, the Company generally reviews the exposure presented by each policyholder at least annually. Among the factors which the Company may consider in the course of this review are: available insurance coverage, including the role of any umbrella or excess insurance the Company has issued to the policyholder; limits and deductibles; an analysis of the policyholders potential liability; the jurisdictions involved; past and anticipated future claim activity and loss development on pending claims; past settlement values of similar claims; allocated claim adjustment expense; potential role of other insurance; the role, if any, of non asbestos claims or potential non asbestos claims in any resolution process; and applicable coverage defenses or determinations, if any, including the determination as to whether or not an asbestos claim is a products/completed operation claim subject to an aggregate limit and the available coverage, if any, for that claim. In the third quarter of 2010, the Company completed its annual in depth asbestos claim review and noted the continuation of recent trends, which include: continued high level of litigation activity involving individuals alleging serious asbestos related illness; stable payment patterns for a large proportion of policyholders; a decrease in the number of large asbestos exposures confronting the Company due to additional settlement activity; continued moderate level of asbestos related bankruptcy activity; and the absence of new theories of liability or new classes of defendants. While the Company believes that these trends indicate a reduction in the volatility associated with the Companys overall asbestos exposure, there nonetheless remains a high degree of uncertainty with respect to future exposure from asbestos claims. The Companys quarterly asbestos reserve review includes an analysis of exposure and claim payment patterns by policyholder category, as well as recent settlements, policyholder bankruptcies, judicial rulings and legislative actions. The Company also analyzes developing payment patterns among policyholders in the Home Office, Field Office and Assumed Reinsurance and Other categories as well as projected reinsurance billings and recoveries. In addition, the Company reviews its historical gross and net loss and expense paid experience, year by year, to assess any emerging trends, fluctuations, or characteristics suggested by the aggregate paid activity. Conventional actuarial methods are not utilized to establish asbestos reserves nor have the Companys evaluations resulted in any way of determining a meaningful average asbestos defense or indemnity payment. As in prior years, the annual claim review considered active policyholders and litigation cases for potential product and "non product" liability. Compared with the prior year period, the Home Office and Field Office categories, which account for the vast majority of policyholders with active asbestos related claims, experienced an overall reduction in the number of policyholders who, for the first time, were tendering asbestos claims. However, gross defense and indemnity payment patterns in these categories remained consistent with what the Company has experienced in recent years due to the high level of litigation activity in a limited number of jurisdictions where individuals alleging serious asbestos related injury continue to target previously peripheral defendants. The completion of these reviews and analyses in the third quarter resulted in a net $140 million increase in the Companys asbestos reserves, driven by increases in the Companys estimate of 1) projected settlement and defense costs related to a broad number of policyholders; 2) costs of litigating asbestos related coverage matters; and 3) projected payments on assumed reinsurance 94 Table of Contents accounts. This increase included a $70 million benefit from the reduction in the allowance for uncollectible reinsurance resulting from a recent favorable ruling related to a reinsurance dispute and an increase in estimated reinsurance recoverables. In 2009, the Company recorded a $185 million increase in asbestos reserves, primarily driven by a slight increase in the Companys assumption for projected defense costs related to many policyholders. The Company recorded a $70 million increase to asbestos reserves in 2008, which was driven by a change in the estimated costs associated with litigating asbestos coverage matters and a change in estimated losses for certain individual policyholders. Overall, the companys assessment of the underlying asbestos environment did not change significantly from recent periods. Net asbestos losses paid in 2010, 2009 and 2008 were $350 million, $341 million and $658 million, respectively. (Asbestos payments in 2008 included the Companys one time net payment of $365 million associated with the settlement of the ACandS, Inc. matter). Approximately 32%, 41% and 59% of total net paid losses in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, related to policyholders with whom the Company had entered into settlement agreements limiting the Companys liability. The Company categorizes its asbestos reserves as follows: Number of Policyholders Total Net Paid Net Asbestos Reserves (at and for the year ended December 31, $ in millions) 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Policyholders with settlement agreements 17 18 $ 112 $ 139 $ 583 $ 621 Home office and field office 1,705 1,697 209 176 1,778 1,956 Assumed reinsurance and other 29 26 187 181 Total 1,722 1,715 $ 350 $ 341 $ 2,548 $ 2,758 The "policyholders with settlement agreements" category includes structured settlements, coverage in place arrangements and, with respect to TPC, Wellington accounts. Reserves are based on the expected payout for each policyholder under the applicable agreement. Structured settlements are arrangements under which policyholders and or plaintiffs agree to fixed financial amounts to be paid at scheduled times. Included in this category are TPCs reserves for the settlements of the Statutory and Hawaii Actions and the Common Law Claims. (For a description of these matters, see note 15 of notes to the consolidated financial statements). Coverage in place arrangements represent agreements with policyholders on specified amounts of coverage to be provided. Payment obligations may be subject to annual maximums and are only made when valid claims are presented. Wellington accounts refer to the 35 defendants that are parties to a 1985 agreement settling certain disputes concerning insurance coverage for their asbestos claims. Many of the aspects of the Wellington agreement are similar to those of coverage in place arrangements in which the parties have agreed on specific amounts of coverage and the terms under which the coverage can be accessed. The "home office and field office" category relates to all other policyholders and also includes unallocated IBNR reserves and reserves for the costs of defending asbestos related coverage litigation. Policyholders are identified for the annual home office review based upon, among other factors: a combination of past payments and current case reserves in excess of a specified threshold (currently $100,000), perceived level of exposure, number of reported claims, products/completed operations and potential "non product" exposures, size of policyholder and geographic distribution of products or services sold by the policyholder. In addition to IBNR amounts contained in the reserves for "home office and field office" policyholders and the costs of litigating asbestos coverage matters, the Company has established a reserve for further adverse development related to existing policyholders, new claims from policyholders reporting claims for the first time and policyholders for which there is, or may be, litigation and direct actions against the Company. The "assumed reinsurance and other" category primarily consists of reinsurance of excess coverage, including various pool participations. 95 Table of Contents On January 29, 2009, the Company and PPG Industries, Inc ("PPG"), along with approximately 30 other insurers of PPG, agreed in principle to an agreement to settle asbestos related coverage litigation under insurance policies issued to PPG. The tentative settlement agreement has been incorporated into the Modified Third Amended Plan of Reorganization ("Amended Plan") proposed as part of the Pittsburgh Corning Corp. ("PCC", which is 50% owned by PPG) bankruptcy proceeding. Pursuant to the proposed Amended Plan, which was filed on January 30, 2009, PCC, along with enumerated other companies (including PPG as well as the Company as a participating insurer), are to receive protections afforded by Section 524(g) of the Bankruptcy Code from certain asbestos related bodily injury claims. Under the agreement in principle, the Company has the option to make a series of payments over the next 20 years totaling approximately $620 million to the Trust to be created under the Amended Plan, or it may elect to make a one time discounted payment, which, as of March 31, 2011, would total approximately $454 million (approximately $425 million after reinsurance). The agreement in principle with PPG is subject to numerous contingencies, including final court approval of the Amended Plan, and the Company has no obligation to make the settlement payment until all contingencies are satisfied. The Companys obligations under this agreement in principle are included in the "home office and field office" category in the preceding table. In December 2008, the Company completed the sale of Unionamerica, which comprised its United Kingdom based runoff insurance and reinsurance businesses. Included in the claims and claim adjustment expense reserves transferred to the purchaser were gross and net asbestos reserves of $330 million and $232 million, respectively. The following table displays activity for asbestos losses and loss expenses and reserves: (at and for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Beginning reserves: Direct $ 3,097 $ 3,299 $ 4,353 Ceded (339 ) (385 ) (619 ) Net 2,758 2,914 3,734 Incurred losses and loss expenses: Direct 262 185 70 Ceded (122 ) Net 140 185 70 Losses paid: Direct 418 387 794 Ceded (68 ) (46 ) (136 ) Net 350 341 658 Sale of subsidiary: Direct 330 Ceded (98 ) Net 232 Ending reserves: Direct 2,941 3,097 3,299 Ceded (393 ) (339 ) (385 ) Net $ 2,548 $ 2,758 $ 2,914 See " Uncertainty Regarding Adequacy of Asbestos and Environmental Reserves." 96  Table of Contents ENVIRONMENTAL CLAIMS AND LITIGATION The Company continues to receive claims from policyholders who allege that they are liable for injury or damage arising out of their alleged disposition of toxic substances. Mostly, these claims are due to various legislative as well as regulatory efforts aimed at environmental remediation. For instance, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA), enacted in 1980 and later modified, enables private parties as well as federal and state governments to take action with respect to releases and threatened releases of hazardous substances. This federal statute permits the recovery of response costs from some liable parties and may require liable parties to undertake their own remedial action. Liability under CERCLA may be joint and several with other responsible parties. The Company has been, and continues to be, involved in litigation involving insurance coverage issues pertaining to environmental claims. The Company believes that some court decisions have interpreted the insurance coverage to be broader than the original intent of the insurers and policyholders. These decisions often pertain to insurance policies that were issued by the Company prior to the mid 1980s. These decisions continue to be inconsistent and vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Environmental claims when submitted rarely indicate the monetary amount being sought by the claimant from the policyholder, and the Company does not keep track of the monetary amount being sought in those few claims which indicate a monetary amount. The resolution of environmental exposures by the Company generally occurs by settlement on a policyholder by policyholder basis as opposed to a claim by claim basis. Generally, the Company strives to extinguish any obligations it may have under any policy issued to the policyholder for past, present and future environmental liabilities and extinguish any pending coverage litigation dispute with the policyholder. This form of settlement is commonly referred to as a "buy back" of policies for future environmental liability. In addition, many of the agreements have also extinguished any insurance obligation which the Company may have for other claims, including but not limited to asbestos and other cumulative injury claims. The Company and its policyholders may also agree to settlements which extinguish any liability arising from known specified sites or claims. Where appropriate, these agreements also include indemnities and hold harmless provisions to protect the Company. The Companys general purpose in executing these agreements is to reduce the Companys potential environmental exposure and eliminate the risks presented by coverage litigation with the policyholder and related costs. In establishing environmental reserves, the Company evaluates the exposure presented by each policyholder and the anticipated cost of resolution, if any. In the course of this analysis, the Company generally considers the probable liability, available coverage, relevant judicial interpretations and historical value of similar exposures. In addition, the Company considers the many variables presented, such as the nature of the alleged activities of the policyholder at each site; the allegations of environmental harm at each site; the number of sites; the total number of potentially responsible parties at each site; the nature of environmental harm and the corresponding remedy at each site; the nature of government enforcement activities at each site; the ownership and general use of each site; the overall nature of the insurance relationship between the Company and the policyholder, including the role of any umbrella or excess insurance the Company has issued to the policyholder; the involvement of other insurers; the potential for other available coverage, including the number of years of coverage; the role, if any, of non environmental claims or potential non environmental claims in any resolution process; and the applicable law in each jurisdiction. Conventional actuarial techniques are not used to estimate these reserves. In its review of environmental reserves, the Company considers: past settlement payments; changing judicial and legislative trends; its reserves for the costs of litigating environmental coverage matters; the potential for policyholders with smaller exposures to be named in new clean up actions for 97 Table of Contents both on and off site waste disposal activities; the potential for adverse development; the potential for additional new claims beyond previous expectations; and the potential higher costs for new settlements. The duration of the Companys investigation and review of these claims and the extent of time necessary to determine an appropriate estimate, if any, of the value of the claim to the Company vary significantly and are dependent upon a number of factors. These factors include, but are not limited to, the cooperation of the policyholder in providing claim information, the pace of underlying litigation or claim processes, the pace of coverage litigation between the policyholder and the Company and the willingness of the policyholder and the Company to negotiate, if appropriate, a resolution of any dispute pertaining to these claims. Because these factors vary from claim to claim and policyholder by policyholder, the Company cannot provide a meaningful average of the duration of an environmental claim. However, based upon the Companys experience in resolving these claims, the duration may vary from months to several years. Although the Company continues to receive notices from policyholders tendering claims for the first time, the number of new policyholders submitting those notices declined from 2009. These policyholders continue to present smaller exposures, have fewer sites and are lower tier defendants. Further, in many instances clean up costs have been reduced because regulatory agencies are willing to accept risk based site analyses and more efficient clean up technologies. However, the Company has experienced modest upward development in the expected defense and settlement costs for certain of its pending policyholders. As a result, the Company increased its net environmental reserves by $35 million in 2010. During 2009, the Company experienced an increase in the number of policyholders tendering claims for the first time and in the number of pending environmental related coverage actions. In addition, the Company experienced upward development in the expected defense and settlement costs for certain of its pending policyholders. As a result, the Company increased its net environmental reserves by $70 million in 2009. In 2008, the Company increased its environmental reserves by $85 million as a result of upward development in the anticipated defense and settlement costs for certain of its pending policyholders. In December 2008, the Company completed the sale of Unionamerica, which comprised its United Kingdom based runoff insurance and reinsurance businesses. Included in the claims and claim adjustment expense reserves transferred to the purchaser were gross and net environmental reserves of $40 million and $33 million, respectively. Net environmental losses paid in 2010, 2009 and 2008 were $77 million, $91 million and $128 million, respectively. At December 31, 2010, approximately 93% of the net environmental reserve (approximately $327 million) was carried in a bulk reserve and included unresolved environmental claims, incurred but not reported environmental claims and the anticipated cost of coverage litigation disputes relating to these claims. The bulk reserve the Company carries is established and adjusted based upon the aggregate volume of in process environmental claims and the Companys experience in resolving those claims. The balance, approximately 7% of the net environmental reserve (approximately $24 million), consists of case reserves. 98 Table of Contents The following table displays activity for environmental losses and loss expenses and reserves: (at and for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Beginning reserves: Direct $ 389 $ 400 $ 478 Ceded 4 14 12 Net 393 414 490 Incurred losses and loss expenses: Direct 45 85 85 Ceded (10 ) (15 ) Net 35 70 85 Losses paid: Direct 80 96 123 Ceded (3 ) (5 ) 5 Net 77 91 128 Sale of subsidiary: Direct 40 Ceded (7 ) Net 33 Ending reserves: Direct 354 389 400 Ceded (3 ) 4 14 Net $ 351 $ 393 $ 414 UNCERTAINTY REGARDING ADEQUACY OF ASBESTOS AND ENVIRONMENTAL RESERVES As a result of the processes and procedures described above, management believes that the reserves carried for asbestos and environmental claims at December 31, 2010 are appropriately established based upon known facts, current law and managements judgment. However, the uncertainties surrounding the final resolution of these claims continue, and it is difficult to determine the ultimate exposure for asbestos and environmental claims and related litigation. As a result, these reserves are subject to revision as new information becomes available and as claims develop. The continuing uncertainties include, without limitation, the risks and lack of predictability inherent in complex litigation, any impact from the bankruptcy protection sought by various asbestos producers and other asbestos defendants, a further increase or decrease in the cost to resolve, and or the number of, asbestos and environmental claims beyond that which is anticipated, the role of any umbrella or excess policies the Company has issued, the resolution or adjudication of disputes pertaining to the amount of available coverage for asbestos and environmental claims in a manner inconsistent with the Companys previous assessment of these claims, the number and outcome of direct actions against the Company, future developments pertaining to the Companys ability to recover reinsurance for asbestos and environmental claims and the unavailability of other insurance sources potentially available to policyholders, whether through exhaustion of policy limits or through the insolvency of other participating insurers. In addition, uncertainties arise from the insolvency or bankruptcy of policyholders and other defendants. It is also not possible to predict changes in the legal, regulatory and legislative environment and their impact on the future development of asbestos and environmental claims. This development will be affected by future court and regulatory decisions and interpretations, including the outcome of legal challenges to legislative and or judicial reforms establishing medical criteria for the pursuit of asbestos claims, as well as changes in applicable legislation. It is also difficult 99 Table of Contents to predict the ultimate outcome of complex coverage disputes until settlement negotiations near completion and significant legal questions are resolved or, failing settlement, until the dispute is adjudicated. This is particularly the case with policyholders in bankruptcy where negotiations often involve a large number of claimants and other parties and require court approval to be effective. As part of its continuing analysis of asbestos and environmental reserves, the Company continues to study the implications of these and other developments. (Also see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements). Because of the uncertainties set forth above, additional liabilities may arise for amounts in excess of the current related reserves. In addition, the Companys estimate of claims and claim adjustment expenses may change. These additional liabilities or increases in estimates, or a range of either, cannot now be reasonably estimated and could result in income statement charges that could be material to the Companys operating results in future periods. INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO The Companys invested assets at December 31, 2010 totaled $72.72 billion, of which 94% was invested in fixed maturity and short term investments, 1% in equity securities, 1% in real estate and 4% in other investments. Because the primary purpose of the investment portfolio is to fund future claims payments, the Company employs a conservative investment philosophy. A significant majority of funds available for investment are deployed in a widely diversified portfolio of high quality, liquid taxable U.S. government, tax exempt U.S. municipal and taxable corporate and U.S. agency mortgage backed bonds. The carrying value of the Companys fixed maturity portfolio at December 31, 2010 totaled $62.82 billion. The Company closely monitors the duration of its fixed maturity investments, and investment purchases and sales are executed with the objective of having adequate funds available to satisfy the Companys insurance and debt obligations. The weighted average credit quality of the Companys fixed maturity portfolio, both including and excluding U.S. Treasury securities, was "Aa2" at both December 31, 2010 and 2009. Below investment grade securities represented 3.0% and 2.7% of the total fixed maturity investment portfolio at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The average effective duration of fixed maturities and short term securities was 3.6 (3.9 excluding short term securities) at December 31, 2010 and 3.9 (4.2 excluding short term securities) at December 31, 2009. The decline in duration primarily resulted from the impact of declining market yields and tightening investment spreads on existing holdings of mortgage backed securities (which impact the assumptions related to optional pre payments), an increase in pre refunded municipal bonds and general portfolio management decisions. 100 Table of Contents The carrying values of investments in fixed maturities classified as available for sale at December 31, 2010 and 2009 were as follows: (at December 31, 2010, in millions) Carrying Value Average Credit Quality(1) U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. Government and government agencies and authorities $ 2,008 Aaa Obligations of states, municipalities and political subdivisions: Pre refunded $ 7,291 Aa1 All other 32,244 Aa1 Total obligations of states, municipalities and political subdivisions 39,535 Debt securities issued by foreign governments 2,202 Aaa Mortgage backed securities, collateralized mortgage obligations and pass through securities 4,164 Aa1 All other corporate bonds and redeemable preferred stock: Financial: Bank 1,462 A1 Insurance 351 A2 Finance/leasing 83 Baa3 Brokerage and asset management 30 Baa1 Total financial 1,926 Industrial 7,711 Baa1 Public utility 1,859 A3 Sovereign corporate securities(2) 1,800 Aaa Canadian municipal securities 671 Aa1 Commercial mortgage backed securities and project loans(3) 549 Aaa Asset backed and other 395 Baa1 Total all other corporate bonds and redeemable preferred stock 14,911 Total fixed maturities $ 62,820 Aa2 (1)Rated using external rating agencies or by the Company when a public rating does not exist. (2)Sovereign corporate securities include corporate securities that are backed by a government and include sovereign banks and securities issued under the Temporary Liquidity Guaranty and the Federal Ship Financing Programs. (3)Included in commercial mortgage backed securities and project loans are $146 million of securities guaranteed by the U.S. government and $9 million by government sponsored enterprises. 101 Table of Contents (at December 31, 2009, in millions) Carrying Value Average Credit Quality(1) U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. Government and government agencies and authorities $ 2,574 Aaa Obligations of states, municipalities and political subdivisions: Pre refunded $ 6,062 Aa1 All other 35,271 Aa1 Total obligations of states, municipalities and political subdivisions 41,333 Debt securities issued by foreign governments 1,957 Aaa Mortgage backed securities, collateralized mortgage obligations and pass through securities 5,207 Aa1 All other corporate bonds and redeemable preferred stock: Financial: Bank 2,107 Aa3 Insurance 423 A2 Finance/leasing 113 Baa3 Brokerage and asset management 34 Baa2 Total financial 2,677 Industrial 7,080 Baa1 Public utility 1,737 A3 Sovereign corporate securities(2) 1,499 Aaa Canadian municipal securities 669 Aa1 Commercial mortgage backed securities and project loans(3) 714 Aaa Asset backed and other 400 A3 Total all other corporate bonds and redeemable preferred stock 14,776 Total fixed maturities $ 65,847 Aa2 (1)Rated using external rating agencies or by the Company when a public rating does not exist. (2)Sovereign corporate securities include corporate securities that are backed by a government and include sovereign banks and securities issued under the Temporary Liquidity Guaranty and the Federal Ship Financing Programs. (3)Included in commercial mortgage backed securities and project loans are $200 million of securities guaranteed by the U.S. government and $36 million by government sponsored enterprises. 102  Table of Contents The following table sets forth the Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio rated using external ratings agencies or by the Company when a public rating does not exist: (at December 31, 2010, in millions) Carrying Value Percent of Total Carrying Value Quality Rating: Aaa $ 29,619 47.2 % Aa 20,499 32.6 A 6,426 10.2 Baa 4,393 7.0 Total investment grade 60,937 97.0 Below investment grade 1,883 3.0 Total fixed maturity investments $ 62,820 100.0 % Obligations of States, Municipalities and Political Subdivisions The Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio at December 31, 2010 and 2009 included $39.54 billion and $41.33 billion, respectively, of securities which are obligations of states, municipalities and political subdivisions (collectively referred to as the municipal bond portfolio). The municipal bond portfolio is diversified across the United States, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico and includes general obligation and revenue bonds issued by states, cities, counties, school districts and similar issuers. Included in the municipal bond portfolio at December 31, 2010 and 2009 were $7.29 billion and $6.06 billion, respectively, of advance refunded or escrowed to maturity bonds (collectively referred to as pre refunded bonds), which are bonds for which an irrevocable trust has been established to fund the remaining payments of principal and interest. Such escrow accounts are verified as to their sufficiency by an external auditor and are almost exclusively comprised of U.S. Treasury securities. Moodys Investors Service has assigned a negative outlook to municipal securities issued by local governments within the United States. 103 Table of Contents The following table shows the geographic distribution of the $32.24 billion of municipal bonds at December 31, 2010 that were not pre refunded. State (in millions) State General Obligation Local General Obligation Revenue Total Carrying Value Average Credit Quality(1) Texas $ 423 $ 2,222 $ 1,340 $ 3,985 Aaa/Aa1 California 94 1,619 405 2,118 Aa2 Illinois 176 969 518 1,663 Aa2 Washington 411 756 381 1,548 Aa1 Virginia 186 604 651 1,441 Aaa/Aa1 Florida 487 67 882 1,436 Aa1 Arizona 535 665 1,200 Aa1 Georgia 408 435 322 1,165 Aaa/Aa1 Maryland 309 566 241 1,116 Aaa/Aa1 Minnesota 275 702 135 1,112 Aaa/Aa1 New York 33 216 831 1,080 Aa1 Ohio 341 337 350 1,028 Aa1 Massachusetts 215 9 791 1,015 Aaa/Aa1 Colorado 769 230 999 Aa1 Michigan 134 343 500 977 Aa2 North Carolina 269 461 118 848 Aaa All Others (2) 2,525 2,909 4,079 9,513 Aa1 Total $ 6,286 $ 13,519 $ 12,439 $ 32,244 Aa1 (1)Rated using external rating agencies or by the Company when a public rating does not exist. Ratings shown are the higher of the rating of the underlying issuer or the insurer in the case of securities enhanced by third party insurance for the payment of principal and interest in the event of issuer default. (2)No other single state accounted for 2.5% or more of the total pre refunded municipal bonds. The Company bases its investment decision on the credit characteristics of the municipal security; however, its municipal bond portfolio includes a number of securities that were enhanced by third party insurance for the payment of principal and interest in the event of an issuer default. The downgrade during 2009 and 2008 of credit ratings of insurers of these securities resulted in a corresponding downgrade in the ratings of the securities to the underlying rating of the respective security. Of the insured municipal securities in the Companys investment portfolio at December 31, 2010, approximately 99% were rated at A3 or above, and approximately 90% were rated at Aa3 or above, without the benefit of insurance. The Company believes that a loss of the benefit of insurance would not result in a material adverse impact on the Companys results of operations, financial position or liquidity, due to the underlying credit strength of the issuers of the securities, as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the securities. The average credit rating of the underlying issuers of these securities was "Aa2" at December 31, 2010. The average credit rating of the entire municipal bond portfolio was "Aa1" at December 31, 2010 with and without the third party insurance. 104 Table of Contents Debt Securities Issued by Foreign Governments The following table shows the geographic distribution of the Companys investments in debt securities issued by foreign governments at December 31, 2010. (at December 31, 2010, in millions) Carrying Value Average Credit Quality(1) Foreign Government: Canada $ 894 Aaa United Kingdom 890 Aaa Germany 159 Aaa Australia 134 Aaa All Others 125 Aa2 Total $ 2,202 Aaa (1)Rated using external rating agencies or by the Company when a public rating does not exist. Mortgage Backed Securities, Collateralized Mortgage Obligations and Pass Through Securities The Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio at December 31, 2010 and 2009 included $4.16 billion and $5.21 billion, respectively, of residential mortgage backed securities including pass through securities and collateralized mortgage obligations (CMO), all of which are subject to prepayment risk (either shortening or lengthening of duration). While prepayment risk for both guaranteed and non guaranteed securities and its effect on income cannot be fully controlled, particularly when interest rates move dramatically, the Companys investment strategy generally favors securities that control this risk within expected interest rate ranges. Included in the totals at December 31, 2010 and 2009 were $2.09 billion and $2.63 billion, respectively, of GNMA, FNMA and FHLMC (excluding FHA project loans) guaranteed residential mortgage backed pass through securities classified as available for sale. Also included in those totals were residential CMOs classified as available for sale with a fair value of $2.07 billion and $2.58 billion, respectively. Approximately 38% and 37% of the Companys CMO holdings were guaranteed by or fully collateralized by securities issued by GNMA, FNMA or FHLMC at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The average credit rating of all of the above securities was "Aa1" at both December 31, 2010 and 2009. The Company makes investments in residential CMOs that are either guaranteed by GNMA, FNMA or FHLMC, or if not guaranteed, are senior or super senior positions within their respective securitizations. Both guaranteed and non guaranteed residential CMOs allocate the distribution of payments from the underlying mortgages among different classes of bondholders. In addition, non guaranteed residential CMOs provide structures that allocate the impact of credit losses to different classes of bondholders. Senior and super senior CMOs are protected, to varying degrees, from credit losses as those losses are initially allocated to subordinated bondholders. The Companys investment strategy is to purchase CMO tranches that are expected to offer the most favorable return given the Companys assessment of associated risks. The Company does not purchase residual interests in CMOs. Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities and Project Loans At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company held commercial mortgage backed securities (including FHA project loans) of $549 million and $714 million, respectively. The Company does not believe this portfolio exposes it to a material adverse impact on its results of operations, financial 105 Table of Contents position or liquidity, due to the portfolios relatively small size and the underlying credit strength of these securities. Alternative Documentation Mortgages and Sub Prime Mortgages At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the "mortgage backed securities, collateralized mortgage obligations and pass through securities" and "asset backed and other" categories in the foregoing table included collateralized mortgage obligations backed by alternative documentation mortgages and asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages with a collective fair value of $297 million and $270 million, respectively (comprising approximately 0.5% and 0.4% of the Companys total fixed maturity investments at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively). The disruption in secondary investment markets for mortgage backed securities provided the Company with the opportunity to selectively acquire additional such securities at discounted prices. The Company purchased $31 million and $74 million of such securities in the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The Company defines sub prime mortgage backed securities as investments in which the underlying loans primarily exhibit one or more of the following characteristics: low FICO scores, above prime interest rates, high loan to value ratios or high debt to income ratios. Alternative documentation securitizations are those in which the underlying loans primarily meet the government sponsored entities requirements for credit score but do not meet the government sponsored entities guidelines for documentation, property type, debt and loan to value ratios. The average credit rating on these securities and obligations held by the Company was "Baa2" and "A3" at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Equity Securities Available for Sale, Real Estate and Short Term Securities See note 1 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements for further information about these invested asset classes. Other Investments At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the carrying value of the Companys other investments was $2.93 billion and $2.95 billion, respectively. The Companys other investments are primarily comprised of private equity limited partnerships, hedge funds, real estate partnerships, joint ventures, mortgage loans, venture capital (through direct ownership and limited partnerships) and trading securities, which are subject to more volatility than the Companys fixed maturity investments. These asset classes have historically provided a higher return than fixed maturities but are subject to more volatility. Net investment income provided by these asset classes totaled $304 million in 2010, compared with negative net investment income of $106 million and $292 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The negative net investment income in 2009 and 2008 reflected market conditions. Securities Lending The Company has engaged in securities lending activities from which it generates net investment income by lending certain of its investments to other institutions for short periods of time. The Company has not incurred any investment losses in its securities lending program for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. 106 Table of Contents Net Unrealized Investment Gains (Losses) The net unrealized investment gains (losses) that were included as a separate component of accumulated other changes in equity from nonowner sources were as follows: (at December 31, in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Fixed maturities $ 2,650 $ 2,536 $ (294 ) Equity securities 147 78 (82 ) Other investments 28 216 123 Unrealized investment gains (losses) before tax 2,825 2,830 (253 ) Tax expense (benefit) 967 969 (109 ) Net unrealized investment gains (losses) at end of year $ 1,858 $ 1,861 $ (144 ) Net pretax unrealized investment gains totaled $2.83 billion at both December 31, 2010 and 2009, compared with net pretax unrealized losses of $253 million at December 31, 2008. The Companys fixed maturities and equity securities portfolios at December 31, 2010 experienced increases in valuations compared with the prior year end, which were offset by a decrease in net unrealized appreciation on other investments that primarily resulted from the Companys sale of substantially all of its remaining common stock holdings in Verisk Analytics, Inc. That sale generated a pretax realized investment gain of $205 million in 2010. The improvement in the Companys net unrealized gain position at December 31, 2009 over the prior year end is primarily attributable to the Companys fixed maturity investments. In 2009, yields on municipal fixed maturity securities declined, which increased the market value of the Companys portfolio of such securities. In addition, in 2009 credit spreads narrowed on other non municipal fixed maturity securities which also resulted in an increase in the market value of those securities. The following table summarizes, for all fixed maturities and equity securities reported at fair value for which fair value is less than 80% of amortized cost at December 31, 2010, the gross unrealized investment loss by length of time those securities have continuously been in an unrealized loss position of greater than 20% of amortized cost: Period For Which Fair Value Is Less Than 80% of Amortized Cost (in millions) 3 Months or Less Greater Than 3 Months, 6 Months or Less Greater Than 6 Months, 12 Months or Less Greater Than 12 Months Total Fixed maturities: Mortgage backed securities $ $ $ $ 8 $ 8 Other 2 10 12 Total fixed maturities 2 18 20 Equity securities Total $ 2 $ $ $ 18 $ 20 These unrealized investment losses at December 31, 2010 represent less than 1% of the combined fixed maturity and equity security portfolios on a pretax basis and less than 1% of shareholders equity on an after tax basis. For fixed maturity investments where fair value is less than the carrying value and the Company did not reach a decision to impair, the Company continues to have the intent and ability to hold such investments to a projected recovery in value, which may not be until maturity. 107 Table of Contents At December 31, 2010, below investment grade securities comprised 3.0% of the Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio. Included in below investment grade securities at December 31, 2010 were securities in an unrealized loss position that, in the aggregate, had an amortized cost of $605 million and a fair value of $564 million, resulting in a net pretax unrealized investment loss of $41 million. These securities in an unrealized loss position represented approximately 1% of both the total amortized cost and the fair value of the fixed maturity portfolio at December 31, 2010 and accounted for 17% of the total gross pretax unrealized investment loss in the fixed maturity portfolio at December 31, 2010. Impairment Charges Impairment charges included in net realized investment gains (losses) in the consolidated statement of income were as follows: (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Fixed maturities U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. Government and government agencies and authorities $ $ $ Obligations of states, municipalities and political subdivisions 1 Debt securities issued by foreign governments Mortgage backed securities, collateralized mortgage obligations and pass through securities 4 81 36 All other corporate bonds 9 88 283 Redeemable preferred stock 4 Total fixed maturities 13 169 324 Equity securities Common stock 2 15 34 Non redeemable preferred stock 1 64 40 Total equity securities 3 79 74 Other investments 10 10 22 Total $ 26 $ 258 $ 420 For the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company recognized the following other than temporary impairments: $13 million in the fixed maturities portfolio, consisting of $5 million related to the deteriorated financial position of various issuers, $4 million related to structured mortgage securities and $4 million related to securities that the Company had the intent to sell; $3 million in the equity portfolio related to securities with respect to which it was determined that the cost basis of those securities would not be recovered over the expected holding period; and $10 million in other investments related to the decline in the financial condition of various issuers. In 2008 and 2009, worldwide financial markets experienced significant disruptions, and the United States and many other countries experienced a prolonged economic downturn, resulting in heightened credit risks, reduced valuations of investments and decreased economic activity. Those factors resulted in the higher level of other than temporary investment impairments recognized by the Company in 2008 and 2009. 108  Table of Contents Following are the pretax realized losses on investments sold during the year ended December 31, 2010: (in millions) Loss Fair Value Fixed maturities $ 11 $ 345 Equity securities 8 Other 1 1 Total $ 12 $ 354 Purchases and sales of investments are based on cash requirements, the characteristics of the insurance liabilities and current market conditions. The Company identifies investments to be sold to achieve its primary investment goals of assuring the Companys ability to meet policyholder obligations as well as to optimize investment returns, given these obligations. CATASTROPHE MODELING The Company uses various analyses and methods, including computer modeling techniques, to analyze catastrophic events and the risks associated with them. The Company uses these analyses and methods to make underwriting and reinsurance decisions designed to manage its exposure to catastrophic events. In making underwriting and reinsurance decisions for hurricane and earthquake exposures, the Company uses third party proprietary computer modeling in an attempt to estimate the likelihood that the loss from a single event occurring in a one year timeframe will equal or exceed a particular amount. The tables below set forth the estimated probabilities that losses from a single event occurring in a one year timeframe will equal or exceed the indicated loss amounts (expressed in dollars and as a percentage of the Companys common equity). For example, on the basis described below the tables, the Company estimates that there is a one percent chance that the Companys loss from a single U.S. hurricane occurring in a one year timeframe would equal or exceed $1.1 billion, or 5% of the Companys common equity at December 31, 2010. Dollars (in billions) Likelihood of Exceedance(1) Single U.S. Hurricane Single U.S. and Canadian Earthquake 2.0% (1 in 50) $ 0.9 $ 0.5 1.0% (1 in 100) $ 1.1 $ 0.6 0.4% (1 in 250) $ 2.0 $ 0.9 0.1% (1 in 1,000) $ 4.3 $ 2.0 Percentage of Common Equity(2) Likelihood of Exceedance Single U.S. Hurricane Single U.S. and Canadian Earthquake 2.0% (1 in 50) 4 % 2 % 1.0% (1 in 100) 5 % 3 % 0.4% (1 in 250) 9 % 4 % 0.1% (1 in 1,000) 18 % 8 % (1)An event that has, for example, a 2% likelihood of exceedance is sometimes described as a "1 in 50 year event." As noted above, however, the probabilities in the table represent the likelihood of losses from a single event equaling or exceeding the indicated threshold 109 Table of Contents loss amount in a one year timeframe, not over a multi year timeframe. Also, because the probabilities relate to a single event, the probabilities do not address the likelihood of more than one event occurring in a particular period, and, therefore, the amounts do not address potential aggregate catastrophe losses occurring in a one year timeframe. (2)The percentage of common equity is calculated by dividing (a) indicated loss amounts in dollars by (b) total common equity excluding net unrealized investment gains and losses, net of taxes. Net unrealized investment gains and losses can be significantly impacted by both discretionary and other economic factors and are not necessarily indicative of operating trends. Accordingly, in the opinion of the Companys management, the percentage of common equity calculated on this basis provides a useful metric for investors to understand the potential impact of a single hurricane or single earthquake on the Companys financial position. The threshold loss amounts in the tables above are net of reinsurance, after tax and exclude most loss adjustment expenses, which historically have been less than 10% of loss estimates. The amounts for hurricanes reflect U.S. exposures and include property exposures, property residual market exposures and an adjustment for certain non property exposures. The amounts for earthquakes reflect U.S. and Canadian exposures and include property exposures and workers compensation exposures. The Company does not believe that the inclusion of hurricane or earthquake losses arising from other geographical areas or other exposures would materially change the estimated threshold loss amounts. This information in the tables is based on the Companys in force portfolio and catastrophic reinsurance program as of December 31, 2010. Catastrophe modeling relies upon inputs based on experience, science, engineering and history. These inputs reflect a significant amount of judgment and are subject to changes which may result in volatility in the modeled output. Catastrophe modeling output may also fail to account for risks that are outside the range of normal probability or are otherwise unforeseeable. Catastrophe modeling assumptions include, among others, the portion of purchased reinsurance that is collectible after a catastrophic event, which may prove to be materially incorrect. Consequently, catastrophe modeling estimates are subject to significant uncertainty. In the tables above, the uncertainty associated with the estimated threshold loss amounts increases significantly as the likelihood of exceedance decreases. In other words, in the case of a relatively more remote event (e.g., 1 in 1,000), the estimated threshold loss amount is relatively less reliable. Actual losses from an event could materially exceed the indicated threshold loss amount. In addition, more than one such event could occur in any period. Moreover, the Company is exposed to the risk of material losses from other than property and workers compensation coverages arising out of hurricanes and earthquakes, and it is exposed to catastrophe losses from perils other than hurricanes and earthquakes, such as windstorms, hail, wildfires, severe winter weather, floods, volcanic eruptions and acts of terrorism. There are no industry standard methodologies or assumptions for projecting catastrophe exposure. Accordingly, catastrophe estimates provided by different insurers may not be comparable. For more information about the Companys exposure to catastrophe losses, see "Item 1A Risk Factors Catastrophe losses could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, our financial position and or liquidity, and could adversely impact our ratings, our ability to raise capital and the availability and cost of reinsurance." CHANGING CLIMATE CONDITIONS Severe weather events over the last several years have underscored the unpredictability of future climate trends and created uncertainty regarding insurers exposures to financial loss as a result of catastrophe and other weather related events. Some scientists believe that, in recent years, changing 110 Table of Contents climate conditions have added to the unpredictability, frequency and severity of natural disasters. Accordingly, if climate conditions change in the future, the Companys catastrophe models may be less reliable. The Company discusses how potentially changing climate conditions may present other issues for its business under "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of this report and under " Outlook" herein. For example, among other things: Increasingly unpredictable and severe weather conditions could result in increased frequency and severity of claims under policies issued by the Company. See "Risk Factors Catastrophe losses could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, our financial position and or liquidity, and could adversely impact our ratings, our ability to raise capital and the availability and cost of reinsurance" and " Outlook Underwriting Profitability." Such changing climate conditions could also impact the creditworthiness of issuers of securities in which the Company invests. For example, water supply adequacy could impact the creditworthiness of bond issuers in the Southwestern United States, and more frequent and or severe hurricanes could impact the creditworthiness of issuers in the Southeastern United States., among other areas. See "Risk Factors Our investment portfolio may suffer reduced returns or material losses." Increased regulation adopted in response to potential changes in climate conditions may impact the Company and its customers. For example, state insurance regulation could impact the Companys ability to manage property exposures in areas vulnerable to significant climate driven losses. If the Company is unable to implement risk based pricing, modify policy terms or reduce exposures to the extent necessary to address rising losses related to catastrophes and smaller scale weather events (should those increased losses occur), its business may be adversely affected. See "Risk Factors Catastrophe losses could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, our financial position and or liquidity, and could adversely impact our ratings, our ability to raise capital and the availability and cost of reinsurance." The full range of potential liability exposures related to climate change continues to evolve. Through the Companys Emerging Issues Committee and its Committee on Climate, Energy and the Environment, the Company works with its business units and corporate groups as appropriate to identify and try to assess climate change related liability issues, which are continually evolving and often hard to fully evaluate. See "Risk Factors The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain." Climate change regulation also could increase the Companys customers costs of doing business. For example, insureds faced with carbon management regulatory requirements may have less available capital for investment in loss prevention and safety features which may, over time, increase loss exposures. Also, increased regulation may result in reduced economic activity, which would decrease the amount of insurable assets and businesses. The Company regularly reviews emerging issues, such as changing climate conditions, to consider potential changes to its modeling and the use of such modeling, as well as to help determine the need for new underwriting strategies, coverage modifications or new products. REINSURANCE RECOVERABLES Ceded reinsurance involves credit risk, except with regard to mandatory pools for which liability is mostly joint and several, and is generally subject to aggregate loss limits. Although the reinsurer is liable to the Company to the extent of the reinsurance ceded, the Company remains liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. Reinsurance recoverables are reported after reductions for known insolvencies and after allowances for uncollectible amounts. The Company also holds collateral, 111 Table of Contents including trust agreements, escrow funds and letters of credit, under certain reinsurance agreements. The Company monitors the financial condition of reinsurers on an ongoing basis and reviews its reinsurance arrangements periodically. Reinsurers are selected based on their financial condition, business practices and the price of their product offerings. After reinsurance is purchased, the Company has limited ability to manage the credit risk to a reinsurer. In addition, in a number of jurisdictions, particularly the European Union and the United Kingdom, a reinsurer is permitted to transfer a reinsurance arrangement to another reinsurer, which may be less creditworthy, without a counterpartys consent, provided that the transfer has been approved by the applicable regulatory and or court authority. The Companys reinsurance recoverables totaled $11.52 billion at December 31, 2010, a decline of $1.30 billion from year end 2009, primarily reflecting cash collections and the impact of net favorable prior year reserve development, partially offset by a reduction in the allowance for uncollectible reinsurance resulting from a recent favorable ruling relating to a reinsurance dispute. The Company has also entered into Master Security Agreements with certain reinsurers. These agreements define conditions that require the reinsurer to provide collateral. The specific conditions and the amounts and form of collateral to be provided by these agreements vary based on a number of factors including, but not limited to, the reinsurers legal structure and trading history with the Company. The following table presents the Companys top five reinsurer groups by reinsurance recoverable at December 31, 2010 (in millions). Also included is the A.M. Best rating of each reinsurer group at February 17, 2011: Reinsurer Group Reinsurance Recoverable A.M. Best Rating of Groups Predominant Reinsurer Munich Re Group $ 744 A+ second highest of 16 ratings Swiss Re Group 707 A third highest of 16 ratings Transatlantic Holdings, Inc. 385 A third highest of 16 ratings XL Capital Group 320 A third highest of 16 ratings Berkshire Hathaway Group 319 A++ highest of 16 ratings At December 31, 2010, the Company held $2.1 billion of collateral in the form of letters of credit, trust agreements and funds held to fully or partially collateralize certain reinsurance recoverables. Included in reinsurance recoverables are certain amounts related to structured settlements. Structured settlements comprise annuities purchased from various life insurance companies to settle certain personal physical injury claims, of which workers compensation claims comprise a significant portion. In cases where the Company did not receive a release from the claimant, the structured settlement is included in reinsurance recoverables as the Company retains the contingent liability to the claimant. In the event that the life insurance company fails to make the required annuity payments, the Company would be required to make such payments. In the third quarter of 2010, Old Mutual plc, the parent of a U.S. life insurance company that is one of the largest issuers of structured settlements included in the Companys reinsurance recoverables, agreed to sell its U.S. life insurance business to a hedge fund buyer, pending regulatory approval. The Company currently cannot predict the impact of the transaction, if approved, on the long term creditworthiness of the annuity issuer. The following table presents the Companys top five groups by structured settlements at December 31, 2010 (in 112 Table of Contents millions). Also included is the A.M. Best rating of the Companys predominant insurer from each insurer group at February 17, 2011: Group Structured Settlements A.M. Best Rating of Groups Predominant Insurer Old Mutual $ 1,028 B++ fifth highest of 16 ratings MetLife 508 A+ second highest of 16 ratings Genworth 458 A third highest of 16 ratings Symetra 272 A third highest of 16 ratings ING Group 229 A third highest of 16 ratings Many reinsurance companies and life insurance companies were negatively impacted by turbulent economic conditions during 2009 and 2008. A number of such companies were subjected to downgrades and or negative outlook changes by various ratings agencies, including those with which the Company conducts business. The Company considers these factors in assessing the adequacy of its allowance for uncollectible amounts. OUTLOOK The following discussion provides outlook information for certain key drivers of the Companys results of operations and capital position. Premiums. The Companys earned premiums are a function of net written premium volume. Net written premiums comprise both renewal business and new business and are recognized as earned premium over the life of the underlying policies. When business renews, the amount of net written premiums associated with that business may increase or decrease (renewal premium change) as a result of increases or decreases in rate and or insured exposures, which the Company considers as a measure of units of exposure. Net written premiums from both renewal and new business, and therefore earned premiums, are impacted by competitive market conditions as well as general economic conditions, which, particularly in the case of the Business Insurance segment, affect audit premium adjustments, policy endorsements and mid term cancellations. Net written premiums are also impacted by the structure of reinsurance programs and related costs. The Company expects retention levels (the amount of expiring premium that renews, before the impact of renewal premium changes) will remain strong, generally consistent with recent periods. In the Business Insurance segment, the Company expects a slightly improving trend in renewal premium changes, including the components of rate changes and insured exposures, during 2011 compared with 2010. In the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment, the Company expects that renewal premium changes, including the components of rate changes and insured exposures, will not meaningfully change during 2011 compared with 2010. In the Personal Insurance segment, the Company expects that Agency Automobile renewal premium changes, while positive, will decrease slightly in 2011 from levels in 2010. For its Agency Homeowners and Other business, the Company expects renewal premium changes in 2011 will remain generally consistent with 2010. The pricing environment for new business generally has less of an impact on underwriting profitability than renewal rate changes, given the volume of new business relative to renewal business. While property and casualty insurance market conditions are expected to remain competitive in 2011 for new business, the Company believes it is well positioned to capitalize on new business opportunities as agents, brokers and customers seek to place business with high quality carriers. In addition, the Company launched a new distribution channel in 2009 that markets personal insurance products directly to consumers, which is expected to generate modest growth in premium volume for Personal Insurance in 2011. 113 Table of Contents While economic conditions have recently improved, there is continued uncertainty regarding the timing and strength of any economic recovery. The trend may not continue. Further, if growth continues, it may be at a slow rate for an extended period of time. In addition, other economic conditions, such as the commercial and residential real estate environment and employment rates, may continue to be weak. If weak economic conditions persist or deteriorate, low levels of economic activity could impact exposure changes at renewal and our ability to write business at acceptable rates. Additionally, such low levels of economic activity could adversely impact audit premium adjustments, policy endorsements and mid term cancellations after policies are written. All of the foregoing, in turn, could adversely impact net written premiums in 2011. Since earned premiums lag net written premiums, earned premiums could be adversely impacted in 2011 and into 2012. Underwriting Gain/Loss. In Business Insurance, the anticipated impact of competitive market conditions and general economic conditions on the Companys earned premiums, as discussed above, coupled with an expected modest increase in loss costs, will likely result in modestly reduced underwriting profitability during 2011, as compared with 2010. In Financial, Professional & International Insurance, the anticipated impact of a decline in earned premiums resulting from lower levels of written premiums in 2010, combined with higher employee and technology related costs to enhance operations and support future business growth, will likely result in modestly reduced underwriting profitability during 2011 as compared with 2010. In Personal Insurance, the anticipated impact of continued positive renewal premium changes on the Companys earned premiums, as discussed above, combined with an expected modest increase in loss costs, will likely result in modestly increased underwriting profitability during 2011, as compared with 2010. In Personal Insurance, the Companys direct to consumer initiative, discussed above, while intended to enhance the Companys long term ability to compete successfully in a consumer driven marketplace, is expected to remain unprofitable for a number of years as this book of business grows and matures. In recent periods, the Company has experienced net favorable prior year reserve development, driven by better than expected loss experience in all of the Companys segments, primarily in accident years 2001 through 2007. Better than expected loss experience and other favorable circumstances may continue at higher, lower or the same levels as compared to recent periods, may not continue or may reverse, causing the Company to recognize higher, lower or the same levels of favorable prior year reserve development, no favorable prior year reserve development or unfavorable prior year reserve development in future periods. In addition, the ongoing review of prior year claim and claim adjustment expense reserves, or other changes in current period circumstances, may result in the Company revising current year loss estimates upward or downward in future periods. Catastrophe losses are inherently unpredictable from year to year, and the Companys results of operations would be adversely impacted by significant catastrophe losses in 2011. Investment Portfolio. The Company expects to continue to focus its investment strategy on maintaining a high quality investment portfolio and a relatively low average effective duration. Net investment income is a material contributor to the Companys results of operations. While interest rates have recently risen above the historic lows experienced in the second half of 2010, the Company expects investment returns for its fixed maturity investment portfolio to be slightly lower in 2011 than in recent periods due to lower reinvestment yields available for maturing long term fixed maturity investments. Short term interest rates are expected to remain at or near historically low levels. The Company expects investment income in its non fixed maturity investment portfolio in 2011 to be generally consistent with 2010. However, if general economic conditions and or investment market conditions deteriorate in 2011, the Company could also experience a reduction in net investment income and or significant realized investment losses, including impairments. The Company expects its fixed income assets, including its municipal portfolio, to provide adequate risk adjusted returns and support its insurance operations over the long term. For further discussion of the Companys municipal 114 Table of Contents bond portfolio, see "Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Investment Portfolio" in this report. Capital Position. The Company believes it has a strong capital position and expects to continue its common share repurchase program in 2011 as part of its continuing efforts to maximize shareholder value. The Company expects the total dollar amount of share repurchases in 2011 will exceed its operating income for the year, as it did in 2010, but the total dollar amount of share repurchases is expected to be lower than in 2010. The actual amount of share repurchases will depend on a variety of factors, including the Companys earnings, corporate and regulatory requirements, share price, catastrophe losses, strategic initiatives and other market conditions. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to continue to repurchase shares in excess of its operating income in future years. The Company had a net after tax unrealized investment gain of $1.74 billion in its fixed maturity investment portfolio at December 31, 2010. While the Company does not attempt to predict future interest rate movements, a rising interest rate environment would reduce the market value of fixed maturity investments and, therefore, reduce shareholders equity, and a declining interest rate environment would have the opposite effects. Many of the statements in this "Outlook" section are forward looking statements, which are subject to risks and uncertainties that are often difficult to predict and beyond the Companys control. Actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward looking statements. Further, such forward looking statements speak only as of the date of this report and the Company undertakes no obligation to update them. See " Forward Looking Statements." For a discussion of potential risks and uncertainties that could impact the Companys results of operations or financial position, see "Item 1A Risk Factors" and "Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates" in this report. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Liquidity is a measure of a companys ability to generate sufficient cash flows to meet the short and long term cash requirements of its business operations. The liquidity requirements of the Companys business have been met primarily by funds generated from operations, asset maturities and income received on investments. Cash provided from these sources is used primarily for claims and claim adjustment expense payments and operating expenses, and in recent years, for common share repurchases. The timing and amount of catastrophe claims are inherently unpredictable. Such claims increase liquidity requirements. The timing and amount of reinsurance recoveries may be affected by reinsurer solvency and reinsurance coverage disputes. Additionally, the variability of asbestos related claim payments, as well as the volatility of potential judgments and settlements arising out of litigation, may also result in increased liquidity requirements. It is the opinion of the Companys management that the Companys future liquidity needs will be adequately met from all of the above sources. At December 31, 2010, total cash and short term invested assets aggregating $3.61 billion and having a weighted average maturity of 58 days were held at the holding company. The assets held at the holding company are sufficient to meet the holding companys current liquidity requirements and are more than three times the Companys target level. These liquidity requirements primarily include shareholder dividends and debt service. The Company has a shelf registration with the Securities and Exchange Commission which permits it to issue securities from time to time. The Company also has a $1.0 billion line of credit facility with a syndicate of financial institutions that expires in 2013. This line of credit also supports the Companys $800 million commercial paper program, of which $100 million was outstanding at December 31, 2010. The Company is not reliant on its commercial paper program to meet its operating cash flow needs. 115 Table of Contents The Company currently utilizes uncollateralized letters of credit issued by major banks with an aggregate limit of approximately $537 million to provide much of the capital needed to support its obligations at Lloyds. If uncollateralized letters of credit are not available at a reasonable price or at all in the future, the Company can collateralize these letters of credit or may have to seek alternative means of supporting its obligations at Lloyds, which could include utilizing holding company funds on hand. Operating Activities Net cash flows provided by operating activities totaled $3.05 billion, $4.23 billion and $3.14 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Cash flows in 2010 reflected a higher level of claims and claim adjustment expense payments due to the impact of loss cost trends and a higher level of catastrophe loss payments, as well as a lower level of reinsurance recoveries, partially offset by declines in the amount of contributions to the Companys pension plan and lower claims and claim adjustment expense payments related to operations in runoff as compared with 2009. Cash flows in 2009 reflected a decline in catastrophe loss payments, a higher level of reinsurance recoveries, a reduction in the amount of contributions to the Companys pension plan and lower claims and claim adjustment expense payments related to operations in runoff as compared with 2008. Those runoff payments in 2008 included the Companys one time net payment of $365 million associated with the final settlement of asbestos claims related to ACandS, Inc. In the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, the Company contributed $35 million, $260 million and $450 million, respectively, to its pension plan. Investing Activities Net cash flows provided by investing activities totaled $2.11 billion in 2010, compared with net cash flows used in investing activities of $899 million and $162 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The Companys consolidated total investments at December 31, 2010 decreased by $2.24 billion from year end 2009, driven by the net sales and maturities of fixed maturity investments. The proceeds from those sales and maturities, along with operating cash flows of $3.05 billion in 2010, were the primary sources of funding for the Companys $5.04 billion of common share repurchases in 2010. Net pretax unrealized appreciation of investments at December 31, 2010 was virtually unchanged from the same date in 2009. The Companys consolidated total investments at December 31, 2009 increased by $4.23 billion from year end 2008, primarily reflecting a $3.08 billion pretax increase in the unrealized appreciation of investments since year end 2008 and investment purchases resulting from strong cash flows from operations, partially offset by $3.29 billion of common share repurchases made during 2009. The improvement in the Companys net unrealized investment gain position at December 31, 2009 over the prior year is primarily attributable to the Companys fixed maturity investments. The improved valuations on these holdings reflect the changing market conditions in 2009 which included a significant narrowing of credit spreads. In the first half of 2011, the Company expects to fund its investment in J. Malucelli with cash from internal sources. See "Part I Item 1 Financial, Professional & International Insurance" in this report for further information regarding this investment. The primary goals of the Companys asset liability management process are to satisfy the insurance liabilities and maintain sufficient liquidity to cover fluctuations in projected liability cash flows. Generally, the expected principal and interest payments produced by the Companys fixed maturity portfolio adequately fund the estimated runoff of the Companys insurance reserves. Although this is not an exact cash flow match in each period, the substantial degree by which the market value of the fixed maturity portfolio exceeds the expected present value of the net insurance liabilities, as well as the positive cash flow from newly sold policies and the large amount of high quality liquid bonds, contributes to the Companys ability to fund claim payments without having to sell illiquid assets or access credit facilities. 116 Table of Contents Financing Activities Net cash flows used in financing activities totaled $5.22 billion, $3.44 billion and $2.87 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The totals in each year reflected common share repurchases, dividends to shareholders and the repayment of debt, partially offset by the proceeds from employee stock option exercises and the issuance of debt. Debt Transactions. 2010. On November 1, 2010, the Company issued $500 million aggregate principal amount 3.90% senior notes that will mature on November 1, 2020, and $750 million aggregate principal amount 5.35% senior notes that will mature on November 1, 2040. The net proceeds of these issuances, after original issuance discount and the deduction of underwriting expenses and commissions and other expenses, totaled approximately $496 million and $738 million, respectively. Interest on the senior notes is payable semi annually in arrears on November 1 and May 1 of each year. The senior notes are redeemable in whole at any time or in part from time to time, at the Companys option, at a redemption price equal to the greater of (a) 100% of the principal amount of senior notes to be redeemed or (b) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the senior notes to be redeemed (exclusive of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the date of redemption on a semi annual basis (assuming a 360 day year consisting of twelve 30 day months) at the then current Treasury rate (as defined) plus 15 basis points for the 2020 senior notes and 20 basis points for the 2040 notes. Prior to November 2010, the Company was subject to a replacement capital covenant that it had granted to the holders of its 6.75% senior notes due June 20, 2036 (the senior notes). The replacement capital covenant restricted the Companys ability to repurchase its $1.00 billion in outstanding 6.25% fixed to floating rate junior subordinated debentures due March 15, 2067 (the debentures). In November 2010, the Company paid approximately $4 million to holders of the senior notes to terminate the replacement capital covenant. Following the termination, the Company purchased approximately $885 million aggregate principal amount of the debentures. A $60 million pretax loss was recognized in 2010 related to these transactions. On September 16, 2010, the Company repaid the remaining $4 million principal balance on its 7.81% private placement senior notes. On August 23, 2010, the Companys $21 million, 7.415% medium term notes matured and were fully paid. On April 15, 2010, the Companys $250 million, 8.125% senior notes matured and were fully paid. All of these debt payments were made from internally generated funds. 2009. On June 2, 2009, the Company issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of 5.90% senior notes that will mature on June 2, 2019. The net proceeds of the issuance, after original issuance discount and the deduction of underwriting expenses and commissions and other expenses, totaled approximately $494 million. Interest on the senior notes is payable semi annually in arrears on June 2 and December 2 of each year. The senior notes are redeemable in whole at any time or in part from time to time, at the Companys option, at a redemption price equal to the greater of (a) 100% of the principal amount of senior notes to be redeemed or (b) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the senior notes to be redeemed (exclusive of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the date of redemption on a semi annual basis (assuming a 360 day year consisting of twelve 30 day months) at the then current Treasury rate (as defined) plus 35 basis points for the senior notes. On March 3, 2009, the Companys zero coupon convertible notes with an effective yield of 4.17% and a remaining principal balance of $141 million matured and were fully paid. 117 Table of Contents 2008. On March 15, 2008, the Companys $400 million, 3.75% senior notes matured and were fully paid. On May 13, 2008, the Company issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of 5.80% senior notes that will mature on May 15, 2018. The net proceeds of the issuance, after original issuance discount and the deduction of underwriting expenses and commissions and other expenses, totaled approximately $496 million. Interest on the senior notes is payable semi annually on May 15 and November 15. The senior notes are redeemable in whole at any time or in part from time to time, at the Companys option, at a redemption price equal to the greater of (a) 100% of the principal amount of senior notes to be redeemed or (b) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the senior notes to be redeemed (exclusive of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the date of redemption on a semi annual basis (assuming a 360 day year consisting of twelve 30 day months) at the then current Treasury rate plus 30 basis points for the senior notes. On December 15, 2008, two medium term notes with a cumulative par value of $149 million, each bearing an interest rate of 6.38%, matured and were fully paid. The amounts of debt obligations, other than commercial paper, that becomes due in 2011, 2012 and 2013 are $9 million, $250 million and $500 million, respectively. Dividends. Dividends paid to shareholders totaled $673 million, $693 million and $715 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. On February 2, 2011, the Companys board of directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.36 per share, payable March 31, 2011 to shareholders of record on March 10, 2011. The declaration and payment of future dividends to holders of the Companys common stock will be at the discretion of the Companys board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including the Companys financial position, earnings, capital requirements of the Companys operating subsidiaries, legal requirements, regulatory constraints and other factors as the board of directors deems relevant. Dividends would be paid by the Company only if declared by its board of directors out of funds legally available, subject to any other restrictions that may be applicable to the Company. Share Repurchases. The Companys board of directors has approved common share repurchase authorizations under which repurchases may be made from time to time in the open market, pursuant to pre set trading plans meeting the requirements of Rule 10b5 1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, in private transactions or otherwise. The authorizations do not have a stated expiration date. The timing and actual number of shares to be repurchased in the future will depend on a variety of factors, including the Companys financial position, earnings, catastrophe losses, capital requirements of the Companys operating subsidiaries, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, other investment opportunities (including mergers and acquisitions), market conditions and other factors. The following table summarizes repurchase activity in 2010 and remaining repurchase capacity at December 31, 2010. Quarterly Period Ending Number of shares purchased Cost of shares repurchased Average price paid per share Remaining capacity under share repurchase authorization March 31, 2010 26,985,323 $ 1,400,047,070 $ 51.88 $ 5,109,655,637 June 30, 2010 27,961,897 1,400,173,784 50.07 3,709,481,853 September 30, 2010 11,828,725 600,056,933 50.73 3,109,424,920 December 31, 2010 28,948,317 1,600,031,383 55.27 1,509,393,537 Total 95,724,262 $ 5,000,309,170 $ 52.24 $ 1,509,393,537 In January 2011, the board of directors approved a share repurchase authorization that added an additional $5 billion of repurchase capacity to the $1.51 billion of capacity remaining at December 31, 2010. 118  Table of Contents From the inception of the first authorization in May 2006 through December 31, 2010, the Company repurchased a cumulative total of 288.9 million shares for a total cost of $14.49 billion, or $50.15 per share. In 2010, 2009 and 2008, the Company acquired 1.3 million, 1.5 million and 0.8 million shares, respectively, of common stock from employees as treasury stock primarily to cover payroll withholding taxes related to the vesting of restricted stock awards and exercises of stock options. Capital Resources Capital resources reflect the overall financial strength of the Company and its ability to borrow funds at competitive rates and raise new capital to meet its needs. The following table summarizes the components of the Companys capital structure at December 31, 2010 and 2009. (at December 31, in millions) 2010 2009 Debt: Short term $ 109 $ 373 Long term 6,519 6,165 Net unamortized fair value adjustments and debt issuance costs (17 ) (11 ) Total debt 6,611 6,527 Preferred shareholders equity 68 79 Common shareholders equity: Common stock and retained earnings, less treasury stock 24,152 26,117 Accumulated other changes in equity from nonowner sources 1,255 1,219 Total shareholders equity 25,475 27,415 Total capitalization $ 32,086 $ 33,942 The $1.86 billion decrease in total capitalization from December 31, 2009 primarily reflected the impact of common share repurchases and dividends to shareholders, partially offset by net income in 2010. The following table provides a reconciliation of total capitalization excluding net unrealized gains on investments to total capitalization presented in the foregoing table. (at December 31, dollars in millions) 2010 2009 Total capitalization excluding net unrealized gains on investments $ 30,228 $ 32,081 Net unrealized gain on investments, net of taxes 1,858 1,861 Total capitalization $ 32,086 $ 33,942 Debt to total capital ratio 20.6 % 19.2 % Debt to total capital ratio excluding net unrealized gains on investments 21.9 % 20.3 % The debt to total capital ratio excluding net unrealized gains on investments is calculated by dividing (a) debt by (b) total capitalization excluding net unrealized gains and losses on investments, net of taxes. Net unrealized gains and losses on investments can be significantly impacted by both discretionary and other economic factors and are not necessarily indicative of operating trends. Accordingly, in the opinion of the Companys management, the debt to total capital ratio calculated on this basis provides another useful metric for investors to understand the Companys financial leverage position. The Companys debt to total capital ratio of 21.9% at December 31, 2010 calculated on this basis was within the Companys target range. 119 Table of Contents Line of Credit Agreement. On June 10, 2010, the Company entered into a three year, $1.0 billion revolving credit agreement with a syndicate of financial institutions, replacing its five year, $1.0 billion credit agreement that expired on that date. Pursuant to the credit agreement covenants, the Company must maintain a minimum consolidated net worth (generally defined as shareholders equity plus certain trust preferred and mandatorily convertible securities, reduced for goodwill and other intangible assets) of $14.35 billion. The Company must also maintain a ratio of total debt to the sum of total debt plus consolidated net worth of not greater than 0.40 to 1.00. In addition, the credit agreement contains other customary restrictive covenants as well as certain customary events of default, including with respect to a change in control, which is defined to include the acquisition of 35% or more of the Companys voting stock and certain changes in the composition of the Companys board of directors. At December 31, 2010, the Company was in compliance with these covenants. Generally, the cost of borrowing under this agreement will range from LIBOR plus 100 basis points to LIBOR plus 175 basis points depending on the Companys credit ratings. At December 31, 2010, that cost would have been LIBOR plus 125 basis points had there been any amounts outstanding under the credit agreement. This line of credit also supports the Companys commercial paper program. Shelf Registration. In December 2008, the Company filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission a universal shelf registration statement for the potential offering and sale of securities. The Company may offer these securities from time to time at prices and on other terms to be determined at the time of offering. During 2010 and 2009, the Company issued securities with a principal amount of $1.25 billion and $500 million, respectively, under the shelf registration statement. Share Repurchase Authorization. At December 31, 2010, the Company had $1.51 billion of capacity remaining under its share repurchase authorization approved by the board of directors. In January 2011, the board of directors approved a share repurchase authorization that added an additional $5 billion of repurchase capacity to the $1.51 billion of capacity that remained at December 31, 2010. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes, as of December 31, 2010, the Companys future payments under contractual obligations and estimated claims and claim related payments. The table excludes short term obligations and includes only liabilities at December 31, 2010 that are expected to be settled in cash. The table below includes the amount and estimated future timing of claims and claim related payments. The amounts do not represent the exact liability, but instead represent estimates, generally utilizing actuarial projections techniques, at a given accounting date. These estimates include expectations of what the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost based on the Companys assessment of facts and circumstances then known, review of historical settlement patterns, estimates of trends in claims severity, frequency, legal theories of liability and other factors. Variables in the reserve estimation process can be affected by both internal and external events, such as changes in claims handling procedures, economic inflation or deflation, legal trends and legislative changes. Many of these items are not directly quantifiable, particularly on a prospective basis. Additionally, there may be significant reporting lags between the occurrence of the policyholder event and the time it is actually reported to the insurer. The future cash flows related to the items contained in the table below required estimation of both amount (including severity considerations) and timing. Amount and timing are frequently estimated separately. An estimation of both amount and timing of future cash flows related to claims and claim related payments is generally reliable only in the aggregate with some unavoidable estimation uncertainty. The contractual obligations related to debt, operating leases, purchase obligations, long term unfunded investment commitments, estimated claims and claim related payments (gross of the 120 Table of Contents estimated reinsurance recoveries) and liabilities related to unrecognized tax benefits, at December 31, 2010 were as follows: Payments Due by Period (in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years Debt Senior notes $ 6,150 $ $ 750 $ 400 $ 5,000 Junior subordinated debentures 369 369 Private placement notes 9 9 Total debt principal 6,528 9 750 400 5,369 Interest 5,944 382 730 686 4,146 Total long term debt obligations(1) 12,472 391 1,480 1,086 9,515 Operating leases(2) 613 159 236 143 75 Purchase obligations Information systems administration and maintenance commitments(3) 88 58 30 Reinsurance brokerage commitment(4) 22 20 2 Other purchase commitments(5) 89 25 27 4 33 Total purchase obligations 199 103 59 4 33 Long term unfunded investment commitments(6) 1,262 278 363 423 198 Estimated claims and claim related payments Claims and claim adjustment expenses(7) 49,008 10,849 13,033 7,732 17,394 Claims from large deductible policies(8) Loss based assessments(9) 199 35 46 20 98 Reinsurance contracts accounted for as deposits(10) 1 1 Payout from ceded funds withheld(11) 306 29 131 33 113 Total estimated claims and claim related payments 49,514 10,914 13,210 7,785 17,605 Liabilities related to unrecognized tax benefits(12) 1,122 1,122 Total $ 65,182 $ 12,967 $ 15,348 $ 9,441 $ 27,426 (1)See note 8 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements for a further discussion of outstanding indebtedness. Because the amounts reported in the foregoing table include principal and interest, the total long term debt obligations will not agree with the amounts reported in note 8. (2)Represents agreements entered into in the ordinary course of business to lease office space, equipment and furniture. (3)Includes agreements with vendors to purchase system software administration and maintenance services. (4)In connection with the sale of its insurance brokerage operations, the Company committed to acquire brokerage services from the buyer through May 16, 2012. See note 15 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements. (5)Includes commitments to vendors entered into in the ordinary course of business for goods and services including office supplies, archival services, etc. 121 Table of Contents (6)Represents estimated timing for fulfilling unfunded commitments for private equity limited partnerships and real estate partnerships. (7)The amounts in "Claims and claim adjustment expenses" in the table above represent the estimated timing of future payments for both reported and unreported claims incurred and related claim adjustment expenses, gross of reinsurance recoverables, excluding structured settlements expected to be paid by annuity companies. The Company has entered into reinsurance agreements to protect itself from potential losses in excess of the amount it is prepared to accept as described in note 5 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements. In order to qualify for reinsurance accounting, a reinsurance agreement must indemnify the insurer from insurance risk, i.e., the agreement must transfer amount and timing risk. Since the timing and amount of cash inflows from such reinsurance agreements are directly related to the underlying payment of claims and claim adjustment expenses by the insurer, reinsurance recoverables are recognized in a manner consistent with the liabilities (the estimated liability for claims and claim adjustment expenses) relating to the underlying reinsured contracts. The presence of any feature that can delay timely reimbursement of claims by a reinsurer results in the reinsurance contract being accounted for as a deposit rather than reinsurance (see below). The assumptions used in estimating the amount and timing of the reinsurance recoverables are consistent with those used in estimating the amount and timing of the related liabilities. Reinsurance agreements that do not transfer both amount and timing risk are accounted for as deposits and included in "Reinsurance contracts accounted for as deposits" in the table above. The estimated future cash inflows from the Companys reinsurance contracts that qualify for reinsurance accounting are as follows: (in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years Reinsurance recoverables $ 7,779 $ 1,486 $ 1,936 $ 1,285 $ 3,072 The Company manages its business and evaluates its liabilities for claims and claim adjustment expense on a net of reinsurance basis. The estimated cash flows on a net of reinsurance basis are as follows: (in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years Claims and claim adjustment expenses, net $ 41,229 $ 9,363 $ 11,097 $ 6,447 $ 14,322 For business underwritten by non U.S. operations, future cash flows related to reported and unreported claims incurred and related claim adjustment expenses were translated at the spot rate on December 31, 2010. The amounts reported in the table above and in the table of reinsurance recoverables above are presented on a nominal basis and have not been adjusted to reflect the time value of money. Accordingly, the amounts above will differ from the Companys balance sheet to the extent that the liability for claims and claim adjustment expenses and the related reinsurance recoverables have been discounted in the balance sheet. (See note 1 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements.) (8)Workers compensation large deductible policies provide third party coverage in which the Company typically is responsible for paying the entire loss under such policies and then seeks reimbursement from the insured for the deductible amount. "Claims from large deductible policies" represent the estimated future payment for claims and claim related expenses below the 122 Table of Contents deductible amount, net of the estimated recovery of the deductible. The liability and the related deductible receivable for unpaid claims are presented in the consolidated balance sheet as "contractholder payables" and "contractholder receivables," respectively. Most deductibles for such policies are paid directly from the policyholders escrow which is periodically replenished by the policyholder. The payment of the loss amounts above the deductible are reported within "Claims and claim adjustment expenses" in the above table. Because the timing of the collection of the deductible (contractholder receivables) occurs shortly after the payment of the deductible to a claimant (contractholder payables), these cash flows offset each other in the table. The estimated timing of the payment of the contractholder payables and the collection of contractholder receivables for workers compensation policies is presented below: (in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years Contractholder payables/receivables $ 5,343 $ 1,297 $ 1,465 $ 801 $ 1,780 (9)The amounts in "Loss based assessments" relate to estimated future payments of second injury fund assessments which would result from payment of current claim liabilities. Second injury funds cover the cost of any additional benefits for aggravation of a pre existing condition. For loss based assessments, the cost is shared by the insurance industry and self insureds, funded through assessments to insurance companies and self insureds based on losses. Amounts relating to second injury fund assessments are included in "other liabilities" in the consolidated balance sheet. (10)The amounts in "Reinsurance contracts accounted for as deposits" represent estimated future nominal payments for reinsurance agreements that are accounted for as deposits. Amounts payable under deposit agreements are included in "other liabilities" in the consolidated balance sheet. The amounts reported in the table are presented on a nominal basis and have not been adjusted to reflect the time value of money. Accordingly, the amounts above will differ from the Companys balance sheet to the extent that deposit values in the balance sheet have been discounted using deposit accounting. (11)The amounts in "Payout from ceded funds withheld" represent estimated payments for losses and return of funds held related to certain reinsurance arrangements whereby the Company holds a portion of the premium due to the reinsurer and is allowed to pay claims from the amounts held. (12)The Companys current liabilities related to unrecognized tax benefits from uncertain tax positions are $1.12 billion. Offsetting these liabilities are deferred tax assets of $1.01 billion associated with the temporary differences that would exist if these positions become realized. The above table does not include an analysis of liabilities reported for structured settlements for which the Company has purchased annuities and remains contingently liable in the event of default by the company issuing the annuity. The Company is not reasonably likely to incur material future payment obligations under such agreements. In addition, the Company does not have a best estimate of contributions expected to be paid to its qualified pension plan. Accordingly, any future contributions are not included in the foregoing table. This table does not include the Companys obligations related to its agreement to commence a joint venture with J. Malucelli Participa&ccedil;&otilde;es em Seguros e Resseguros S.A, a Brazilian company ("J. Malucelli"), a transaction that is described in more detail in note 15 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements. The purchase price for this acquisition will be R$625 million Brazilian Reais (the U.S. dollar equivalent of which will depend on the exchange rate at closing) plus an amount based on a Brazilian inter bank lending rate (CDI) from January 1, 2011 through the closing date of the transaction. At December 31, 2010, R$625 million Brazilian Reais was equivalent to approximately $377 million in U.S. dollars. The purchase price is expected to be paid in cash from internal sources in the first half of 2011. In order to reduce its exposure to a significant strengthening 123 Table of Contents of the Brazilian Reais prior to the closing of the transaction, the Company entered into a foreign currency option contract on February 7, 2011 in the notional amount of R$635 million which expires on March 31, 2011. The joint venture transaction is subject to customary closing conditions and is expected to be finalized in the first half of 2011. Dividend Availability The Companys principal insurance subsidiaries are domiciled in the state of Connecticut. The insurance holding company laws of Connecticut applicable to the Companys subsidiaries requires notice to, and approval by, the state insurance commissioner for the declaration or payment of any dividend that, together with other distributions made within the preceding twelve months, exceeds the greater of 10% of the insurers capital and surplus as of the preceding December 31, or the insurers net income for the twelve month period ending the preceding December 31, in each case determined in accordance with statutory accounting practices and by state regulation. This declaration or payment is further limited by adjusted unassigned surplus, as determined in accordance with statutory accounting practices. The insurance holding company laws of other states in which the Companys subsidiaries are domiciled generally contain similar, although in some instances somewhat more restrictive, limitations on the payment of dividends. A maximum of $3.61 billion is available by the end of 2011 for such dividends without prior approval of the Connecticut Insurance Department. The Company may choose to accelerate the timing within 2011 and or increase the amount of dividends from its insurance subsidiaries in 2011, which could result in certain dividends being subject to approval by the Connecticut Insurance Department. The holding company received $6.59 billion of dividends from its domestic insurance subsidiaries in 2010, including $5.26 billion of dividends that were subject to regulatory approval, primarily due to the Companys request for the accelerated timing of payment. Risk Based Capital The NAIC adopted RBC requirements for property casualty companies to be used as minimum capital requirements by the NAIC and states to identify companies that merit further regulatory action. The formulas have not been designed to differentiate among adequately capitalized companies that operate with levels of capital higher than RBC requirements. Therefore, it is inappropriate and ineffective to use the formulas to rate or to rank these companies. At December 31, 2010, all of the Companys insurance subsidiaries had adjusted capital in excess of amounts requiring any company or regulatory action. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company has entered into certain contingent obligations for guarantees related to letters of credit, issuance of debt securities, certain investments, third party loans related to certain investments and various indemnifications, including those related to the sale of business entities. See note 15 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements. The Company does not expect these arrangements to have a material effect on the Companys financial position, changes in financial position, revenues and expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES The Company considers its most significant accounting estimates to be those applied to claims and claim adjustment expense reserves and related reinsurance recoverables, investment valuation and impairments, and goodwill impairments. 124 Table of Contents Claims and Claim Adjustment Expense Reserves Claims and claim adjustment expense reserves (loss reserves) represent managements estimate of ultimate unpaid costs of losses and loss adjustment expenses for claims that have been reported and claims that have been incurred but not yet reported. Loss reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability, but instead represent management estimates, generally utilizing actuarial expertise and projection techniques, at a given accounting date. These loss reserve estimates are expectations of what the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost upon final resolution in the future, based on the Companys assessment of facts and circumstances then known, review of historical settlement patterns, estimates of trends in claims severity and frequency, expected interpretations of legal theories of liability and other factors. In establishing loss reserves, the Company also takes into account estimated recoveries from reinsurance, salvage and subrogation. The loss reserves are reviewed regularly by qualified actuaries employed by the Company. The process of estimating loss reserves involves a high degree of judgment and is subject to a number of variables. These variables can be affected by both internal and external events, such as changes in claims handling procedures, changes in individuals involved in the reserve estimation process, economic inflation, legal trends and legislative changes, among others. The impact of many of these items on ultimate costs for claims and claim adjustment expenses is difficult to estimate. Loss reserve estimation difficulties also differ significantly by product line due to differences in claim complexity, the volume of claims, the potential severity of individual claims, the determination of occurrence date for a claim and reporting lags (the time between the occurrence of the policyholder event and when it is actually reported to the insurer). Informed judgment is applied throughout the process, including the application of various individual experiences and expertise to multiple sets of data and analyses. The Company continually refines its loss reserve estimates in a regular ongoing process as historical loss experience develops and additional claims are reported and settled. The Company rigorously attempts to consider all significant facts and circumstances known at the time loss reserves are established. Due to the inherent uncertainty underlying loss reserve estimates including, but not limited to, the future settlement environment, final resolution of the estimated liability for claims and claim adjustment expenses may be higher or lower than the related loss reserves at the reporting date. Therefore, actual paid losses, as claims are settled in the future, may be materially different in amount than current loss reserves favorable or unfavorable. Because establishment of loss reserves is an inherently uncertain process involving estimates, currently established loss reserves may change. The Company reflects adjustments to loss reserves in the results of operations in the period the estimates are changed. There are also additional risks which impact the estimation of ultimate costs for catastrophes. For example, the estimation of reserves related to hurricanes and other catastrophic events can be affected by the inability of the Company and its insureds to access portions of the impacted areas, the complexity of factors contributing to the losses, the legal and regulatory uncertainties and the nature of the information available to establish the reserves. Complex factors include, but are not limited to: determining whether damage was caused by flooding versus wind; evaluating general liability and pollution exposures; estimating additional living expenses; estimating the impact of demand surge, infrastructure disruption, fraud, the effect of mold damage and business interruption costs; and reinsurance collectibility. The timing of a catastrophe, such as at or near the end of a reporting period, can also affect the information available to the Company in estimating reserves for that reporting period. The estimates related to catastrophes are adjusted as actual claims emerge. A portion of the Companys gross claims and claim adjustment expense reserves (totaling $3.30 billion at December 31, 2010) are for asbestos and environmental claims and related litigation. While the ongoing review of asbestos and environmental claims and associated liabilities considers the inconsistencies of court decisions as to coverage, plaintiffs expanded theories of liability and the risks 125 Table of Contents inherent in complex litigation and other uncertainties, in the opinion of the Companys management, it is possible that the outcome of the continued uncertainties regarding these claims could result in liability in future periods that differs from current reserves by an amount that could be material to the Companys future operating results. See the preceding discussion of "Asbestos Claims and Litigation" and "Environmental Claims and Litigation." Gross claims and claim adjustment expense reserves by product line were as follows: 2010 2009 (at December 31, in millions) Case IBNR Total Case IBNR Total General liability $ 5,809 $ 10,449 $ 16,258 $ 6,211 $ 11,354 $ 17,565 Property 945 627 1,572 1,091 780 1,871 Commercial multi peril 1,897 1,766 3,663 1,878 1,762 3,640 Commercial automobile 2,256 1,060 3,316 2,211 1,238 3,449 Workers compensation 9,447 7,082 16,529 9,354 7,121 16,475 Fidelity and surety 542 1,124 1,666 649 1,083 1,732 Personal automobile 1,434 935 2,369 1,457 993 2,450 Homeowners and personal other 653 769 1,422 633 717 1,350 International and other 2,353 1,914 4,267 2,344 2,178 4,522 Property casualty 25,336 25,726 51,062 25,828 27,226 53,054 Accident and health 61 8 69 64 9 73 Claims and claim adjustment expense reserves $ 25,397 $ 25,734 $ 51,131 $ 25,892 $ 27,235 $ 53,127 The $2.00 billion decline in gross claims and claim adjustment expense reserves since December 31, 2009 primarily reflected the impact of net favorable prior year reserve development and payments related to asbestos and environmental claims as well as operations in runoff. Asbestos and environmental reserves are included in the General liability, Commercial multi peril and International and other lines in the foregoing summary table. Asbestos and environmental reserves are discussed separately; see "Asbestos Claims and Litigation", "Environmental Claims and Litigation" and "Uncertainty Regarding Adequacy of Asbestos and Environmental Reserves." General Discussion The process for estimating the liabilities for claims and claim adjustment expenses begins with the collection and analysis of claim data. Data on individual reported claims, both current and historical, including paid amounts and individual claim adjuster estimates, are grouped by common characteristics (components) and evaluated by actuaries in their analyses of ultimate claim liabilities by product line. Such data is occasionally supplemented with external data as available and when appropriate. The process of analyzing reserves for a component is undertaken on a regular basis, generally quarterly, in light of continually updated information. Multiple estimation methods are available for the analysis of ultimate claim liabilities. Each estimation method has its own set of assumption variables and its own advantages and disadvantages, with no single estimation method being better than the others in all situations and no one set of assumption variables being meaningful for all product line components. The relative strengths and weaknesses of the particular estimation methods when applied to a particular group of claims can also change over time. Therefore, the actual choice of estimation method(s) can change with each evaluation. The estimation method(s) chosen are those that are believed to produce the most reliable indication at that particular evaluation date for the claim liabilities being evaluated. 126  Table of Contents In most cases, multiple estimation methods will be valid for the particular facts and circumstances of the claim liabilities being evaluated. This will result in a range of reasonable estimates for any particular claim liability. The Company uses such range analyses to back test whether previously established estimates for reserves at the reporting segments are reasonable, given subsequent information. Reported values found to be closer to the endpoints of a range of reasonable estimates are subject to further detailed reviews. These reviews may substantiate the validity of managements recorded estimate or lead to a change in the reported estimate. The exact boundary points of these ranges are more qualitative than quantitative in nature, as no clear line of demarcation exists to determine when the set of underlying assumptions for an estimation method switches from being reasonable to unreasonable. As a result, the Company does not believe that the endpoints of these ranges are or would be comparable across companies. In addition, potential interactions among the different estimation assumptions for different product lines make the aggregation of individual ranges a highly judgmental and inexact process. Property casualty insurance policies are either written on a claims made or on an occurrence basis. Claims made policies generally cover, subject to requirements in individual policies, claims reported during the policy period. Policies that are written on an occurrence basis require that the insured demonstrate that a loss occurred in the policy period, even if the insured reports the loss many years later. Most general liability policies are written on an occurrence basis. These policies are subject to substantial loss development over time as facts and circumstances change in the years following the policy issuance. The occurrence form, which accounts for much of the reserve development in asbestos and environmental exposures, is also used to provide coverage for construction general liability, including construction defect. Occurrence based forms of insurance for general liability exposures require substantial projection of various trends, including future inflation and judicial interpretations and societal litigation dynamics, among others. A basic premise in most actuarial analyses is that past patterns demonstrated in the data will repeat themselves in the future, absent a material change in the associated risk factors discussed below. To the extent a material change affecting the ultimate claim liability is known, such change is quantified to the extent possible through an analysis of internal company data and, if available and when appropriate, external data. Such a measurement is specific to the facts and circumstances of the particular claim portfolio and the known change being evaluated. Significant structural changes to the available data, product mix or organization can materially impact the reserve estimation process. Informed judgment is applied throughout the reserving process. This includes the application of various individual experiences and expertise to multiple sets of data and analyses. In addition to actuaries, experts involved with the reserving process also include underwriting and claims personnel and lawyers, as well as other company management. Therefore, management may have to consider varying individual viewpoints as part of its estimation of loss reserves. It is also likely that during periods of significant change, such as a merger, consistent application of informed judgment becomes even more complicated and difficult. The variables discussed above in this general discussion have different impacts on reserve estimation uncertainty for a given product line, depending on the length of the claim tail, the reporting lag, the impact of individual claims and the complexity of the claim process for a given product line. Product lines are generally classifiable as either long tail or short tail, based on the average length of time between the event triggering claims under a policy and the final resolution of those claims. Short tail claims are reported and settled quickly, resulting in less estimation variability. The longer the time before final claim resolution, the greater the exposure to estimation risks and hence the greater the estimation uncertainty. 127 Table of Contents A major component of the claim tail is the reporting lag. The reporting lag, which is the time between the event triggering a claim and the reporting of the claim to the insurer, makes estimating IBNR inherently more uncertain. In addition, the greater the reporting lag, the greater the proportion of IBNR to the total claim liability for the product line. Writing new products with material reporting lags can result in adding several years worth of IBNR claim exposure before the reporting lag exposure becomes clearly observable, thereby increasing the risk associated with pricing and reserving such products. The most extreme example of claim liabilities with long reporting lags are asbestos claims. For some lines, the impact of large individual claims can be material to the analysis. These lines are generally referred to as being "low frequency/high severity," while lines without this "large claim" sensitivity are referred to as "high frequency/low severity." Estimates of claim liabilities for low frequency/high severity lines can be sensitive to the impact of a small number of potentially large claims. As a result, the role of judgment is much greater for these reserve estimates. In contrast, for high frequency/low severity lines the impact of individual claims is relatively minor and the range of reasonable reserve estimates is narrower and more stable. Claim complexity can also greatly affect the estimation process by impacting the number of assumptions needed to produce the estimate, the potential stability of the underlying data and claim process, and the ability to gain an understanding of the data. Product lines with greater claim complexity, such as for certain surety and construction exposures, have inherently greater estimation uncertainty. Actuaries have to exercise a considerable degree of judgment in the evaluation of all these factors in their analysis of reserves. The human element in the application of actuarial judgment is unavoidable when faced with material uncertainty. Different actuaries may choose different assumptions when faced with such uncertainty, based on their individual backgrounds, professional experiences and areas of focus. Hence, the estimates selected by the various actuaries may differ materially from each other. Lastly, significant structural changes to the available data, product mix or organization can also materially impact the reserve estimation process. Events such as mergers increase the inherent uncertainty of reserve estimates for a period of time, until stable trends re establish themselves within the new organization. Risk factors The major causes of material uncertainty ("risk factors") generally will vary for each product line, as well as for each separately analyzed component of the product line. In a few cases, such risk factors are explicit assumptions of the estimation method, but in most cases, they are implicit. For example, a method may explicitly assume that a certain percentage of claims will close each year, but will implicitly assume that the legal interpretation of existing contract language will remain unchanged. Actual results will likely vary from expectations for each of these assumptions, causing actual paid losses, as claims are settled in the future, to be different in amount than the reserves being estimated currently. Some risk factors will affect more than one product line. Examples include changes in claim department practices, changes in settlement patterns, regulatory and legislative actions, court actions, timeliness of claim reporting, state mix of claimants and degree of claimant fraud. The extent of the impact of a risk factor will also vary by components within a product line. Individual risk factors are also subject to interactions with other risk factors within product line components. The effect of a particular risk factor on estimates of claim liabilities cannot be isolated in most cases. For example, estimates of potential claim settlements may be impacted by the risk associated with potential court rulings, but the final settlement agreement typically does not delineate how much of the settled amount is due to this and other factors. 128 Table of Contents The evaluation of data is also subject to distortion from extreme events or structural shifts, sometimes in unanticipated ways. For example, the timing of claims payments in one geographic region will be impacted if claim adjusters are temporarily reassigned from that region to help settle catastrophe claims in another region. While some changes in the claim environment are sudden in nature (such as a new court ruling affecting the interpretation of all contracts in that jurisdiction), others are more evolutionary. Evolutionary changes can occur when multiple factors affect final claim values, with the uncertainty surrounding each factor being resolved separately, in stepwise fashion. The final impact is not known until all steps have occurred. Sudden changes generally cause a one time shift in claim liability estimates, although there may be some lag in reliable quantification of their impact. Evolutionary changes generally cause a series of shifts in claim liability estimates, as each component of the evolutionary change becomes evident and estimable. Actuarial methods for analyzing and estimating claims and claim adjustment expense reserves The principal estimation and analysis methods utilized by the Companys actuaries are the paid development method, the case incurred development method, the Bornhuetter Ferguson (BF) method, and average value analysis combined with the reported claim development method. The BF method is usually utilized for more recent accident periods, with a transition to other methods as the underlying claim data becomes more voluminous and therefore more credible. These are typically referred to as traditional actuarial methods. (See Glossary for an explanation of these methods). While these are the principal methods utilized throughout the Company, actuaries evaluating a particular component for a product line have available to them the full range of methods developed within the casualty actuarial profession. The Companys actuaries are also continually monitoring developments within the profession for advances in existing techniques or the creation of new techniques that might improve current and future estimates. Some components of product line reserves are susceptible to relatively infrequent large claims that can materially impact the total estimate for that component. In such cases, the Companys actuarial analysis generally isolates and analyzes separately such large claims. The reserves excluding such large claims are generally analyzed using the traditional methods described above. The reserves associated with large claims are then analyzed utilizing various methods, such as: Estimating the number of large claims and their average values based on historical trends from prior accident periods, adjusted for the current environment and supplemented with actual data for the accident year analyzed to the extent available. Utilizing individual claim adjuster estimates of the large claims, combined with continual monitoring of the aggregate accuracy of such claim adjuster estimates. (This monitoring may lead to supplemental adjustments to the aggregate of such claim estimates.) Utilizing historic longer term average ratios of large claims to small claims, and applying such ratios to the estimated ultimate small claims from traditional analysis. Ground up analysis of the underlying exposure (typically used for asbestos and environmental). The results of such methodologies are subjected to various reasonability and diagnostic tests, including paid to incurred loss ratios, implied incurred loss to earned premium ratios and non zero claim severity trends. An actual versus expected analysis is also performed comparing actual loss development to expected development based on the prior review. Additional analyses may be performed based on the results of these diagnostics, including the investigation of other actuarial methods. 129 Table of Contents The methods described above are generally utilized to evaluate managements existing estimate for prior accident periods. For the initial estimate of the current accident year, the available claim data is typically insufficient to produce a reliable indication. Hence, the initial estimate for an accident year is generally based on a loss ratio projection method, which uses the earned premium for the current year multiplied by a projected loss ratio. The projected loss ratio is determined through an analysis of prior periods experience, using loss trend, rate level differences, mix of business changes and other known or observed factors influencing the current accident year relative to prior accident years. The exact number of prior accident years utilized varies by product line component, based on the volume of business for that component and the reliability of an individual accident year estimate. Managements estimates At least once per quarter, certain Company management meets with its actuaries to review the latest claims and claim adjustment expense reserve analyses. Based on these analyses, management determines whether its ultimate claim liability estimates should be changed. In doing so, it must evaluate whether the new data provided represents credible actionable information or an anomaly that will have no effect on estimated ultimate claim liability. For example, as described above, payments may have decreased in one geographic region due to fewer claim adjusters being available to process claims. The resulting claim payment patterns would be analyzed to determine whether or not the change in payment pattern represents a change in ultimate claim liability. Such an assessment requires considerable judgment. It is frequently not possible to determine whether a change in the data is an anomaly until sometime after the event. Even if a change is determined to be permanent, it is not always possible to reliably determine the extent of the change until sometime later. The overall detailed analyses supporting such an effort can take several months to perform. This is because the underlying causes of the trends observed need to be evaluated, which may require the gathering or assembling of data not previously available. It may also include interviews with experts involved with the underlying processes. As a result, there can be a time lag between the emergence of a change and a determination that the change should be reflected in the Companys estimated claim liabilities. The final estimate selected by management in a reporting period is based on these various detailed analyses of past data, adjusted to reflect any new actionable information. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors is responsible for providing oversight of reserving propriety, and annually reviews the process by which the Company establishes reserves. Discussion of Product Lines The following section details reserving considerations and common risk factors by product line. There are many additional risk factors that may impact ultimate claim costs. Each risk factor presented will have a different impact on required reserves. Also, risk factors can have offsetting or compounding effects on required reserves. For example, in workers compensation, the use of expensive medical procedures that result in medical cost inflation may enable workers to return to work faster, thereby lowering indemnity costs. Thus, in almost all cases, it is impossible to discretely measure the effect of a single risk factor and construct a meaningful sensitivity expectation. In order to provide information on reasonably possible reserving changes by product line, the historical changes in year end loss reserves over a one year period are provided for the U.S. product lines. This information is provided for both the Company and the industry for the nine most recent years, and is based on the most recent publicly available data for the reported line(s) that most closely match the individual product line being discussed. These changes were calculated, net of reinsurance, from statutory annual statement data found in Schedule P of those statements, and represent the reported reserve development on the beginning of the year claim liabilities divided by the beginning claim liabilities, all accident years combined, excluding non defense related claim adjustment expense. 130 Table of Contents Data presented for the Company includes history for the entire Travelers group (U.S. companies only), whether or not the individual subsidiaries were originally part of SPC or TPC. This treatment is required by the statutory reporting instructions promulgated by state regulatory authorities for Schedule P. Comparable data for non U.S. companies is not available. General Liability General liability is generally considered a long tail line, as it takes a relatively long period of time to finalize and settle claims from a given accident year. The speed of claim reporting and claim settlement is a function of the specific coverage provided, the jurisdiction and specific policy provisions such as self insured retentions. There are numerous components underlying the general liability product line. Some of these have relatively moderate payment patterns (with most of the claims for a given accident year closed within 5 to 7 years), while others can have extreme lags in both reporting and payment of claims (e.g., a reporting lag of a decade or more for "construction defect" claims). While the majority of general liability coverages are written on an "occurrence" basis, certain general liability coverages (such as those covering directors and officers or professional liability) are typically insured on a "claims made" basis. General liability reserves are generally analyzed as two components: primary and excess/umbrella, with the primary component generally analyzed separately for bodily injury and property damage. Bodily injury liability payments reimburse the claimant for damages pertaining to physical injury as a result of the policyholders legal obligation arising from non intentional acts such as negligence, subject to the insurance policy provisions. In some cases the damages can include future wage loss (which is a function of future earnings power and wage inflation) and future medical treatment costs. Property damage liability payments result from damages to the claimants private property arising from the policyholders legal obligation for non intentional acts. In most cases, property damage losses are a function of costs as of the loss date, or soon thereafter. In addition, sizable or unique exposures are reviewed separately. These exposures include asbestos, environmental, other mass torts, construction defect, medical malpractice and large unique accounts that would otherwise distort the analysis. These unique categories often require a very high degree of judgment and require reserve analyses that do not rely on traditional actuarial methods. Defense costs are also a part of the insured costs covered by liability policies and can be significant, sometimes greater than the cost of the actual paid claims. For some products this risk is mitigated by policy language such that the insured portion of defense costs erodes the amount of policy limit available to pay the claim. Such "defense within the limits" policies are most common for "claims made" products. When defense costs are outside of the limits, amounts paid for defense costs do not erode the policy limits. This line is typically the largest source of reserve estimate uncertainty in the United States (excluding assumed reinsurance contracts covering the same risk). Major contributors to this reserve estimate uncertainty include the reporting lag (i.e., the length of time between the event triggering coverage and the actual reporting of the claim), the number of parties involved in the underlying tort action, whether the "event" triggering coverage is confined to only one time period or is spread over multiple time periods, the potential dollars involved (in the individual claim actions), whether such claims were reasonably foreseeable and intended to be covered at the time the contracts were written (i.e., coverage dispute potential), and the potential for mass claim actions. Claims with longer reporting lags result in greater inherent risk. This is especially true for alleged claims with a latency feature, particularly where courts have ruled that coverage is spread over multiple policy years, hence involving multiple defendants (and their insurers and reinsurers) and multiple policies (thereby increasing the potential dollars involved and the underlying settlement complexity). Claims with long latencies also 131 Table of Contents increase the potential recognition lag (i.e., the lag between writing a type of policy in a certain market and the recognition that such policies have potential mass tort and or latent claim exposure). The amount of reserve estimate uncertainty also varies significantly by component for the general liability product line. The components in this product line with the longest latency, longest reporting lags, largest potential dollars involved and greatest claim settlement complexity are asbestos and environmental. Components that include latency, reporting lag and or complexity issues, but to a materially lesser extent than asbestos and environmental, include construction defect, medical malpractice and other mass tort actions. Many components of general liability are not subject to material latency or claim complexity risks and hence have materially less uncertainty than the previously mentioned components. In general, policies providing coverage with shorter reporting lags, fewer parties involved in settlement negotiations, only one policy potentially triggered per claim, fewer potential settlement dollars, reasonably foreseeable (and stable) potential hazards/claims and no mass tort potential result in much less reserve estimate uncertainty than policies without those characteristics. In addition to the traditional actuarial methods mentioned in the general discussion section, the company utilizes various report year development and S curve methods for the construction defect components of this product line. The Construction Defect report year development analysis is supplemented with projected claim counts and average values for IBNR claim counts. For components with greater lags in claim reporting, such as excess and umbrella components of this product line, the company relies more heavily on the BF method than on the paid and case incurred development methods. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required general liability reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: General liability risk factors Changes in claim handling philosophies Changes in policy provisions or court interpretation of such provisions New theories of liability Trends in jury awards Changes in the propensity to sue, in general with specificity to particular issues Changes in statutes of limitations Changes in the underlying court system Distortions from losses resulting from large single accounts or single issues Changes in tort law Shifts in law suit mix between federal and state courts Changes in claim adjuster office structure (causing distortions in the data) Changes in settlement patterns (e.g., medical malpractice) General liability book of business risk factors Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements) Changes in underwriting standards Product mix (e.g., size of account, industries insured, jurisdiction mix) Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for general liability (excluding asbestos and environmental), a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.5% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line, excluding estimated asbestos and environmental amounts, over the last nine years has varied from 5% to 14% (averaging 2%) for the Company and from 5% to 7% (averaging 1%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. Because the 132 Table of Contents high end of the Companys range of historical adverse development comes from certain businesses that the Company has since exited, the Company believes that the industrys range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. General liability reserves (excluding asbestos and environmental) represent approximately 26% of the Companys total loss reserves. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line, excluding estimated asbestos and environmental amounts, was 5% for 2010, 5% for 2009 and 5% for 2008. The 2010 change was primarily concentrated in excess coverages for accident years 2006 and prior and reflected what the Company believes are favorable legal and judicial environments. The 2009 and 2008 changes were driven by several factors, including improved legal and judicial environments, as well as enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. Property Property is generally considered a short tail line with a simpler and faster claim reporting and adjustment process than liability coverages, and less uncertainty in the reserve setting process (except for more complex business interruption claims). It is generally viewed as a moderate frequency, low to moderate severity line, except for catastrophes and coverage related to large properties. The claim reporting and settlement process for property coverage claim reserves is generally restricted to the insured and the insurer. Overall, the claim liabilities for this line create a low estimation risk, except possibly for catastrophes and business interruption claims. Property reserves are typically analyzed in two components, one for catastrophic or other large single events, and another for all other events. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required property reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Property risk factors Physical concentration of policyholders Availability and cost of local contractors For the more severe catastrophic events, "demand surge" inflation, which refers to significant short term increases in building material and labor costs due to a sharp increase in demand for those materials and services Local building codes Amount of time to return property to full usage (for business interruption claims) Court interpretation of policy provisions (such as occurrence definition, or wind versus flooding) Lags in reporting claims (e.g., winter damage to summer homes, hidden damage after an earthquake) Court or legislative changes to the statute of limitations Property book of business risk factors Policy provisions mix (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements) Changes in underwriting standards Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for property, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.1% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 34% to 26% (averaging 10%) for the Company, and from 14% to 7% (averaging 5%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. Because the high end of the Companys range of historical adverse development comes from certain businesses that the Company has since exited, the Company 133 Table of Contents believes that the industrys range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Property reserves represent approximately 3% of the Companys total loss reserves. Since property is considered a short tail coverage, the one year change for property can be more volatile than that for the longer tail product lines. This is due to the fact that the majority of the reserve for property relates to the most recent accident year, which is subject to the most uncertainty for all product lines. This recent accident year uncertainty is relevant to property because of weather related events which, notwithstanding 2010 experience, tend to be concentrated in the second half of the year, and generally are not completely resolved until the following year. Reserve estimates associated with major catastrophes may take even longer to resolve. The reserve estimates for this product line are also potentially subject to material changes due to uncertainty in measuring ultimate losses for unprecedented significant catastrophes such as the events of September 11, 2001 and Hurricane Katrina. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 25% for 2010, 9% for 2009 and 22% for 2008. The 2010 change primarily occurred in the 2008 and 2009 accident years as a result of better than expected loss development in Industry Focused Underwriting and Target Risk Underwriting. The 2009 change was primarily driven by better than expected loss development in the 2007 and 2008 accident years for certain large national property and inland marine exposures. In addition, the 2005 accident year experience improved due to the litigation environment relating to, and ongoing claim settlements for, Hurricane Katrina. The 2008 change was primarily driven by favorable loss development in the 2007 accident year for certain large property, national programs and ocean marine claim exposures, and improvements in the litigation environment relating to, and ongoing claim settlements for, Hurricane Katrina. Commercial Multi Peril Commercial multi peril provides a combination of property and liability coverage typically for small businesses and, therefore, includes both short and long tail coverages. For property coverage, it generally takes a relatively short period of time to close claims, while for the other coverages, generally for the liability coverages, it takes a longer period of time to close claims. The reserving risk for this line is dominated by the liability coverage portion of this product, except occasionally in the event of catastrophic or large single losses. The reserving risk for this line differs from that of the general liability product line and the property product line due to the nature of the customer. Commercial multi peril is generally sold to smaller sized accounts, while the customer profile for general liability and property includes larger customers. See "Property risk factors" and "General liability risk factors," discussed above, with regard to reserving risk for commercial multi peril. Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for commercial multi peril (excluding asbestos and environmental), a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.2% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 16% to 2% (averaging 5%) for the Company, and from 5% to 6% (averaging 1%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Commercial multi peril reserves (excluding asbestos and environmental reserves) represent approximately 7% of the Companys total loss reserves. 134  Table of Contents As discussed above, this line combines general liability and property coverages and it has been impacted in the past by many of the same events as those two lines. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 0% for 2010, 8% for 2009 and 16% for 2008. The 2009 and 2008 changes were attributable to several factors, including improved legal and judicial environments, and enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. Also contributing to the change was improvement in the litigation environment relating to, and ongoing claim settlements for, Hurricane Katrina. Commercial Automobile The commercial automobile product line is a mix of property and liability coverages and, therefore, includes both short and long tail coverages. The payments that are made quickly typically pertain to auto physical damage (property) claims and property damage (liability) claims. The payments that take longer to finalize and are more difficult to estimate relate to bodily injury claims. In general, claim reporting lags are minor, claim complexity is not a major issue, and the line is viewed as high frequency, low to moderate severity. Overall, the claim liabilities for this line create a moderate estimation risk. Commercial automobile reserves are typically analyzed in four components: bodily injury liability; property damage liability; collision claims; and comprehensive claims. These last two components have minimum reserve risk and fast payouts and, accordingly, separate risk factors are not presented. The Company utilizes the traditional actuarial methods mentioned in the general discussion above in estimating claim liabilities for this line. This is supplemented with detailed custom analyses where needed. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required commercial automobile reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Bodily injury and property damage liability risk factors Trends in jury awards Changes in the underlying court system Changes in case law Litigation trends Frequency of claims with payment capped by policy limits Change in average severity of accidents, or proportion of severe accidents Changes in auto safety technology Subrogation opportunities Changes in claim handling philosophies Frequency of visits to health providers Number of medical procedures given during visits to health providers Types of health providers used Types of medical treatments received Changes in cost of medical treatments Degree of patient responsiveness to treatment Commercial automobile book of business risk factors Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements, etc.) Changes in mix of insured vehicles (e.g., long haul trucks versus local and smaller vehicles, fleet risks versus non fleets) Changes in underwriting standards 135 Table of Contents Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for commercial automobile, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.2% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 10% to 9% (averaging 3%) for the Company, and from 3% to 9% (averaging 1%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Commercial automobile reserves represent approximately 7% of the Companys total loss reserves. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 1% for 2010, 6% for 2009 and 7% for 2008. The 2009 and 2008 changes were a result of better than expected loss development, primarily for recent accident years, which was attributable to several factors, including improved legal and judicial environments, and enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. Workers Compensation Workers compensation is generally considered a long tail coverage, as it takes a relatively long period of time to finalize claims from a given accident year. While certain payments such as initial medical treatment or temporary wage replacement for the injured worker are made quickly, some other payments are made over the course of several years, such as awards for permanent partial injuries. In addition, some payments can run as long as the injured workers life, such as permanent disability benefits and on going medical care. Despite the possibility of long payment tails, the reporting lags are generally short, settlements are generally not complex, and most of the liability can be considered high frequency with moderate severity. The largest reserve risk generally comes from the low frequency, high severity claims providing lifetime coverage for medical expense arising from a workers injury. Overall, the claim liabilities for this line create a somewhat greater than moderate estimation risk. Workers compensation reserves are typically analyzed in three components: indemnity losses, medical losses and claim adjustment expenses. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required workers compensation reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Indemnity risk factors Time required to recover from the injury Degree of available transitional jobs Degree of legal involvement Changes in the interpretations and processes of the workers compensation commissions oversight of claims(1) Future wage inflation for states that index benefits Changes in the administrative policies of second injury funds Medical risk factors Changes in the cost of medical treatments (including prescription drugs) and underlying fee schedules ("inflation") Frequency of visits to health providers (1)These are administrative bodies that evaluate whether or not a given claim for workers compensation benefits is valid. Their duties include the determination of whether a given injury arose out of the scope of employment or the determination of the degree of injury where disputes exist. 136 Table of Contents Number of medical procedures given during visits to health providers Types of health providers used Type of medical treatments received Use of preferred provider networks and other medical cost containment practices Availability of new medical processes and equipment Changes in the use of pharmaceutical drugs Degree of patient responsiveness to treatment General workers compensation risk factors Frequency of claim reopenings on claims previously closed Mortality trends of injured workers with lifetime benefits and medical treatment Degree of cost shifting between workers compensation and health insurance Workers compensation book of business risk factors Product mix Injury type mix Changes in underwriting standards Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for workers compensation, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.2% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 1% to 2% (averaging 0%) for the Company, and from 1% to 4% (averaging 1%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Workers compensation reserves represent approximately 32% of the Companys total loss reserves. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 1% in 2010, 1% in 2009 and 1% for 2008. Fidelity and Surety Fidelity is generally considered a short tail coverage. It takes a relatively short period of time to finalize and settle fidelity claims. The volatility of fidelity reserves is generally related to the type of business of the insured, the size and complexity of the insureds business operations, amount of policy limit and attachment point of coverage. The uncertainty surrounding reserves for small, commercial insureds is typically less than the uncertainty for large commercial or financial institutions. The high frequency, low severity nature of small commercial fidelity losses provides for stability in loss estimates whereas, the low frequency, high severity nature of losses for large insureds results in a wider range of ultimate loss outcomes. Actuarial techniques that rely on a stable pattern of loss development are generally not applicable to low frequency, high severity policies. Surety has certain components that are generally considered short tail coverages with short reporting lags, although large individual construction and commercial surety contracts can result in a long settlement tail, based on the length and complexity of the construction project or commercial transaction being insured. (Large construction projects can take many years to complete.) The frequency of losses in surety correlates with economic cycles as the primary cause of surety loss is the inability of the Companys insureds to perform financially. The volatility of surety losses is generally related to the type of business performed by the insured, the type of bonded obligation, the amount of limit exposed to loss and the amount of assets available to the insurer to mitigate losses, such as unbilled contract funds, collateral, first and third party indemnity, and other security positions of an 137 Table of Contents insureds assets. Certain classes of surety claims are very high severity, low frequency in nature. These can include large construction contractors involved with one or multiple large, complex projects as well as certain large commercial surety exposures. Other claim factors affecting reserve variability of surety include litigation related to amounts owed by and due the insured (e.g., salvage and subrogation efforts) and the results of financial restructuring of an insured. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required fidelity and surety reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Fidelity risk factors Type of business of insured Policy limit and attachment points Third party claims Coverage litigation Complexity of claims Growth in insureds operations Surety risk factors Economic trends, including the general level of construction activity Concentration of reserves in a relatively few large claims Type of business insured Type of obligation insured Cumulative limits of liability for insured Assets available to mitigate loss Defective workmanship/latent defects Financial strategy of insured Changes in statutory obligations Geographic spread of business Fidelity and Surety book of business risk factors Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, limits, endorsements) Changes in underwriting standards Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for fidelity and surety, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.3% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 10% to 138% (averaging 19%) for the Company, and from 13% to 24% (averaging 6%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. Because the high end of the Companys range was due to acquired business in 2004, the Company believes that the industrys range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Fidelity and surety reserves represent approximately 3% of the Companys total loss reserves. In general, developments on single large claims (both adverse and favorable) are a primary source of changes in reserve estimates for this product line. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 6% for 2010, 7% for 2009 and 10% for 2008. The 2010 change was driven by better than expected loss development due to lower than expected claim activity and loss severity, primarily for the contract surety business in this product line for the 2008 and prior accident years. The 2009 and 2008 changes were a result of better than expected loss development for the contract surety business within this product line, primarily driven by favorable settlements on large claims from older accident years. 138 Table of Contents Personal Automobile Personal automobile includes both short and long tail coverages. The payments that are made quickly typically pertain to auto physical damage (property) claims and property damage (liability) claims. The payments that take longer to finalize and are more difficult to estimate relate to bodily injury claims. Reporting lags are relatively short and the claim settlement process for personal automobile liability generally is the least complex of the liability products. It is generally viewed as a high frequency, low to moderate severity product line. Overall, the claim liabilities for this line create a moderate estimation risk. Personal automobile reserves are typically analyzed in five components: bodily injury liability, property damage liability, no fault losses, collision claims and comprehensive claims. These last two components have minimum reserve risk and fast payouts and, accordingly, separate factors are not presented. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required personal automobile reserves (beyond those included in the general reserve discussion section) include: Bodily injury and property damage liability risk factors Trends in jury awards Changes in the underlying court system and its philosophy Changes in case law Litigation trends Frequency of claims with payment capped by policy limits Change in average severity of accidents, or proportion of severe accidents Subrogation opportunities Degree of patient responsiveness to treatment Changes in claim handling philosophies No fault risk factors (for selected states and time periods) Effectiveness of no fault laws Frequency of visits to health providers Number of medical procedures given during visits to health providers Types of health providers used Types of medical treatments received Changes in cost of medical treatments Degree of patient responsiveness to treatment Personal automobile book of business risk factors Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements, etc.) Changes in underwriting standards Changes in the use of credit data for rating and underwriting Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for personal automobile, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.1% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 9% to 0% (averaging 3%) for the Company, and from 4% to 0% (averaging 2%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Personal automobile reserves represent approximately 5% of the Companys total loss reserves. 139 Table of Contents The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 0% for 2010, 0% for 2009 and 1% for 2008. The decrease in 2008 was primarily due to better than expected results from changes in claim handling practices as well as initiatives to fight fraud. Homeowners and Personal Lines Other Homeowners is generally considered a short tail coverage. Most payments are related to the property portion of the policy, where the claim reporting and settlement process is generally restricted to the insured and the insurer. Claims on property coverage are typically reported soon after the actual damage occurs, although delays of several months are not unusual. The claim is settled when the two parties agree on the amount due in accordance with the policy contract language and the appropriate payment is made (or alternatively, the property replacement/repair is performed by the insurer). The resulting settlement process is typically fairly short term, although exceptions do exist. The liability portion of the homeowners policy generates claims which take longer to pay due to the involvement of litigation and negotiation, but with generally small reporting lags. In addition, reserves related to umbrella coverages have greater uncertainty since umbrella liability payments are often made far into the future. Overall, the line is generally high frequency, low to moderate severity (except for catastrophes), with simple to moderate claim complexity. Homeowners reserves are typically analyzed in two components: non catastrophe related losses and catastrophe loss payments. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required homeowners reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Non catastrophe risk factors Salvage opportunities Amount of time to return property to residential use Changes in weather patterns Local building codes Litigation trends Trends in jury awards Catastrophe risk factors Physical concentration of policyholders Availability and cost of local contractors Local building codes Quality of construction of damaged homes Amount of time to return property to residential use For the more severe catastrophic events, "demand surge" inflation, which refers to significant short term increases in building material and labor costs due to a sharp increase in demand for those materials and services Homeowners book of business risk factors Policy provisions mix (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements, etc.) Degree of concentration of policyholders Changes in underwriting standards Changes in the use of credit data for rating and underwriting Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for homeowners and personal lines other, a 140 Table of Contents 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.1% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line (excluding the umbrella line of business, which for statutory reporting purposes is included with the general liability line of business) over the last nine years has varied from 31% to 3% (averaging 12%) for the Company, and from 8% to 11% (averaging 2%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Homeowners and personal lines other reserves represent approximately 3% of the Companys total loss reserves. This line combines both liability and property coverages; however, the majority of the reserves relate to property. While property is considered a short tail coverage, the one year change for property can be more volatile than that for the longer tail product lines. This is due to the fact that the majority of the reserve for property relates to the most recent accident year, which is subject to the most uncertainty for all product lines. This recent accident year uncertainty is relevant to property because of weather related events which tend to be concentrated in the second half of the year, and generally are not completely resolved until the following year. Reserve estimates associated with major catastrophes may take even longer to resolve. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line (excluding the umbrella line of business) was 2% for 2010, 14% for 2009 and 13% for 2008. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line including the umbrella line of business was 4% for 2010, 12% for 2009 and 12% for 2008. The 2010 change reflected favorable loss development in the 2008 and prior accident years, primarily for the umbrella line of business, partially offset by unfavorable loss development in the 2009 accident year for the homeowners line of business that was driven by higher than anticipated late reported claims related to storms in 2009. The 2009 change primarily reflected favorable loss development related to Hurricanes Ike and Katrina, as well as the 2007 California wildfires. The 2008 change was primarily driven by favorable loss development related to Hurricane Katrina, by claim initiatives, by better than expected outcomes on 2007 catastrophe related claims and by improvements in older accident years for the umbrella line. International and other International and other includes products written by International and other products not discussed above. The principal component of "other" claim reserves is assumed reinsurance written on an excess of loss basis, which may include reinsurance of non U.S. exposures, and is runoff business. International and other claim liabilities result from a mix of coverages, currencies and jurisdictions/countries. The common characteristic is the need to customize the analysis to the individual component, and the inability to rely on data characterizations and reporting requirements in the U.S. statutory reporting framework. Due to changes in the business mix for this line over time, the recently incurred claim liabilities are relatively short term (due to both the products and the jurisdictions involved, e.g., the Republic of Ireland and the United Kingdom), while the older liabilities include some from runoff operations that are extremely long tail (e.g., U.S. excess liabilities reinsured through the London market, and several underwriting pools in runoff). The speed of claim reporting and claim settlement is a function of the specific coverage provided, the jurisdiction, the distribution system (e.g., underwriting pool versus direct) and the proximity of the insurance sale to the insured hazard (e.g., insured and insurer located in different countries). In particular, liabilities arising from the underwriting pools in runoff may result in significant reporting lags, settlement lags and claim complexity, due to the need to coordinate with other pool members or co insurers through a broker or lead insurer for claim settlement purposes. 141 Table of Contents International and other reserves are generally analyzed by program/pool, country and general coverage category (e.g., U.S. Liability excess of loss reinsurance, or General Liability Municipalities by country). The business is also generally split by direct versus assumed reinsurance for a given coverage/jurisdiction. Where the underlying insured hazard is outside the United States, the underlying coverages are generally similar to those described under the General Liability and Automobile discussion above, but under a different legal system. Where the underlying hazard is within the U.S., the coverage involved is typically that of General Liability, but on an excess or excess of loss reinsurance basis. Excess exposure requires the insured to "prove" not only claims under the policy, but also the prior payment of claims reaching up to the excess policys attachment point. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required International and other reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: International and other risk factors Changes in claim handling procedures, including those of the primary carriers Changes in policy provisions or court interpretation of such provision New theories of liability Trends in jury awards Changes in the propensity to sue Changes in statutes of limitations Changes in the underlying court system Distortions from losses resulting from large single accounts or single issues Changes in tort law Changes in claim adjuster office structure (causing distortions in the data) International and other book of business risk factors Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements, "claims made" language) Changes in underwriting standards Product mix (e.g., size of account, industries insured, jurisdiction mix) Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for International and other (excluding asbestos and environmental), a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.3% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. International and other reserves (excluding asbestos and environmental) represent approximately 8% of the Companys total loss reserves. International and other represents a combination of different product lines, some of which are in runoff. Comparative historical information is not available for international product lines as insurers domiciled outside of the U.S. do not file U.S. statutory reports. Comparative historical information on runoff business is not indicative of reasonably possible one year changes in the reserve estimate for this mix of runoff business. Accordingly, the Company has not included comparative analyses for International and other. Reinsurance Recoverables Amounts recoverable from reinsurers are estimated in a manner consistent with the associated claim liability. The Company evaluates and monitors the financial condition of its reinsurers under voluntary reinsurance arrangements to minimize its exposure to significant losses from reinsurer insolvencies. In addition, in the ordinary course of business, the Company becomes involved in coverage disputes with its reinsurers. Some of these disputes could result in lawsuits and arbitrations brought by or against the reinsurers to determine the Companys rights and obligations under the 142 Table of Contents various reinsurance agreements. The Company employs dedicated specialists and aggressive strategies to manage reinsurance collections and disputes. The reinsurance agreements that the Company entered into as part of its catastrophe bond programs are dual trigger contracts and meet the requirements to be accounted for as reinsurance in accordance with guidance for accounting for reinsurance contracts. The Companys catastrophe bond programs are described in more detail in the "Catastrophe Reinsurance Coverage" section herein. The Company reports its reinsurance recoverables net of an allowance for estimated uncollectible reinsurance recoverables. The allowance is based upon the Companys ongoing review of amounts outstanding, length of collection periods, changes in reinsurer credit standing, disputes, applicable coverage defenses and other relevant factors. Accordingly, the establishment of reinsurance recoverables and the related allowance for uncollectible reinsurance recoverables is also an inherently uncertain process involving estimates. From time to time, as a result of the long tailed nature of the underlying liabilities, coverage complexities and potential for disputes, the Company considers the commutation of reinsurance contracts. Changes in estimated reinsurance recoverables and commutation activity could result in additional income statement charges. Recoverables attributable to structured settlements relate primarily to personal injury claims, of which workers compensation claims comprise a significant portion, for which the Company has purchased annuities and remains contingently liable in the event of a default by the companies issuing the annuities. Recoverables attributable to mandatory pools and associations relate primarily to workers compensation service business. These recoverables are supported by the participating insurance companies obligation to pay a pro rata share based on each companys voluntary market share of written premium in each state in which it is a pool participant. In the event a member of a mandatory pool or association defaults on its share of the pools or associations obligations, the other members share of such obligation increases proportionally. On August 20, 2010, in a reinsurance dispute in New York state court captioned United States Fidelity & Guaranty Company v. American Re Insurance Company, et al., the trial court granted summary judgment for the Company, and on October 25, 2010, entered judgment awarding the Company $251 million plus pre judgment interest in the amount of $169 million. The judgment, including the award of interest, has been appealed. See note 15 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements for further discussion of this reinsurance dispute. The following table summarizes the composition of the Companys reinsurance recoverable assets: (at December 31, in millions) 2010 2009 Gross reinsurance recoverables on paid and unpaid claims and claim adjustment expenses $ 6,934 $ 8,138 Allowance for uncollectible reinsurance (363 ) (523 ) Net reinsurance recoverables 6,571 7,615 Structured settlements 3,380 3,456 Mandatory pools and associations 1,568 1,745 Total reinsurance recoverables $ 11,519 $ 12,816 The $1.04 billion decline in net reinsurance recoverables since December 31, 2009 reflected cash collections and the impact of net favorable prior year reserve development, partially offset by a reduction in the allowance for uncollectible reinsurance that included the impact of a $70 million benefit resulting from the summary judgment in the reinsurance dispute referenced above. As a result, at December 31, 2010, reinsurance recoverables included the full $251 million owed to the Company under the terms of the related reinsurance agreement. 143  Table of Contents Investment Valuation and Impairments Fair Value Measurements The Companys estimates of fair value for financial assets and financial liabilities are based on the framework established in the fair value accounting guidance. The framework is based on the inputs used in valuation, gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets, and requires that observable inputs be used in the valuations when available. The disclosure of fair value estimates in the fair value accounting guidance hierarchy is based on whether the significant inputs into the valuation are observable. In determining the level of the hierarchy in which the estimate is disclosed, the highest priority is given to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs that reflect the Companys significant market assumptions. The three levels of the hierarchy are as follows: Level 1 Unadjusted quoted market prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets that the Company has the ability to access. Level 2 Quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in inactive markets; or valuations based on models where the significant inputs are observable (e.g., interest rates, yield curves, prepayment speeds, default rates, loss severities, etc.) or can be corroborated by observable market data. Level 3 Valuations based on models where significant inputs are not observable. The unobservable inputs reflect the Companys own assumptions about the inputs that market participants would use. Valuation of Investments Reported at Fair Value in Financial Statements The fair value of a financial instrument is the estimated amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in an orderly transaction between knowledgeable, unrelated, willing parties, i.e., not in a forced transaction. The estimated fair value of a financial instrument may differ from the amount that could be realized if the security was sold in an immediate sale, e.g., a forced transaction. Additionally, the valuation of fixed maturity investments is more subjective when markets are less liquid due to the lack of market based inputs, which may increase the potential that the estimated fair value of an investment is not reflective of the price at which an actual transaction would occur. For investments that have quoted market prices in active markets, the Company uses the quoted market prices as fair value and includes these prices in the amounts disclosed in Level 1 of the hierarchy. The Company receives the quoted market prices from a third party, nationally recognized pricing service (pricing service). When quoted market prices are unavailable, the Company utilizes a pricing service to determine an estimate of fair value, which is mainly used for its fixed maturity investments. The fair value estimates provided from this pricing service are included in the amount disclosed in Level 2 of the hierarchy. If quoted market prices and an estimate from a pricing service are unavailable, the Company produces an estimate of fair value based on internally developed valuation techniques, which, depending on the level of observable market inputs, will render the fair value estimate as Level 2 or Level 3. The Company bases all of its estimates of fair value for assets on the bid price as it represents what a third party market participant would be willing to pay in an arms length transaction. Fixed Maturities The Company utilizes a pricing service to estimate fair value measurements for approximately 99% of its fixed maturities. The pricing service utilizes market quotations for fixed maturity securities that have quoted prices in active markets. Since fixed maturities other than U.S. Treasury securities generally do not trade on a daily basis, the pricing service prepares estimates of fair value 144 Table of Contents measurements for these securities using its proprietary pricing applications, which include available relevant market information, benchmark curves, benchmarking of like securities, sector groupings and matrix pricing. Additionally, the pricing service uses an Option Adjusted Spread model to develop prepayment and interest rate scenarios. The pricing service evaluates each asset class based on relevant market information, relevant credit information, perceived market movements and sector news. The market inputs utilized in the pricing evaluation, listed in the approximate order of priority, include: benchmark yields, reported trades, broker/dealer quotes, issuer spreads, two sided markets, benchmark securities, bids, offers, reference data, and industry and economic events. The extent of the use of each market input depends on the asset class and the market conditions. Depending on the security, the priority of the use of inputs may change or some market inputs may not be relevant. For some securities, additional inputs may be necessary. The pricing service utilized by the Company has indicated that they will only produce an estimate of fair value if there is objectively verifiable information to produce a valuation. If the pricing service discontinues pricing an investment, the Company would be required to produce an estimate of fair value using some of the same methodologies as the pricing service but would have to make assumptions for market based inputs that are unavailable due to market conditions. The fair value estimates of most fixed maturity investments are based on observable market information rather than market quotes. Accordingly, the estimates of fair value for such fixed maturities, other than U.S. Treasury securities, provided by the pricing service are included in the amount disclosed in Level 2 of the hierarchy. The estimated fair value of U.S. Treasury securities is included in the amount disclosed in Level 1 as the estimates are based on unadjusted market prices. The Company reviews the estimates of fair value provided by the pricing service and compares the estimates to the Companys knowledge of the market to determine if the estimates obtained are representative of the prices in the market. The Company produces a report monthly that lists all price changes from the previous month in excess of 10%. The Company reviews the report and will challenge any prices deemed not to be representative of fair value. In addition, the Company has implemented various other processes including randomly selecting purchased or sold securities and comparing execution prices to the estimates from the pricing service as well as reviewing reports that contain securities whose valuation did not change from their previous valuation (stale price review). The Company also uses an additional independent pricing service to further test the primary pricing services valuation of the Companys fixed maturity portfolio. These processes have not highlighted any significant issues with the fair value estimates received from the pricing service. The Company holds privately placed corporate bonds and estimates the fair value of these bonds using an internal matrix that is based on market information regarding interest rates, credit spreads and liquidity. The underlying source data for calculating the matrix of credit spreads relative to the U.S. Treasury curve are the BofA Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate Index and the BofA Merrill Lynch High Yield BB Rated Index. The Company includes the fair value estimates of these corporate bonds in Level 2, since all significant inputs are market observable. As many of these securities are issued by public companies, the Company compares the estimates of fair value to the fair values of these companies publicly traded debt to test the validity of the internal pricing matrix. While the vast majority of the Companys municipal bonds are included in Level 2, the Company holds a small number of municipal bonds which are not valued by the pricing service and estimates the fair value of these bonds using an internal pricing matrix with some unobservable inputs that are significant to the valuation. Due to the limited amount of observable market information, the Company includes the fair value estimates for these particular bonds in Level 3. Additionally, the Company holds a small amount of fixed maturities that have characteristics that make them unsuitable for matrix pricing. For these fixed maturities, the Company obtains a quote from a broker (typically a market 145 Table of Contents maker). Due to the disclaimers on the quotes that indicate that the price is indicative only, the Company includes these fair value estimates in Level 3. See note 4 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the determination of fair value of non fixed maturities and valuation of investments not reported at fair value in the financial statements. Investment Impairments The Company conducts a periodic review to identify and evaluate invested assets having other than temporary impairments. Some of the factors considered in identifying other than temporary impairments include: (1) for fixed maturity investments, whether the Company intends to sell the investment or whether it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell the investment prior to an anticipated recovery in value; (2) for non fixed maturity investments, the Companys ability and intent to retain the investment for a reasonable period of time sufficient to allow for an anticipated recovery in value; (3) the likelihood of the recoverability of principal and interest for fixed maturity securities (i.e., whether there is a credit loss), or cost for equity securities; (4) the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than amortized cost for fixed maturity securities or cost for equity securities; and (5) the financial condition, near term and long term prospects for the issuer, including the relevant industry conditions and trends, and implications of rating agency actions and offering prices. Reporting of Other Than Temporary Impairments For fixed maturity investments that the Company does not intend to sell or for which it is more likely than not that the Company would not be required to sell before an anticipated recovery in value, the Company separates the credit loss component of the impairment from the amount related to all other factors and reports the credit loss component in net realized investment gains (losses). The impairment related to all other factors is reported in accumulated other changes in equity from nonowner sources. For non fixed maturity investments and for fixed maturity investments the Company intends to sell or for which it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell before an anticipated recovery in value, the full amount of the impairment is included in net realized investment gains (losses). Upon recognizing an other than temporary impairment, the new cost basis of the investment is the previous amortized cost basis less the other than temporary impairment recognized in net realized investment gains (losses). The new cost basis is not adjusted for any subsequent recoveries in fair value; however, for fixed maturity investments, the difference between the new cost basis and the expected cash flows is accreted on a quarterly basis to net investment income over the remaining expected life of the investment. Due to the subjective nature of the Companys analysis and estimates of future cash flows, along with the judgment that must be applied in the analysis, it is possible that the Company could reach a different conclusion whether or not to impair a security if it had access to additional information about the issuer. Additionally, it is possible that the issuers actual ability to meet contractual obligations may be different than what the Company determined during its analysis, which may lead to a different impairment conclusion in future periods. See note 1 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements for a further discussion of investment impairments. 146 Table of Contents Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Impairments See note 1 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements for a discussion of impairments of goodwill and other intangible assets. OTHER UNCERTAINTIES For a discussion of other risks and uncertainties that could impact the Companys results of operations or financial position, see note 15 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements and "Item 1A Risk Factors." FUTURE APPLICATION OF ACCOUNTING STANDARDS See note 1 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements for a discussion of recently issued accounting standards updates. The Company is currently required to prepare its financial statements in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), as promulgated by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB). During 2008, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) issued a proposed Roadmap for comment for the potential use in filings with the SEC of financial statements for U.S. issuers prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as promulgated by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), instead of in accordance with GAAP. The Roadmap contains milestones that, if achieved, may lead the SEC to decide in 2011 to require the use of IFRS for large accelerated filers, including the Company. In March 2010, the SEC reaffirmed its support for a single set of high quality, global standards and acknowledged that IFRS may be best positioned to accomplish this goal. Additionally, the SEC established a Work Plan for its staff to evaluate whether, when and how IFRS should be incorporated into the U.S. financial reporting system. Under the Work Plan, the SEC staff will evaluate several key issues related to a possible convergence to IFRS. The SEC is expected to re deliberate the proposed Roadmap during 2011 taking into consideration the comments received from constituents as well as the result of the staffs Work Plan. The IASB and the FASB are in the process of developing a global insurance standard that involves methodologies for valuing insurance contract liabilities that may be significantly different from the methodologies required by current GAAP. The FASB and the IASB have also embarked on a long term project to converge GAAP and IFRS. The Company is not able to predict whether it will choose to, or be required to, adopt IFRS or how the adoption of IFRS (or the convergence of GAAP and IFRS, including the project for valuing insurance contract liabilities) may impact the Companys financial statements in the future. FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS This report contains, and management may make, certain "forward looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, may be forward looking statements. Words such as "may," "will," "should," "likely," "anticipates," "expects," "intends," "plans," "projects," "believes," "estimates" and similar expressions are used to identify these forward looking statements. Specifically, statements about the Companys share repurchase plans and statements about the potential impact of investment markets and other economic conditions on the Companys investment portfolio and underwriting results, among others, are forward looking, and the Company may also make forward looking statements about, among other things: its results of operations and financial condition (including, among other things, premium volume, premium rates, net and operating income, investment income and performance, return on equity, and expected current returns and combined ratios); 147 Table of Contents the sufficiency of the Companys asbestos and other reserves (including, among other things, asbestos claim payment patterns); the impact of emerging claims issues; the cost and availability of reinsurance coverage; catastrophe losses; the impact of investment, economic and underwriting market conditions; strategic initiatives; and the Companys proposed joint venture with J. Malucelli Participa&ccedil;&otilde;es em Seguros e Resseguros S.A. The Company cautions investors that such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the Companys control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward looking information and statements. For a discussion of some of the factors that could cause actual results to differ, see "Item 1A Risk Factors" and "Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates." The Companys forward looking statements speak only as of the date of this report or as of the date they are made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update its forward looking statements.  Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK MARKET RISK Market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates (inclusive of credit spreads), foreign currency exchange rates and other relevant market rate or price changes. Market risk is directly influenced by the volatility and liquidity in the markets in which the related underlying assets are traded. The following is a discussion of the Companys primary market risk exposures and how those exposures are managed as of December 31, 2010. The Companys market risk sensitive instruments, including derivatives, are primarily entered into for purposes other than trading. The carrying value of the Companys investment portfolio at December 31, 2010 and 2009 was $72.72 billion and $74.97 billion, respectively, of which 86% and 88% was invested in fixed maturity securities, respectively. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, approximately 6.0% and 5.8%, respectively, of the Companys invested assets were denominated in foreign currencies. The Companys exposure to equity price risk is not significant. The Company has no direct commodity risk and is not a party to any credit default swaps. The primary market risks to the investment portfolio are interest rate risk and credit risk associated with investments in fixed maturity securities. The portfolio duration relative to the liabilities duration is primarily managed through cash market transactions and treasury futures transactions. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio included collateralized mortgage obligations backed by alternative documentation mortgages and asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages with a collective fair value of $297 million and $270 million, respectively (comprising approximately 0.5% and 0.4% of the Companys total fixed maturity investments, respectively). The disruption in secondary investment markets for mortgage backed securities provided the Company with the opportunity to selectively acquire additional 148 Table of Contents asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages at discounted prices. The Company purchased $31 million and $74 million of such securities in 2010 and 2009, respectively. The Company defines sub prime mortgage backed securities as investments in which the underlying loans primarily exhibit one or more of the following characteristics: low FICO scores, above prime interest rates, high loan to value ratios or high debt to income ratios. Alternative documentation securitizations are those in which the underlying loans primarily meet the government sponsored entities requirements for credit score but do not meet the government sponsored entities guidelines for documentation, property type, debt and loan to value ratios. The average credit rating on these securities and obligations held by the Company was "Baa2" and "A3" at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio at December 31, 2010 included securities issued by numerous states, municipalities and political subdivisions (collectively referred to as the municipal bond portfolio), a number of which were enhanced by third party insurance for the payment of principal and interest in the event of an issuer default. The downgrade of credit ratings of insurers of these securities in recent years has resulted in a corresponding downgrade in the ratings of the securities to the underlying rating of the respective security. Of the insured municipal securities in the Companys investment portfolio at December 31, 2010, approximately 99% were rated at A3 or above, and approximately 90% were rated at Aa3 or above, without the benefit of insurance. The Company believes that a loss of the benefit of insurance would not result in a material adverse impact on the Companys results of operations, financial position or liquidity, due to the underlying credit strength of the issuers of the securities, as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the securities. The average credit rating of the underlying issuers of these securities was "Aa2" at December 31, 2010. The average credit rating of the entire municipal bond portfolio was "Aa1" at December 31, 2010 with and without the third party insurance. On April 2, 2009, municipal securities issued by local governments within the United States were assigned a negative outlook by Moodys Investors Service. Notwithstanding the relatively low historical rates of default on many of these obligations and notwithstanding that the Company typically seeks to invest in high credit quality securities (including those with structural protections such as being secured by dedicated or pledged sources of revenue), during or following an economic downturn, the Companys municipal bond portfolio could be subject to a higher risk of default or impairment due to declining municipal tax bases and revenue. The severity and duration of state and local government budget deficits could have an adverse impact on the collectability and valuation of the Companys municipal bond portfolio. In addition, some issuers may be unwilling to increase tax rates, or to reduce spending, to fund interest or principal payments on their municipal bonds, or may be unable to access the municipal bond market to fund such payments. The risk of widespread defaults may increase if some issuers voluntarily choose to default, instead of implementing difficult fiscal measures, and the actual or perceived consequences (such as reduced access to capital markets) are less severe than expected. The risk may also increase if there are changes in legislation that permit states, or additional municipalities and political subdivisions, to file for bankruptcy protection or if there are judicial interpretations that, in a bankruptcy or other proceeding, lessen the value of structural protections. The Companys tax exempt fixed maturity investment portfolio totaled $39.03 billion and $40.84 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Federal and or state tax legislation could be enacted that would lessen or improve some or all of the tax advantages currently benefiting the Company and result in an adverse or favorable impact on the value of these holdings. The primary market risk for all of the Companys debt is interest rate risk at the time of refinancing. The Company monitors the interest rate environment and evaluates refinancing opportunities as maturity dates approach. For additional information regarding the Companys debt see note 8 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements as well as the "Liquidity and Capital Resources" section of "Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." 149 Table of Contents The Companys foreign exchange market risk exposure is concentrated in the Companys invested assets and insurance reserves denominated in foreign currencies. Cash flows from the Companys foreign operations are the primary source of funds for the purchase of investments denominated in foreign currencies. The Company purchases these investments primarily to fund insurance reserves and other liabilities denominated in the same currency, effectively reducing its foreign currency exchange rate exposure. Invested assets denominated in the British Pound Sterling comprised approximately 2.5% of the total invested assets at both December 31, 2010 and 2009. Invested assets denominated in the Canadian dollar comprised approximately 2.3% and 2.1% of the total invested assets at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Invested assets denominated in other currencies at December 31, 2010 and 2009 were not material. There were no other significant changes in the Companys primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures were managed for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to the year ended December 31, 2009. The Company does not currently anticipate significant changes in its primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures are managed in future reporting periods based upon what is known or expected to be in effect in future reporting periods. SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS Sensitivity analysis is defined as the measurement of potential loss in future earnings, fair values or cash flows of market sensitive instruments resulting from one or more selected hypothetical changes in interest rates and other market rates or prices over a selected period of time. In the Companys sensitivity analysis model, a hypothetical change in market rates is selected that is expected to reflect reasonably possible near term changes in those rates. "Near term" means a period of time going forward up to one year from the date of the consolidated financial statements. Actual results may differ from the hypothetical change in market rates assumed in this disclosure, especially since this sensitivity analysis does not reflect the results of any actions that would be taken by the Company to mitigate such hypothetical losses in fair value. Interest Rate Risk In this sensitivity analysis model, the Company uses fair values to measure its potential loss. The sensitivity analysis model includes the following financial instruments entered into for purposes other than trading: fixed maturities, non redeemable preferred stocks, mortgage loans, short term securities, debt and derivative financial instruments. The primary market risk to the Companys market sensitive instruments is interest rate risk (inclusive of credit spreads). The sensitivity analysis model uses a 100 basis point change in interest rates to measure the hypothetical change in fair value of financial instruments included in the model. For invested assets with primary exposure to interest rate risk, estimates of portfolio duration and convexity are used to model the loss of fair value that would be expected to result from a parallel increase in interest rates. Durations on invested assets are adjusted for call, put and interest rate reset features. Durations on tax exempt securities are adjusted for the fact that the yields on such securities do not normally move in lockstep with changes in the U.S. Treasury curve. Fixed maturity portfolio durations are calculated on a market value weighted basis, including accrued interest, using holdings as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. For debt, the change in fair value is determined by calculating hypothetical December 31, 2010 and 2009 ending prices based on yields adjusted to reflect a 100 basis point change, comparing such hypothetical ending prices to actual ending prices, and multiplying the difference by the par or securities outstanding. 150 Table of Contents The sensitivity analysis model used by the Company produces a loss in fair value of market sensitive instruments of approximately $2.00 billion and $2.34 billion based on a 100 basis point increase in interest rates at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The loss estimates do not take into account the impact of possible interventions that the Company might reasonably undertake in order to mitigate or avoid losses that would result from emerging interest rate trends. In addition, the loss value only reflects the impact of an interest rate increase on the fair value of the Companys financial instruments. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk The Company uses fair values of investment securities to measure its potential loss from foreign denominated investments. A hypothetical 10% reduction in value of foreign denominated investments is used to estimate the impact on the market value of the foreign denominated holdings. The Companys analysis indicates that a hypothetical 10% reduction in the value of foreign denominated investments would be expected to produce a loss in fair value of approximately $434 million and $431 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. At December 31, 2010, The Company had a definitive agreement to commence a joint venture with J. Malucelli, through the acquisition of approximately 43% of J. Malucellis common stock. The purchase price for this acquisition will be R$625 million Brazilian Reais (the U.S. dollar equivalent of which will depend on the exchange rate at closing) plus an amount based on a Brazilian inter bank lending rate (CDI) from January 1, 2011 through the closing date of the transaction. In order to reduce its exposure to a significant strengthening of the Brazilian Reais prior to the closing of the transaction, the Company entered into a foreign currency option contract on February 7, 2011 in the notional amount of R$635 million which expires on March 31, 2011. 151  Table of Contents  
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following is a discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of operations of The Travelers Companies, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, the Company). 2010 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 2010 Consolidated Results of Operations Net income of $3.22 billion, or $6.69 per share basic and $6.62 diluted Net earned premiums of $21.43 billion Pretax catastrophe losses of $1.11 billion ($729 million after tax) Pretax net favorable prior year reserve development of $1.25 billion ($818 million after tax) GAAP combined ratio of 93.2% Pretax net investment income of $3.06 billion ($2.47 billion after tax) Pretax net realized investment gains of $264 million ($173 million after tax) 2010 Consolidated Financial Condition Total investments of $72.72 billion; fixed maturities and short term securities comprise 94% of total investments Total assets of $105.18 billion Total debt of $6.61 billion, resulting in a debt to total capital ratio of 20.6% (21.9% excluding net unrealized investment gains (losses), net of tax) Repurchased 95.7 million common shares for total cost of $5.00 billion under share repurchase authorization Shareholders equity of $25.48 billion; book value per common share of $58.47 Holding company liquidity of $3.61 billion 70 Table of Contents CONSOLIDATED OVERVIEW Consolidated Results of Operations (for the year ended December 31, in millions except per share amounts) 2010 2009 2008 Revenues Premiums $ 21,432 $ 21,418 $ 21,579 Net investment income 3,059 2,776 2,792 Fee income 287 306 390 Net realized investment gains (losses) 264 17 (415 ) Other revenues 70 163 131 Total revenues 25,112 24,680 24,477 Claims and expenses Claims and claim adjustment expenses 13,210 12,408 12,993 Amortization of deferred acquisition costs 3,802 3,813 3,880 General and administrative expenses 3,406 3,366 3,518 Interest expense 388 382 370 Total claims and expenses 20,806 19,969 20,761 Income before income taxes 4,306 4,711 3,716 Income tax expense 1,090 1,089 792 Net income $ 3,216 $ 3,622 $ 2,924 Net income per share Basic $ 6.69 $ 6.38 $ 4.87 Diluted $ 6.62 $ 6.33 $ 4.81 GAAP combined ratio Loss and loss adjustment expense ratio 61.0 % 57.3 % 59.4 % Underwriting expense ratio 32.2 31.9 32.5 GAAP combined ratio 93.2 % 89.2 % 91.9 % Incremental impact of direct to consumer initiative on GAAP combined ratio 0.8 % 0.5 % 0.2 % The following discussions of the Companys net income and segment operating income are presented on an after tax basis. Discussions of the components of net income and segment operating income are presented on a pretax basis, unless otherwise noted. Discussions of earnings per common share are presented on a diluted basis. Overview Diluted net income per share of $6.62 in 2010 increased by 5% over diluted net income per share of $6.33 in 2009, despite a decrease in reported net income, due to the favorable impact of common share repurchases over the previous twelve months. Net income of $3.22 billion in 2010 was $406 million lower than in 2009, primarily reflecting a significant increase in catastrophe losses, a modest decline in net favorable prior year reserve development and reduced underwriting margins related to pricing and loss cost trends, partially offset by increases in net investment income and net realized investment gains. The cost of catastrophes in 2010 and 2009 totaled $1.11 billion and $457 million, respectively. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2010 and 2009 totaled $1.25 billion and $1.33 billion, respectively. In addition, net income in 2009 reflected a reduction in income tax expense of $89 million resulting from the favorable resolution of various prior year tax 71 Table of Contents matters and an $87 million reduction in the estimate of property windpool assessments related to Hurricane Ike that had been recorded in general and administrative expenses in 2008. Diluted net income per share of $6.33 in 2009 increased by 32% over diluted net income per share of $4.81 in 2008. Net income of $3.62 billion in 2009 was 24% higher than 2008 net income of $2.92 billion. The higher rate of growth in per share income compared with growth in income reflected the favorable impact of the Companys common share repurchases over the previous twelve months. The increase in net income in 2009 was primarily driven by a significant decline in catastrophe losses. In addition, the increase reflected net realized investment gains (versus net realized investment losses in 2008), lower non catastrophe weather related losses and fewer large property losses, partially offset by reductions in underwriting margins related to pricing and loss cost trends, a decline in net favorable prior year reserve development and lower fee income. Catastrophe losses in 2009 totaled $457 million, compared with $1.41 billion in 2008. The 2008 total was principally comprised of $1.26 billion of claims and claim adjustment expenses and $141 million of property windpool assessments that were included in general and administrative expenses. Net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $1.33 billion in 2009, compared with $1.54 billion in 2008. Net income in 2009 included a net benefit of $89 million due to the favorable resolution of various prior year tax matters and an $87 million benefit from a reduction in the estimate of property windpool assessments related to Hurricane Ike. These assessments had been classified as a component of the cost of catastrophes in 2008 and are discussed in more detail in the "general and administrative expenses" section that follows). Net income in 2008 reflected an $89 million tax benefit related to the sale of a subsidiary. Revenues Earned Premiums Earned premiums in 2010 totaled $21.43 billion, $14 million, or less than 1%, higher than in 2009. In the Business Insurance segment, earned premiums in 2010 declined 2% from 2009. In the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment, earned premiums in 2010 decreased by less than 1% from 2009. In the Personal Insurance segment, earned premiums in 2010 increased 3% over 2009. In 2009, earned premiums totaled $21.42 billion, a decrease of $161 million, or 1%, from 2008. In the Business Insurance segment, earned premiums in 2009 declined 2% from 2008. In the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment, earned premiums in 2009 declined 3% from 2008. In the Personal Insurance segment, earned premiums increased 2% over 2008. Factors contributing to the changes in earned premiums in each segment in 2010 and 2009 compared with the respective prior year are discussed in more detail in the segment discussions that follow. Net Investment Income The following table sets forth information regarding the Companys investments. (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Average investments(a) $ 71,637 $ 73,130 $ 74,197 Pretax net investment income 3,059 2,776 2,792 After tax net investment income 2,468 2,290 2,299 Average pretax yield(b) 4.3 % 3.8 % 3.8 % Average after tax yield(b) 3.4 % 3.1 % 3.1 % (a)Excludes net unrealized investment gains and losses, net of tax, and reflects cash, receivables for investment sales, payables on investment purchases and accrued investment income. (b)Excludes net realized investment gains and losses and net unrealized investment gains and losses. 72 Table of Contents Net investment income of $3.06 billion in 2010 was $283 million, or 10%, higher than in 2009. Non fixed maturity investments generated net investment income of $370 million in 2010, compared with negative net investment income of $40 million in 2009. The increase in net investment income from non fixed maturity investments in 2010 reflected improved investment market conditions. Investment income from fixed maturity investments in 2010 declined $112 million compared with 2009, primarily resulting from lower long term reinvestment yields available in the market, as well as a lower average level of long term fixed income invested assets that reflected the impact of the Companys common share repurchases. The average pretax yield on the total investment portfolio was 4.3% in 2010, compared with 3.8% in 2009, reflecting the improvement in non fixed maturity investment income. Net investment income of $2.78 billion in 2009 was $16 million, or less than 1%, lower than in 2008, primarily resulting from a significant decline in short term interest rates, a lower average level of long term fixed maturity invested assets and the unfavorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates. Those factors were largely offset by improved returns from non fixed maturity investments, which generated negative net investment income of $40 million in 2009, compared with negative net investment income of $222 million in 2008. The improved performance from non fixed income investments in 2009 reflected improving investment market conditions in the second half of the year. The average pretax yield on the total investment portfolio was 3.8% in both 2009 and 2008. Fee Income The National Accounts market in the Business Insurance segment is the primary source of the Companys fee based business. The declines in fee income in 2010 and 2009 compared with the respective prior years are described in the Business Insurance segment discussion that follows. Net Realized Investment Gains (Losses) The following table sets forth information regarding the Companys net realized investment gains (losses). (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Net Realized Investment Gains (Losses) Other than temporary impairment losses: Total gains (losses) $ 7 $ (323 ) $ (420 ) Non credit component of impairments recognized in accumulated other changes in equity from nonowner sources (33 ) 65 Other than temporary impairment losses (26 ) (258 ) (420 ) Other net realized investment gains 290 275 5 Net realized investment gains (losses) $ 264 $ 17 $ (415 ) In the second quarter of 2009, the Company adopted updated accounting guidance that changed the reporting of other than temporary impairments. See notes 1 and 3 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the impact of the adoption. Other Than Temporary Impairment Losses on Investments In 2010, impairments included in net income totaled $26 million. Impairments in the fixed maturity portfolio in 2010 totaled $13 million, which included $5 million related to various issuers deteriorated financial position, $4 million of impairments related to structured mortgage securities and $4 million related to fixed maturity investments that the Company had the intent to sell. Impairments in 2010 also included $10 million related to other investments and equity impairments of $3 million. 73 Table of Contents In 2009, impairments included in net income totaled $258 million. Impairments in the fixed maturity portfolio in 2009 were $169 million and included $81 million of impairments related to structured mortgage securities, $70 million related to various issuers deteriorated financial position and $18 million with respect to securities that the Company either had the intent to sell or did not have the ability to assert an intention to hold until recovery in fair value. Equity impairments in 2009 were $79 million, the majority of which were related to issuers in the financial services industry. Impairments in 2009 also included $10 million related to other investments. In 2008, impairments included $186 million related to the deteriorated financial position of various issuers (including $70 million related to securities issued by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and its subsidiaries), $113 million related to externally managed securities with respect to which the Company did not have the ability to assert an intention to hold until recovery in fair value, $64 million related to structured mortgage securities and $57 million related to securities the Company had identified for potential sale prior to a recovery in fair value. Further information regarding the nature of impairment charges in each year is included in the "Investment Portfolio" section later in this discussion. Other Net Realized Investment Gains Other net realized investment gains in 2010 totaled $290 million, compared with $275 million in 2009. In September 2010, the Company sold substantially all of its remaining common stock holdings in Verisk Analytics, Inc. (Verisk) for total proceeds of approximately $230 million as part of a secondary public offering of Verisk. The Company recorded a pretax realized investment gain of $205 million on this sale in 2010. The 2010 total also included $96 million of net realized investment gains related to fixed maturity investments and $25 million of net realized investment gains related to equity securities. These gains were partially offset by $30 million of net realized investment losses related to U.S. Treasury futures contracts, which require a daily mark to market settlement and are used to shorten the duration of the Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio. Other net realized investment gains in 2009 were $275 million, compared with $5 million in 2008. In October 2009, the Company sold a portion of its common stock holdings in Verisk for total proceeds of approximately $184 million as part of the initial public offering (IPO) of Verisk. The Company recorded a pretax realized investment gain of $159 million on this sale in 2009. Other net realized investment gains in 2009 also included $100 million of net realized investment gains related to fixed maturity investments, $23 million of net realized investment gains associated with the U.S. Treasury futures contracts and $23 million of net realized investment losses related to foreign exchange. Other net realized investment gains in 2008 included $50 million related to foreign currency exchange gains, $39 million from the sale of subsidiaries, $29 million from the sale of fixed maturity securities and $17 million of net realized investment gains from the sale of venture capital investments. Partially offsetting these realized investment gains in 2008 were net realized losses of $77 million related to convertible bonds wherein the embedded option price is marked to market through realized gains or losses and $53 million of losses related to U.S. Treasury futures contracts. Other Revenues Other revenues primarily consist of premium installment charges. In 2010, this category also included $60 million of expenses related to the Companys purchase and retirement of $885 million of its $1.0 billion 6.25% fixed to floating rate junior subordinated debentures. 74 Table of Contents Claims and Expenses Claims and Claim Adjustment Expenses Claims and claim adjustment expenses totaled $13.21 billion in 2010, $802 million, or 6%, higher than the 2009 total of $12.41 billion, primarily reflecting the significant increase in catastrophe losses, the modest decline in net favorable prior year reserve development and the impact of loss cost trends. Catastrophe losses in 2010 and 2009 totaled $1.11 billion and $457 million, respectively. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2010 and 2009 totaled $1.25 billion and $1.33 billion, respectively. Catastrophe losses in 2010 primarily resulted from several severe wind and hail storms, as well as severe winter storms. Catastrophe losses in 2009 primarily resulted from several wind and hail storms, as well as flooding. Claims and claim adjustment expenses totaled $12.41 billion in 2009, $585 million, or 5%, lower than the 2008 total of $12.99 billion, primarily reflecting the significant decline in catastrophe losses, lower non catastrophe weather related losses and fewer large property losses, mostly offset by the modest decline in net favorable prior year reserve development and the impact of loss cost trends. Total claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2009 included $457 million for the cost of catastrophes and $1.33 billion of net favorable prior year reserve development, whereas the comparable 2008 total included $1.26 billion for the cost of catastrophes and $1.54 billion of net favorable prior year reserve development. Catastrophe losses in 2008 primarily resulted from Hurricanes Ike, Gustav and Dolly. The Companys three business segments each experienced net favorable prior year reserve development in 2010, 2009 and 2008. In the Business Insurance segment, net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $901 million, $1.03 billion and $1.12 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment, net favorable prior year reserve development in 2010, 2009 and 2008 totaled $259 million, $168 million and $274 million, respectively. In the Personal Insurance segment, net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $87 million, $135 million and $143 million, respectively. Factors contributing to net favorable prior year reserve development are discussed in more detail in the segment discussions that follow. Amortization of Deferred Acquisition Costs The amortization of deferred acquisition costs in 2010 totaled $3.80 billion, virtually level with the 2009 total. In 2009, the amortization of deferred acquisition costs totaled $3.81 billion, 2% lower than the total of $3.88 billion in 2008. Changes in the amortization of deferred acquisition costs in both 2010 and 2009 were consistent with the changes in earned premiums in each year as compared to the preceding year. General and Administrative Expenses In 2010, general and administrative expenses totaled $3.41 billion, an increase of $40 million, or 1%, over the 2009 total of $3.37 billion. The 2009 total included a reduction of $87 million in the estimate of property windpool assessments related to Hurricane Ike due to a decline in estimated insurance industry losses related to Hurricane Ike. Excluding that adjustment in 2009, general and administrative expenses in 2010 were $47 million, or 1%, lower than in 2009. The decline was concentrated in the Business Insurance segment, and was largely offset by higher expenses in the Personal Insurance segment resulting from the Companys direct to consumer initiative and in the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment due to employee and technology related costs to enhance operations and support future business growth. General and administrative expenses totaled $3.37 billion in 2009, a decrease of $152 million, or 4%, from the comparable 2008 total of $3.52 billion. The decrease reflected changes in the estimates of windpool assessments related to Hurricane Ike. During 2008, the Company recorded $141 million of 75 Table of Contents hurricane related assessments in general and administrative expenses. The Company subsequently recorded an $87 million reduction in these estimated assessments in 2009 due to a decline in estimated insurance industry losses related to Hurricane Ike. Adjusting for the impact of windpool assessments in both 2009 and 2008, general and administrative expenses in 2009 increased 2% over 2008. The increase reflected the impact of continued investments to support business growth and product development, including the Companys direct to consumer initiative in the Personal Insurance segment, partially offset by the favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on expenses in the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment. Hurricane related property windpool assessments are levied on insurers periodically by state created insurance and windstorm insurance entities such as Citizens Property Insurance Corporation in Florida, Louisiana Citizens Property Insurance Corporation and the Texas Windstorm Insurance Association. These assessments are levied on the insurers writing business in those states to fund the operating deficits of such entities during periods of significant storm activity. Hurricane related assessments are reported as a component of "General and Administrative Expenses" as the amounts paid to such entities are not insured losses of the Company. Interest Expense Interest expense in 2010, 2009 and 2008 totaled $388 million, $382 million and $370 million, respectively. The increases in 2010 and 2009 over the respective prior year primarily reflected higher average levels of debt outstanding. Effective Tax Rate The Companys effective tax rate was 25%, 23% and 21% in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The effective tax rate in 2009 benefited from the favorable resolution of prior year tax matters. Excluding that benefit in 2009, the effective tax rates in 2010 and 2009 were virtually level. The increase in the effective rate in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily resulted from the change in income before taxes between years and the proportion of tax exempt investment income in each year. GAAP Combined Ratios The consolidated GAAP combined ratio of 93.2% in 2010 was 4.0 points higher than the consolidated GAAP combined ratio of 89.2% in 2009. The consolidated loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 61.0% in 2010 was 3.7 points higher than the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 57.3% in 2009. Catastrophe losses accounted for 5.2 points and 2.1 points of the 2010 and 2009 loss and loss adjustment expense ratios, respectively. The 2010 and 2009 consolidated loss and loss adjustment expense ratios included 5.8 point and 6.2 point benefits from net favorable prior year reserve development, respectively. The consolidated loss and loss adjustment expense ratios excluding catastrophe losses and prior year reserve development in 2010 was 0.2 points higher than the 2009 ratio on the same basis, primarily reflecting the impact of reduced underwriting margins related to pricing and loss cost trends in the Business Insurance segment, largely offset by earned rate increases modestly outpacing loss cost trends in the Personal Insurance segment. The consolidated underwriting expense ratio of 32.2% in 2010 was 0.3 points higher than the 2009 consolidated underwriting expense ratio of 31.9%. The 2009 ratio reflected a 0.4 point benefit resulting from the reduction in the estimate of property windpool assessments related to Hurricane Ike. Excluding that factor in 2009, the consolidated underwriting expense ratio in 2010 was 0.1 points lower than in 2009, primarily reflecting lower expenses in the Business Insurance segment, largely offset by higher expenses in the Personal Insurance segment resulting from the Companys direct to consumer initiative and in the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment due to employee and technology related costs to enhance operations and support future business growth. 76 Table of Contents The consolidated GAAP combined ratio of 89.2% in 2009 was 2.7 points lower than the consolidated GAAP combined ratio of 91.9% in 2008. The consolidated loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 57.3% in 2009 was 2.1 points lower than the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 59.4% in 2008. Catastrophe losses accounted for 2.1 points and 5.8 points of the 2009 and 2008 loss and loss adjustment expense ratios, respectively. The 2009 and 2008 loss and loss adjustment expense ratios included 6.2 point and 7.1 point benefits from net favorable prior year reserve development, respectively. The consolidated loss and loss adjustment expense ratio adjusted for catastrophe losses and prior year reserve development in 2009 was 0.7 points higher than the 2008 ratio on the same basis, primarily reflecting the impact of loss cost trends in the Business Insurance and Personal Insurance segments, partially offset by lower non catastrophe weather related losses across the Companys segments, and fewer large property losses in the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment. In 2009, the consolidated underwriting expense ratio of 31.9% was 0.6 points lower than the consolidated underwriting expense ratio of 32.5% in 2008. The underwriting expense ratio in 2009 included a 0.4 point benefit from the reduction in the estimate of windpool assessments described above, whereas the underwriting expense ratio in 2008 included a 0.7 point increase due to the impact of the windpool assessments. Adjusting for these factors in both years, the underwriting expense ratio for 2009 was 0.5 points higher than the respective 2008 underwriting expense ratio, primarily reflecting the impact of continued investments to support business growth and product development, including the Companys direct to consumer initiative in the Personal Insurance segment, as well as salary increases in the normal course of business. Written Premiums Consolidated gross and net written premiums were as follows: Gross Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Business Insurance $ 11,891 $ 12,098 $ 12,580 Financial, Professional & International Insurance 3,534 3,713 3,966 Personal Insurance 7,877 7,474 7,291 Total $ 23,302 $ 23,285 $ 23,837 Net Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Business Insurance $ 10,857 $ 10,902 $ 11,220 Financial, Professional & International Insurance 3,211 3,285 3,468 Personal Insurance 7,567 7,149 6,995 Total $ 21,635 $ 21,336 $ 21,683 Gross written premiums increased by less than 1% in 2010, while net written premiums increased by 1%. New business volume in the Business Insurance and Personal Insurance segments in 2010 increased compared with 2009, but declined in the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment. Retention rates remained strong across all business segments. The impact of renewal rate changes on premiums remained positive in the Personal Insurance and Financial, Professional & International Insurance segments but was slightly negative in the Business Insurance segment. Gross and net written premiums in 2009 both decreased 2% from 2008. Overall, business retention remained at high levels in 2009. Renewal premium changes remained stable as improving rate trends offset the impact of lower coverage demands from existing policyholders due to general economic 77 Table of Contents conditions. New business volume declined slightly from 2008, as modest growth in the Business Insurance segment was offset by lower new business volume in the Financial, Professional & International Insurance and Personal Insurance segments. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS BY SEGMENT Business Insurance Results of the Companys Business Insurance segment were as follows: (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Revenues: Earned premiums $ 10,766 $ 10,968 $ 11,180 Net investment income 2,156 1,902 1,917 Fee income 285 306 390 Other revenues 28 42 30 Total revenues $ 13,235 $ 13,218 $ 13,517 Total claims and expenses $ 10,157 $ 9,778 $ 10,506 Operating income $ 2,301 $ 2,590 $ 2,338 Loss and loss adjustment expense ratio 59.1 % 53.9 % 57.7 % Underwriting expense ratio 32.2 32.2 32.5 GAAP combined ratio 91.3 % 86.1 % 90.2 % Overview Operating income of $2.30 billion in 2010 was $289 million, or 11%, lower than 2009 operating income of $2.59 billion, primarily reflecting the significant increase in catastrophe losses, the modest decline in net favorable prior year reserve development, reduced underwriting margins related to pricing and loss cost trends and a higher number of large losses, partially offset by an increase in net investment income and a decline in general and administrative expenses. In addition, operating income in 2009 included benefits of $42 million from the favorable resolution of various prior year tax matters and a $38 million reduction in the estimate of property windpool assessments related to Hurricane Ike. Catastrophe losses in 2010 totaled $437 million, compared with $176 million in 2009. Net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $901 million in 2010, compared with $1.03 billion in 2009. In 2009, operating income of $2.59 billion was $252 million, or 11%, higher than 2008 operating income of $2.34 billion, primarily reflecting the significant decline in catastrophe losses, which was partially offset by reduced underwriting margins and fee income. Catastrophe losses in 2009 and 2008 totaled $176 million and $706 million, respectively. The 2008 total was principally comprised of $642 million of claims and claim adjustment expenses and $62 million of property windpool assessments that were included in general and administrative expenses. Net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $1.03 billion and $1.12 billion in 2009 and 2008, respectively. Operating income in 2009 also included the favorable resolution of various prior year tax matters and reduction in the estimate of property windpool assessments benefits described above. Earned Premiums Earned premiums of $10.77 billon in 2010 decreased $202 million, or 2%, from 2009. In 2009, earned premiums of $10.97 billion decreased $212 million, or 2%, from 2008. The declines in both years were primarily attributable to reduced insured exposures due to lower levels of economic activity. 78 Table of Contents Net Investment Income Refer to the "Net Investment Income" section of "Consolidated Results of Operations" herein for a discussion of the changes in the Companys net investment income in 2010 and 2009 as compared with the prior year. Fee Income National Accounts is the primary source of fee income due to its service businesses, which include claim and loss prevention services to large companies that choose to self insure a portion of their insurance risks, as well as claims and policy management services to workers compensation residual market pools. The $21 million and $84 million declines, respectively, in fee income in 2010 and 2009 compared with the preceding year primarily reflected lower new business volume due to lower levels of economic activity and lower serviced premium and claim volume due to the de population of workers compensation residual market pools. The declines in both years also reflected the impact of both lower claim volume and lower loss costs (as fees are based either on the number of claims serviced or as a percentage of losses) driven by workers compensation reforms, as well as overall lower claim frequency and increased competition. Claims and Expenses Claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2010 totaled $6.50 billion, an increase of $467 million, or 8%, over 2009, primarily reflecting the significant increase in catastrophe losses, the modest decline in net favorable prior year reserve development, a higher number of large losses and the impact of loss cost trends. Catastrophe losses in 2010 and 2009 totaled $437 million and $176 million, respectively. Catastrophe losses in 2010 primarily resulted from several severe wind and hail storms as well as severe winter storms. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2010 and 2009 totaled $901 million and $1.03 billion, respectively. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2010 was driven by better than expected loss development in the property, general liability and workers compensation product lines for multiple accident years, as well as in assumed reinsurance, which is in runoff. The property product line improvement primarily occurred in the 2008 and 2009 accident years as a result of better than expected loss development in Industry Focused Underwriting and Target Risk Underwriting. The general liability product line improvement was concentrated in excess coverages for accident years 2006 and prior and reflected what the Company believes are favorable legal and judicial environments. Net favorable prior year reserve development in the workers compensation product line was concentrated in accident years 2007 and prior and resulted from better than expected loss development. The improvement in assumed reinsurance resulted primarily from favorable resolutions of claims and disputes from accident years 2002 and prior. In addition, better than expected loss development in the Business Insurance segment in recent years resulted in a favorable re estimation of reserves for unallocated loss adjustment expenses in 2010. The net favorable prior year reserve development in these product lines in 2010 was partially offset by $140 million and $35 million increases to asbestos and environmental reserves, respectively, which are discussed in further detail in the "Asbestos Claims and Litigation" and "Environmental Claims and Litigation" sections herein. Claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2009 totaled $6.04 billion, a decrease of $571 million, or 9%, compared with 2008. The decrease in 2009 primarily reflected the significant decline in catastrophe losses, partially offset by the impact of loss cost trends and the modest decline in net favorable prior year reserve development. Catastrophe losses included in claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2009 totaled $176 million, compared with $642 million in 2008. Catastrophe losses in 2009 primarily resulted from several wind and hail storms, as well as flooding. In 2008, Hurricanes Ike, Gustav and Dolly, and other wind, rain and hail storms in several regions of the United States accounted for the majority of catastrophe losses. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2009 and 2008 totaled $1.03 billion and $1.12 billion, respectively. The 2009 total was driven by better than expected loss development 79 Table of Contents primarily concentrated in the general liability, commercial multi peril, commercial automobile and commercial property product lines for recent accident years, reflecting greater reductions in frequency than the Company expected based upon long term frequency trends that have been declining. The general liability and commercial multi peril product lines experienced better than anticipated loss development that was attributable to several factors, including what the Company believes to be improved legal and judicial environments, as well as enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. The commercial automobile line of business experienced better than expected loss development that was attributable to what the Company believes to be more favorable legal and judicial environments, claim handling initiatives and improvements in auto safety technology. The commercial property product line improvement primarily occurred in the 2007 and 2008 accident years as a result of better than expected loss development for certain large national property and inland marine exposures. In addition, the commercial property product lines 2005 accident year experience improved due to the litigation environment relating to, and ongoing claim settlements for, Hurricane Katrina. The net favorable prior year reserve development in these product lines in 2009 was partially offset by $185 million and $70 million increases to asbestos reserves and environmental reserves, respectively (discussed in more detail in the "Asbestos Claims and Litigation" and "Environmental Claims and Litigation" sections herein). Net favorable prior year development in 2008 was driven by better than expected loss development primarily concentrated in the general liability and commercial multi peril product lines, an increase in anticipated ceded reinsurance recoveries for older accident years in the general liability product line and better than anticipated loss development in the commercial property and commercial automobile product lines. The net favorable prior year reserve development in the general liability and commercial multi peril lines was attributable to several factors, including improved legal and judicial environments, as well as enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. The commercial property product line improvement occurred primarily in the 2007 accident year as a result of better than expected loss development for certain large national property, national programs, and ocean marine claim exposures and lower than expected weather related losses during the last half of 2007, as well as favorable loss development in certain large inland marine claim exposures and in ceded reinsurance recoveries for commercial property large claims. In addition, the commercial multi peril and property product lines 2005 accident year results experienced improvement due to the litigation environment relating to, and ongoing claim settlements for, Hurricane Katrina. The commercial automobile product line improvement was attributable to several factors, including improved legal and judicial environments, as well as enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. The net favorable prior year reserve development in the foregoing product lines in 2008 was partially offset by net unfavorable prior year reserve development in the workers compensation product line, primarily driven by higher than anticipated medical costs related to 2004 and prior accident years, and by $70 million and $85 million increases to asbestos and environmental reserves, respectively (discussed in more detail in the "Asbestos Claims and Litigation" and "Environmental Claims and Litigation" sections herein). The amortization of deferred acquisition costs totaled $1.75 billion in 2010, $26 million lower than the comparable total of $1.78 billion in 2009. In 2009, the total of $1.78 billion was $43 million lower than the 2008 total of $1.82 billion. The declines in both years were consistent with the declines in earned premiums. General and administrative expenses in 2010 totaled $1.90 billion, $62 million, or 3%, lower than in 2009. The 2009 total included a $38 million reduction in the estimate of property windpool assessments related to Hurricane Ike. Adjusting for that reduction in 2009, general and administrative expenses in 2010 were $100 million, or 5%, lower than in 2009, driven by a decline in loss based assessments that reflected the impact of favorable prior year reserve development and favorable rate changes, as well as a decline in employee related expenses and a reduction in the amount of the 80 Table of Contents Companys corporate advertising expense allocated to this segment resulting from a change in focus to the Personal Insurance segments direct to consumer initiative in 2010. General and administrative expenses in 2009 totaled $1.97 billion, $113 million lower than the comparable 2008 total of $2.08 billion. The majority of the decrease reflected the impact of estimates of windpool assessments related to Hurricane Ike in each year. During 2008, the Company recorded $62 million of hurricane related assessments in general and administrative expenses. Subsequently, during the first half of 2009, the Company recorded a $38 million reduction in these assessments due to a decline in estimated insurance industry losses related to Hurricane Ike. GAAP Combined Ratio The GAAP combined ratio of 91.3% in 2010 was 5.2 points higher than the GAAP combined ratio of 86.1% in 2009. In 2010, the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 59.1% was 5.2 points higher than the 2009 ratio of 53.9%. Catastrophe losses in 2010 and 2009 accounted for 4.1 points and 1.6 points of the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio, respectively. Net favorable prior year reserve development provided 8.4 point and 9.3 point benefits to the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio in 2010 and 2009, respectively. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio in 2010 excluding catastrophe losses and prior year reserve development was 1.8 points higher than the 2009 ratio on the same basis, reflecting the impact of reduced underwriting margins related to pricing and loss cost trends and a higher number of large losses. The underwriting expense ratio of 32.2% in 2010 was level with the 2009 underwriting expense ratio. The underwriting expense ratio in 2009 included a 0.3 point benefit from the reduction in the estimate of windpool assessments described above. Adjusting for that factor in 2009, the underwriting expense ratio for 2010 was 0.3 points lower than the 2009 underwriting expense ratio. The improvement in the 2010 adjusted expense ratio reflected the decline in expenses described above. The GAAP combined ratio of 86.1% in 2009 was 4.1 points lower than the GAAP combined ratio of 90.2% in 2008. In 2009, the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 53.9% was 3.8 points lower than the comparable 2008 ratio of 57.7%. The cost of catastrophes in 2009 and 2008 accounted for 1.6 points and 5.7 points of the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio, respectively. Net favorable prior year reserve development provided 9.3 point and 10.0 point benefits to the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio in 2009 adjusted for the cost of catastrophes and prior year reserve development was 0.4 points lower than the 2008 ratio on the same basis, due to lower non catastrophe weather related losses and fewer large property losses, partially offset by reduced underwriting margins related to pricing and loss cost trends. The underwriting expense ratio of 32.2% in 2009 was 0.3 points lower than the underwriting expense ratio of 32.5% in 2008. The 2009 underwriting expense ratio included a 0.3 point benefit from the reduction in the estimate of windpool assessments described above, whereas the underwriting expense ratio in 2008 included a 0.6 point increase due to the impact from the windpool assessments and reinstatement premiums. Adjusting for these factors in both years, the underwriting expense ratio for 2009 was 0.6 points higher than the 2008 underwriting expense ratio, primarily reflecting the unfavorable impact of the decline in fee income compared with 2008. A portion of fee income is accounted for as a reduction of expenses for purposes of calculating the expense ratio. 81  Table of Contents Written Premiums The Business Insurance segments gross and net written premiums by market were as follows: Gross Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Select Accounts $ 2,758 $ 2,804 $ 2,804 Commercial Accounts 2,753 2,687 2,729 National Accounts 1,111 1,321 1,577 Industry Focused Underwriting 2,368 2,363 2,485 Target Risk Underwriting 2,008 2,014 2,029 Specialized Distribution 883 901 954 Total Business Insurance Core 11,881 12,090 12,578 Business Insurance Other 10 8 2 Total Business Insurance $ 11,891 $ 12,098 $ 12,580 Net Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Select Accounts $ 2,718 $ 2,756 $ 2,756 Commercial Accounts 2,576 2,493 2,524 National Accounts 806 902 996 Industry Focused Underwriting 2,299 2,279 2,396 Target Risk Underwriting 1,573 1,568 1,593 Specialized Distribution 872 889 939 Total Business Insurance Core 10,844 10,887 11,204 Business Insurance Other 13 15 16 Total Business Insurance $ 10,857 $ 10,902 $ 11,220 In Business Insurance Core, gross and net written premiums decreased by 2% and less than 1%, respectively, from 2009. In 2009, Business Insurance Core gross and net written premiums decreased by 4% and 3% from 2008, respectively. The difference in rates of decline between gross and net written premiums in 2010 and 2009 was concentrated in National Accounts. A significant portion of gross written premiums for products offered by both Discover Re and Residual Markets is ceded to other insurers and residual market pools. As a result, the decline in gross written premiums did not have a proportional impact on net written premiums. The decline in gross and net written premiums in 2010 and 2009 was driven in large part by lower levels of economic activity that impacted exposure changes at renewal, audit premium adjustments, policy endorsements and mid term cancellations. Select Accounts. Net written premiums of $2.72 billion in 2010 decreased 1% from 2009. Business retention rates in 2010 remained strong but were slightly lower than in 2009. Renewal premium changes remained positive in 2010 and increased over 2009, reflecting positive renewal rate changes and modest exposure growth. New business volume in 2010 declined compared with 2009, driven by lower business volumes from larger accounts where marketplace competition remained high. Net written premiums of $2.76 billion in 2009 were level with 2008. Business retention rates remained strong, but declined slightly from the prior year. Renewal premium changes were positive in 2009 and increased over 2008. New business volume in 2009 increased slightly over 2008, driven by the continued success of the Companys quote to issue agency platform and multivariate pricing program for smaller businesses, partially offset by lower business volumes in larger, more complex accounts served by this market. 82 Table of Contents Commercial Accounts. Net written premiums of $2.58 billion in 2010 were 3% higher than in 2009. Business retention rates in 2010 remained strong and increased slightly over 2009. Renewal premium changes in 2010 were slightly positive, as positive renewal rate changes were largely offset by a modest decline in exposures that reflected the impact of general economic conditions. New business levels also increased over 2009. In 2009, net written premiums of $2.49 billion were 1% lower than in 2008. Business retention rates in 2009 remained strong but declined slightly from the prior year. Renewal premium changes were slightly negative in 2009 but were improved over 2008, as the impact of a continued improving rate trend was partially offset by the impact of general economic conditions. New business levels increased when compared with 2008 due to various product and customer initiatives. National Accounts. Net written premiums of $806 million in 2010 were 11% lower than in 2009, reflecting reduced insurance exposures driven by lower levels of economic activity, less prior year retrospective premium adjustments and the loss of a large account. Despite the loss of that account, business retention rates remained high in 2010. In 2009, net written premiums of $902 million were 9% lower than in 2008, driven by the loss of a large account, negative renewal premium changes that reflected the impact of general economic conditions, and lower premium volume from property and workers compensation involuntary residual markets. Despite the impact of the loss of a large account, business retention rates remained high in 2009. Industry Focused Underwriting. Net written premiums of $2.30 billion in 2010 increased 1% over 2009. Premium growth in 2010 was concentrated in the Technology, Agribusiness and Oil & Gas business units. In the Technology business unit, the 3% growth in net written premiums over 2009 reflected continued strong business retention rates and new business levels. In the Agribusiness business unit, the 5% growth in net written premiums was primarily driven by an increase in renewal premium changes and strong business retention rates. In the Oil & Gas business unit, net written premiums increased by 3% over 2009, primarily reflecting a decline in ceded premiums. In 2009, net written premiums of $2.28 billion declined 5% from 2008. Premium declines were concentrated in the Construction and Oil & Gas business units, reflecting the impact of general economic conditions in these industries. In addition, premium volume in the Technology and Public Sector business units declined, reflecting the impact of general economic conditions and competitive market pressures. These declines were partially offset by premium growth in the Agribusiness business unit in 2009. Target Risk Underwriting. Net written premiums of $1.57 billion in 2010 were slightly higher than in 2009. Premium growth in the Boiler & Machinery and Inland Marine business units was driven by increases in new business volume coupled with increases in business retention rates. Growth in these business units was largely offset by a decline in National Property premium volume, driven by reductions in renewal premium changes and new business levels. In 2009, net written premiums of $1.57 billion were 2% lower than in 2008, primarily due to the Inland Marine and Ocean Marine business units, reflecting the impact of general economic conditions and a decline in new business volume. Partially offsetting the declines in these business units was strong growth in National Property premium volume in 2009 due to significant increases in renewal premium changes. Excess Casualty written premiums also increased over 2008, due to a change in the terms of certain reinsurance treaties that resulted in a higher level of business retained. Specialized Distribution. Net written premiums of $872 million in 2010 were 2% lower than in 2009, primarily driven by negative renewal premium changes in both the Northland and National Programs business units. Business retention rates in both business units increased over 2009. 83 Table of Contents In 2009, net written premiums of $889 million were 5% lower than in 2008. The decline was attributable to both the National Programs and Northland business units, which experienced continued negative renewal premium changes that reflected competitive market conditions and the impact of general economic conditions, primarily on the commercial trucking, entertainment and leisure industries. Financial, Professional & International Insurance Results of the Companys Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment were as follows: (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Revenues: Earned premiums $ 3,317 $ 3,333 $ 3,429 Net investment income 439 452 454 Fee income 2 Other revenues 27 27 24 Total revenues $ 3,785 $ 3,812 $ 3,907 Total claims and expenses $ 2,920 $ 2,948 $ 3,004 Operating income $ 620 $ 642 $ 649 Loss and loss adjustment expense ratio 50.9 % 52.1 % 51.2 % Underwriting expense ratio 36.8 36.0 36.0 GAAP combined ratio 87.7 % 88.1 % 87.2 % Overview Operating income of $620 million in 2010 was $22 million, or 3%, lower than in 2009, primarily driven by increases in catastrophe losses, non catastrophe weather related losses, and general and administrative expenses, as well as lower business volumes, which were partially offset by an increase in net favorable prior year reserve development. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2010 and 2009 totaled $259 million and $168 million, respectively. Catastrophe losses in 2010 and 2009 totaled $82 million and $3 million, respectively. In 2009, operating income of $642 million was $7 million, or 1%, lower than in 2008. A reduction in net favorable prior year reserve development was largely offset by a decline in the cost of catastrophes and lower large losses in International. Net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $168 million and $274 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The cost of catastrophes totaled $3 million and $84 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. Earned Premiums Earned premiums of $3.32 billion in 2010 were slightly lower than in 2009, primarily reflecting the impact of intentional underwriting actions taken and competitive market conditions in the Professional Liability business unit and in the Companys operation at Lloyds. These factors were largely offset by lower reinsurance costs, the impact of changes in the structure of the Companys reinsurance during the first quarter of 2010 that modestly increased retentions to directionally align retentions in the Companys International business with its U.S. practices, and the favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates. Earned premiums of $3.33 billion in 2009 declined $96 million, or 3%, from the 2008 total due to the unfavorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates. Adjusting for the impact of 84 Table of Contents exchange rates, earned premiums in this segment in 2009 were slightly higher than in 2008, primarily reflecting growth in International. Net Investment Income Net investment income in 2010 decreased by $13 million compared with 2009. Included in the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment are certain legal entities whose invested assets and related net investment income are reported exclusively in this segment and not allocated among all business segments. As a result, reported net investment income in the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment reflects a significantly smaller proportion of allocated net investment income, including that from the Companys non fixed maturity investments that experienced a substantial increase in investment income in 2010. Refer to the "Net Investment Income" section of "Consolidated Results of Operations" herein for a discussion of the change in the Companys consolidated net investment income in 2010 and 2009 as compared with the respective prior years. In addition, refer to note 2 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the Companys net investment income allocation methodology. In 2009, the slight decline in net investment income compared with 2008 was primarily driven by the unfavorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates, which reduced reported net investment income by approximately $18 million in 2009. Claims and Expenses Claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2010 totaled $1.70 billion, a decrease of $47 million, or 3%, from 2009, primarily reflecting an increase in net favorable prior year reserve development offset by increases in catastrophe losses and non catastrophe weather related losses. In addition, the 2009 total included an increase in reserves for a non renewed professional liability program in Ireland. Net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $259 million and $168 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively In Bond & Financial Products, net favorable prior year reserve development in 2010 was driven by better than expected loss development in the surety and management liability lines of business due to lower than expected claim activity and loss severity in the 2008 and prior accident years. In International, the majority of net favorable prior year reserve development in 2010 occurred at the Companys operation at Lloyds, in Canada and in the United Kingdom. Catastrophe losses in 2010 and 2009 totaled $82 million and $3 million, respectively. An earthquake in Chile accounted for substantially all catastrophe losses incurred in 2010. Claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2009 totaled $1.75 billion, a decrease of $22 million, or 1%, from 2008. The decrease in 2009 was driven by a $73 million favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates. A decrease in net favorable prior year reserve development was largely offset by declines in catastrophe losses and large losses in International. Net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $168 million and $274 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2009 was driven by better than expected loss development in International, particularly in the United Kingdom and Canada. In addition, the Aviation and Property lines of business at Lloyds experienced net favorable prior year reserve development in 2009. In Bond & Financial Products, better than expected loss development for the contract surety business within the fidelity and surety product line for recent accident years also resulted in net favorable prior year reserve development in 2009. The catastrophe losses included in claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2009 totaled $3 million, compared with $73 million in 2008. Net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $274 million in 2008, primarily driven by better than expected loss development in International. The improvements in longer tail lines of business were attributable to several factors, including enhanced risk control and underwriting strategies throughout International. In the property line of business, the improvement primarily resulted from better than anticipated loss development in the United Kingdom, in part due to favorable claim activity 85 Table of Contents relating to 2007 flood losses. In Bond & Financial Products, better than expected loss development for the contract surety business within the fidelity and surety product line, resulting from favorable settlements on large claims (primarily from accident years prior to 2005), resulted in net favorable prior year reserve development in 2008. The amortization of deferred acquisition costs totaled $612 million in 2010, $10 million, or 2%, lower than the comparable 2009 total of $622 million, consistent with the decline in earned premiums. In 2009, the amortization of deferred acquisition costs totaled $622 million, $30 million, or 5%, lower than the comparable 2008 total of $652 million, driven by the favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates and changes in the mix of business. General and administrative expenses in 2010 totaled $608 million, $29 million, or 5%, higher than the 2009 total of $579 million. The increase in 2010 primarily reflected increases in employee and technology related costs to enhance operations and support future business growth. In 2009, general and administrative expenses of $579 million were slightly lower than the 2008 total of $581 million, primarily reflecting the favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates, which was largely offset by an increase in employee related expenses associated with growth initiatives. GAAP Combined Ratio The GAAP combined ratio of 87.7% in 2010 was 0.4 points lower than the GAAP combined ratio of 88.1% in 2009. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 50.9% in 2010 was 1.2 points lower than the 2009 ratio of 52.1%. Catastrophe losses in 2010 and 2009 accounted for 2.4 and 0.1 points of the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio, respectively. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratios in 2010 and 2009 included 7.8 point and 5.1 point benefits, respectively, from net favorable prior year reserve development. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio in 2010 excluding catastrophe losses and prior year reserve development was 0.8 points lower than the 2009 ratio on the same basis, reflecting lower reinsurance costs, partially offset by an increase in non catastrophe weather related losses. In addition, the 2009 ratio reflected a reserve increase for a non renewed professional liability program in Ireland. The underwriting expense ratio of 36.8% in 2010 was 0.8 points higher than the underwriting expense ratio of 36.0% in 2009. The increase primarily reflected the impact of increases in employee and technology related costs to enhance operations and support future business growth. The GAAP combined ratio of 88.1% in 2009 was 0.9 points higher than the GAAP combined ratio of 87.2% in 2008. In 2009, the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 52.1% was 0.9 points higher than the 2008 ratio of 51.2%. Catastrophe losses in 2009 and 2008 accounted for 0.1 and 2.3 points of the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio, respectively. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratios in 2009 and 2008 included 5.1 point and 8.0 point benefits, respectively, from net favorable prior year reserve development. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio in 2009 adjusted for catastrophe losses and prior year reserve development was 0.2 points higher than the 2008 ratio on the same basis, as the impact of loss cost trends was partially offset by the favorable impact of lower large losses in International. In 2009, the underwriting expense ratio of 36.0% was level with the underwriting expense ratio in 2008. The 2008 expense ratio included a 0.2 point impact from hurricane related assessments. Adjusting for that factor in 2008, the 2009 underwriting expense ratio was 0.2 points higher than the 2008 ratio. 86 Table of Contents Written Premiums Financial, Professional & International Insurance gross and net written premiums by market were as follows: Gross Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Bond & Financial Products $ 2,133 $ 2,262 $ 2,378 International 1,401 1,451 1,588 Total Financial, Professional & International Insurance $ 3,534 $ 3,713 $ 3,966 Net Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Bond & Financial Products $ 1,981 $ 2,040 $ 2,126 International 1,230 1,245 1,342 Total Financial, Professional & International Insurance $ 3,211 $ 3,285 $ 3,468 Gross and net written premiums in 2010 decreased 5% and 2%, respectively, compared with 2009. Net written premiums for Bond & Financial Products in 2010 declined 3% from 2009, primarily reflecting the impact of underwriting actions taken and competitive market conditions in the Professional Liability and Public Company Liability business units. In addition, construction and commercial surety gross and net written premium volume declined in 2010 compared with 2009, reflecting the impact of the economic downturn. These factors were partially offset on a net basis by a reduction in reinsurance costs. In International, the 1% decline in net written premiums in 2010 compared with 2009 primarily reflected the impact of intentional underwriting actions and competitive market conditions. Those factors were largely offset by changes in the structure of the Companys reinsurance that modestly increased retentions to directionally align retentions in the Companys International business with its U.S. practices, as well as the favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates. In late 2008, the Company commenced an exclusive relationship with a broker in the Republic of Ireland that significantly increased the 2009 volume of personal automobile coverage written and also resulted in the Company writing personal household coverages. The Company ceased writing business through this relationship in the fourth quarter of 2010. Gross written premiums of $3.71 billion in 2009 decreased 6% from 2008, and net written premiums of $3.29 billion in 2009 decreased 5% from 2008. The decline in gross and net written premiums was primarily attributable to the unfavorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates in International. The remainder of the decline was driven by the impact of the economic downturn on construction and commercial surety business volume, underwriting actions taken and competitive market conditions in the Professional Liability and Public Company Liability components of Bond & Financial Products management liability business, partially offset by growth in Ireland. In Bond & Financial Products (excluding the surety line of business, for which the following are not relevant measures), business retention rates in 2010 were strong and slightly higher than in 2009. Renewal premium changes in 2010 were negative, reflecting both a decline in renewal rate changes and reduced insured exposures due to intentional underwriting actions taken and lower levels of economic activity. New business volume in 2010 declined from 2009, which reflected increasingly competitive market conditions in 2010. For International (also excluding the surety line of business), business retention rates in 2010 declined from 2009. New business volume in International also declined in 2010, primarily due to intentional underwriting actions and the termination of a broker relationship in Ireland. Renewal premium changes were slightly positive in 2010, driven by positive renewal rate changes, partially offset by reduced insured exposures. 87 Table of Contents In 2009 in Bond & Financial Products, business retention rates remained strong but decreased from 2008, primarily in professional liability. Renewal premium changes in 2009 increased slightly over 2008, as the impact of slight positive renewal rate changes on written premiums was largely offset by reduced insured exposures due to underwriting actions and lower levels of economic activity. New business levels in 2009 were lower than in 2008. In International, business retention rates in 2009 declined from 2008, primarily due to underwriting actions taken in the United Kingdom, Ireland and at the Companys operations at Lloyds. Renewal premium changes improved over 2008 and new business levels declined when compared with 2008. Personal Insurance Results of the Companys Personal Insurance segment were as follows: (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Revenues: Earned premiums $ 7,349 $ 7,117 $ 6,970 Net investment income 464 422 421 Other revenues 75 84 75 Total revenues $ 7,888 $ 7,623 $ 7,466 Total claims and expenses $ 7,314 $ 6,824 $ 6,885 Operating income $ 440 $ 601 $ 465 Loss and loss adjustment expense ratio 68.1 % 65.0 % 66.2 % Underwriting expense ratio 30.2 29.6 30.8 GAAP combined ratio 98.3 % 94.6 % 97.0 % Incremental impact of direct to consumer initiative on GAAP combined ratio 2.2 % 1.7 % 0.5 % Overview In 2010, operating income of $440 million was $161 million, or 27%, lower than in 2009. The decline primarily reflected the significant increase in catastrophe losses, a decline in net favorable prior year reserve development and an increase in expenses related to the Companys direct to consumer initiative. These factors were partially offset by increases in net investment income and business volume, the favorable impact of earned rate increases outpacing loss cost trends and a reduction in non catastrophe weather related losses. In addition, operating income in 2009 included a $48 million reduction in the estimate of property windpool assessments related to Hurricane Ike that had been recorded in general and administrative expenses in 2008. Catastrophe losses in 2010 and 2009 totaled $594 million and $278 million, respectively. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2010 and 2009 totaled $87 million and $135 million, respectively. In 2009, operating income of $601 million was $136 million, or 29%, higher than in 2008, driven by the significant decline in catastrophe losses and a reduction in the estimate of property windpool assessments, partially offset by investments in the direct to consumer initiative and loss cost trends. Catastrophe losses in 2009 and 2008 totaled $278 million and $618 million, respectively. The 2008 total was comprised of $541 million of claims and claim adjustment expenses and $77 million of property windpool assessments that were included in general and administrative expenses. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2009 and 2008 totaled $135 million and $143 million, respectively. 88  Table of Contents Earned Premiums Earned premiums of $7.35 billion in 2010 were $232 million, or 3%, higher than in 2009. In 2009, earned premiums of $7.12 billion were $147 million, or 2%, higher than in 2008. The increases in both years reflected continued strong business retention rates and renewal premium increases, and growth in new business volume during the preceding twelve months. Net Investment Income Refer to the "Net Investment Income" section of "Consolidated Results of Operations" herein for a discussion of the change in the Companys net investment income in 2010 and 2009 as compared with the prior year. Claims and Expenses Claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2010 totaled $5.01 billion, an increase of $382 million, or 8%, over 2009. The total in 2010 reflected the significant increase in catastrophe losses, the reduction in net favorable prior year reserve development and increased business volume, partially offset by a decline in non catastrophe weather related losses and improved loss cost trends. Catastrophe losses in 2010 and 2009 totaled $594 million and $278 million, respectively. Catastrophe losses in 2010 resulted from several severe wind and hail storms. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2010 and 2009 totaled $87 million and $135 million, respectively. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2010 was concentrated in the Homeowners and Other product line, primarily driven by favorable loss development in the 2008 and prior accident years, primarily for the umbrella line of business, partially offset by unfavorable loss development in the 2009 accident year for the homeowners line of business that was driven by higher than anticipated late reported claims related to storms in 2009. In 2009, claims and claim adjustment expenses of $4.62 billion were slightly higher than in 2008, as the impacts of loss cost trends and increased business volume were largely offset by the significant decline in catastrophe losses. Catastrophe losses included in claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2009 totaled $278 million, compared with $541 million in 2008. Catastrophe losses in 2009 primarily resulted from several wind and hail storms, as well as flooding. Catastrophe losses in 2008 primarily resulted from Hurricanes Ike and Gustav, as well as tornado, wind and hail storms in various regions of the United States throughout the year. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2009 totaled $135 million, compared with $143 million in 2008. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2009 primarily reflected favorable loss development related to Hurricanes Ike and Katrina, as well as the 2007 California wildfires. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2008 was primarily driven by favorable loss development related to Hurricane Katrina and better than expected loss development from recent accident years for the Homeowners and Other product line. This improvement was driven in part by claim initiatives as well as better than expected outcomes on 2007 catastrophe related claims. In addition, the Homeowners and Other product line experienced improvement in older accident years for the umbrella line as well as favorable experience from accident year 2007 for allied coverages due to less than expected claim activity. The amortization of deferred acquisition costs totaled $1.44 billion in 2010, compared with $1.42 billion in 2009 and $1.41 billion in 2008. The increases in 2010 and 2009 over the preceding year were consistent with earned premium increases in both years. General and administrative expenses of $867 million in 2010 were $83 million higher than in 2009. The total in 2009 reflected a $48 million reduction in the estimate of property windpool assessments related to Hurricane Ike. Adjusting for the impact of the reduction in windpool assessments in 2009, general and administrative expenses in 2010 increased $35 million, or 4%, over 2009, primarily 89 Table of Contents reflecting growth in business volume and continued costs supporting business growth and product development, including the Companys direct to consumer initiative. In 2009, general and administrative expenses of $784 million were $45 million lower than the comparable 2008 total of $829 million. The decrease resulted from revised estimates of windpool assessments related to Hurricane Ike. During 2008, the Company recorded $77 million of estimated property windpool assessments in the Personal Insurance segment in general and administrative expenses. Subsequently, during the first half of 2009, the Company recorded a $48 million reduction in these estimated assessments due to a decline in estimated insurance industry losses related to Hurricane Ike. Adjusting for the impact of windpool assessments in both 2009 and 2008, general and administrative expenses in 2009 increased 11%, over 2008, primarily reflecting growth in business volume and continued investments to support business growth and product development, including the Companys direct to consumer initiative. GAAP Combined Ratio The GAAP combined ratio of 98.3% in 2010 was 3.7 points higher than the GAAP combined ratio of 94.6% in 2009. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 68.1% in 2010 was 3.1 points higher than the 2009 ratio of 65.0%. Catastrophe losses accounted for 8.1 and 3.9 points of the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio in 2010 and 2009, respectively. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratios for 2010 and 2009 included 1.2 point and 1.9 point benefits, respectively, from net favorable prior year reserve development. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio excluding catastrophe losses and prior year reserve development in 2010 was 1.8 points lower than the 2009 ratio on the same basis, reflecting the favorable impact of earned rate increases outpacing loss cost trends and a reduction in non catastrophe weather related losses. The underwriting expense ratio of 30.2% in 2010 was 0.6 points higher than the underwriting expense ratio of 29.6% in 2009. The 2009 underwriting expense ratio included a 0.7 point benefit from the reduction in the estimate of windpool assessments described above. The GAAP combined ratio of 94.6% in 2009 was 2.4 points lower than the GAAP combined ratio of 97.0% in 2008. In 2009, the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 65.0% was 1.2 points lower than the comparable 2008 ratio of 66.2%. Catastrophe losses accounted for 3.9 points and 7.8 points of the 2009 and 2008 loss and loss adjustment expense ratios, respectively. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratios for 2009 and 2008 included 1.9 point and 2.1 point benefits, respectively, from net favorable prior year reserve development. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratios adjusted for catastrophe losses and prior year reserve development for 2009 was 2.5 points higher than the 2008 ratio on the same basis, primarily reflecting the impact of loss cost trends. In 2009, the underwriting expense ratio of 29.6% was 1.2 points lower than the underwriting expense ratio of 30.8% in 2008. The 2009 underwriting expense ratio included a 0.7 point benefit from the reduction in the estimate of windpool assessments described above, whereas the 2008 underwriting expense ratio included a 1.1 point increase due to the impact related to the windpool assessments. Adjusting for these factors in both years, the underwriting expense ratio for 2009 was 0.6 points higher than the 2008 underwriting expense ratio, primarily reflecting expenses resulting from the Companys direct to consumer initiative. 90 Table of Contents Agency Written Premiums Gross and net written premiums by product line were as follows for the Personal Insurance segments Agency business, which comprises business written through agents, brokers and other intermediaries and represents almost all of the segments gross and net written premiums: Gross Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Agency Automobile $ 3,720 $ 3,610 $ 3,680 Agency Homeowners and Other 4,060 3,809 3,599 Total Agency Personal Insurance $ 7,780 $ 7,419 $ 7,279 Net Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Agency Automobile $ 3,698 $ 3,586 $ 3,651 Agency Homeowners and Other 3,772 3,508 3,333 Total Agency Personal Insurance $ 7,470 $ 7,094 $ 6,984 Gross and net Agency written premiums in 2010 both increased 5% over the respective totals in 2009. In 2009, gross and net Agency written premiums both increased by 2% over the respective 2008 totals. In 2010, net written premiums in the Agency Automobile line of business increased 3% over 2009, primarily reflecting the impact of the introduction of twelve month policy terms in certain markets in 2010. Excluding the impact of the change in policy terms in 2010, Agency Automobile net written premiums were virtually level with 2009. Business retention rates remained strong and new business levels increased over 2009. Renewal premium changes were positive in 2010 but declined slightly from 2009. In 2010, net written premiums in the Agency Homeowners and Other line of business increased 8% over 2009, primarily driven by increases in renewal premium changes, business retention rates and new business levels. In 2009, net written premiums in the Agency Automobile line of business decreased 2% from 2008. The impact of increasing renewal premium changes was more than offset by declines in new business volume and business retention rates compared with 2008. In 2009, net written premiums in the Agency Homeowners and Other line of business grew 5% over 2008, driven by increases in renewal premium changes. New business volume was consistent with 2008 and business retention rates remained strong and consistent with 2008. For its Agency business, the Personal Insurance segment had approximately 7.6 million and 7.4 million active policies at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In the Agency Automobile line of business, active policies at December 31, 2010 increased 2% over the same date in 2009. Active policies in the Agency Homeowners and Other line of business at December 31, 2010 grew by 3% over the same date in 2009. Interest Expense and Other (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Operating loss $ (318 ) $ (233 ) $ (257 ) 91 Table of Contents The $85 million increase in operating loss for Interest Expense and Other in 2010 compared with 2009 primarily reflected $39 million of expenses related to the Companys purchase and retirement of a significant portion of its 6.25% fixed to floating rate junior subordinated debentures. The operating loss in 2010 also included a $12 million increase in tax expense associated with recent federal health care legislation and an increase in interest expense. In addition, the operating loss in 2009 included a benefit of $28 million from the favorable resolution of various prior year tax matters. After tax interest expense in 2010 totaled $252 million, compared with $248 million in 2009. The $24 million decline in operating loss for Interest Expense and Other in 2009 compared with 2008 primarily reflected the benefit of $28 million in 2009 from the favorable resolution of various prior year tax matters. After tax interest expense in 2009 totaled $248 million, compared with $239 million in 2008. ASBESTOS CLAIMS AND LITIGATION The Company believes that the property and casualty insurance industry has suffered from court decisions and other trends that have attempted to expand insurance coverage for asbestos claims far beyond the intent of insurers and policyholders. While the Company has experienced a decrease in new asbestos claims over the past several years, the Company continues to receive a significant number of asbestos claims from the Companys policyholders (which includes others seeking coverage under a policy), including claims against the Companys policyholders by individuals who do not appear to be impaired by asbestos exposure. Factors underlying these claim filings include intensive advertising by lawyers seeking asbestos claimants and the focus by plaintiffs on previously peripheral defendants. The focus on these defendants is primarily the result of the number of traditional asbestos defendants who have sought bankruptcy protection in previous years. In addition to contributing to the overall number of claims, bankruptcy proceedings may increase the volatility of asbestos related losses by initially delaying the reporting of claims and later by significantly accelerating and increasing loss payments by insurers, including the Company. The bankruptcy of many traditional defendants has also caused increased settlement demands against those policyholders who are not in bankruptcy but that remain in the tort system. Currently, in many jurisdictions, those who allege very serious injury and who can present credible medical evidence of their injuries are receiving priority trial settings in the courts, while those who have not shown any credible disease manifestation are having their hearing dates delayed or placed on an inactive docket. This trend of prioritizing claims involving credible evidence of injuries, along with the focus on previously peripheral defendants, contributes to the claims and claim adjustment expense payments experienced by the Company. The Companys asbestos related claims and claim adjustment expense experience also has been impacted by the unavailability of other insurance sources potentially available to policyholders, whether through exhaustion of policy limits or through the insolvency of other participating insurers. The Company continues to be involved in coverage litigation concerning a number of policyholders, some of whom have filed for bankruptcy, who in some instances have asserted that all or a portion of their asbestos related claims are not subject to aggregate limits on coverage. In these instances, policyholders also may assert that each individual bodily injury claim should be treated as a separate occurrence under the policy. It is difficult to predict whether these policyholders will be successful on both issues. To the extent both issues are resolved in a policyholders favor and other Company defenses are not successful, the Companys coverage obligations under the policies at issue would be materially increased and bounded only by the applicable per occurrence limits and the number of asbestos bodily injury claims against the policyholders. Accordingly, although the Company has seen a moderation in the overall risk associated with these lawsuits, it remains difficult to predict the ultimate cost of these claims. Many coverage disputes with policyholders are only resolved through settlement agreements. Because many policyholders make exaggerated demands, it is difficult to predict the outcome of 92 Table of Contents settlement negotiations. Settlements involving bankrupt policyholders may include extensive releases which are favorable to the Company but which could result in settlements for larger amounts than originally anticipated. There also may be instances where a court may not approve a proposed settlement, which may result in additional litigation and potentially less beneficial outcomes for the Company. As in the past, the Company will continue to pursue settlement opportunities. In addition to claims against policyholders, proceedings have been launched directly against insurers, including the Company, by individuals challenging insurers conduct with respect to the handling of past asbestos claims and by individuals seeking damages arising from alleged asbestos related bodily injuries. The Company anticipates the filing of other direct actions against insurers, including the Company, in the future. It is difficult to predict the outcome of these proceedings, including whether the plaintiffs will be able to sustain these actions against insurers based on novel legal theories of liability. The Company believes it has meritorious defenses to these claims and has received favorable rulings in certain jurisdictions. Travelers Property Casualty Corp. (TPC), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, had entered into settlement agreements, which are subject to a number of contingencies, in connection with a number of these direct action claims. These settlement agreements had been approved by the court in connection with proceedings initiated by TPC in the Johns Manville bankruptcy court. On March 29, 2006, the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York substantially affirmed the bankruptcy courts orders, while vacating that portion of the bankruptcy courts orders which required all future direct actions against TPC to first be approved by the bankruptcy court before proceeding in state or federal court. Various parties appealed the district courts ruling to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. On February 15, 2008, the Second Circuit issued an opinion vacating on jurisdictional grounds the district courts approval of the bankruptcy courts order that barred the filing of certain direct action claims against TPC in the future. TPC and certain other parties filed Petitions for Writ of Certiorari in the United States Supreme Court seeking review of the Second Circuits decision. Those petitions were granted and on June 18, 2009, the Supreme Court ruled in favor of the Company, reversing the Second Circuits decision. However, since the Second Circuit had not ruled on several additional issues principally related to procedural matters and the adequacy of notice provided to certain parties, the Supreme Court remanded the case to the Second Circuit for further proceedings on those specific issues. On March 22, 2010, the Second Circuit issued an opinion in which it found that the notice of the 1986 Orders provided to the remaining objector was insufficient to bar contribution claims by that objector against TPC. On April 5, 2010, TPC filed a Petition for Rehearing and Rehearing En Banc with the Second Circuit, requesting further review of its March 22, 2010 opinion, which was denied on May 25, 2010. On August 18, 2010, TPC filed a Petition for Writ of Certiorari in the United States Supreme Court seeking review of the Second Circuits March 22, 2010 opinion, and a Petition for a Writ of Mandamus seeking an order from the Supreme Court requiring the Second Circuit to comply with the Supreme Courts June 18, 2009 ruling in TPCs favor. The Supreme Court denied the Petitions on November 29, 2010. The plaintiffs in the Statutory and Hawaii actions and the Common Law Claims actions (as defined in note 15 to the consolidated financial statements) filed Motions to Compel with the bankruptcy court on September 2, 2010 and September 3, 2010, respectively, arguing that all conditions precedent to the settlements have been met and seeking to require TPC to pay the settlement amounts. On September 30, 2010, TPC filed an Opposition to the plaintiffs Motions to Compel on the grounds that the conditions precedent to the settlements, principally the requirement that all contribution claims be barred, have not been met in light of the Second Circuits March 22, 2010 opinion. On December 16, 2010, the bankruptcy court granted the plaintiffs motions and ruled that TPC was required to fund the settlements. On January 20, 2011, the bankruptcy court entered judgment in accordance with its December 16, 2010 ruling and ordered TPC to pay the settlement amounts plus prejudgment interest. On January 21, 2011, TPC filed an appeal with the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York from the 93 Table of Contents bankruptcy courts January 20, 2011 judgment. (For a description of these matters, see note 15 of notes to the consolidated financial statements). Because each policyholder presents different liability and coverage issues, the Company generally reviews the exposure presented by each policyholder at least annually. Among the factors which the Company may consider in the course of this review are: available insurance coverage, including the role of any umbrella or excess insurance the Company has issued to the policyholder; limits and deductibles; an analysis of the policyholders potential liability; the jurisdictions involved; past and anticipated future claim activity and loss development on pending claims; past settlement values of similar claims; allocated claim adjustment expense; potential role of other insurance; the role, if any, of non asbestos claims or potential non asbestos claims in any resolution process; and applicable coverage defenses or determinations, if any, including the determination as to whether or not an asbestos claim is a products/completed operation claim subject to an aggregate limit and the available coverage, if any, for that claim. In the third quarter of 2010, the Company completed its annual in depth asbestos claim review and noted the continuation of recent trends, which include: continued high level of litigation activity involving individuals alleging serious asbestos related illness; stable payment patterns for a large proportion of policyholders; a decrease in the number of large asbestos exposures confronting the Company due to additional settlement activity; continued moderate level of asbestos related bankruptcy activity; and the absence of new theories of liability or new classes of defendants. While the Company believes that these trends indicate a reduction in the volatility associated with the Companys overall asbestos exposure, there nonetheless remains a high degree of uncertainty with respect to future exposure from asbestos claims. The Companys quarterly asbestos reserve review includes an analysis of exposure and claim payment patterns by policyholder category, as well as recent settlements, policyholder bankruptcies, judicial rulings and legislative actions. The Company also analyzes developing payment patterns among policyholders in the Home Office, Field Office and Assumed Reinsurance and Other categories as well as projected reinsurance billings and recoveries. In addition, the Company reviews its historical gross and net loss and expense paid experience, year by year, to assess any emerging trends, fluctuations, or characteristics suggested by the aggregate paid activity. Conventional actuarial methods are not utilized to establish asbestos reserves nor have the Companys evaluations resulted in any way of determining a meaningful average asbestos defense or indemnity payment. As in prior years, the annual claim review considered active policyholders and litigation cases for potential product and "non product" liability. Compared with the prior year period, the Home Office and Field Office categories, which account for the vast majority of policyholders with active asbestos related claims, experienced an overall reduction in the number of policyholders who, for the first time, were tendering asbestos claims. However, gross defense and indemnity payment patterns in these categories remained consistent with what the Company has experienced in recent years due to the high level of litigation activity in a limited number of jurisdictions where individuals alleging serious asbestos related injury continue to target previously peripheral defendants. The completion of these reviews and analyses in the third quarter resulted in a net $140 million increase in the Companys asbestos reserves, driven by increases in the Companys estimate of 1) projected settlement and defense costs related to a broad number of policyholders; 2) costs of litigating asbestos related coverage matters; and 3) projected payments on assumed reinsurance 94 Table of Contents accounts. This increase included a $70 million benefit from the reduction in the allowance for uncollectible reinsurance resulting from a recent favorable ruling related to a reinsurance dispute and an increase in estimated reinsurance recoverables. In 2009, the Company recorded a $185 million increase in asbestos reserves, primarily driven by a slight increase in the Companys assumption for projected defense costs related to many policyholders. The Company recorded a $70 million increase to asbestos reserves in 2008, which was driven by a change in the estimated costs associated with litigating asbestos coverage matters and a change in estimated losses for certain individual policyholders. Overall, the companys assessment of the underlying asbestos environment did not change significantly from recent periods. Net asbestos losses paid in 2010, 2009 and 2008 were $350 million, $341 million and $658 million, respectively. (Asbestos payments in 2008 included the Companys one time net payment of $365 million associated with the settlement of the ACandS, Inc. matter). Approximately 32%, 41% and 59% of total net paid losses in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, related to policyholders with whom the Company had entered into settlement agreements limiting the Companys liability. The Company categorizes its asbestos reserves as follows: Number of Policyholders Total Net Paid Net Asbestos Reserves (at and for the year ended December 31, $ in millions) 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Policyholders with settlement agreements 17 18 $ 112 $ 139 $ 583 $ 621 Home office and field office 1,705 1,697 209 176 1,778 1,956 Assumed reinsurance and other 29 26 187 181 Total 1,722 1,715 $ 350 $ 341 $ 2,548 $ 2,758 The "policyholders with settlement agreements" category includes structured settlements, coverage in place arrangements and, with respect to TPC, Wellington accounts. Reserves are based on the expected payout for each policyholder under the applicable agreement. Structured settlements are arrangements under which policyholders and or plaintiffs agree to fixed financial amounts to be paid at scheduled times. Included in this category are TPCs reserves for the settlements of the Statutory and Hawaii Actions and the Common Law Claims. (For a description of these matters, see note 15 of notes to the consolidated financial statements). Coverage in place arrangements represent agreements with policyholders on specified amounts of coverage to be provided. Payment obligations may be subject to annual maximums and are only made when valid claims are presented. Wellington accounts refer to the 35 defendants that are parties to a 1985 agreement settling certain disputes concerning insurance coverage for their asbestos claims. Many of the aspects of the Wellington agreement are similar to those of coverage in place arrangements in which the parties have agreed on specific amounts of coverage and the terms under which the coverage can be accessed. The "home office and field office" category relates to all other policyholders and also includes unallocated IBNR reserves and reserves for the costs of defending asbestos related coverage litigation. Policyholders are identified for the annual home office review based upon, among other factors: a combination of past payments and current case reserves in excess of a specified threshold (currently $100,000), perceived level of exposure, number of reported claims, products/completed operations and potential "non product" exposures, size of policyholder and geographic distribution of products or services sold by the policyholder. In addition to IBNR amounts contained in the reserves for "home office and field office" policyholders and the costs of litigating asbestos coverage matters, the Company has established a reserve for further adverse development related to existing policyholders, new claims from policyholders reporting claims for the first time and policyholders for which there is, or may be, litigation and direct actions against the Company. The "assumed reinsurance and other" category primarily consists of reinsurance of excess coverage, including various pool participations. 95 Table of Contents On January 29, 2009, the Company and PPG Industries, Inc ("PPG"), along with approximately 30 other insurers of PPG, agreed in principle to an agreement to settle asbestos related coverage litigation under insurance policies issued to PPG. The tentative settlement agreement has been incorporated into the Modified Third Amended Plan of Reorganization ("Amended Plan") proposed as part of the Pittsburgh Corning Corp. ("PCC", which is 50% owned by PPG) bankruptcy proceeding. Pursuant to the proposed Amended Plan, which was filed on January 30, 2009, PCC, along with enumerated other companies (including PPG as well as the Company as a participating insurer), are to receive protections afforded by Section 524(g) of the Bankruptcy Code from certain asbestos related bodily injury claims. Under the agreement in principle, the Company has the option to make a series of payments over the next 20 years totaling approximately $620 million to the Trust to be created under the Amended Plan, or it may elect to make a one time discounted payment, which, as of March 31, 2011, would total approximately $454 million (approximately $425 million after reinsurance). The agreement in principle with PPG is subject to numerous contingencies, including final court approval of the Amended Plan, and the Company has no obligation to make the settlement payment until all contingencies are satisfied. The Companys obligations under this agreement in principle are included in the "home office and field office" category in the preceding table. In December 2008, the Company completed the sale of Unionamerica, which comprised its United Kingdom based runoff insurance and reinsurance businesses. Included in the claims and claim adjustment expense reserves transferred to the purchaser were gross and net asbestos reserves of $330 million and $232 million, respectively. The following table displays activity for asbestos losses and loss expenses and reserves: (at and for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Beginning reserves: Direct $ 3,097 $ 3,299 $ 4,353 Ceded (339 ) (385 ) (619 ) Net 2,758 2,914 3,734 Incurred losses and loss expenses: Direct 262 185 70 Ceded (122 ) Net 140 185 70 Losses paid: Direct 418 387 794 Ceded (68 ) (46 ) (136 ) Net 350 341 658 Sale of subsidiary: Direct 330 Ceded (98 ) Net 232 Ending reserves: Direct 2,941 3,097 3,299 Ceded (393 ) (339 ) (385 ) Net $ 2,548 $ 2,758 $ 2,914 See " Uncertainty Regarding Adequacy of Asbestos and Environmental Reserves." 96  Table of Contents ENVIRONMENTAL CLAIMS AND LITIGATION The Company continues to receive claims from policyholders who allege that they are liable for injury or damage arising out of their alleged disposition of toxic substances. Mostly, these claims are due to various legislative as well as regulatory efforts aimed at environmental remediation. For instance, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA), enacted in 1980 and later modified, enables private parties as well as federal and state governments to take action with respect to releases and threatened releases of hazardous substances. This federal statute permits the recovery of response costs from some liable parties and may require liable parties to undertake their own remedial action. Liability under CERCLA may be joint and several with other responsible parties. The Company has been, and continues to be, involved in litigation involving insurance coverage issues pertaining to environmental claims. The Company believes that some court decisions have interpreted the insurance coverage to be broader than the original intent of the insurers and policyholders. These decisions often pertain to insurance policies that were issued by the Company prior to the mid 1980s. These decisions continue to be inconsistent and vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Environmental claims when submitted rarely indicate the monetary amount being sought by the claimant from the policyholder, and the Company does not keep track of the monetary amount being sought in those few claims which indicate a monetary amount. The resolution of environmental exposures by the Company generally occurs by settlement on a policyholder by policyholder basis as opposed to a claim by claim basis. Generally, the Company strives to extinguish any obligations it may have under any policy issued to the policyholder for past, present and future environmental liabilities and extinguish any pending coverage litigation dispute with the policyholder. This form of settlement is commonly referred to as a "buy back" of policies for future environmental liability. In addition, many of the agreements have also extinguished any insurance obligation which the Company may have for other claims, including but not limited to asbestos and other cumulative injury claims. The Company and its policyholders may also agree to settlements which extinguish any liability arising from known specified sites or claims. Where appropriate, these agreements also include indemnities and hold harmless provisions to protect the Company. The Companys general purpose in executing these agreements is to reduce the Companys potential environmental exposure and eliminate the risks presented by coverage litigation with the policyholder and related costs. In establishing environmental reserves, the Company evaluates the exposure presented by each policyholder and the anticipated cost of resolution, if any. In the course of this analysis, the Company generally considers the probable liability, available coverage, relevant judicial interpretations and historical value of similar exposures. In addition, the Company considers the many variables presented, such as the nature of the alleged activities of the policyholder at each site; the allegations of environmental harm at each site; the number of sites; the total number of potentially responsible parties at each site; the nature of environmental harm and the corresponding remedy at each site; the nature of government enforcement activities at each site; the ownership and general use of each site; the overall nature of the insurance relationship between the Company and the policyholder, including the role of any umbrella or excess insurance the Company has issued to the policyholder; the involvement of other insurers; the potential for other available coverage, including the number of years of coverage; the role, if any, of non environmental claims or potential non environmental claims in any resolution process; and the applicable law in each jurisdiction. Conventional actuarial techniques are not used to estimate these reserves. In its review of environmental reserves, the Company considers: past settlement payments; changing judicial and legislative trends; its reserves for the costs of litigating environmental coverage matters; the potential for policyholders with smaller exposures to be named in new clean up actions for 97 Table of Contents both on and off site waste disposal activities; the potential for adverse development; the potential for additional new claims beyond previous expectations; and the potential higher costs for new settlements. The duration of the Companys investigation and review of these claims and the extent of time necessary to determine an appropriate estimate, if any, of the value of the claim to the Company vary significantly and are dependent upon a number of factors. These factors include, but are not limited to, the cooperation of the policyholder in providing claim information, the pace of underlying litigation or claim processes, the pace of coverage litigation between the policyholder and the Company and the willingness of the policyholder and the Company to negotiate, if appropriate, a resolution of any dispute pertaining to these claims. Because these factors vary from claim to claim and policyholder by policyholder, the Company cannot provide a meaningful average of the duration of an environmental claim. However, based upon the Companys experience in resolving these claims, the duration may vary from months to several years. Although the Company continues to receive notices from policyholders tendering claims for the first time, the number of new policyholders submitting those notices declined from 2009. These policyholders continue to present smaller exposures, have fewer sites and are lower tier defendants. Further, in many instances clean up costs have been reduced because regulatory agencies are willing to accept risk based site analyses and more efficient clean up technologies. However, the Company has experienced modest upward development in the expected defense and settlement costs for certain of its pending policyholders. As a result, the Company increased its net environmental reserves by $35 million in 2010. During 2009, the Company experienced an increase in the number of policyholders tendering claims for the first time and in the number of pending environmental related coverage actions. In addition, the Company experienced upward development in the expected defense and settlement costs for certain of its pending policyholders. As a result, the Company increased its net environmental reserves by $70 million in 2009. In 2008, the Company increased its environmental reserves by $85 million as a result of upward development in the anticipated defense and settlement costs for certain of its pending policyholders. In December 2008, the Company completed the sale of Unionamerica, which comprised its United Kingdom based runoff insurance and reinsurance businesses. Included in the claims and claim adjustment expense reserves transferred to the purchaser were gross and net environmental reserves of $40 million and $33 million, respectively. Net environmental losses paid in 2010, 2009 and 2008 were $77 million, $91 million and $128 million, respectively. At December 31, 2010, approximately 93% of the net environmental reserve (approximately $327 million) was carried in a bulk reserve and included unresolved environmental claims, incurred but not reported environmental claims and the anticipated cost of coverage litigation disputes relating to these claims. The bulk reserve the Company carries is established and adjusted based upon the aggregate volume of in process environmental claims and the Companys experience in resolving those claims. The balance, approximately 7% of the net environmental reserve (approximately $24 million), consists of case reserves. 98 Table of Contents The following table displays activity for environmental losses and loss expenses and reserves: (at and for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Beginning reserves: Direct $ 389 $ 400 $ 478 Ceded 4 14 12 Net 393 414 490 Incurred losses and loss expenses: Direct 45 85 85 Ceded (10 ) (15 ) Net 35 70 85 Losses paid: Direct 80 96 123 Ceded (3 ) (5 ) 5 Net 77 91 128 Sale of subsidiary: Direct 40 Ceded (7 ) Net 33 Ending reserves: Direct 354 389 400 Ceded (3 ) 4 14 Net $ 351 $ 393 $ 414 UNCERTAINTY REGARDING ADEQUACY OF ASBESTOS AND ENVIRONMENTAL RESERVES As a result of the processes and procedures described above, management believes that the reserves carried for asbestos and environmental claims at December 31, 2010 are appropriately established based upon known facts, current law and managements judgment. However, the uncertainties surrounding the final resolution of these claims continue, and it is difficult to determine the ultimate exposure for asbestos and environmental claims and related litigation. As a result, these reserves are subject to revision as new information becomes available and as claims develop. The continuing uncertainties include, without limitation, the risks and lack of predictability inherent in complex litigation, any impact from the bankruptcy protection sought by various asbestos producers and other asbestos defendants, a further increase or decrease in the cost to resolve, and or the number of, asbestos and environmental claims beyond that which is anticipated, the role of any umbrella or excess policies the Company has issued, the resolution or adjudication of disputes pertaining to the amount of available coverage for asbestos and environmental claims in a manner inconsistent with the Companys previous assessment of these claims, the number and outcome of direct actions against the Company, future developments pertaining to the Companys ability to recover reinsurance for asbestos and environmental claims and the unavailability of other insurance sources potentially available to policyholders, whether through exhaustion of policy limits or through the insolvency of other participating insurers. In addition, uncertainties arise from the insolvency or bankruptcy of policyholders and other defendants. It is also not possible to predict changes in the legal, regulatory and legislative environment and their impact on the future development of asbestos and environmental claims. This development will be affected by future court and regulatory decisions and interpretations, including the outcome of legal challenges to legislative and or judicial reforms establishing medical criteria for the pursuit of asbestos claims, as well as changes in applicable legislation. It is also difficult 99 Table of Contents to predict the ultimate outcome of complex coverage disputes until settlement negotiations near completion and significant legal questions are resolved or, failing settlement, until the dispute is adjudicated. This is particularly the case with policyholders in bankruptcy where negotiations often involve a large number of claimants and other parties and require court approval to be effective. As part of its continuing analysis of asbestos and environmental reserves, the Company continues to study the implications of these and other developments. (Also see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements). Because of the uncertainties set forth above, additional liabilities may arise for amounts in excess of the current related reserves. In addition, the Companys estimate of claims and claim adjustment expenses may change. These additional liabilities or increases in estimates, or a range of either, cannot now be reasonably estimated and could result in income statement charges that could be material to the Companys operating results in future periods. INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO The Companys invested assets at December 31, 2010 totaled $72.72 billion, of which 94% was invested in fixed maturity and short term investments, 1% in equity securities, 1% in real estate and 4% in other investments. Because the primary purpose of the investment portfolio is to fund future claims payments, the Company employs a conservative investment philosophy. A significant majority of funds available for investment are deployed in a widely diversified portfolio of high quality, liquid taxable U.S. government, tax exempt U.S. municipal and taxable corporate and U.S. agency mortgage backed bonds. The carrying value of the Companys fixed maturity portfolio at December 31, 2010 totaled $62.82 billion. The Company closely monitors the duration of its fixed maturity investments, and investment purchases and sales are executed with the objective of having adequate funds available to satisfy the Companys insurance and debt obligations. The weighted average credit quality of the Companys fixed maturity portfolio, both including and excluding U.S. Treasury securities, was "Aa2" at both December 31, 2010 and 2009. Below investment grade securities represented 3.0% and 2.7% of the total fixed maturity investment portfolio at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The average effective duration of fixed maturities and short term securities was 3.6 (3.9 excluding short term securities) at December 31, 2010 and 3.9 (4.2 excluding short term securities) at December 31, 2009. The decline in duration primarily resulted from the impact of declining market yields and tightening investment spreads on existing holdings of mortgage backed securities (which impact the assumptions related to optional pre payments), an increase in pre refunded municipal bonds and general portfolio management decisions. 100 Table of Contents The carrying values of investments in fixed maturities classified as available for sale at December 31, 2010 and 2009 were as follows: (at December 31, 2010, in millions) Carrying Value Average Credit Quality(1) U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. Government and government agencies and authorities $ 2,008 Aaa Obligations of states, municipalities and political subdivisions: Pre refunded $ 7,291 Aa1 All other 32,244 Aa1 Total obligations of states, municipalities and political subdivisions 39,535 Debt securities issued by foreign governments 2,202 Aaa Mortgage backed securities, collateralized mortgage obligations and pass through securities 4,164 Aa1 All other corporate bonds and redeemable preferred stock: Financial: Bank 1,462 A1 Insurance 351 A2 Finance/leasing 83 Baa3 Brokerage and asset management 30 Baa1 Total financial 1,926 Industrial 7,711 Baa1 Public utility 1,859 A3 Sovereign corporate securities(2) 1,800 Aaa Canadian municipal securities 671 Aa1 Commercial mortgage backed securities and project loans(3) 549 Aaa Asset backed and other 395 Baa1 Total all other corporate bonds and redeemable preferred stock 14,911 Total fixed maturities $ 62,820 Aa2 (1)Rated using external rating agencies or by the Company when a public rating does not exist. (2)Sovereign corporate securities include corporate securities that are backed by a government and include sovereign banks and securities issued under the Temporary Liquidity Guaranty and the Federal Ship Financing Programs. (3)Included in commercial mortgage backed securities and project loans are $146 million of securities guaranteed by the U.S. government and $9 million by government sponsored enterprises. 101 Table of Contents (at December 31, 2009, in millions) Carrying Value Average Credit Quality(1) U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. Government and government agencies and authorities $ 2,574 Aaa Obligations of states, municipalities and political subdivisions: Pre refunded $ 6,062 Aa1 All other 35,271 Aa1 Total obligations of states, municipalities and political subdivisions 41,333 Debt securities issued by foreign governments 1,957 Aaa Mortgage backed securities, collateralized mortgage obligations and pass through securities 5,207 Aa1 All other corporate bonds and redeemable preferred stock: Financial: Bank 2,107 Aa3 Insurance 423 A2 Finance/leasing 113 Baa3 Brokerage and asset management 34 Baa2 Total financial 2,677 Industrial 7,080 Baa1 Public utility 1,737 A3 Sovereign corporate securities(2) 1,499 Aaa Canadian municipal securities 669 Aa1 Commercial mortgage backed securities and project loans(3) 714 Aaa Asset backed and other 400 A3 Total all other corporate bonds and redeemable preferred stock 14,776 Total fixed maturities $ 65,847 Aa2 (1)Rated using external rating agencies or by the Company when a public rating does not exist. (2)Sovereign corporate securities include corporate securities that are backed by a government and include sovereign banks and securities issued under the Temporary Liquidity Guaranty and the Federal Ship Financing Programs. (3)Included in commercial mortgage backed securities and project loans are $200 million of securities guaranteed by the U.S. government and $36 million by government sponsored enterprises. 102  Table of Contents The following table sets forth the Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio rated using external ratings agencies or by the Company when a public rating does not exist: (at December 31, 2010, in millions) Carrying Value Percent of Total Carrying Value Quality Rating: Aaa $ 29,619 47.2 % Aa 20,499 32.6 A 6,426 10.2 Baa 4,393 7.0 Total investment grade 60,937 97.0 Below investment grade 1,883 3.0 Total fixed maturity investments $ 62,820 100.0 % Obligations of States, Municipalities and Political Subdivisions The Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio at December 31, 2010 and 2009 included $39.54 billion and $41.33 billion, respectively, of securities which are obligations of states, municipalities and political subdivisions (collectively referred to as the municipal bond portfolio). The municipal bond portfolio is diversified across the United States, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico and includes general obligation and revenue bonds issued by states, cities, counties, school districts and similar issuers. Included in the municipal bond portfolio at December 31, 2010 and 2009 were $7.29 billion and $6.06 billion, respectively, of advance refunded or escrowed to maturity bonds (collectively referred to as pre refunded bonds), which are bonds for which an irrevocable trust has been established to fund the remaining payments of principal and interest. Such escrow accounts are verified as to their sufficiency by an external auditor and are almost exclusively comprised of U.S. Treasury securities. Moodys Investors Service has assigned a negative outlook to municipal securities issued by local governments within the United States. 103 Table of Contents The following table shows the geographic distribution of the $32.24 billion of municipal bonds at December 31, 2010 that were not pre refunded. State (in millions) State General Obligation Local General Obligation Revenue Total Carrying Value Average Credit Quality(1) Texas $ 423 $ 2,222 $ 1,340 $ 3,985 Aaa/Aa1 California 94 1,619 405 2,118 Aa2 Illinois 176 969 518 1,663 Aa2 Washington 411 756 381 1,548 Aa1 Virginia 186 604 651 1,441 Aaa/Aa1 Florida 487 67 882 1,436 Aa1 Arizona 535 665 1,200 Aa1 Georgia 408 435 322 1,165 Aaa/Aa1 Maryland 309 566 241 1,116 Aaa/Aa1 Minnesota 275 702 135 1,112 Aaa/Aa1 New York 33 216 831 1,080 Aa1 Ohio 341 337 350 1,028 Aa1 Massachusetts 215 9 791 1,015 Aaa/Aa1 Colorado 769 230 999 Aa1 Michigan 134 343 500 977 Aa2 North Carolina 269 461 118 848 Aaa All Others (2) 2,525 2,909 4,079 9,513 Aa1 Total $ 6,286 $ 13,519 $ 12,439 $ 32,244 Aa1 (1)Rated using external rating agencies or by the Company when a public rating does not exist. Ratings shown are the higher of the rating of the underlying issuer or the insurer in the case of securities enhanced by third party insurance for the payment of principal and interest in the event of issuer default. (2)No other single state accounted for 2.5% or more of the total pre refunded municipal bonds. The Company bases its investment decision on the credit characteristics of the municipal security; however, its municipal bond portfolio includes a number of securities that were enhanced by third party insurance for the payment of principal and interest in the event of an issuer default. The downgrade during 2009 and 2008 of credit ratings of insurers of these securities resulted in a corresponding downgrade in the ratings of the securities to the underlying rating of the respective security. Of the insured municipal securities in the Companys investment portfolio at December 31, 2010, approximately 99% were rated at A3 or above, and approximately 90% were rated at Aa3 or above, without the benefit of insurance. The Company believes that a loss of the benefit of insurance would not result in a material adverse impact on the Companys results of operations, financial position or liquidity, due to the underlying credit strength of the issuers of the securities, as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the securities. The average credit rating of the underlying issuers of these securities was "Aa2" at December 31, 2010. The average credit rating of the entire municipal bond portfolio was "Aa1" at December 31, 2010 with and without the third party insurance. 104 Table of Contents Debt Securities Issued by Foreign Governments The following table shows the geographic distribution of the Companys investments in debt securities issued by foreign governments at December 31, 2010. (at December 31, 2010, in millions) Carrying Value Average Credit Quality(1) Foreign Government: Canada $ 894 Aaa United Kingdom 890 Aaa Germany 159 Aaa Australia 134 Aaa All Others 125 Aa2 Total $ 2,202 Aaa (1)Rated using external rating agencies or by the Company when a public rating does not exist. Mortgage Backed Securities, Collateralized Mortgage Obligations and Pass Through Securities The Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio at December 31, 2010 and 2009 included $4.16 billion and $5.21 billion, respectively, of residential mortgage backed securities including pass through securities and collateralized mortgage obligations (CMO), all of which are subject to prepayment risk (either shortening or lengthening of duration). While prepayment risk for both guaranteed and non guaranteed securities and its effect on income cannot be fully controlled, particularly when interest rates move dramatically, the Companys investment strategy generally favors securities that control this risk within expected interest rate ranges. Included in the totals at December 31, 2010 and 2009 were $2.09 billion and $2.63 billion, respectively, of GNMA, FNMA and FHLMC (excluding FHA project loans) guaranteed residential mortgage backed pass through securities classified as available for sale. Also included in those totals were residential CMOs classified as available for sale with a fair value of $2.07 billion and $2.58 billion, respectively. Approximately 38% and 37% of the Companys CMO holdings were guaranteed by or fully collateralized by securities issued by GNMA, FNMA or FHLMC at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The average credit rating of all of the above securities was "Aa1" at both December 31, 2010 and 2009. The Company makes investments in residential CMOs that are either guaranteed by GNMA, FNMA or FHLMC, or if not guaranteed, are senior or super senior positions within their respective securitizations. Both guaranteed and non guaranteed residential CMOs allocate the distribution of payments from the underlying mortgages among different classes of bondholders. In addition, non guaranteed residential CMOs provide structures that allocate the impact of credit losses to different classes of bondholders. Senior and super senior CMOs are protected, to varying degrees, from credit losses as those losses are initially allocated to subordinated bondholders. The Companys investment strategy is to purchase CMO tranches that are expected to offer the most favorable return given the Companys assessment of associated risks. The Company does not purchase residual interests in CMOs. Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities and Project Loans At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company held commercial mortgage backed securities (including FHA project loans) of $549 million and $714 million, respectively. The Company does not believe this portfolio exposes it to a material adverse impact on its results of operations, financial 105 Table of Contents position or liquidity, due to the portfolios relatively small size and the underlying credit strength of these securities. Alternative Documentation Mortgages and Sub Prime Mortgages At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the "mortgage backed securities, collateralized mortgage obligations and pass through securities" and "asset backed and other" categories in the foregoing table included collateralized mortgage obligations backed by alternative documentation mortgages and asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages with a collective fair value of $297 million and $270 million, respectively (comprising approximately 0.5% and 0.4% of the Companys total fixed maturity investments at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively). The disruption in secondary investment markets for mortgage backed securities provided the Company with the opportunity to selectively acquire additional such securities at discounted prices. The Company purchased $31 million and $74 million of such securities in the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The Company defines sub prime mortgage backed securities as investments in which the underlying loans primarily exhibit one or more of the following characteristics: low FICO scores, above prime interest rates, high loan to value ratios or high debt to income ratios. Alternative documentation securitizations are those in which the underlying loans primarily meet the government sponsored entities requirements for credit score but do not meet the government sponsored entities guidelines for documentation, property type, debt and loan to value ratios. The average credit rating on these securities and obligations held by the Company was "Baa2" and "A3" at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Equity Securities Available for Sale, Real Estate and Short Term Securities See note 1 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements for further information about these invested asset classes. Other Investments At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the carrying value of the Companys other investments was $2.93 billion and $2.95 billion, respectively. The Companys other investments are primarily comprised of private equity limited partnerships, hedge funds, real estate partnerships, joint ventures, mortgage loans, venture capital (through direct ownership and limited partnerships) and trading securities, which are subject to more volatility than the Companys fixed maturity investments. These asset classes have historically provided a higher return than fixed maturities but are subject to more volatility. Net investment income provided by these asset classes totaled $304 million in 2010, compared with negative net investment income of $106 million and $292 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The negative net investment income in 2009 and 2008 reflected market conditions. Securities Lending The Company has engaged in securities lending activities from which it generates net investment income by lending certain of its investments to other institutions for short periods of time. The Company has not incurred any investment losses in its securities lending program for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. 106 Table of Contents Net Unrealized Investment Gains (Losses) The net unrealized investment gains (losses) that were included as a separate component of accumulated other changes in equity from nonowner sources were as follows: (at December 31, in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Fixed maturities $ 2,650 $ 2,536 $ (294 ) Equity securities 147 78 (82 ) Other investments 28 216 123 Unrealized investment gains (losses) before tax 2,825 2,830 (253 ) Tax expense (benefit) 967 969 (109 ) Net unrealized investment gains (losses) at end of year $ 1,858 $ 1,861 $ (144 ) Net pretax unrealized investment gains totaled $2.83 billion at both December 31, 2010 and 2009, compared with net pretax unrealized losses of $253 million at December 31, 2008. The Companys fixed maturities and equity securities portfolios at December 31, 2010 experienced increases in valuations compared with the prior year end, which were offset by a decrease in net unrealized appreciation on other investments that primarily resulted from the Companys sale of substantially all of its remaining common stock holdings in Verisk Analytics, Inc. That sale generated a pretax realized investment gain of $205 million in 2010. The improvement in the Companys net unrealized gain position at December 31, 2009 over the prior year end is primarily attributable to the Companys fixed maturity investments. In 2009, yields on municipal fixed maturity securities declined, which increased the market value of the Companys portfolio of such securities. In addition, in 2009 credit spreads narrowed on other non municipal fixed maturity securities which also resulted in an increase in the market value of those securities. The following table summarizes, for all fixed maturities and equity securities reported at fair value for which fair value is less than 80% of amortized cost at December 31, 2010, the gross unrealized investment loss by length of time those securities have continuously been in an unrealized loss position of greater than 20% of amortized cost: Period For Which Fair Value Is Less Than 80% of Amortized Cost (in millions) 3 Months or Less Greater Than 3 Months, 6 Months or Less Greater Than 6 Months, 12 Months or Less Greater Than 12 Months Total Fixed maturities: Mortgage backed securities $ $ $ $ 8 $ 8 Other 2 10 12 Total fixed maturities 2 18 20 Equity securities Total $ 2 $ $ $ 18 $ 20 These unrealized investment losses at December 31, 2010 represent less than 1% of the combined fixed maturity and equity security portfolios on a pretax basis and less than 1% of shareholders equity on an after tax basis. For fixed maturity investments where fair value is less than the carrying value and the Company did not reach a decision to impair, the Company continues to have the intent and ability to hold such investments to a projected recovery in value, which may not be until maturity. 107 Table of Contents At December 31, 2010, below investment grade securities comprised 3.0% of the Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio. Included in below investment grade securities at December 31, 2010 were securities in an unrealized loss position that, in the aggregate, had an amortized cost of $605 million and a fair value of $564 million, resulting in a net pretax unrealized investment loss of $41 million. These securities in an unrealized loss position represented approximately 1% of both the total amortized cost and the fair value of the fixed maturity portfolio at December 31, 2010 and accounted for 17% of the total gross pretax unrealized investment loss in the fixed maturity portfolio at December 31, 2010. Impairment Charges Impairment charges included in net realized investment gains (losses) in the consolidated statement of income were as follows: (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Fixed maturities U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. Government and government agencies and authorities $ $ $ Obligations of states, municipalities and political subdivisions 1 Debt securities issued by foreign governments Mortgage backed securities, collateralized mortgage obligations and pass through securities 4 81 36 All other corporate bonds 9 88 283 Redeemable preferred stock 4 Total fixed maturities 13 169 324 Equity securities Common stock 2 15 34 Non redeemable preferred stock 1 64 40 Total equity securities 3 79 74 Other investments 10 10 22 Total $ 26 $ 258 $ 420 For the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company recognized the following other than temporary impairments: $13 million in the fixed maturities portfolio, consisting of $5 million related to the deteriorated financial position of various issuers, $4 million related to structured mortgage securities and $4 million related to securities that the Company had the intent to sell; $3 million in the equity portfolio related to securities with respect to which it was determined that the cost basis of those securities would not be recovered over the expected holding period; and $10 million in other investments related to the decline in the financial condition of various issuers. In 2008 and 2009, worldwide financial markets experienced significant disruptions, and the United States and many other countries experienced a prolonged economic downturn, resulting in heightened credit risks, reduced valuations of investments and decreased economic activity. Those factors resulted in the higher level of other than temporary investment impairments recognized by the Company in 2008 and 2009. 108  Table of Contents Following are the pretax realized losses on investments sold during the year ended December 31, 2010: (in millions) Loss Fair Value Fixed maturities $ 11 $ 345 Equity securities 8 Other 1 1 Total $ 12 $ 354 Purchases and sales of investments are based on cash requirements, the characteristics of the insurance liabilities and current market conditions. The Company identifies investments to be sold to achieve its primary investment goals of assuring the Companys ability to meet policyholder obligations as well as to optimize investment returns, given these obligations. CATASTROPHE MODELING The Company uses various analyses and methods, including computer modeling techniques, to analyze catastrophic events and the risks associated with them. The Company uses these analyses and methods to make underwriting and reinsurance decisions designed to manage its exposure to catastrophic events. In making underwriting and reinsurance decisions for hurricane and earthquake exposures, the Company uses third party proprietary computer modeling in an attempt to estimate the likelihood that the loss from a single event occurring in a one year timeframe will equal or exceed a particular amount. The tables below set forth the estimated probabilities that losses from a single event occurring in a one year timeframe will equal or exceed the indicated loss amounts (expressed in dollars and as a percentage of the Companys common equity). For example, on the basis described below the tables, the Company estimates that there is a one percent chance that the Companys loss from a single U.S. hurricane occurring in a one year timeframe would equal or exceed $1.1 billion, or 5% of the Companys common equity at December 31, 2010. Dollars (in billions) Likelihood of Exceedance(1) Single U.S. Hurricane Single U.S. and Canadian Earthquake 2.0% (1 in 50) $ 0.9 $ 0.5 1.0% (1 in 100) $ 1.1 $ 0.6 0.4% (1 in 250) $ 2.0 $ 0.9 0.1% (1 in 1,000) $ 4.3 $ 2.0 Percentage of Common Equity(2) Likelihood of Exceedance Single U.S. Hurricane Single U.S. and Canadian Earthquake 2.0% (1 in 50) 4 % 2 % 1.0% (1 in 100) 5 % 3 % 0.4% (1 in 250) 9 % 4 % 0.1% (1 in 1,000) 18 % 8 % (1)An event that has, for example, a 2% likelihood of exceedance is sometimes described as a "1 in 50 year event." As noted above, however, the probabilities in the table represent the likelihood of losses from a single event equaling or exceeding the indicated threshold 109 Table of Contents loss amount in a one year timeframe, not over a multi year timeframe. Also, because the probabilities relate to a single event, the probabilities do not address the likelihood of more than one event occurring in a particular period, and, therefore, the amounts do not address potential aggregate catastrophe losses occurring in a one year timeframe. (2)The percentage of common equity is calculated by dividing (a) indicated loss amounts in dollars by (b) total common equity excluding net unrealized investment gains and losses, net of taxes. Net unrealized investment gains and losses can be significantly impacted by both discretionary and other economic factors and are not necessarily indicative of operating trends. Accordingly, in the opinion of the Companys management, the percentage of common equity calculated on this basis provides a useful metric for investors to understand the potential impact of a single hurricane or single earthquake on the Companys financial position. The threshold loss amounts in the tables above are net of reinsurance, after tax and exclude most loss adjustment expenses, which historically have been less than 10% of loss estimates. The amounts for hurricanes reflect U.S. exposures and include property exposures, property residual market exposures and an adjustment for certain non property exposures. The amounts for earthquakes reflect U.S. and Canadian exposures and include property exposures and workers compensation exposures. The Company does not believe that the inclusion of hurricane or earthquake losses arising from other geographical areas or other exposures would materially change the estimated threshold loss amounts. This information in the tables is based on the Companys in force portfolio and catastrophic reinsurance program as of December 31, 2010. Catastrophe modeling relies upon inputs based on experience, science, engineering and history. These inputs reflect a significant amount of judgment and are subject to changes which may result in volatility in the modeled output. Catastrophe modeling output may also fail to account for risks that are outside the range of normal probability or are otherwise unforeseeable. Catastrophe modeling assumptions include, among others, the portion of purchased reinsurance that is collectible after a catastrophic event, which may prove to be materially incorrect. Consequently, catastrophe modeling estimates are subject to significant uncertainty. In the tables above, the uncertainty associated with the estimated threshold loss amounts increases significantly as the likelihood of exceedance decreases. In other words, in the case of a relatively more remote event (e.g., 1 in 1,000), the estimated threshold loss amount is relatively less reliable. Actual losses from an event could materially exceed the indicated threshold loss amount. In addition, more than one such event could occur in any period. Moreover, the Company is exposed to the risk of material losses from other than property and workers compensation coverages arising out of hurricanes and earthquakes, and it is exposed to catastrophe losses from perils other than hurricanes and earthquakes, such as windstorms, hail, wildfires, severe winter weather, floods, volcanic eruptions and acts of terrorism. There are no industry standard methodologies or assumptions for projecting catastrophe exposure. Accordingly, catastrophe estimates provided by different insurers may not be comparable. For more information about the Companys exposure to catastrophe losses, see "Item 1A Risk Factors Catastrophe losses could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, our financial position and or liquidity, and could adversely impact our ratings, our ability to raise capital and the availability and cost of reinsurance." CHANGING CLIMATE CONDITIONS Severe weather events over the last several years have underscored the unpredictability of future climate trends and created uncertainty regarding insurers exposures to financial loss as a result of catastrophe and other weather related events. Some scientists believe that, in recent years, changing 110 Table of Contents climate conditions have added to the unpredictability, frequency and severity of natural disasters. Accordingly, if climate conditions change in the future, the Companys catastrophe models may be less reliable. The Company discusses how potentially changing climate conditions may present other issues for its business under "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of this report and under " Outlook" herein. For example, among other things: Increasingly unpredictable and severe weather conditions could result in increased frequency and severity of claims under policies issued by the Company. See "Risk Factors Catastrophe losses could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, our financial position and or liquidity, and could adversely impact our ratings, our ability to raise capital and the availability and cost of reinsurance" and " Outlook Underwriting Profitability." Such changing climate conditions could also impact the creditworthiness of issuers of securities in which the Company invests. For example, water supply adequacy could impact the creditworthiness of bond issuers in the Southwestern United States, and more frequent and or severe hurricanes could impact the creditworthiness of issuers in the Southeastern United States., among other areas. See "Risk Factors Our investment portfolio may suffer reduced returns or material losses." Increased regulation adopted in response to potential changes in climate conditions may impact the Company and its customers. For example, state insurance regulation could impact the Companys ability to manage property exposures in areas vulnerable to significant climate driven losses. If the Company is unable to implement risk based pricing, modify policy terms or reduce exposures to the extent necessary to address rising losses related to catastrophes and smaller scale weather events (should those increased losses occur), its business may be adversely affected. See "Risk Factors Catastrophe losses could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, our financial position and or liquidity, and could adversely impact our ratings, our ability to raise capital and the availability and cost of reinsurance." The full range of potential liability exposures related to climate change continues to evolve. Through the Companys Emerging Issues Committee and its Committee on Climate, Energy and the Environment, the Company works with its business units and corporate groups as appropriate to identify and try to assess climate change related liability issues, which are continually evolving and often hard to fully evaluate. See "Risk Factors The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain." Climate change regulation also could increase the Companys customers costs of doing business. For example, insureds faced with carbon management regulatory requirements may have less available capital for investment in loss prevention and safety features which may, over time, increase loss exposures. Also, increased regulation may result in reduced economic activity, which would decrease the amount of insurable assets and businesses. The Company regularly reviews emerging issues, such as changing climate conditions, to consider potential changes to its modeling and the use of such modeling, as well as to help determine the need for new underwriting strategies, coverage modifications or new products. REINSURANCE RECOVERABLES Ceded reinsurance involves credit risk, except with regard to mandatory pools for which liability is mostly joint and several, and is generally subject to aggregate loss limits. Although the reinsurer is liable to the Company to the extent of the reinsurance ceded, the Company remains liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. Reinsurance recoverables are reported after reductions for known insolvencies and after allowances for uncollectible amounts. The Company also holds collateral, 111 Table of Contents including trust agreements, escrow funds and letters of credit, under certain reinsurance agreements. The Company monitors the financial condition of reinsurers on an ongoing basis and reviews its reinsurance arrangements periodically. Reinsurers are selected based on their financial condition, business practices and the price of their product offerings. After reinsurance is purchased, the Company has limited ability to manage the credit risk to a reinsurer. In addition, in a number of jurisdictions, particularly the European Union and the United Kingdom, a reinsurer is permitted to transfer a reinsurance arrangement to another reinsurer, which may be less creditworthy, without a counterpartys consent, provided that the transfer has been approved by the applicable regulatory and or court authority. The Companys reinsurance recoverables totaled $11.52 billion at December 31, 2010, a decline of $1.30 billion from year end 2009, primarily reflecting cash collections and the impact of net favorable prior year reserve development, partially offset by a reduction in the allowance for uncollectible reinsurance resulting from a recent favorable ruling relating to a reinsurance dispute. The Company has also entered into Master Security Agreements with certain reinsurers. These agreements define conditions that require the reinsurer to provide collateral. The specific conditions and the amounts and form of collateral to be provided by these agreements vary based on a number of factors including, but not limited to, the reinsurers legal structure and trading history with the Company. The following table presents the Companys top five reinsurer groups by reinsurance recoverable at December 31, 2010 (in millions). Also included is the A.M. Best rating of each reinsurer group at February 17, 2011: Reinsurer Group Reinsurance Recoverable A.M. Best Rating of Groups Predominant Reinsurer Munich Re Group $ 744 A+ second highest of 16 ratings Swiss Re Group 707 A third highest of 16 ratings Transatlantic Holdings, Inc. 385 A third highest of 16 ratings XL Capital Group 320 A third highest of 16 ratings Berkshire Hathaway Group 319 A++ highest of 16 ratings At December 31, 2010, the Company held $2.1 billion of collateral in the form of letters of credit, trust agreements and funds held to fully or partially collateralize certain reinsurance recoverables. Included in reinsurance recoverables are certain amounts related to structured settlements. Structured settlements comprise annuities purchased from various life insurance companies to settle certain personal physical injury claims, of which workers compensation claims comprise a significant portion. In cases where the Company did not receive a release from the claimant, the structured settlement is included in reinsurance recoverables as the Company retains the contingent liability to the claimant. In the event that the life insurance company fails to make the required annuity payments, the Company would be required to make such payments. In the third quarter of 2010, Old Mutual plc, the parent of a U.S. life insurance company that is one of the largest issuers of structured settlements included in the Companys reinsurance recoverables, agreed to sell its U.S. life insurance business to a hedge fund buyer, pending regulatory approval. The Company currently cannot predict the impact of the transaction, if approved, on the long term creditworthiness of the annuity issuer. The following table presents the Companys top five groups by structured settlements at December 31, 2010 (in 112 Table of Contents millions). Also included is the A.M. Best rating of the Companys predominant insurer from each insurer group at February 17, 2011: Group Structured Settlements A.M. Best Rating of Groups Predominant Insurer Old Mutual $ 1,028 B++ fifth highest of 16 ratings MetLife 508 A+ second highest of 16 ratings Genworth 458 A third highest of 16 ratings Symetra 272 A third highest of 16 ratings ING Group 229 A third highest of 16 ratings Many reinsurance companies and life insurance companies were negatively impacted by turbulent economic conditions during 2009 and 2008. A number of such companies were subjected to downgrades and or negative outlook changes by various ratings agencies, including those with which the Company conducts business. The Company considers these factors in assessing the adequacy of its allowance for uncollectible amounts. OUTLOOK The following discussion provides outlook information for certain key drivers of the Companys results of operations and capital position. Premiums. The Companys earned premiums are a function of net written premium volume. Net written premiums comprise both renewal business and new business and are recognized as earned premium over the life of the underlying policies. When business renews, the amount of net written premiums associated with that business may increase or decrease (renewal premium change) as a result of increases or decreases in rate and or insured exposures, which the Company considers as a measure of units of exposure. Net written premiums from both renewal and new business, and therefore earned premiums, are impacted by competitive market conditions as well as general economic conditions, which, particularly in the case of the Business Insurance segment, affect audit premium adjustments, policy endorsements and mid term cancellations. Net written premiums are also impacted by the structure of reinsurance programs and related costs. The Company expects retention levels (the amount of expiring premium that renews, before the impact of renewal premium changes) will remain strong, generally consistent with recent periods. In the Business Insurance segment, the Company expects a slightly improving trend in renewal premium changes, including the components of rate changes and insured exposures, during 2011 compared with 2010. In the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment, the Company expects that renewal premium changes, including the components of rate changes and insured exposures, will not meaningfully change during 2011 compared with 2010. In the Personal Insurance segment, the Company expects that Agency Automobile renewal premium changes, while positive, will decrease slightly in 2011 from levels in 2010. For its Agency Homeowners and Other business, the Company expects renewal premium changes in 2011 will remain generally consistent with 2010. The pricing environment for new business generally has less of an impact on underwriting profitability than renewal rate changes, given the volume of new business relative to renewal business. While property and casualty insurance market conditions are expected to remain competitive in 2011 for new business, the Company believes it is well positioned to capitalize on new business opportunities as agents, brokers and customers seek to place business with high quality carriers. In addition, the Company launched a new distribution channel in 2009 that markets personal insurance products directly to consumers, which is expected to generate modest growth in premium volume for Personal Insurance in 2011. 113 Table of Contents While economic conditions have recently improved, there is continued uncertainty regarding the timing and strength of any economic recovery. The trend may not continue. Further, if growth continues, it may be at a slow rate for an extended period of time. In addition, other economic conditions, such as the commercial and residential real estate environment and employment rates, may continue to be weak. If weak economic conditions persist or deteriorate, low levels of economic activity could impact exposure changes at renewal and our ability to write business at acceptable rates. Additionally, such low levels of economic activity could adversely impact audit premium adjustments, policy endorsements and mid term cancellations after policies are written. All of the foregoing, in turn, could adversely impact net written premiums in 2011. Since earned premiums lag net written premiums, earned premiums could be adversely impacted in 2011 and into 2012. Underwriting Gain/Loss. In Business Insurance, the anticipated impact of competitive market conditions and general economic conditions on the Companys earned premiums, as discussed above, coupled with an expected modest increase in loss costs, will likely result in modestly reduced underwriting profitability during 2011, as compared with 2010. In Financial, Professional & International Insurance, the anticipated impact of a decline in earned premiums resulting from lower levels of written premiums in 2010, combined with higher employee and technology related costs to enhance operations and support future business growth, will likely result in modestly reduced underwriting profitability during 2011 as compared with 2010. In Personal Insurance, the anticipated impact of continued positive renewal premium changes on the Companys earned premiums, as discussed above, combined with an expected modest increase in loss costs, will likely result in modestly increased underwriting profitability during 2011, as compared with 2010. In Personal Insurance, the Companys direct to consumer initiative, discussed above, while intended to enhance the Companys long term ability to compete successfully in a consumer driven marketplace, is expected to remain unprofitable for a number of years as this book of business grows and matures. In recent periods, the Company has experienced net favorable prior year reserve development, driven by better than expected loss experience in all of the Companys segments, primarily in accident years 2001 through 2007. Better than expected loss experience and other favorable circumstances may continue at higher, lower or the same levels as compared to recent periods, may not continue or may reverse, causing the Company to recognize higher, lower or the same levels of favorable prior year reserve development, no favorable prior year reserve development or unfavorable prior year reserve development in future periods. In addition, the ongoing review of prior year claim and claim adjustment expense reserves, or other changes in current period circumstances, may result in the Company revising current year loss estimates upward or downward in future periods. Catastrophe losses are inherently unpredictable from year to year, and the Companys results of operations would be adversely impacted by significant catastrophe losses in 2011. Investment Portfolio. The Company expects to continue to focus its investment strategy on maintaining a high quality investment portfolio and a relatively low average effective duration. Net investment income is a material contributor to the Companys results of operations. While interest rates have recently risen above the historic lows experienced in the second half of 2010, the Company expects investment returns for its fixed maturity investment portfolio to be slightly lower in 2011 than in recent periods due to lower reinvestment yields available for maturing long term fixed maturity investments. Short term interest rates are expected to remain at or near historically low levels. The Company expects investment income in its non fixed maturity investment portfolio in 2011 to be generally consistent with 2010. However, if general economic conditions and or investment market conditions deteriorate in 2011, the Company could also experience a reduction in net investment income and or significant realized investment losses, including impairments. The Company expects its fixed income assets, including its municipal portfolio, to provide adequate risk adjusted returns and support its insurance operations over the long term. For further discussion of the Companys municipal 114 Table of Contents bond portfolio, see "Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Investment Portfolio" in this report. Capital Position. The Company believes it has a strong capital position and expects to continue its common share repurchase program in 2011 as part of its continuing efforts to maximize shareholder value. The Company expects the total dollar amount of share repurchases in 2011 will exceed its operating income for the year, as it did in 2010, but the total dollar amount of share repurchases is expected to be lower than in 2010. The actual amount of share repurchases will depend on a variety of factors, including the Companys earnings, corporate and regulatory requirements, share price, catastrophe losses, strategic initiatives and other market conditions. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to continue to repurchase shares in excess of its operating income in future years. The Company had a net after tax unrealized investment gain of $1.74 billion in its fixed maturity investment portfolio at December 31, 2010. While the Company does not attempt to predict future interest rate movements, a rising interest rate environment would reduce the market value of fixed maturity investments and, therefore, reduce shareholders equity, and a declining interest rate environment would have the opposite effects. Many of the statements in this "Outlook" section are forward looking statements, which are subject to risks and uncertainties that are often difficult to predict and beyond the Companys control. Actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward looking statements. Further, such forward looking statements speak only as of the date of this report and the Company undertakes no obligation to update them. See " Forward Looking Statements." For a discussion of potential risks and uncertainties that could impact the Companys results of operations or financial position, see "Item 1A Risk Factors" and "Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates" in this report. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Liquidity is a measure of a companys ability to generate sufficient cash flows to meet the short and long term cash requirements of its business operations. The liquidity requirements of the Companys business have been met primarily by funds generated from operations, asset maturities and income received on investments. Cash provided from these sources is used primarily for claims and claim adjustment expense payments and operating expenses, and in recent years, for common share repurchases. The timing and amount of catastrophe claims are inherently unpredictable. Such claims increase liquidity requirements. The timing and amount of reinsurance recoveries may be affected by reinsurer solvency and reinsurance coverage disputes. Additionally, the variability of asbestos related claim payments, as well as the volatility of potential judgments and settlements arising out of litigation, may also result in increased liquidity requirements. It is the opinion of the Companys management that the Companys future liquidity needs will be adequately met from all of the above sources. At December 31, 2010, total cash and short term invested assets aggregating $3.61 billion and having a weighted average maturity of 58 days were held at the holding company. The assets held at the holding company are sufficient to meet the holding companys current liquidity requirements and are more than three times the Companys target level. These liquidity requirements primarily include shareholder dividends and debt service. The Company has a shelf registration with the Securities and Exchange Commission which permits it to issue securities from time to time. The Company also has a $1.0 billion line of credit facility with a syndicate of financial institutions that expires in 2013. This line of credit also supports the Companys $800 million commercial paper program, of which $100 million was outstanding at December 31, 2010. The Company is not reliant on its commercial paper program to meet its operating cash flow needs. 115 Table of Contents The Company currently utilizes uncollateralized letters of credit issued by major banks with an aggregate limit of approximately $537 million to provide much of the capital needed to support its obligations at Lloyds. If uncollateralized letters of credit are not available at a reasonable price or at all in the future, the Company can collateralize these letters of credit or may have to seek alternative means of supporting its obligations at Lloyds, which could include utilizing holding company funds on hand. Operating Activities Net cash flows provided by operating activities totaled $3.05 billion, $4.23 billion and $3.14 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Cash flows in 2010 reflected a higher level of claims and claim adjustment expense payments due to the impact of loss cost trends and a higher level of catastrophe loss payments, as well as a lower level of reinsurance recoveries, partially offset by declines in the amount of contributions to the Companys pension plan and lower claims and claim adjustment expense payments related to operations in runoff as compared with 2009. Cash flows in 2009 reflected a decline in catastrophe loss payments, a higher level of reinsurance recoveries, a reduction in the amount of contributions to the Companys pension plan and lower claims and claim adjustment expense payments related to operations in runoff as compared with 2008. Those runoff payments in 2008 included the Companys one time net payment of $365 million associated with the final settlement of asbestos claims related to ACandS, Inc. In the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, the Company contributed $35 million, $260 million and $450 million, respectively, to its pension plan. Investing Activities Net cash flows provided by investing activities totaled $2.11 billion in 2010, compared with net cash flows used in investing activities of $899 million and $162 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The Companys consolidated total investments at December 31, 2010 decreased by $2.24 billion from year end 2009, driven by the net sales and maturities of fixed maturity investments. The proceeds from those sales and maturities, along with operating cash flows of $3.05 billion in 2010, were the primary sources of funding for the Companys $5.04 billion of common share repurchases in 2010. Net pretax unrealized appreciation of investments at December 31, 2010 was virtually unchanged from the same date in 2009. The Companys consolidated total investments at December 31, 2009 increased by $4.23 billion from year end 2008, primarily reflecting a $3.08 billion pretax increase in the unrealized appreciation of investments since year end 2008 and investment purchases resulting from strong cash flows from operations, partially offset by $3.29 billion of common share repurchases made during 2009. The improvement in the Companys net unrealized investment gain position at December 31, 2009 over the prior year is primarily attributable to the Companys fixed maturity investments. The improved valuations on these holdings reflect the changing market conditions in 2009 which included a significant narrowing of credit spreads. In the first half of 2011, the Company expects to fund its investment in J. Malucelli with cash from internal sources. See "Part I Item 1 Financial, Professional & International Insurance" in this report for further information regarding this investment. The primary goals of the Companys asset liability management process are to satisfy the insurance liabilities and maintain sufficient liquidity to cover fluctuations in projected liability cash flows. Generally, the expected principal and interest payments produced by the Companys fixed maturity portfolio adequately fund the estimated runoff of the Companys insurance reserves. Although this is not an exact cash flow match in each period, the substantial degree by which the market value of the fixed maturity portfolio exceeds the expected present value of the net insurance liabilities, as well as the positive cash flow from newly sold policies and the large amount of high quality liquid bonds, contributes to the Companys ability to fund claim payments without having to sell illiquid assets or access credit facilities. 116 Table of Contents Financing Activities Net cash flows used in financing activities totaled $5.22 billion, $3.44 billion and $2.87 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The totals in each year reflected common share repurchases, dividends to shareholders and the repayment of debt, partially offset by the proceeds from employee stock option exercises and the issuance of debt. Debt Transactions. 2010. On November 1, 2010, the Company issued $500 million aggregate principal amount 3.90% senior notes that will mature on November 1, 2020, and $750 million aggregate principal amount 5.35% senior notes that will mature on November 1, 2040. The net proceeds of these issuances, after original issuance discount and the deduction of underwriting expenses and commissions and other expenses, totaled approximately $496 million and $738 million, respectively. Interest on the senior notes is payable semi annually in arrears on November 1 and May 1 of each year. The senior notes are redeemable in whole at any time or in part from time to time, at the Companys option, at a redemption price equal to the greater of (a) 100% of the principal amount of senior notes to be redeemed or (b) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the senior notes to be redeemed (exclusive of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the date of redemption on a semi annual basis (assuming a 360 day year consisting of twelve 30 day months) at the then current Treasury rate (as defined) plus 15 basis points for the 2020 senior notes and 20 basis points for the 2040 notes. Prior to November 2010, the Company was subject to a replacement capital covenant that it had granted to the holders of its 6.75% senior notes due June 20, 2036 (the senior notes). The replacement capital covenant restricted the Companys ability to repurchase its $1.00 billion in outstanding 6.25% fixed to floating rate junior subordinated debentures due March 15, 2067 (the debentures). In November 2010, the Company paid approximately $4 million to holders of the senior notes to terminate the replacement capital covenant. Following the termination, the Company purchased approximately $885 million aggregate principal amount of the debentures. A $60 million pretax loss was recognized in 2010 related to these transactions. On September 16, 2010, the Company repaid the remaining $4 million principal balance on its 7.81% private placement senior notes. On August 23, 2010, the Companys $21 million, 7.415% medium term notes matured and were fully paid. On April 15, 2010, the Companys $250 million, 8.125% senior notes matured and were fully paid. All of these debt payments were made from internally generated funds. 2009. On June 2, 2009, the Company issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of 5.90% senior notes that will mature on June 2, 2019. The net proceeds of the issuance, after original issuance discount and the deduction of underwriting expenses and commissions and other expenses, totaled approximately $494 million. Interest on the senior notes is payable semi annually in arrears on June 2 and December 2 of each year. The senior notes are redeemable in whole at any time or in part from time to time, at the Companys option, at a redemption price equal to the greater of (a) 100% of the principal amount of senior notes to be redeemed or (b) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the senior notes to be redeemed (exclusive of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the date of redemption on a semi annual basis (assuming a 360 day year consisting of twelve 30 day months) at the then current Treasury rate (as defined) plus 35 basis points for the senior notes. On March 3, 2009, the Companys zero coupon convertible notes with an effective yield of 4.17% and a remaining principal balance of $141 million matured and were fully paid. 117 Table of Contents 2008. On March 15, 2008, the Companys $400 million, 3.75% senior notes matured and were fully paid. On May 13, 2008, the Company issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of 5.80% senior notes that will mature on May 15, 2018. The net proceeds of the issuance, after original issuance discount and the deduction of underwriting expenses and commissions and other expenses, totaled approximately $496 million. Interest on the senior notes is payable semi annually on May 15 and November 15. The senior notes are redeemable in whole at any time or in part from time to time, at the Companys option, at a redemption price equal to the greater of (a) 100% of the principal amount of senior notes to be redeemed or (b) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the senior notes to be redeemed (exclusive of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the date of redemption on a semi annual basis (assuming a 360 day year consisting of twelve 30 day months) at the then current Treasury rate plus 30 basis points for the senior notes. On December 15, 2008, two medium term notes with a cumulative par value of $149 million, each bearing an interest rate of 6.38%, matured and were fully paid. The amounts of debt obligations, other than commercial paper, that becomes due in 2011, 2012 and 2013 are $9 million, $250 million and $500 million, respectively. Dividends. Dividends paid to shareholders totaled $673 million, $693 million and $715 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. On February 2, 2011, the Companys board of directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.36 per share, payable March 31, 2011 to shareholders of record on March 10, 2011. The declaration and payment of future dividends to holders of the Companys common stock will be at the discretion of the Companys board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including the Companys financial position, earnings, capital requirements of the Companys operating subsidiaries, legal requirements, regulatory constraints and other factors as the board of directors deems relevant. Dividends would be paid by the Company only if declared by its board of directors out of funds legally available, subject to any other restrictions that may be applicable to the Company. Share Repurchases. The Companys board of directors has approved common share repurchase authorizations under which repurchases may be made from time to time in the open market, pursuant to pre set trading plans meeting the requirements of Rule 10b5 1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, in private transactions or otherwise. The authorizations do not have a stated expiration date. The timing and actual number of shares to be repurchased in the future will depend on a variety of factors, including the Companys financial position, earnings, catastrophe losses, capital requirements of the Companys operating subsidiaries, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, other investment opportunities (including mergers and acquisitions), market conditions and other factors. The following table summarizes repurchase activity in 2010 and remaining repurchase capacity at December 31, 2010. Quarterly Period Ending Number of shares purchased Cost of shares repurchased Average price paid per share Remaining capacity under share repurchase authorization March 31, 2010 26,985,323 $ 1,400,047,070 $ 51.88 $ 5,109,655,637 June 30, 2010 27,961,897 1,400,173,784 50.07 3,709,481,853 September 30, 2010 11,828,725 600,056,933 50.73 3,109,424,920 December 31, 2010 28,948,317 1,600,031,383 55.27 1,509,393,537 Total 95,724,262 $ 5,000,309,170 $ 52.24 $ 1,509,393,537 In January 2011, the board of directors approved a share repurchase authorization that added an additional $5 billion of repurchase capacity to the $1.51 billion of capacity remaining at December 31, 2010. 118  Table of Contents From the inception of the first authorization in May 2006 through December 31, 2010, the Company repurchased a cumulative total of 288.9 million shares for a total cost of $14.49 billion, or $50.15 per share. In 2010, 2009 and 2008, the Company acquired 1.3 million, 1.5 million and 0.8 million shares, respectively, of common stock from employees as treasury stock primarily to cover payroll withholding taxes related to the vesting of restricted stock awards and exercises of stock options. Capital Resources Capital resources reflect the overall financial strength of the Company and its ability to borrow funds at competitive rates and raise new capital to meet its needs. The following table summarizes the components of the Companys capital structure at December 31, 2010 and 2009. (at December 31, in millions) 2010 2009 Debt: Short term $ 109 $ 373 Long term 6,519 6,165 Net unamortized fair value adjustments and debt issuance costs (17 ) (11 ) Total debt 6,611 6,527 Preferred shareholders equity 68 79 Common shareholders equity: Common stock and retained earnings, less treasury stock 24,152 26,117 Accumulated other changes in equity from nonowner sources 1,255 1,219 Total shareholders equity 25,475 27,415 Total capitalization $ 32,086 $ 33,942 The $1.86 billion decrease in total capitalization from December 31, 2009 primarily reflected the impact of common share repurchases and dividends to shareholders, partially offset by net income in 2010. The following table provides a reconciliation of total capitalization excluding net unrealized gains on investments to total capitalization presented in the foregoing table. (at December 31, dollars in millions) 2010 2009 Total capitalization excluding net unrealized gains on investments $ 30,228 $ 32,081 Net unrealized gain on investments, net of taxes 1,858 1,861 Total capitalization $ 32,086 $ 33,942 Debt to total capital ratio 20.6 % 19.2 % Debt to total capital ratio excluding net unrealized gains on investments 21.9 % 20.3 % The debt to total capital ratio excluding net unrealized gains on investments is calculated by dividing (a) debt by (b) total capitalization excluding net unrealized gains and losses on investments, net of taxes. Net unrealized gains and losses on investments can be significantly impacted by both discretionary and other economic factors and are not necessarily indicative of operating trends. Accordingly, in the opinion of the Companys management, the debt to total capital ratio calculated on this basis provides another useful metric for investors to understand the Companys financial leverage position. The Companys debt to total capital ratio of 21.9% at December 31, 2010 calculated on this basis was within the Companys target range. 119 Table of Contents Line of Credit Agreement. On June 10, 2010, the Company entered into a three year, $1.0 billion revolving credit agreement with a syndicate of financial institutions, replacing its five year, $1.0 billion credit agreement that expired on that date. Pursuant to the credit agreement covenants, the Company must maintain a minimum consolidated net worth (generally defined as shareholders equity plus certain trust preferred and mandatorily convertible securities, reduced for goodwill and other intangible assets) of $14.35 billion. The Company must also maintain a ratio of total debt to the sum of total debt plus consolidated net worth of not greater than 0.40 to 1.00. In addition, the credit agreement contains other customary restrictive covenants as well as certain customary events of default, including with respect to a change in control, which is defined to include the acquisition of 35% or more of the Companys voting stock and certain changes in the composition of the Companys board of directors. At December 31, 2010, the Company was in compliance with these covenants. Generally, the cost of borrowing under this agreement will range from LIBOR plus 100 basis points to LIBOR plus 175 basis points depending on the Companys credit ratings. At December 31, 2010, that cost would have been LIBOR plus 125 basis points had there been any amounts outstanding under the credit agreement. This line of credit also supports the Companys commercial paper program. Shelf Registration. In December 2008, the Company filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission a universal shelf registration statement for the potential offering and sale of securities. The Company may offer these securities from time to time at prices and on other terms to be determined at the time of offering. During 2010 and 2009, the Company issued securities with a principal amount of $1.25 billion and $500 million, respectively, under the shelf registration statement. Share Repurchase Authorization. At December 31, 2010, the Company had $1.51 billion of capacity remaining under its share repurchase authorization approved by the board of directors. In January 2011, the board of directors approved a share repurchase authorization that added an additional $5 billion of repurchase capacity to the $1.51 billion of capacity that remained at December 31, 2010. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes, as of December 31, 2010, the Companys future payments under contractual obligations and estimated claims and claim related payments. The table excludes short term obligations and includes only liabilities at December 31, 2010 that are expected to be settled in cash. The table below includes the amount and estimated future timing of claims and claim related payments. The amounts do not represent the exact liability, but instead represent estimates, generally utilizing actuarial projections techniques, at a given accounting date. These estimates include expectations of what the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost based on the Companys assessment of facts and circumstances then known, review of historical settlement patterns, estimates of trends in claims severity, frequency, legal theories of liability and other factors. Variables in the reserve estimation process can be affected by both internal and external events, such as changes in claims handling procedures, economic inflation or deflation, legal trends and legislative changes. Many of these items are not directly quantifiable, particularly on a prospective basis. Additionally, there may be significant reporting lags between the occurrence of the policyholder event and the time it is actually reported to the insurer. The future cash flows related to the items contained in the table below required estimation of both amount (including severity considerations) and timing. Amount and timing are frequently estimated separately. An estimation of both amount and timing of future cash flows related to claims and claim related payments is generally reliable only in the aggregate with some unavoidable estimation uncertainty. The contractual obligations related to debt, operating leases, purchase obligations, long term unfunded investment commitments, estimated claims and claim related payments (gross of the 120 Table of Contents estimated reinsurance recoveries) and liabilities related to unrecognized tax benefits, at December 31, 2010 were as follows: Payments Due by Period (in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years Debt Senior notes $ 6,150 $ $ 750 $ 400 $ 5,000 Junior subordinated debentures 369 369 Private placement notes 9 9 Total debt principal 6,528 9 750 400 5,369 Interest 5,944 382 730 686 4,146 Total long term debt obligations(1) 12,472 391 1,480 1,086 9,515 Operating leases(2) 613 159 236 143 75 Purchase obligations Information systems administration and maintenance commitments(3) 88 58 30 Reinsurance brokerage commitment(4) 22 20 2 Other purchase commitments(5) 89 25 27 4 33 Total purchase obligations 199 103 59 4 33 Long term unfunded investment commitments(6) 1,262 278 363 423 198 Estimated claims and claim related payments Claims and claim adjustment expenses(7) 49,008 10,849 13,033 7,732 17,394 Claims from large deductible policies(8) Loss based assessments(9) 199 35 46 20 98 Reinsurance contracts accounted for as deposits(10) 1 1 Payout from ceded funds withheld(11) 306 29 131 33 113 Total estimated claims and claim related payments 49,514 10,914 13,210 7,785 17,605 Liabilities related to unrecognized tax benefits(12) 1,122 1,122 Total $ 65,182 $ 12,967 $ 15,348 $ 9,441 $ 27,426 (1)See note 8 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements for a further discussion of outstanding indebtedness. Because the amounts reported in the foregoing table include principal and interest, the total long term debt obligations will not agree with the amounts reported in note 8. (2)Represents agreements entered into in the ordinary course of business to lease office space, equipment and furniture. (3)Includes agreements with vendors to purchase system software administration and maintenance services. (4)In connection with the sale of its insurance brokerage operations, the Company committed to acquire brokerage services from the buyer through May 16, 2012. See note 15 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements. (5)Includes commitments to vendors entered into in the ordinary course of business for goods and services including office supplies, archival services, etc. 121 Table of Contents (6)Represents estimated timing for fulfilling unfunded commitments for private equity limited partnerships and real estate partnerships. (7)The amounts in "Claims and claim adjustment expenses" in the table above represent the estimated timing of future payments for both reported and unreported claims incurred and related claim adjustment expenses, gross of reinsurance recoverables, excluding structured settlements expected to be paid by annuity companies. The Company has entered into reinsurance agreements to protect itself from potential losses in excess of the amount it is prepared to accept as described in note 5 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements. In order to qualify for reinsurance accounting, a reinsurance agreement must indemnify the insurer from insurance risk, i.e., the agreement must transfer amount and timing risk. Since the timing and amount of cash inflows from such reinsurance agreements are directly related to the underlying payment of claims and claim adjustment expenses by the insurer, reinsurance recoverables are recognized in a manner consistent with the liabilities (the estimated liability for claims and claim adjustment expenses) relating to the underlying reinsured contracts. The presence of any feature that can delay timely reimbursement of claims by a reinsurer results in the reinsurance contract being accounted for as a deposit rather than reinsurance (see below). The assumptions used in estimating the amount and timing of the reinsurance recoverables are consistent with those used in estimating the amount and timing of the related liabilities. Reinsurance agreements that do not transfer both amount and timing risk are accounted for as deposits and included in "Reinsurance contracts accounted for as deposits" in the table above. The estimated future cash inflows from the Companys reinsurance contracts that qualify for reinsurance accounting are as follows: (in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years Reinsurance recoverables $ 7,779 $ 1,486 $ 1,936 $ 1,285 $ 3,072 The Company manages its business and evaluates its liabilities for claims and claim adjustment expense on a net of reinsurance basis. The estimated cash flows on a net of reinsurance basis are as follows: (in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years Claims and claim adjustment expenses, net $ 41,229 $ 9,363 $ 11,097 $ 6,447 $ 14,322 For business underwritten by non U.S. operations, future cash flows related to reported and unreported claims incurred and related claim adjustment expenses were translated at the spot rate on December 31, 2010. The amounts reported in the table above and in the table of reinsurance recoverables above are presented on a nominal basis and have not been adjusted to reflect the time value of money. Accordingly, the amounts above will differ from the Companys balance sheet to the extent that the liability for claims and claim adjustment expenses and the related reinsurance recoverables have been discounted in the balance sheet. (See note 1 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements.) (8)Workers compensation large deductible policies provide third party coverage in which the Company typically is responsible for paying the entire loss under such policies and then seeks reimbursement from the insured for the deductible amount. "Claims from large deductible policies" represent the estimated future payment for claims and claim related expenses below the 122 Table of Contents deductible amount, net of the estimated recovery of the deductible. The liability and the related deductible receivable for unpaid claims are presented in the consolidated balance sheet as "contractholder payables" and "contractholder receivables," respectively. Most deductibles for such policies are paid directly from the policyholders escrow which is periodically replenished by the policyholder. The payment of the loss amounts above the deductible are reported within "Claims and claim adjustment expenses" in the above table. Because the timing of the collection of the deductible (contractholder receivables) occurs shortly after the payment of the deductible to a claimant (contractholder payables), these cash flows offset each other in the table. The estimated timing of the payment of the contractholder payables and the collection of contractholder receivables for workers compensation policies is presented below: (in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years Contractholder payables/receivables $ 5,343 $ 1,297 $ 1,465 $ 801 $ 1,780 (9)The amounts in "Loss based assessments" relate to estimated future payments of second injury fund assessments which would result from payment of current claim liabilities. Second injury funds cover the cost of any additional benefits for aggravation of a pre existing condition. For loss based assessments, the cost is shared by the insurance industry and self insureds, funded through assessments to insurance companies and self insureds based on losses. Amounts relating to second injury fund assessments are included in "other liabilities" in the consolidated balance sheet. (10)The amounts in "Reinsurance contracts accounted for as deposits" represent estimated future nominal payments for reinsurance agreements that are accounted for as deposits. Amounts payable under deposit agreements are included in "other liabilities" in the consolidated balance sheet. The amounts reported in the table are presented on a nominal basis and have not been adjusted to reflect the time value of money. Accordingly, the amounts above will differ from the Companys balance sheet to the extent that deposit values in the balance sheet have been discounted using deposit accounting. (11)The amounts in "Payout from ceded funds withheld" represent estimated payments for losses and return of funds held related to certain reinsurance arrangements whereby the Company holds a portion of the premium due to the reinsurer and is allowed to pay claims from the amounts held. (12)The Companys current liabilities related to unrecognized tax benefits from uncertain tax positions are $1.12 billion. Offsetting these liabilities are deferred tax assets of $1.01 billion associated with the temporary differences that would exist if these positions become realized. The above table does not include an analysis of liabilities reported for structured settlements for which the Company has purchased annuities and remains contingently liable in the event of default by the company issuing the annuity. The Company is not reasonably likely to incur material future payment obligations under such agreements. In addition, the Company does not have a best estimate of contributions expected to be paid to its qualified pension plan. Accordingly, any future contributions are not included in the foregoing table. This table does not include the Companys obligations related to its agreement to commence a joint venture with J. Malucelli Participa&ccedil;&otilde;es em Seguros e Resseguros S.A, a Brazilian company ("J. Malucelli"), a transaction that is described in more detail in note 15 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements. The purchase price for this acquisition will be R$625 million Brazilian Reais (the U.S. dollar equivalent of which will depend on the exchange rate at closing) plus an amount based on a Brazilian inter bank lending rate (CDI) from January 1, 2011 through the closing date of the transaction. At December 31, 2010, R$625 million Brazilian Reais was equivalent to approximately $377 million in U.S. dollars. The purchase price is expected to be paid in cash from internal sources in the first half of 2011. In order to reduce its exposure to a significant strengthening 123 Table of Contents of the Brazilian Reais prior to the closing of the transaction, the Company entered into a foreign currency option contract on February 7, 2011 in the notional amount of R$635 million which expires on March 31, 2011. The joint venture transaction is subject to customary closing conditions and is expected to be finalized in the first half of 2011. Dividend Availability The Companys principal insurance subsidiaries are domiciled in the state of Connecticut. The insurance holding company laws of Connecticut applicable to the Companys subsidiaries requires notice to, and approval by, the state insurance commissioner for the declaration or payment of any dividend that, together with other distributions made within the preceding twelve months, exceeds the greater of 10% of the insurers capital and surplus as of the preceding December 31, or the insurers net income for the twelve month period ending the preceding December 31, in each case determined in accordance with statutory accounting practices and by state regulation. This declaration or payment is further limited by adjusted unassigned surplus, as determined in accordance with statutory accounting practices. The insurance holding company laws of other states in which the Companys subsidiaries are domiciled generally contain similar, although in some instances somewhat more restrictive, limitations on the payment of dividends. A maximum of $3.61 billion is available by the end of 2011 for such dividends without prior approval of the Connecticut Insurance Department. The Company may choose to accelerate the timing within 2011 and or increase the amount of dividends from its insurance subsidiaries in 2011, which could result in certain dividends being subject to approval by the Connecticut Insurance Department. The holding company received $6.59 billion of dividends from its domestic insurance subsidiaries in 2010, including $5.26 billion of dividends that were subject to regulatory approval, primarily due to the Companys request for the accelerated timing of payment. Risk Based Capital The NAIC adopted RBC requirements for property casualty companies to be used as minimum capital requirements by the NAIC and states to identify companies that merit further regulatory action. The formulas have not been designed to differentiate among adequately capitalized companies that operate with levels of capital higher than RBC requirements. Therefore, it is inappropriate and ineffective to use the formulas to rate or to rank these companies. At December 31, 2010, all of the Companys insurance subsidiaries had adjusted capital in excess of amounts requiring any company or regulatory action. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company has entered into certain contingent obligations for guarantees related to letters of credit, issuance of debt securities, certain investments, third party loans related to certain investments and various indemnifications, including those related to the sale of business entities. See note 15 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements. The Company does not expect these arrangements to have a material effect on the Companys financial position, changes in financial position, revenues and expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES The Company considers its most significant accounting estimates to be those applied to claims and claim adjustment expense reserves and related reinsurance recoverables, investment valuation and impairments, and goodwill impairments. 124 Table of Contents Claims and Claim Adjustment Expense Reserves Claims and claim adjustment expense reserves (loss reserves) represent managements estimate of ultimate unpaid costs of losses and loss adjustment expenses for claims that have been reported and claims that have been incurred but not yet reported. Loss reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability, but instead represent management estimates, generally utilizing actuarial expertise and projection techniques, at a given accounting date. These loss reserve estimates are expectations of what the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost upon final resolution in the future, based on the Companys assessment of facts and circumstances then known, review of historical settlement patterns, estimates of trends in claims severity and frequency, expected interpretations of legal theories of liability and other factors. In establishing loss reserves, the Company also takes into account estimated recoveries from reinsurance, salvage and subrogation. The loss reserves are reviewed regularly by qualified actuaries employed by the Company. The process of estimating loss reserves involves a high degree of judgment and is subject to a number of variables. These variables can be affected by both internal and external events, such as changes in claims handling procedures, changes in individuals involved in the reserve estimation process, economic inflation, legal trends and legislative changes, among others. The impact of many of these items on ultimate costs for claims and claim adjustment expenses is difficult to estimate. Loss reserve estimation difficulties also differ significantly by product line due to differences in claim complexity, the volume of claims, the potential severity of individual claims, the determination of occurrence date for a claim and reporting lags (the time between the occurrence of the policyholder event and when it is actually reported to the insurer). Informed judgment is applied throughout the process, including the application of various individual experiences and expertise to multiple sets of data and analyses. The Company continually refines its loss reserve estimates in a regular ongoing process as historical loss experience develops and additional claims are reported and settled. The Company rigorously attempts to consider all significant facts and circumstances known at the time loss reserves are established. Due to the inherent uncertainty underlying loss reserve estimates including, but not limited to, the future settlement environment, final resolution of the estimated liability for claims and claim adjustment expenses may be higher or lower than the related loss reserves at the reporting date. Therefore, actual paid losses, as claims are settled in the future, may be materially different in amount than current loss reserves favorable or unfavorable. Because establishment of loss reserves is an inherently uncertain process involving estimates, currently established loss reserves may change. The Company reflects adjustments to loss reserves in the results of operations in the period the estimates are changed. There are also additional risks which impact the estimation of ultimate costs for catastrophes. For example, the estimation of reserves related to hurricanes and other catastrophic events can be affected by the inability of the Company and its insureds to access portions of the impacted areas, the complexity of factors contributing to the losses, the legal and regulatory uncertainties and the nature of the information available to establish the reserves. Complex factors include, but are not limited to: determining whether damage was caused by flooding versus wind; evaluating general liability and pollution exposures; estimating additional living expenses; estimating the impact of demand surge, infrastructure disruption, fraud, the effect of mold damage and business interruption costs; and reinsurance collectibility. The timing of a catastrophe, such as at or near the end of a reporting period, can also affect the information available to the Company in estimating reserves for that reporting period. The estimates related to catastrophes are adjusted as actual claims emerge. A portion of the Companys gross claims and claim adjustment expense reserves (totaling $3.30 billion at December 31, 2010) are for asbestos and environmental claims and related litigation. While the ongoing review of asbestos and environmental claims and associated liabilities considers the inconsistencies of court decisions as to coverage, plaintiffs expanded theories of liability and the risks 125 Table of Contents inherent in complex litigation and other uncertainties, in the opinion of the Companys management, it is possible that the outcome of the continued uncertainties regarding these claims could result in liability in future periods that differs from current reserves by an amount that could be material to the Companys future operating results. See the preceding discussion of "Asbestos Claims and Litigation" and "Environmental Claims and Litigation." Gross claims and claim adjustment expense reserves by product line were as follows: 2010 2009 (at December 31, in millions) Case IBNR Total Case IBNR Total General liability $ 5,809 $ 10,449 $ 16,258 $ 6,211 $ 11,354 $ 17,565 Property 945 627 1,572 1,091 780 1,871 Commercial multi peril 1,897 1,766 3,663 1,878 1,762 3,640 Commercial automobile 2,256 1,060 3,316 2,211 1,238 3,449 Workers compensation 9,447 7,082 16,529 9,354 7,121 16,475 Fidelity and surety 542 1,124 1,666 649 1,083 1,732 Personal automobile 1,434 935 2,369 1,457 993 2,450 Homeowners and personal other 653 769 1,422 633 717 1,350 International and other 2,353 1,914 4,267 2,344 2,178 4,522 Property casualty 25,336 25,726 51,062 25,828 27,226 53,054 Accident and health 61 8 69 64 9 73 Claims and claim adjustment expense reserves $ 25,397 $ 25,734 $ 51,131 $ 25,892 $ 27,235 $ 53,127 The $2.00 billion decline in gross claims and claim adjustment expense reserves since December 31, 2009 primarily reflected the impact of net favorable prior year reserve development and payments related to asbestos and environmental claims as well as operations in runoff. Asbestos and environmental reserves are included in the General liability, Commercial multi peril and International and other lines in the foregoing summary table. Asbestos and environmental reserves are discussed separately; see "Asbestos Claims and Litigation", "Environmental Claims and Litigation" and "Uncertainty Regarding Adequacy of Asbestos and Environmental Reserves." General Discussion The process for estimating the liabilities for claims and claim adjustment expenses begins with the collection and analysis of claim data. Data on individual reported claims, both current and historical, including paid amounts and individual claim adjuster estimates, are grouped by common characteristics (components) and evaluated by actuaries in their analyses of ultimate claim liabilities by product line. Such data is occasionally supplemented with external data as available and when appropriate. The process of analyzing reserves for a component is undertaken on a regular basis, generally quarterly, in light of continually updated information. Multiple estimation methods are available for the analysis of ultimate claim liabilities. Each estimation method has its own set of assumption variables and its own advantages and disadvantages, with no single estimation method being better than the others in all situations and no one set of assumption variables being meaningful for all product line components. The relative strengths and weaknesses of the particular estimation methods when applied to a particular group of claims can also change over time. Therefore, the actual choice of estimation method(s) can change with each evaluation. The estimation method(s) chosen are those that are believed to produce the most reliable indication at that particular evaluation date for the claim liabilities being evaluated. 126  Table of Contents In most cases, multiple estimation methods will be valid for the particular facts and circumstances of the claim liabilities being evaluated. This will result in a range of reasonable estimates for any particular claim liability. The Company uses such range analyses to back test whether previously established estimates for reserves at the reporting segments are reasonable, given subsequent information. Reported values found to be closer to the endpoints of a range of reasonable estimates are subject to further detailed reviews. These reviews may substantiate the validity of managements recorded estimate or lead to a change in the reported estimate. The exact boundary points of these ranges are more qualitative than quantitative in nature, as no clear line of demarcation exists to determine when the set of underlying assumptions for an estimation method switches from being reasonable to unreasonable. As a result, the Company does not believe that the endpoints of these ranges are or would be comparable across companies. In addition, potential interactions among the different estimation assumptions for different product lines make the aggregation of individual ranges a highly judgmental and inexact process. Property casualty insurance policies are either written on a claims made or on an occurrence basis. Claims made policies generally cover, subject to requirements in individual policies, claims reported during the policy period. Policies that are written on an occurrence basis require that the insured demonstrate that a loss occurred in the policy period, even if the insured reports the loss many years later. Most general liability policies are written on an occurrence basis. These policies are subject to substantial loss development over time as facts and circumstances change in the years following the policy issuance. The occurrence form, which accounts for much of the reserve development in asbestos and environmental exposures, is also used to provide coverage for construction general liability, including construction defect. Occurrence based forms of insurance for general liability exposures require substantial projection of various trends, including future inflation and judicial interpretations and societal litigation dynamics, among others. A basic premise in most actuarial analyses is that past patterns demonstrated in the data will repeat themselves in the future, absent a material change in the associated risk factors discussed below. To the extent a material change affecting the ultimate claim liability is known, such change is quantified to the extent possible through an analysis of internal company data and, if available and when appropriate, external data. Such a measurement is specific to the facts and circumstances of the particular claim portfolio and the known change being evaluated. Significant structural changes to the available data, product mix or organization can materially impact the reserve estimation process. Informed judgment is applied throughout the reserving process. This includes the application of various individual experiences and expertise to multiple sets of data and analyses. In addition to actuaries, experts involved with the reserving process also include underwriting and claims personnel and lawyers, as well as other company management. Therefore, management may have to consider varying individual viewpoints as part of its estimation of loss reserves. It is also likely that during periods of significant change, such as a merger, consistent application of informed judgment becomes even more complicated and difficult. The variables discussed above in this general discussion have different impacts on reserve estimation uncertainty for a given product line, depending on the length of the claim tail, the reporting lag, the impact of individual claims and the complexity of the claim process for a given product line. Product lines are generally classifiable as either long tail or short tail, based on the average length of time between the event triggering claims under a policy and the final resolution of those claims. Short tail claims are reported and settled quickly, resulting in less estimation variability. The longer the time before final claim resolution, the greater the exposure to estimation risks and hence the greater the estimation uncertainty. 127 Table of Contents A major component of the claim tail is the reporting lag. The reporting lag, which is the time between the event triggering a claim and the reporting of the claim to the insurer, makes estimating IBNR inherently more uncertain. In addition, the greater the reporting lag, the greater the proportion of IBNR to the total claim liability for the product line. Writing new products with material reporting lags can result in adding several years worth of IBNR claim exposure before the reporting lag exposure becomes clearly observable, thereby increasing the risk associated with pricing and reserving such products. The most extreme example of claim liabilities with long reporting lags are asbestos claims. For some lines, the impact of large individual claims can be material to the analysis. These lines are generally referred to as being "low frequency/high severity," while lines without this "large claim" sensitivity are referred to as "high frequency/low severity." Estimates of claim liabilities for low frequency/high severity lines can be sensitive to the impact of a small number of potentially large claims. As a result, the role of judgment is much greater for these reserve estimates. In contrast, for high frequency/low severity lines the impact of individual claims is relatively minor and the range of reasonable reserve estimates is narrower and more stable. Claim complexity can also greatly affect the estimation process by impacting the number of assumptions needed to produce the estimate, the potential stability of the underlying data and claim process, and the ability to gain an understanding of the data. Product lines with greater claim complexity, such as for certain surety and construction exposures, have inherently greater estimation uncertainty. Actuaries have to exercise a considerable degree of judgment in the evaluation of all these factors in their analysis of reserves. The human element in the application of actuarial judgment is unavoidable when faced with material uncertainty. Different actuaries may choose different assumptions when faced with such uncertainty, based on their individual backgrounds, professional experiences and areas of focus. Hence, the estimates selected by the various actuaries may differ materially from each other. Lastly, significant structural changes to the available data, product mix or organization can also materially impact the reserve estimation process. Events such as mergers increase the inherent uncertainty of reserve estimates for a period of time, until stable trends re establish themselves within the new organization. Risk factors The major causes of material uncertainty ("risk factors") generally will vary for each product line, as well as for each separately analyzed component of the product line. In a few cases, such risk factors are explicit assumptions of the estimation method, but in most cases, they are implicit. For example, a method may explicitly assume that a certain percentage of claims will close each year, but will implicitly assume that the legal interpretation of existing contract language will remain unchanged. Actual results will likely vary from expectations for each of these assumptions, causing actual paid losses, as claims are settled in the future, to be different in amount than the reserves being estimated currently. Some risk factors will affect more than one product line. Examples include changes in claim department practices, changes in settlement patterns, regulatory and legislative actions, court actions, timeliness of claim reporting, state mix of claimants and degree of claimant fraud. The extent of the impact of a risk factor will also vary by components within a product line. Individual risk factors are also subject to interactions with other risk factors within product line components. The effect of a particular risk factor on estimates of claim liabilities cannot be isolated in most cases. For example, estimates of potential claim settlements may be impacted by the risk associated with potential court rulings, but the final settlement agreement typically does not delineate how much of the settled amount is due to this and other factors. 128 Table of Contents The evaluation of data is also subject to distortion from extreme events or structural shifts, sometimes in unanticipated ways. For example, the timing of claims payments in one geographic region will be impacted if claim adjusters are temporarily reassigned from that region to help settle catastrophe claims in another region. While some changes in the claim environment are sudden in nature (such as a new court ruling affecting the interpretation of all contracts in that jurisdiction), others are more evolutionary. Evolutionary changes can occur when multiple factors affect final claim values, with the uncertainty surrounding each factor being resolved separately, in stepwise fashion. The final impact is not known until all steps have occurred. Sudden changes generally cause a one time shift in claim liability estimates, although there may be some lag in reliable quantification of their impact. Evolutionary changes generally cause a series of shifts in claim liability estimates, as each component of the evolutionary change becomes evident and estimable. Actuarial methods for analyzing and estimating claims and claim adjustment expense reserves The principal estimation and analysis methods utilized by the Companys actuaries are the paid development method, the case incurred development method, the Bornhuetter Ferguson (BF) method, and average value analysis combined with the reported claim development method. The BF method is usually utilized for more recent accident periods, with a transition to other methods as the underlying claim data becomes more voluminous and therefore more credible. These are typically referred to as traditional actuarial methods. (See Glossary for an explanation of these methods). While these are the principal methods utilized throughout the Company, actuaries evaluating a particular component for a product line have available to them the full range of methods developed within the casualty actuarial profession. The Companys actuaries are also continually monitoring developments within the profession for advances in existing techniques or the creation of new techniques that might improve current and future estimates. Some components of product line reserves are susceptible to relatively infrequent large claims that can materially impact the total estimate for that component. In such cases, the Companys actuarial analysis generally isolates and analyzes separately such large claims. The reserves excluding such large claims are generally analyzed using the traditional methods described above. The reserves associated with large claims are then analyzed utilizing various methods, such as: Estimating the number of large claims and their average values based on historical trends from prior accident periods, adjusted for the current environment and supplemented with actual data for the accident year analyzed to the extent available. Utilizing individual claim adjuster estimates of the large claims, combined with continual monitoring of the aggregate accuracy of such claim adjuster estimates. (This monitoring may lead to supplemental adjustments to the aggregate of such claim estimates.) Utilizing historic longer term average ratios of large claims to small claims, and applying such ratios to the estimated ultimate small claims from traditional analysis. Ground up analysis of the underlying exposure (typically used for asbestos and environmental). The results of such methodologies are subjected to various reasonability and diagnostic tests, including paid to incurred loss ratios, implied incurred loss to earned premium ratios and non zero claim severity trends. An actual versus expected analysis is also performed comparing actual loss development to expected development based on the prior review. Additional analyses may be performed based on the results of these diagnostics, including the investigation of other actuarial methods. 129 Table of Contents The methods described above are generally utilized to evaluate managements existing estimate for prior accident periods. For the initial estimate of the current accident year, the available claim data is typically insufficient to produce a reliable indication. Hence, the initial estimate for an accident year is generally based on a loss ratio projection method, which uses the earned premium for the current year multiplied by a projected loss ratio. The projected loss ratio is determined through an analysis of prior periods experience, using loss trend, rate level differences, mix of business changes and other known or observed factors influencing the current accident year relative to prior accident years. The exact number of prior accident years utilized varies by product line component, based on the volume of business for that component and the reliability of an individual accident year estimate. Managements estimates At least once per quarter, certain Company management meets with its actuaries to review the latest claims and claim adjustment expense reserve analyses. Based on these analyses, management determines whether its ultimate claim liability estimates should be changed. In doing so, it must evaluate whether the new data provided represents credible actionable information or an anomaly that will have no effect on estimated ultimate claim liability. For example, as described above, payments may have decreased in one geographic region due to fewer claim adjusters being available to process claims. The resulting claim payment patterns would be analyzed to determine whether or not the change in payment pattern represents a change in ultimate claim liability. Such an assessment requires considerable judgment. It is frequently not possible to determine whether a change in the data is an anomaly until sometime after the event. Even if a change is determined to be permanent, it is not always possible to reliably determine the extent of the change until sometime later. The overall detailed analyses supporting such an effort can take several months to perform. This is because the underlying causes of the trends observed need to be evaluated, which may require the gathering or assembling of data not previously available. It may also include interviews with experts involved with the underlying processes. As a result, there can be a time lag between the emergence of a change and a determination that the change should be reflected in the Companys estimated claim liabilities. The final estimate selected by management in a reporting period is based on these various detailed analyses of past data, adjusted to reflect any new actionable information. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors is responsible for providing oversight of reserving propriety, and annually reviews the process by which the Company establishes reserves. Discussion of Product Lines The following section details reserving considerations and common risk factors by product line. There are many additional risk factors that may impact ultimate claim costs. Each risk factor presented will have a different impact on required reserves. Also, risk factors can have offsetting or compounding effects on required reserves. For example, in workers compensation, the use of expensive medical procedures that result in medical cost inflation may enable workers to return to work faster, thereby lowering indemnity costs. Thus, in almost all cases, it is impossible to discretely measure the effect of a single risk factor and construct a meaningful sensitivity expectation. In order to provide information on reasonably possible reserving changes by product line, the historical changes in year end loss reserves over a one year period are provided for the U.S. product lines. This information is provided for both the Company and the industry for the nine most recent years, and is based on the most recent publicly available data for the reported line(s) that most closely match the individual product line being discussed. These changes were calculated, net of reinsurance, from statutory annual statement data found in Schedule P of those statements, and represent the reported reserve development on the beginning of the year claim liabilities divided by the beginning claim liabilities, all accident years combined, excluding non defense related claim adjustment expense. 130 Table of Contents Data presented for the Company includes history for the entire Travelers group (U.S. companies only), whether or not the individual subsidiaries were originally part of SPC or TPC. This treatment is required by the statutory reporting instructions promulgated by state regulatory authorities for Schedule P. Comparable data for non U.S. companies is not available. General Liability General liability is generally considered a long tail line, as it takes a relatively long period of time to finalize and settle claims from a given accident year. The speed of claim reporting and claim settlement is a function of the specific coverage provided, the jurisdiction and specific policy provisions such as self insured retentions. There are numerous components underlying the general liability product line. Some of these have relatively moderate payment patterns (with most of the claims for a given accident year closed within 5 to 7 years), while others can have extreme lags in both reporting and payment of claims (e.g., a reporting lag of a decade or more for "construction defect" claims). While the majority of general liability coverages are written on an "occurrence" basis, certain general liability coverages (such as those covering directors and officers or professional liability) are typically insured on a "claims made" basis. General liability reserves are generally analyzed as two components: primary and excess/umbrella, with the primary component generally analyzed separately for bodily injury and property damage. Bodily injury liability payments reimburse the claimant for damages pertaining to physical injury as a result of the policyholders legal obligation arising from non intentional acts such as negligence, subject to the insurance policy provisions. In some cases the damages can include future wage loss (which is a function of future earnings power and wage inflation) and future medical treatment costs. Property damage liability payments result from damages to the claimants private property arising from the policyholders legal obligation for non intentional acts. In most cases, property damage losses are a function of costs as of the loss date, or soon thereafter. In addition, sizable or unique exposures are reviewed separately. These exposures include asbestos, environmental, other mass torts, construction defect, medical malpractice and large unique accounts that would otherwise distort the analysis. These unique categories often require a very high degree of judgment and require reserve analyses that do not rely on traditional actuarial methods. Defense costs are also a part of the insured costs covered by liability policies and can be significant, sometimes greater than the cost of the actual paid claims. For some products this risk is mitigated by policy language such that the insured portion of defense costs erodes the amount of policy limit available to pay the claim. Such "defense within the limits" policies are most common for "claims made" products. When defense costs are outside of the limits, amounts paid for defense costs do not erode the policy limits. This line is typically the largest source of reserve estimate uncertainty in the United States (excluding assumed reinsurance contracts covering the same risk). Major contributors to this reserve estimate uncertainty include the reporting lag (i.e., the length of time between the event triggering coverage and the actual reporting of the claim), the number of parties involved in the underlying tort action, whether the "event" triggering coverage is confined to only one time period or is spread over multiple time periods, the potential dollars involved (in the individual claim actions), whether such claims were reasonably foreseeable and intended to be covered at the time the contracts were written (i.e., coverage dispute potential), and the potential for mass claim actions. Claims with longer reporting lags result in greater inherent risk. This is especially true for alleged claims with a latency feature, particularly where courts have ruled that coverage is spread over multiple policy years, hence involving multiple defendants (and their insurers and reinsurers) and multiple policies (thereby increasing the potential dollars involved and the underlying settlement complexity). Claims with long latencies also 131 Table of Contents increase the potential recognition lag (i.e., the lag between writing a type of policy in a certain market and the recognition that such policies have potential mass tort and or latent claim exposure). The amount of reserve estimate uncertainty also varies significantly by component for the general liability product line. The components in this product line with the longest latency, longest reporting lags, largest potential dollars involved and greatest claim settlement complexity are asbestos and environmental. Components that include latency, reporting lag and or complexity issues, but to a materially lesser extent than asbestos and environmental, include construction defect, medical malpractice and other mass tort actions. Many components of general liability are not subject to material latency or claim complexity risks and hence have materially less uncertainty than the previously mentioned components. In general, policies providing coverage with shorter reporting lags, fewer parties involved in settlement negotiations, only one policy potentially triggered per claim, fewer potential settlement dollars, reasonably foreseeable (and stable) potential hazards/claims and no mass tort potential result in much less reserve estimate uncertainty than policies without those characteristics. In addition to the traditional actuarial methods mentioned in the general discussion section, the company utilizes various report year development and S curve methods for the construction defect components of this product line. The Construction Defect report year development analysis is supplemented with projected claim counts and average values for IBNR claim counts. For components with greater lags in claim reporting, such as excess and umbrella components of this product line, the company relies more heavily on the BF method than on the paid and case incurred development methods. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required general liability reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: General liability risk factors Changes in claim handling philosophies Changes in policy provisions or court interpretation of such provisions New theories of liability Trends in jury awards Changes in the propensity to sue, in general with specificity to particular issues Changes in statutes of limitations Changes in the underlying court system Distortions from losses resulting from large single accounts or single issues Changes in tort law Shifts in law suit mix between federal and state courts Changes in claim adjuster office structure (causing distortions in the data) Changes in settlement patterns (e.g., medical malpractice) General liability book of business risk factors Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements) Changes in underwriting standards Product mix (e.g., size of account, industries insured, jurisdiction mix) Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for general liability (excluding asbestos and environmental), a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.5% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line, excluding estimated asbestos and environmental amounts, over the last nine years has varied from 5% to 14% (averaging 2%) for the Company and from 5% to 7% (averaging 1%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. Because the 132 Table of Contents high end of the Companys range of historical adverse development comes from certain businesses that the Company has since exited, the Company believes that the industrys range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. General liability reserves (excluding asbestos and environmental) represent approximately 26% of the Companys total loss reserves. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line, excluding estimated asbestos and environmental amounts, was 5% for 2010, 5% for 2009 and 5% for 2008. The 2010 change was primarily concentrated in excess coverages for accident years 2006 and prior and reflected what the Company believes are favorable legal and judicial environments. The 2009 and 2008 changes were driven by several factors, including improved legal and judicial environments, as well as enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. Property Property is generally considered a short tail line with a simpler and faster claim reporting and adjustment process than liability coverages, and less uncertainty in the reserve setting process (except for more complex business interruption claims). It is generally viewed as a moderate frequency, low to moderate severity line, except for catastrophes and coverage related to large properties. The claim reporting and settlement process for property coverage claim reserves is generally restricted to the insured and the insurer. Overall, the claim liabilities for this line create a low estimation risk, except possibly for catastrophes and business interruption claims. Property reserves are typically analyzed in two components, one for catastrophic or other large single events, and another for all other events. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required property reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Property risk factors Physical concentration of policyholders Availability and cost of local contractors For the more severe catastrophic events, "demand surge" inflation, which refers to significant short term increases in building material and labor costs due to a sharp increase in demand for those materials and services Local building codes Amount of time to return property to full usage (for business interruption claims) Court interpretation of policy provisions (such as occurrence definition, or wind versus flooding) Lags in reporting claims (e.g., winter damage to summer homes, hidden damage after an earthquake) Court or legislative changes to the statute of limitations Property book of business risk factors Policy provisions mix (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements) Changes in underwriting standards Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for property, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.1% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 34% to 26% (averaging 10%) for the Company, and from 14% to 7% (averaging 5%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. Because the high end of the Companys range of historical adverse development comes from certain businesses that the Company has since exited, the Company 133 Table of Contents believes that the industrys range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Property reserves represent approximately 3% of the Companys total loss reserves. Since property is considered a short tail coverage, the one year change for property can be more volatile than that for the longer tail product lines. This is due to the fact that the majority of the reserve for property relates to the most recent accident year, which is subject to the most uncertainty for all product lines. This recent accident year uncertainty is relevant to property because of weather related events which, notwithstanding 2010 experience, tend to be concentrated in the second half of the year, and generally are not completely resolved until the following year. Reserve estimates associated with major catastrophes may take even longer to resolve. The reserve estimates for this product line are also potentially subject to material changes due to uncertainty in measuring ultimate losses for unprecedented significant catastrophes such as the events of September 11, 2001 and Hurricane Katrina. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 25% for 2010, 9% for 2009 and 22% for 2008. The 2010 change primarily occurred in the 2008 and 2009 accident years as a result of better than expected loss development in Industry Focused Underwriting and Target Risk Underwriting. The 2009 change was primarily driven by better than expected loss development in the 2007 and 2008 accident years for certain large national property and inland marine exposures. In addition, the 2005 accident year experience improved due to the litigation environment relating to, and ongoing claim settlements for, Hurricane Katrina. The 2008 change was primarily driven by favorable loss development in the 2007 accident year for certain large property, national programs and ocean marine claim exposures, and improvements in the litigation environment relating to, and ongoing claim settlements for, Hurricane Katrina. Commercial Multi Peril Commercial multi peril provides a combination of property and liability coverage typically for small businesses and, therefore, includes both short and long tail coverages. For property coverage, it generally takes a relatively short period of time to close claims, while for the other coverages, generally for the liability coverages, it takes a longer period of time to close claims. The reserving risk for this line is dominated by the liability coverage portion of this product, except occasionally in the event of catastrophic or large single losses. The reserving risk for this line differs from that of the general liability product line and the property product line due to the nature of the customer. Commercial multi peril is generally sold to smaller sized accounts, while the customer profile for general liability and property includes larger customers. See "Property risk factors" and "General liability risk factors," discussed above, with regard to reserving risk for commercial multi peril. Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for commercial multi peril (excluding asbestos and environmental), a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.2% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 16% to 2% (averaging 5%) for the Company, and from 5% to 6% (averaging 1%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Commercial multi peril reserves (excluding asbestos and environmental reserves) represent approximately 7% of the Companys total loss reserves. 134  Table of Contents As discussed above, this line combines general liability and property coverages and it has been impacted in the past by many of the same events as those two lines. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 0% for 2010, 8% for 2009 and 16% for 2008. The 2009 and 2008 changes were attributable to several factors, including improved legal and judicial environments, and enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. Also contributing to the change was improvement in the litigation environment relating to, and ongoing claim settlements for, Hurricane Katrina. Commercial Automobile The commercial automobile product line is a mix of property and liability coverages and, therefore, includes both short and long tail coverages. The payments that are made quickly typically pertain to auto physical damage (property) claims and property damage (liability) claims. The payments that take longer to finalize and are more difficult to estimate relate to bodily injury claims. In general, claim reporting lags are minor, claim complexity is not a major issue, and the line is viewed as high frequency, low to moderate severity. Overall, the claim liabilities for this line create a moderate estimation risk. Commercial automobile reserves are typically analyzed in four components: bodily injury liability; property damage liability; collision claims; and comprehensive claims. These last two components have minimum reserve risk and fast payouts and, accordingly, separate risk factors are not presented. The Company utilizes the traditional actuarial methods mentioned in the general discussion above in estimating claim liabilities for this line. This is supplemented with detailed custom analyses where needed. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required commercial automobile reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Bodily injury and property damage liability risk factors Trends in jury awards Changes in the underlying court system Changes in case law Litigation trends Frequency of claims with payment capped by policy limits Change in average severity of accidents, or proportion of severe accidents Changes in auto safety technology Subrogation opportunities Changes in claim handling philosophies Frequency of visits to health providers Number of medical procedures given during visits to health providers Types of health providers used Types of medical treatments received Changes in cost of medical treatments Degree of patient responsiveness to treatment Commercial automobile book of business risk factors Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements, etc.) Changes in mix of insured vehicles (e.g., long haul trucks versus local and smaller vehicles, fleet risks versus non fleets) Changes in underwriting standards 135 Table of Contents Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for commercial automobile, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.2% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 10% to 9% (averaging 3%) for the Company, and from 3% to 9% (averaging 1%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Commercial automobile reserves represent approximately 7% of the Companys total loss reserves. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 1% for 2010, 6% for 2009 and 7% for 2008. The 2009 and 2008 changes were a result of better than expected loss development, primarily for recent accident years, which was attributable to several factors, including improved legal and judicial environments, and enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. Workers Compensation Workers compensation is generally considered a long tail coverage, as it takes a relatively long period of time to finalize claims from a given accident year. While certain payments such as initial medical treatment or temporary wage replacement for the injured worker are made quickly, some other payments are made over the course of several years, such as awards for permanent partial injuries. In addition, some payments can run as long as the injured workers life, such as permanent disability benefits and on going medical care. Despite the possibility of long payment tails, the reporting lags are generally short, settlements are generally not complex, and most of the liability can be considered high frequency with moderate severity. The largest reserve risk generally comes from the low frequency, high severity claims providing lifetime coverage for medical expense arising from a workers injury. Overall, the claim liabilities for this line create a somewhat greater than moderate estimation risk. Workers compensation reserves are typically analyzed in three components: indemnity losses, medical losses and claim adjustment expenses. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required workers compensation reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Indemnity risk factors Time required to recover from the injury Degree of available transitional jobs Degree of legal involvement Changes in the interpretations and processes of the workers compensation commissions oversight of claims(1) Future wage inflation for states that index benefits Changes in the administrative policies of second injury funds Medical risk factors Changes in the cost of medical treatments (including prescription drugs) and underlying fee schedules ("inflation") Frequency of visits to health providers (1)These are administrative bodies that evaluate whether or not a given claim for workers compensation benefits is valid. Their duties include the determination of whether a given injury arose out of the scope of employment or the determination of the degree of injury where disputes exist. 136 Table of Contents Number of medical procedures given during visits to health providers Types of health providers used Type of medical treatments received Use of preferred provider networks and other medical cost containment practices Availability of new medical processes and equipment Changes in the use of pharmaceutical drugs Degree of patient responsiveness to treatment General workers compensation risk factors Frequency of claim reopenings on claims previously closed Mortality trends of injured workers with lifetime benefits and medical treatment Degree of cost shifting between workers compensation and health insurance Workers compensation book of business risk factors Product mix Injury type mix Changes in underwriting standards Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for workers compensation, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.2% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 1% to 2% (averaging 0%) for the Company, and from 1% to 4% (averaging 1%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Workers compensation reserves represent approximately 32% of the Companys total loss reserves. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 1% in 2010, 1% in 2009 and 1% for 2008. Fidelity and Surety Fidelity is generally considered a short tail coverage. It takes a relatively short period of time to finalize and settle fidelity claims. The volatility of fidelity reserves is generally related to the type of business of the insured, the size and complexity of the insureds business operations, amount of policy limit and attachment point of coverage. The uncertainty surrounding reserves for small, commercial insureds is typically less than the uncertainty for large commercial or financial institutions. The high frequency, low severity nature of small commercial fidelity losses provides for stability in loss estimates whereas, the low frequency, high severity nature of losses for large insureds results in a wider range of ultimate loss outcomes. Actuarial techniques that rely on a stable pattern of loss development are generally not applicable to low frequency, high severity policies. Surety has certain components that are generally considered short tail coverages with short reporting lags, although large individual construction and commercial surety contracts can result in a long settlement tail, based on the length and complexity of the construction project or commercial transaction being insured. (Large construction projects can take many years to complete.) The frequency of losses in surety correlates with economic cycles as the primary cause of surety loss is the inability of the Companys insureds to perform financially. The volatility of surety losses is generally related to the type of business performed by the insured, the type of bonded obligation, the amount of limit exposed to loss and the amount of assets available to the insurer to mitigate losses, such as unbilled contract funds, collateral, first and third party indemnity, and other security positions of an 137 Table of Contents insureds assets. Certain classes of surety claims are very high severity, low frequency in nature. These can include large construction contractors involved with one or multiple large, complex projects as well as certain large commercial surety exposures. Other claim factors affecting reserve variability of surety include litigation related to amounts owed by and due the insured (e.g., salvage and subrogation efforts) and the results of financial restructuring of an insured. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required fidelity and surety reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Fidelity risk factors Type of business of insured Policy limit and attachment points Third party claims Coverage litigation Complexity of claims Growth in insureds operations Surety risk factors Economic trends, including the general level of construction activity Concentration of reserves in a relatively few large claims Type of business insured Type of obligation insured Cumulative limits of liability for insured Assets available to mitigate loss Defective workmanship/latent defects Financial strategy of insured Changes in statutory obligations Geographic spread of business Fidelity and Surety book of business risk factors Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, limits, endorsements) Changes in underwriting standards Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for fidelity and surety, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.3% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 10% to 138% (averaging 19%) for the Company, and from 13% to 24% (averaging 6%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. Because the high end of the Companys range was due to acquired business in 2004, the Company believes that the industrys range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Fidelity and surety reserves represent approximately 3% of the Companys total loss reserves. In general, developments on single large claims (both adverse and favorable) are a primary source of changes in reserve estimates for this product line. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 6% for 2010, 7% for 2009 and 10% for 2008. The 2010 change was driven by better than expected loss development due to lower than expected claim activity and loss severity, primarily for the contract surety business in this product line for the 2008 and prior accident years. The 2009 and 2008 changes were a result of better than expected loss development for the contract surety business within this product line, primarily driven by favorable settlements on large claims from older accident years. 138 Table of Contents Personal Automobile Personal automobile includes both short and long tail coverages. The payments that are made quickly typically pertain to auto physical damage (property) claims and property damage (liability) claims. The payments that take longer to finalize and are more difficult to estimate relate to bodily injury claims. Reporting lags are relatively short and the claim settlement process for personal automobile liability generally is the least complex of the liability products. It is generally viewed as a high frequency, low to moderate severity product line. Overall, the claim liabilities for this line create a moderate estimation risk. Personal automobile reserves are typically analyzed in five components: bodily injury liability, property damage liability, no fault losses, collision claims and comprehensive claims. These last two components have minimum reserve risk and fast payouts and, accordingly, separate factors are not presented. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required personal automobile reserves (beyond those included in the general reserve discussion section) include: Bodily injury and property damage liability risk factors Trends in jury awards Changes in the underlying court system and its philosophy Changes in case law Litigation trends Frequency of claims with payment capped by policy limits Change in average severity of accidents, or proportion of severe accidents Subrogation opportunities Degree of patient responsiveness to treatment Changes in claim handling philosophies No fault risk factors (for selected states and time periods) Effectiveness of no fault laws Frequency of visits to health providers Number of medical procedures given during visits to health providers Types of health providers used Types of medical treatments received Changes in cost of medical treatments Degree of patient responsiveness to treatment Personal automobile book of business risk factors Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements, etc.) Changes in underwriting standards Changes in the use of credit data for rating and underwriting Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for personal automobile, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.1% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 9% to 0% (averaging 3%) for the Company, and from 4% to 0% (averaging 2%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Personal automobile reserves represent approximately 5% of the Companys total loss reserves. 139 Table of Contents The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 0% for 2010, 0% for 2009 and 1% for 2008. The decrease in 2008 was primarily due to better than expected results from changes in claim handling practices as well as initiatives to fight fraud. Homeowners and Personal Lines Other Homeowners is generally considered a short tail coverage. Most payments are related to the property portion of the policy, where the claim reporting and settlement process is generally restricted to the insured and the insurer. Claims on property coverage are typically reported soon after the actual damage occurs, although delays of several months are not unusual. The claim is settled when the two parties agree on the amount due in accordance with the policy contract language and the appropriate payment is made (or alternatively, the property replacement/repair is performed by the insurer). The resulting settlement process is typically fairly short term, although exceptions do exist. The liability portion of the homeowners policy generates claims which take longer to pay due to the involvement of litigation and negotiation, but with generally small reporting lags. In addition, reserves related to umbrella coverages have greater uncertainty since umbrella liability payments are often made far into the future. Overall, the line is generally high frequency, low to moderate severity (except for catastrophes), with simple to moderate claim complexity. Homeowners reserves are typically analyzed in two components: non catastrophe related losses and catastrophe loss payments. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required homeowners reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Non catastrophe risk factors Salvage opportunities Amount of time to return property to residential use Changes in weather patterns Local building codes Litigation trends Trends in jury awards Catastrophe risk factors Physical concentration of policyholders Availability and cost of local contractors Local building codes Quality of construction of damaged homes Amount of time to return property to residential use For the more severe catastrophic events, "demand surge" inflation, which refers to significant short term increases in building material and labor costs due to a sharp increase in demand for those materials and services Homeowners book of business risk factors Policy provisions mix (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements, etc.) Degree of concentration of policyholders Changes in underwriting standards Changes in the use of credit data for rating and underwriting Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for homeowners and personal lines other, a 140 Table of Contents 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.1% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line (excluding the umbrella line of business, which for statutory reporting purposes is included with the general liability line of business) over the last nine years has varied from 31% to 3% (averaging 12%) for the Company, and from 8% to 11% (averaging 2%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Homeowners and personal lines other reserves represent approximately 3% of the Companys total loss reserves. This line combines both liability and property coverages; however, the majority of the reserves relate to property. While property is considered a short tail coverage, the one year change for property can be more volatile than that for the longer tail product lines. This is due to the fact that the majority of the reserve for property relates to the most recent accident year, which is subject to the most uncertainty for all product lines. This recent accident year uncertainty is relevant to property because of weather related events which tend to be concentrated in the second half of the year, and generally are not completely resolved until the following year. Reserve estimates associated with major catastrophes may take even longer to resolve. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line (excluding the umbrella line of business) was 2% for 2010, 14% for 2009 and 13% for 2008. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line including the umbrella line of business was 4% for 2010, 12% for 2009 and 12% for 2008. The 2010 change reflected favorable loss development in the 2008 and prior accident years, primarily for the umbrella line of business, partially offset by unfavorable loss development in the 2009 accident year for the homeowners line of business that was driven by higher than anticipated late reported claims related to storms in 2009. The 2009 change primarily reflected favorable loss development related to Hurricanes Ike and Katrina, as well as the 2007 California wildfires. The 2008 change was primarily driven by favorable loss development related to Hurricane Katrina, by claim initiatives, by better than expected outcomes on 2007 catastrophe related claims and by improvements in older accident years for the umbrella line. International and other International and other includes products written by International and other products not discussed above. The principal component of "other" claim reserves is assumed reinsurance written on an excess of loss basis, which may include reinsurance of non U.S. exposures, and is runoff business. International and other claim liabilities result from a mix of coverages, currencies and jurisdictions/countries. The common characteristic is the need to customize the analysis to the individual component, and the inability to rely on data characterizations and reporting requirements in the U.S. statutory reporting framework. Due to changes in the business mix for this line over time, the recently incurred claim liabilities are relatively short term (due to both the products and the jurisdictions involved, e.g., the Republic of Ireland and the United Kingdom), while the older liabilities include some from runoff operations that are extremely long tail (e.g., U.S. excess liabilities reinsured through the London market, and several underwriting pools in runoff). The speed of claim reporting and claim settlement is a function of the specific coverage provided, the jurisdiction, the distribution system (e.g., underwriting pool versus direct) and the proximity of the insurance sale to the insured hazard (e.g., insured and insurer located in different countries). In particular, liabilities arising from the underwriting pools in runoff may result in significant reporting lags, settlement lags and claim complexity, due to the need to coordinate with other pool members or co insurers through a broker or lead insurer for claim settlement purposes. 141 Table of Contents International and other reserves are generally analyzed by program/pool, country and general coverage category (e.g., U.S. Liability excess of loss reinsurance, or General Liability Municipalities by country). The business is also generally split by direct versus assumed reinsurance for a given coverage/jurisdiction. Where the underlying insured hazard is outside the United States, the underlying coverages are generally similar to those described under the General Liability and Automobile discussion above, but under a different legal system. Where the underlying hazard is within the U.S., the coverage involved is typically that of General Liability, but on an excess or excess of loss reinsurance basis. Excess exposure requires the insured to "prove" not only claims under the policy, but also the prior payment of claims reaching up to the excess policys attachment point. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required International and other reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: International and other risk factors Changes in claim handling procedures, including those of the primary carriers Changes in policy provisions or court interpretation of such provision New theories of liability Trends in jury awards Changes in the propensity to sue Changes in statutes of limitations Changes in the underlying court system Distortions from losses resulting from large single accounts or single issues Changes in tort law Changes in claim adjuster office structure (causing distortions in the data) International and other book of business risk factors Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements, "claims made" language) Changes in underwriting standards Product mix (e.g., size of account, industries insured, jurisdiction mix) Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for International and other (excluding asbestos and environmental), a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.3% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. International and other reserves (excluding asbestos and environmental) represent approximately 8% of the Companys total loss reserves. International and other represents a combination of different product lines, some of which are in runoff. Comparative historical information is not available for international product lines as insurers domiciled outside of the U.S. do not file U.S. statutory reports. Comparative historical information on runoff business is not indicative of reasonably possible one year changes in the reserve estimate for this mix of runoff business. Accordingly, the Company has not included comparative analyses for International and other. Reinsurance Recoverables Amounts recoverable from reinsurers are estimated in a manner consistent with the associated claim liability. The Company evaluates and monitors the financial condition of its reinsurers under voluntary reinsurance arrangements to minimize its exposure to significant losses from reinsurer insolvencies. In addition, in the ordinary course of business, the Company becomes involved in coverage disputes with its reinsurers. Some of these disputes could result in lawsuits and arbitrations brought by or against the reinsurers to determine the Companys rights and obligations under the 142 Table of Contents various reinsurance agreements. The Company employs dedicated specialists and aggressive strategies to manage reinsurance collections and disputes. The reinsurance agreements that the Company entered into as part of its catastrophe bond programs are dual trigger contracts and meet the requirements to be accounted for as reinsurance in accordance with guidance for accounting for reinsurance contracts. The Companys catastrophe bond programs are described in more detail in the "Catastrophe Reinsurance Coverage" section herein. The Company reports its reinsurance recoverables net of an allowance for estimated uncollectible reinsurance recoverables. The allowance is based upon the Companys ongoing review of amounts outstanding, length of collection periods, changes in reinsurer credit standing, disputes, applicable coverage defenses and other relevant factors. Accordingly, the establishment of reinsurance recoverables and the related allowance for uncollectible reinsurance recoverables is also an inherently uncertain process involving estimates. From time to time, as a result of the long tailed nature of the underlying liabilities, coverage complexities and potential for disputes, the Company considers the commutation of reinsurance contracts. Changes in estimated reinsurance recoverables and commutation activity could result in additional income statement charges. Recoverables attributable to structured settlements relate primarily to personal injury claims, of which workers compensation claims comprise a significant portion, for which the Company has purchased annuities and remains contingently liable in the event of a default by the companies issuing the annuities. Recoverables attributable to mandatory pools and associations relate primarily to workers compensation service business. These recoverables are supported by the participating insurance companies obligation to pay a pro rata share based on each companys voluntary market share of written premium in each state in which it is a pool participant. In the event a member of a mandatory pool or association defaults on its share of the pools or associations obligations, the other members share of such obligation increases proportionally. On August 20, 2010, in a reinsurance dispute in New York state court captioned United States Fidelity & Guaranty Company v. American Re Insurance Company, et al., the trial court granted summary judgment for the Company, and on October 25, 2010, entered judgment awarding the Company $251 million plus pre judgment interest in the amount of $169 million. The judgment, including the award of interest, has been appealed. See note 15 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements for further discussion of this reinsurance dispute. The following table summarizes the composition of the Companys reinsurance recoverable assets: (at December 31, in millions) 2010 2009 Gross reinsurance recoverables on paid and unpaid claims and claim adjustment expenses $ 6,934 $ 8,138 Allowance for uncollectible reinsurance (363 ) (523 ) Net reinsurance recoverables 6,571 7,615 Structured settlements 3,380 3,456 Mandatory pools and associations 1,568 1,745 Total reinsurance recoverables $ 11,519 $ 12,816 The $1.04 billion decline in net reinsurance recoverables since December 31, 2009 reflected cash collections and the impact of net favorable prior year reserve development, partially offset by a reduction in the allowance for uncollectible reinsurance that included the impact of a $70 million benefit resulting from the summary judgment in the reinsurance dispute referenced above. As a result, at December 31, 2010, reinsurance recoverables included the full $251 million owed to the Company under the terms of the related reinsurance agreement. 143  Table of Contents Investment Valuation and Impairments Fair Value Measurements The Companys estimates of fair value for financial assets and financial liabilities are based on the framework established in the fair value accounting guidance. The framework is based on the inputs used in valuation, gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets, and requires that observable inputs be used in the valuations when available. The disclosure of fair value estimates in the fair value accounting guidance hierarchy is based on whether the significant inputs into the valuation are observable. In determining the level of the hierarchy in which the estimate is disclosed, the highest priority is given to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs that reflect the Companys significant market assumptions. The three levels of the hierarchy are as follows: Level 1 Unadjusted quoted market prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets that the Company has the ability to access. Level 2 Quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in inactive markets; or valuations based on models where the significant inputs are observable (e.g., interest rates, yield curves, prepayment speeds, default rates, loss severities, etc.) or can be corroborated by observable market data. Level 3 Valuations based on models where significant inputs are not observable. The unobservable inputs reflect the Companys own assumptions about the inputs that market participants would use. Valuation of Investments Reported at Fair Value in Financial Statements The fair value of a financial instrument is the estimated amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in an orderly transaction between knowledgeable, unrelated, willing parties, i.e., not in a forced transaction. The estimated fair value of a financial instrument may differ from the amount that could be realized if the security was sold in an immediate sale, e.g., a forced transaction. Additionally, the valuation of fixed maturity investments is more subjective when markets are less liquid due to the lack of market based inputs, which may increase the potential that the estimated fair value of an investment is not reflective of the price at which an actual transaction would occur. For investments that have quoted market prices in active markets, the Company uses the quoted market prices as fair value and includes these prices in the amounts disclosed in Level 1 of the hierarchy. The Company receives the quoted market prices from a third party, nationally recognized pricing service (pricing service). When quoted market prices are unavailable, the Company utilizes a pricing service to determine an estimate of fair value, which is mainly used for its fixed maturity investments. The fair value estimates provided from this pricing service are included in the amount disclosed in Level 2 of the hierarchy. If quoted market prices and an estimate from a pricing service are unavailable, the Company produces an estimate of fair value based on internally developed valuation techniques, which, depending on the level of observable market inputs, will render the fair value estimate as Level 2 or Level 3. The Company bases all of its estimates of fair value for assets on the bid price as it represents what a third party market participant would be willing to pay in an arms length transaction. Fixed Maturities The Company utilizes a pricing service to estimate fair value measurements for approximately 99% of its fixed maturities. The pricing service utilizes market quotations for fixed maturity securities that have quoted prices in active markets. Since fixed maturities other than U.S. Treasury securities generally do not trade on a daily basis, the pricing service prepares estimates of fair value 144 Table of Contents measurements for these securities using its proprietary pricing applications, which include available relevant market information, benchmark curves, benchmarking of like securities, sector groupings and matrix pricing. Additionally, the pricing service uses an Option Adjusted Spread model to develop prepayment and interest rate scenarios. The pricing service evaluates each asset class based on relevant market information, relevant credit information, perceived market movements and sector news. The market inputs utilized in the pricing evaluation, listed in the approximate order of priority, include: benchmark yields, reported trades, broker/dealer quotes, issuer spreads, two sided markets, benchmark securities, bids, offers, reference data, and industry and economic events. The extent of the use of each market input depends on the asset class and the market conditions. Depending on the security, the priority of the use of inputs may change or some market inputs may not be relevant. For some securities, additional inputs may be necessary. The pricing service utilized by the Company has indicated that they will only produce an estimate of fair value if there is objectively verifiable information to produce a valuation. If the pricing service discontinues pricing an investment, the Company would be required to produce an estimate of fair value using some of the same methodologies as the pricing service but would have to make assumptions for market based inputs that are unavailable due to market conditions. The fair value estimates of most fixed maturity investments are based on observable market information rather than market quotes. Accordingly, the estimates of fair value for such fixed maturities, other than U.S. Treasury securities, provided by the pricing service are included in the amount disclosed in Level 2 of the hierarchy. The estimated fair value of U.S. Treasury securities is included in the amount disclosed in Level 1 as the estimates are based on unadjusted market prices. The Company reviews the estimates of fair value provided by the pricing service and compares the estimates to the Companys knowledge of the market to determine if the estimates obtained are representative of the prices in the market. The Company produces a report monthly that lists all price changes from the previous month in excess of 10%. The Company reviews the report and will challenge any prices deemed not to be representative of fair value. In addition, the Company has implemented various other processes including randomly selecting purchased or sold securities and comparing execution prices to the estimates from the pricing service as well as reviewing reports that contain securities whose valuation did not change from their previous valuation (stale price review). The Company also uses an additional independent pricing service to further test the primary pricing services valuation of the Companys fixed maturity portfolio. These processes have not highlighted any significant issues with the fair value estimates received from the pricing service. The Company holds privately placed corporate bonds and estimates the fair value of these bonds using an internal matrix that is based on market information regarding interest rates, credit spreads and liquidity. The underlying source data for calculating the matrix of credit spreads relative to the U.S. Treasury curve are the BofA Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate Index and the BofA Merrill Lynch High Yield BB Rated Index. The Company includes the fair value estimates of these corporate bonds in Level 2, since all significant inputs are market observable. As many of these securities are issued by public companies, the Company compares the estimates of fair value to the fair values of these companies publicly traded debt to test the validity of the internal pricing matrix. While the vast majority of the Companys municipal bonds are included in Level 2, the Company holds a small number of municipal bonds which are not valued by the pricing service and estimates the fair value of these bonds using an internal pricing matrix with some unobservable inputs that are significant to the valuation. Due to the limited amount of observable market information, the Company includes the fair value estimates for these particular bonds in Level 3. Additionally, the Company holds a small amount of fixed maturities that have characteristics that make them unsuitable for matrix pricing. For these fixed maturities, the Company obtains a quote from a broker (typically a market 145 Table of Contents maker). Due to the disclaimers on the quotes that indicate that the price is indicative only, the Company includes these fair value estimates in Level 3. See note 4 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the determination of fair value of non fixed maturities and valuation of investments not reported at fair value in the financial statements. Investment Impairments The Company conducts a periodic review to identify and evaluate invested assets having other than temporary impairments. Some of the factors considered in identifying other than temporary impairments include: (1) for fixed maturity investments, whether the Company intends to sell the investment or whether it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell the investment prior to an anticipated recovery in value; (2) for non fixed maturity investments, the Companys ability and intent to retain the investment for a reasonable period of time sufficient to allow for an anticipated recovery in value; (3) the likelihood of the recoverability of principal and interest for fixed maturity securities (i.e., whether there is a credit loss), or cost for equity securities; (4) the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than amortized cost for fixed maturity securities or cost for equity securities; and (5) the financial condition, near term and long term prospects for the issuer, including the relevant industry conditions and trends, and implications of rating agency actions and offering prices. Reporting of Other Than Temporary Impairments For fixed maturity investments that the Company does not intend to sell or for which it is more likely than not that the Company would not be required to sell before an anticipated recovery in value, the Company separates the credit loss component of the impairment from the amount related to all other factors and reports the credit loss component in net realized investment gains (losses). The impairment related to all other factors is reported in accumulated other changes in equity from nonowner sources. For non fixed maturity investments and for fixed maturity investments the Company intends to sell or for which it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell before an anticipated recovery in value, the full amount of the impairment is included in net realized investment gains (losses). Upon recognizing an other than temporary impairment, the new cost basis of the investment is the previous amortized cost basis less the other than temporary impairment recognized in net realized investment gains (losses). The new cost basis is not adjusted for any subsequent recoveries in fair value; however, for fixed maturity investments, the difference between the new cost basis and the expected cash flows is accreted on a quarterly basis to net investment income over the remaining expected life of the investment. Due to the subjective nature of the Companys analysis and estimates of future cash flows, along with the judgment that must be applied in the analysis, it is possible that the Company could reach a different conclusion whether or not to impair a security if it had access to additional information about the issuer. Additionally, it is possible that the issuers actual ability to meet contractual obligations may be different than what the Company determined during its analysis, which may lead to a different impairment conclusion in future periods. See note 1 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements for a further discussion of investment impairments. 146 Table of Contents Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Impairments See note 1 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements for a discussion of impairments of goodwill and other intangible assets. OTHER UNCERTAINTIES For a discussion of other risks and uncertainties that could impact the Companys results of operations or financial position, see note 15 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements and "Item 1A Risk Factors." FUTURE APPLICATION OF ACCOUNTING STANDARDS See note 1 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements for a discussion of recently issued accounting standards updates. The Company is currently required to prepare its financial statements in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), as promulgated by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB). During 2008, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) issued a proposed Roadmap for comment for the potential use in filings with the SEC of financial statements for U.S. issuers prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as promulgated by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), instead of in accordance with GAAP. The Roadmap contains milestones that, if achieved, may lead the SEC to decide in 2011 to require the use of IFRS for large accelerated filers, including the Company. In March 2010, the SEC reaffirmed its support for a single set of high quality, global standards and acknowledged that IFRS may be best positioned to accomplish this goal. Additionally, the SEC established a Work Plan for its staff to evaluate whether, when and how IFRS should be incorporated into the U.S. financial reporting system. Under the Work Plan, the SEC staff will evaluate several key issues related to a possible convergence to IFRS. The SEC is expected to re deliberate the proposed Roadmap during 2011 taking into consideration the comments received from constituents as well as the result of the staffs Work Plan. The IASB and the FASB are in the process of developing a global insurance standard that involves methodologies for valuing insurance contract liabilities that may be significantly different from the methodologies required by current GAAP. The FASB and the IASB have also embarked on a long term project to converge GAAP and IFRS. The Company is not able to predict whether it will choose to, or be required to, adopt IFRS or how the adoption of IFRS (or the convergence of GAAP and IFRS, including the project for valuing insurance contract liabilities) may impact the Companys financial statements in the future. FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS This report contains, and management may make, certain "forward looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, may be forward looking statements. Words such as "may," "will," "should," "likely," "anticipates," "expects," "intends," "plans," "projects," "believes," "estimates" and similar expressions are used to identify these forward looking statements. Specifically, statements about the Companys share repurchase plans and statements about the potential impact of investment markets and other economic conditions on the Companys investment portfolio and underwriting results, among others, are forward looking, and the Company may also make forward looking statements about, among other things: its results of operations and financial condition (including, among other things, premium volume, premium rates, net and operating income, investment income and performance, return on equity, and expected current returns and combined ratios); 147 Table of Contents the sufficiency of the Companys asbestos and other reserves (including, among other things, asbestos claim payment patterns); the impact of emerging claims issues; the cost and availability of reinsurance coverage; catastrophe losses; the impact of investment, economic and underwriting market conditions; strategic initiatives; and the Companys proposed joint venture with J. Malucelli Participa&ccedil;&otilde;es em Seguros e Resseguros S.A. The Company cautions investors that such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the Companys control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward looking information and statements. For a discussion of some of the factors that could cause actual results to differ, see "Item 1A Risk Factors" and "Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates." The Companys forward looking statements speak only as of the date of this report or as of the date they are made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update its forward looking statements.  Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK MARKET RISK Market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates (inclusive of credit spreads), foreign currency exchange rates and other relevant market rate or price changes. Market risk is directly influenced by the volatility and liquidity in the markets in which the related underlying assets are traded. The following is a discussion of the Companys primary market risk exposures and how those exposures are managed as of December 31, 2010. The Companys market risk sensitive instruments, including derivatives, are primarily entered into for purposes other than trading. The carrying value of the Companys investment portfolio at December 31, 2010 and 2009 was $72.72 billion and $74.97 billion, respectively, of which 86% and 88% was invested in fixed maturity securities, respectively. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, approximately 6.0% and 5.8%, respectively, of the Companys invested assets were denominated in foreign currencies. The Companys exposure to equity price risk is not significant. The Company has no direct commodity risk and is not a party to any credit default swaps. The primary market risks to the investment portfolio are interest rate risk and credit risk associated with investments in fixed maturity securities. The portfolio duration relative to the liabilities duration is primarily managed through cash market transactions and treasury futures transactions. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio included collateralized mortgage obligations backed by alternative documentation mortgages and asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages with a collective fair value of $297 million and $270 million, respectively (comprising approximately 0.5% and 0.4% of the Companys total fixed maturity investments, respectively). The disruption in secondary investment markets for mortgage backed securities provided the Company with the opportunity to selectively acquire additional 148 Table of Contents asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages at discounted prices. The Company purchased $31 million and $74 million of such securities in 2010 and 2009, respectively. The Company defines sub prime mortgage backed securities as investments in which the underlying loans primarily exhibit one or more of the following characteristics: low FICO scores, above prime interest rates, high loan to value ratios or high debt to income ratios. Alternative documentation securitizations are those in which the underlying loans primarily meet the government sponsored entities requirements for credit score but do not meet the government sponsored entities guidelines for documentation, property type, debt and loan to value ratios. The average credit rating on these securities and obligations held by the Company was "Baa2" and "A3" at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio at December 31, 2010 included securities issued by numerous states, municipalities and political subdivisions (collectively referred to as the municipal bond portfolio), a number of which were enhanced by third party insurance for the payment of principal and interest in the event of an issuer default. The downgrade of credit ratings of insurers of these securities in recent years has resulted in a corresponding downgrade in the ratings of the securities to the underlying rating of the respective security. Of the insured municipal securities in the Companys investment portfolio at December 31, 2010, approximately 99% were rated at A3 or above, and approximately 90% were rated at Aa3 or above, without the benefit of insurance. The Company believes that a loss of the benefit of insurance would not result in a material adverse impact on the Companys results of operations, financial position or liquidity, due to the underlying credit strength of the issuers of the securities, as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the securities. The average credit rating of the underlying issuers of these securities was "Aa2" at December 31, 2010. The average credit rating of the entire municipal bond portfolio was "Aa1" at December 31, 2010 with and without the third party insurance. On April 2, 2009, municipal securities issued by local governments within the United States were assigned a negative outlook by Moodys Investors Service. Notwithstanding the relatively low historical rates of default on many of these obligations and notwithstanding that the Company typically seeks to invest in high credit quality securities (including those with structural protections such as being secured by dedicated or pledged sources of revenue), during or following an economic downturn, the Companys municipal bond portfolio could be subject to a higher risk of default or impairment due to declining municipal tax bases and revenue. The severity and duration of state and local government budget deficits could have an adverse impact on the collectability and valuation of the Companys municipal bond portfolio. In addition, some issuers may be unwilling to increase tax rates, or to reduce spending, to fund interest or principal payments on their municipal bonds, or may be unable to access the municipal bond market to fund such payments. The risk of widespread defaults may increase if some issuers voluntarily choose to default, instead of implementing difficult fiscal measures, and the actual or perceived consequences (such as reduced access to capital markets) are less severe than expected. The risk may also increase if there are changes in legislation that permit states, or additional municipalities and political subdivisions, to file for bankruptcy protection or if there are judicial interpretations that, in a bankruptcy or other proceeding, lessen the value of structural protections. The Companys tax exempt fixed maturity investment portfolio totaled $39.03 billion and $40.84 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Federal and or state tax legislation could be enacted that would lessen or improve some or all of the tax advantages currently benefiting the Company and result in an adverse or favorable impact on the value of these holdings. The primary market risk for all of the Companys debt is interest rate risk at the time of refinancing. The Company monitors the interest rate environment and evaluates refinancing opportunities as maturity dates approach. For additional information regarding the Companys debt see note 8 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements as well as the "Liquidity and Capital Resources" section of "Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." 149 Table of Contents The Companys foreign exchange market risk exposure is concentrated in the Companys invested assets and insurance reserves denominated in foreign currencies. Cash flows from the Companys foreign operations are the primary source of funds for the purchase of investments denominated in foreign currencies. The Company purchases these investments primarily to fund insurance reserves and other liabilities denominated in the same currency, effectively reducing its foreign currency exchange rate exposure. Invested assets denominated in the British Pound Sterling comprised approximately 2.5% of the total invested assets at both December 31, 2010 and 2009. Invested assets denominated in the Canadian dollar comprised approximately 2.3% and 2.1% of the total invested assets at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Invested assets denominated in other currencies at December 31, 2010 and 2009 were not material. There were no other significant changes in the Companys primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures were managed for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to the year ended December 31, 2009. The Company does not currently anticipate significant changes in its primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures are managed in future reporting periods based upon what is known or expected to be in effect in future reporting periods. SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS Sensitivity analysis is defined as the measurement of potential loss in future earnings, fair values or cash flows of market sensitive instruments resulting from one or more selected hypothetical changes in interest rates and other market rates or prices over a selected period of time. In the Companys sensitivity analysis model, a hypothetical change in market rates is selected that is expected to reflect reasonably possible near term changes in those rates. "Near term" means a period of time going forward up to one year from the date of the consolidated financial statements. Actual results may differ from the hypothetical change in market rates assumed in this disclosure, especially since this sensitivity analysis does not reflect the results of any actions that would be taken by the Company to mitigate such hypothetical losses in fair value. Interest Rate Risk In this sensitivity analysis model, the Company uses fair values to measure its potential loss. The sensitivity analysis model includes the following financial instruments entered into for purposes other than trading: fixed maturities, non redeemable preferred stocks, mortgage loans, short term securities, debt and derivative financial instruments. The primary market risk to the Companys market sensitive instruments is interest rate risk (inclusive of credit spreads). The sensitivity analysis model uses a 100 basis point change in interest rates to measure the hypothetical change in fair value of financial instruments included in the model. For invested assets with primary exposure to interest rate risk, estimates of portfolio duration and convexity are used to model the loss of fair value that would be expected to result from a parallel increase in interest rates. Durations on invested assets are adjusted for call, put and interest rate reset features. Durations on tax exempt securities are adjusted for the fact that the yields on such securities do not normally move in lockstep with changes in the U.S. Treasury curve. Fixed maturity portfolio durations are calculated on a market value weighted basis, including accrued interest, using holdings as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. For debt, the change in fair value is determined by calculating hypothetical December 31, 2010 and 2009 ending prices based on yields adjusted to reflect a 100 basis point change, comparing such hypothetical ending prices to actual ending prices, and multiplying the difference by the par or securities outstanding. 150 Table of Contents The sensitivity analysis model used by the Company produces a loss in fair value of market sensitive instruments of approximately $2.00 billion and $2.34 billion based on a 100 basis point increase in interest rates at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The loss estimates do not take into account the impact of possible interventions that the Company might reasonably undertake in order to mitigate or avoid losses that would result from emerging interest rate trends. In addition, the loss value only reflects the impact of an interest rate increase on the fair value of the Companys financial instruments. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk The Company uses fair values of investment securities to measure its potential loss from foreign denominated investments. A hypothetical 10% reduction in value of foreign denominated investments is used to estimate the impact on the market value of the foreign denominated holdings. The Companys analysis indicates that a hypothetical 10% reduction in the value of foreign denominated investments would be expected to produce a loss in fair value of approximately $434 million and $431 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. At December 31, 2010, The Company had a definitive agreement to commence a joint venture with J. Malucelli, through the acquisition of approximately 43% of J. Malucellis common stock. The purchase price for this acquisition will be R$625 million Brazilian Reais (the U.S. dollar equivalent of which will depend on the exchange rate at closing) plus an amount based on a Brazilian inter bank lending rate (CDI) from January 1, 2011 through the closing date of the transaction. In order to reduce its exposure to a significant strengthening of the Brazilian Reais prior to the closing of the transaction, the Company entered into a foreign currency option contract on February 7, 2011 in the notional amount of R$635 million which expires on March 31, 2011. 151  Table of Contents  
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates" in this report. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Liquidity is a measure of a companys ability to generate sufficient cash flows to meet the short and long term cash requirements of its business operations. The liquidity requirements of the Companys business have been met primarily by funds generated from operations, asset maturities and income received on investments. Cash provided from these sources is used primarily for claims and claim adjustment expense payments and operating expenses, and in recent years, for common share repurchases. The timing and amount of catastrophe claims are inherently unpredictable. Such claims increase liquidity requirements. The timing and amount of reinsurance recoveries may be affected by reinsurer solvency and reinsurance coverage disputes. Additionally, the variability of asbestos related claim payments, as well as the volatility of potential judgments and settlements arising out of litigation, may also result in increased liquidity requirements. It is the opinion of the Companys management that the Companys future liquidity needs will be adequately met from all of the above sources. At December 31, 2010, total cash and short term invested assets aggregating $3.61 billion and having a weighted average maturity of 58 days were held at the holding company. The assets held at the holding company are sufficient to meet the holding companys current liquidity requirements and are more than three times the Companys target level. These liquidity requirements primarily include shareholder dividends and debt service. The Company has a shelf registration with the Securities and Exchange Commission which permits it to issue securities from time to time. The Company also has a $1.0 billion line of credit facility with a syndicate of financial institutions that expires in 2013. This line of credit also supports the Companys $800 million commercial paper program, of which $100 million was outstanding at December 31, 2010. The Company is not reliant on its commercial paper program to meet its operating cash flow needs. 115 Table of Contents The Company currently utilizes uncollateralized letters of credit issued by major banks with an aggregate limit of approximately $537 million to provide much of the capital needed to support its obligations at Lloyds. If uncollateralized letters of credit are not available at a reasonable price or at all in the future, the Company can collateralize these letters of credit or may have to seek alternative means of supporting its obligations at Lloyds, which could include utilizing holding company funds on hand. Operating Activities Net cash flows provided by operating activities totaled $3.05 billion, $4.23 billion and $3.14 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Cash flows in 2010 reflected a higher level of claims and claim adjustment expense payments due to the impact of loss cost trends and a higher level of catastrophe loss payments, as well as a lower level of reinsurance recoveries, partially offset by declines in the amount of contributions to the Companys pension plan and lower claims and claim adjustment expense payments related to operations in runoff as compared with 2009. Cash flows in 2009 reflected a decline in catastrophe loss payments, a higher level of reinsurance recoveries, a reduction in the amount of contributions to the Companys pension plan and lower claims and claim adjustment expense payments related to operations in runoff as compared with 2008. Those runoff payments in 2008 included the Companys one time net payment of $365 million associated with the final settlement of asbestos claims related to ACandS, Inc. In the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, the Company contributed $35 million, $260 million and $450 million, respectively, to its pension plan. Investing Activities Net cash flows provided by investing activities totaled $2.11 billion in 2010, compared with net cash flows used in investing activities of $899 million and $162 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The Companys consolidated total investments at December 31, 2010 decreased by $2.24 billion from year end 2009, driven by the net sales and maturities of fixed maturity investments. The proceeds from those sales and maturities, along with operating cash flows of $3.05 billion in 2010, were the primary sources of funding for the Companys $5.04 billion of common share repurchases in 2010. Net pretax unrealized appreciation of investments at December 31, 2010 was virtually unchanged from the same date in 2009. The Companys consolidated total investments at December 31, 2009 increased by $4.23 billion from year end 2008, primarily reflecting a $3.08 billion pretax increase in the unrealized appreciation of investments since year end 2008 and investment purchases resulting from strong cash flows from operations, partially offset by $3.29 billion of common share repurchases made during 2009. The improvement in the Companys net unrealized investment gain position at December 31, 2009 over the prior year is primarily attributable to the Companys fixed maturity investments. The improved valuations on these holdings reflect the changing market conditions in 2009 which included a significant narrowing of credit spreads. In the first half of 2011, the Company expects to fund its investment in J. Malucelli with cash from internal sources. See "Part I Item 1 Financial, Professional & International Insurance" in this report for further information regarding this investment. The primary goals of the Companys asset liability management process are to satisfy the insurance liabilities and maintain sufficient liquidity to cover fluctuations in projected liability cash flows. Generally, the expected principal and interest payments produced by the Companys fixed maturity portfolio adequately fund the estimated runoff of the Companys insurance reserves. Although this is not an exact cash flow match in each period, the substantial degree by which the market value of the fixed maturity portfolio exceeds the expected present value of the net insurance liabilities, as well as the positive cash flow from newly sold policies and the large amount of high quality liquid bonds, contributes to the Companys ability to fund claim payments without having to sell illiquid assets or access credit facilities. 116 Table of Contents Financing Activities Net cash flows used in financing activities totaled $5.22 billion, $3.44 billion and $2.87 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The totals in each year reflected common share repurchases, dividends to shareholders and the repayment of debt, partially offset by the proceeds from employee stock option exercises and the issuance of debt. Debt Transactions. 2010. On November 1, 2010, the Company issued $500 million aggregate principal amount 3.90% senior notes that will mature on November 1, 2020, and $750 million aggregate principal amount 5.35% senior notes that will mature on November 1, 2040. The net proceeds of these issuances, after original issuance discount and the deduction of underwriting expenses and commissions and other expenses, totaled approximately $496 million and $738 million, respectively. Interest on the senior notes is payable semi annually in arrears on November 1 and May 1 of each year. The senior notes are redeemable in whole at any time or in part from time to time, at the Companys option, at a redemption price equal to the greater of (a) 100% of the principal amount of senior notes to be redeemed or (b) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the senior notes to be redeemed (exclusive of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the date of redemption on a semi annual basis (assuming a 360 day year consisting of twelve 30 day months) at the then current Treasury rate (as defined) plus 15 basis points for the 2020 senior notes and 20 basis points for the 2040 notes. Prior to November 2010, the Company was subject to a replacement capital covenant that it had granted to the holders of its 6.75% senior notes due June 20, 2036 (the senior notes). The replacement capital covenant restricted the Companys ability to repurchase its $1.00 billion in outstanding 6.25% fixed to floating rate junior subordinated debentures due March 15, 2067 (the debentures). In November 2010, the Company paid approximately $4 million to holders of the senior notes to terminate the replacement capital covenant. Following the termination, the Company purchased approximately $885 million aggregate principal amount of the debentures. A $60 million pretax loss was recognized in 2010 related to these transactions. On September 16, 2010, the Company repaid the remaining $4 million principal balance on its 7.81% private placement senior notes. On August 23, 2010, the Companys $21 million, 7.415% medium term notes matured and were fully paid. On April 15, 2010, the Companys $250 million, 8.125% senior notes matured and were fully paid. All of these debt payments were made from internally generated funds. 2009. On June 2, 2009, the Company issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of 5.90% senior notes that will mature on June 2, 2019. The net proceeds of the issuance, after original issuance discount and the deduction of underwriting expenses and commissions and other expenses, totaled approximately $494 million. Interest on the senior notes is payable semi annually in arrears on June 2 and December 2 of each year. The senior notes are redeemable in whole at any time or in part from time to time, at the Companys option, at a redemption price equal to the greater of (a) 100% of the principal amount of senior notes to be redeemed or (b) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the senior notes to be redeemed (exclusive of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the date of redemption on a semi annual basis (assuming a 360 day year consisting of twelve 30 day months) at the then current Treasury rate (as defined) plus 35 basis points for the senior notes. On March 3, 2009, the Companys zero coupon convertible notes with an effective yield of 4.17% and a remaining principal balance of $141 million matured and were fully paid. 117 Table of Contents 2008. On March 15, 2008, the Companys $400 million, 3.75% senior notes matured and were fully paid. On May 13, 2008, the Company issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of 5.80% senior notes that will mature on May 15, 2018. The net proceeds of the issuance, after original issuance discount and the deduction of underwriting expenses and commissions and other expenses, totaled approximately $496 million. Interest on the senior notes is payable semi annually on May 15 and November 15. The senior notes are redeemable in whole at any time or in part from time to time, at the Companys option, at a redemption price equal to the greater of (a) 100% of the principal amount of senior notes to be redeemed or (b) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the senior notes to be redeemed (exclusive of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the date of redemption on a semi annual basis (assuming a 360 day year consisting of twelve 30 day months) at the then current Treasury rate plus 30 basis points for the senior notes. On December 15, 2008, two medium term notes with a cumulative par value of $149 million, each bearing an interest rate of 6.38%, matured and were fully paid. The amounts of debt obligations, other than commercial paper, that becomes due in 2011, 2012 and 2013 are $9 million, $250 million and $500 million, respectively. Dividends. Dividends paid to shareholders totaled $673 million, $693 million and $715 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. On February 2, 2011, the Companys board of directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.36 per share, payable March 31, 2011 to shareholders of record on March 10, 2011. The declaration and payment of future dividends to holders of the Companys common stock will be at the discretion of the Companys board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including the Companys financial position, earnings, capital requirements of the Companys operating subsidiaries, legal requirements, regulatory constraints and other factors as the board of directors deems relevant. Dividends would be paid by the Company only if declared by its board of directors out of funds legally available, subject to any other restrictions that may be applicable to the Company. Share Repurchases. The Companys board of directors has approved common share repurchase authorizations under which repurchases may be made from time to time in the open market, pursuant to pre set trading plans meeting the requirements of Rule 10b5 1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, in private transactions or otherwise. The authorizations do not have a stated expiration date. The timing and actual number of shares to be repurchased in the future will depend on a variety of factors, including the Companys financial position, earnings, catastrophe losses, capital requirements of the Companys operating subsidiaries, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, other investment opportunities (including mergers and acquisitions), market conditions and other factors. The following table summarizes repurchase activity in 2010 and remaining repurchase capacity at December 31, 2010. Quarterly Period Ending Number of shares purchased Cost of shares repurchased Average price paid per share Remaining capacity under share repurchase authorization March 31, 2010 26,985,323 $ 1,400,047,070 $ 51.88 $ 5,109,655,637 June 30, 2010 27,961,897 1,400,173,784 50.07 3,709,481,853 September 30, 2010 11,828,725 600,056,933 50.73 3,109,424,920 December 31, 2010 28,948,317 1,600,031,383 55.27 1,509,393,537 Total 95,724,262 $ 5,000,309,170 $ 52.24 $ 1,509,393,537 In January 2011, the board of directors approved a share repurchase authorization that added an additional $5 billion of repurchase capacity to the $1.51 billion of capacity remaining at December 31, 2010. 118  Table of Contents From the inception of the first authorization in May 2006 through December 31, 2010, the Company repurchased a cumulative total of 288.9 million shares for a total cost of $14.49 billion, or $50.15 per share. In 2010, 2009 and 2008, the Company acquired 1.3 million, 1.5 million and 0.8 million shares, respectively, of common stock from employees as treasury stock primarily to cover payroll withholding taxes related to the vesting of restricted stock awards and exercises of stock options. Capital Resources Capital resources reflect the overall financial strength of the Company and its ability to borrow funds at competitive rates and raise new capital to meet its needs. The following table summarizes the components of the Companys capital structure at December 31, 2010 and 2009. (at December 31, in millions) 2010 2009 Debt: Short term $ 109 $ 373 Long term 6,519 6,165 Net unamortized fair value adjustments and debt issuance costs (17 ) (11 ) Total debt 6,611 6,527 Preferred shareholders equity 68 79 Common shareholders equity: Common stock and retained earnings, less treasury stock 24,152 26,117 Accumulated other changes in equity from nonowner sources 1,255 1,219 Total shareholders equity 25,475 27,415 Total capitalization $ 32,086 $ 33,942 The $1.86 billion decrease in total capitalization from December 31, 2009 primarily reflected the impact of common share repurchases and dividends to shareholders, partially offset by net income in 2010. The following table provides a reconciliation of total capitalization excluding net unrealized gains on investments to total capitalization presented in the foregoing table. (at December 31, dollars in millions) 2010 2009 Total capitalization excluding net unrealized gains on investments $ 30,228 $ 32,081 Net unrealized gain on investments, net of taxes 1,858 1,861 Total capitalization $ 32,086 $ 33,942 Debt to total capital ratio 20.6 % 19.2 % Debt to total capital ratio excluding net unrealized gains on investments 21.9 % 20.3 % The debt to total capital ratio excluding net unrealized gains on investments is calculated by dividing (a) debt by (b) total capitalization excluding net unrealized gains and losses on investments, net of taxes. Net unrealized gains and losses on investments can be significantly impacted by both discretionary and other economic factors and are not necessarily indicative of operating trends. Accordingly, in the opinion of the Companys management, the debt to total capital ratio calculated on this basis provides another useful metric for investors to understand the Companys financial leverage position. The Companys debt to total capital ratio of 21.9% at December 31, 2010 calculated on this basis was within the Companys target range. 119 Table of Contents Line of Credit Agreement. On June 10, 2010, the Company entered into a three year, $1.0 billion revolving credit agreement with a syndicate of financial institutions, replacing its five year, $1.0 billion credit agreement that expired on that date. Pursuant to the credit agreement covenants, the Company must maintain a minimum consolidated net worth (generally defined as shareholders equity plus certain trust preferred and mandatorily convertible securities, reduced for goodwill and other intangible assets) of $14.35 billion. The Company must also maintain a ratio of total debt to the sum of total debt plus consolidated net worth of not greater than 0.40 to 1.00. In addition, the credit agreement contains other customary restrictive covenants as well as certain customary events of default, including with respect to a change in control, which is defined to include the acquisition of 35% or more of the Companys voting stock and certain changes in the composition of the Companys board of directors. At December 31, 2010, the Company was in compliance with these covenants. Generally, the cost of borrowing under this agreement will range from LIBOR plus 100 basis points to LIBOR plus 175 basis points depending on the Companys credit ratings. At December 31, 2010, that cost would have been LIBOR plus 125 basis points had there been any amounts outstanding under the credit agreement. This line of credit also supports the Companys commercial paper program. Shelf Registration. In December 2008, the Company filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission a universal shelf registration statement for the potential offering and sale of securities. The Company may offer these securities from time to time at prices and on other terms to be determined at the time of offering. During 2010 and 2009, the Company issued securities with a principal amount of $1.25 billion and $500 million, respectively, under the shelf registration statement. Share Repurchase Authorization. At December 31, 2010, the Company had $1.51 billion of capacity remaining under its share repurchase authorization approved by the board of directors. In January 2011, the board of directors approved a share repurchase authorization that added an additional $5 billion of repurchase capacity to the $1.51 billion of capacity that remained at December 31, 2010. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes, as of December 31, 2010, the Companys future payments under contractual obligations and estimated claims and claim related payments. The table excludes short term obligations and includes only liabilities at December 31, 2010 that are expected to be settled in cash. The table below includes the amount and estimated future timing of claims and claim related payments. The amounts do not represent the exact liability, but instead represent estimates, generally utilizing actuarial projections techniques, at a given accounting date. These estimates include expectations of what the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost based on the Companys assessment of facts and circumstances then known, review of historical settlement patterns, estimates of trends in claims severity, frequency, legal theories of liability and other factors. Variables in the reserve estimation process can be affected by both internal and external events, such as changes in claims handling procedures, economic inflation or deflation, legal trends and legislative changes. Many of these items are not directly quantifiable, particularly on a prospective basis. Additionally, there may be significant reporting lags between the occurrence of the policyholder event and the time it is actually reported to the insurer. The future cash flows related to the items contained in the table below required estimation of both amount (including severity considerations) and timing. Amount and timing are frequently estimated separately. An estimation of both amount and timing of future cash flows related to claims and claim related payments is generally reliable only in the aggregate with some unavoidable estimation uncertainty. The contractual obligations related to debt, operating leases, purchase obligations, long term unfunded investment commitments, estimated claims and claim related payments (gross of the 120 Table of Contents estimated reinsurance recoveries) and liabilities related to unrecognized tax benefits, at December 31, 2010 were as follows: Payments Due by Period (in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years Debt Senior notes $ 6,150 $ $ 750 $ 400 $ 5,000 Junior subordinated debentures 369 369 Private placement notes 9 9 Total debt principal 6,528 9 750 400 5,369 Interest 5,944 382 730 686 4,146 Total long term debt obligations(1) 12,472 391 1,480 1,086 9,515 Operating leases(2) 613 159 236 143 75 Purchase obligations Information systems administration and maintenance commitments(3) 88 58 30 Reinsurance brokerage commitment(4) 22 20 2 Other purchase commitments(5) 89 25 27 4 33 Total purchase obligations 199 103 59 4 33 Long term unfunded investment commitments(6) 1,262 278 363 423 198 Estimated claims and claim related payments Claims and claim adjustment expenses(7) 49,008 10,849 13,033 7,732 17,394 Claims from large deductible policies(8) Loss based assessments(9) 199 35 46 20 98 Reinsurance contracts accounted for as deposits(10) 1 1 Payout from ceded funds withheld(11) 306 29 131 33 113 Total estimated claims and claim related payments 49,514 10,914 13,210 7,785 17,605 Liabilities related to unrecognized tax benefits(12) 1,122 1,122 Total $ 65,182 $ 12,967 $ 15,348 $ 9,441 $ 27,426 (1)See note 8 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements for a further discussion of outstanding indebtedness. Because the amounts reported in the foregoing table include principal and interest, the total long term debt obligations will not agree with the amounts reported in note 8. (2)Represents agreements entered into in the ordinary course of business to lease office space, equipment and furniture. (3)Includes agreements with vendors to purchase system software administration and maintenance services. (4)In connection with the sale of its insurance brokerage operations, the Company committed to acquire brokerage services from the buyer through May 16, 2012. See note 15 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements. (5)Includes commitments to vendors entered into in the ordinary course of business for goods and services including office supplies, archival services, etc. 121 Table of Contents (6)Represents estimated timing for fulfilling unfunded commitments for private equity limited partnerships and real estate partnerships. (7)The amounts in "Claims and claim adjustment expenses" in the table above represent the estimated timing of future payments for both reported and unreported claims incurred and related claim adjustment expenses, gross of reinsurance recoverables, excluding structured settlements expected to be paid by annuity companies. The Company has entered into reinsurance agreements to protect itself from potential losses in excess of the amount it is prepared to accept as described in note 5 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements. In order to qualify for reinsurance accounting, a reinsurance agreement must indemnify the insurer from insurance risk, i.e., the agreement must transfer amount and timing risk. Since the timing and amount of cash inflows from such reinsurance agreements are directly related to the underlying payment of claims and claim adjustment expenses by the insurer, reinsurance recoverables are recognized in a manner consistent with the liabilities (the estimated liability for claims and claim adjustment expenses) relating to the underlying reinsured contracts. The presence of any feature that can delay timely reimbursement of claims by a reinsurer results in the reinsurance contract being accounted for as a deposit rather than reinsurance (see below). The assumptions used in estimating the amount and timing of the reinsurance recoverables are consistent with those used in estimating the amount and timing of the related liabilities. Reinsurance agreements that do not transfer both amount and timing risk are accounted for as deposits and included in "Reinsurance contracts accounted for as deposits" in the table above. The estimated future cash inflows from the Companys reinsurance contracts that qualify for reinsurance accounting are as follows: (in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years Reinsurance recoverables $ 7,779 $ 1,486 $ 1,936 $ 1,285 $ 3,072 The Company manages its business and evaluates its liabilities for claims and claim adjustment expense on a net of reinsurance basis. The estimated cash flows on a net of reinsurance basis are as follows: (in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years Claims and claim adjustment expenses, net $ 41,229 $ 9,363 $ 11,097 $ 6,447 $ 14,322 For business underwritten by non U.S. operations, future cash flows related to reported and unreported claims incurred and related claim adjustment expenses were translated at the spot rate on December 31, 2010. The amounts reported in the table above and in the table of reinsurance recoverables above are presented on a nominal basis and have not been adjusted to reflect the time value of money. Accordingly, the amounts above will differ from the Companys balance sheet to the extent that the liability for claims and claim adjustment expenses and the related reinsurance recoverables have been discounted in the balance sheet. (See note 1 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements.) (8)Workers compensation large deductible policies provide third party coverage in which the Company typically is responsible for paying the entire loss under such policies and then seeks reimbursement from the insured for the deductible amount. "Claims from large deductible policies" represent the estimated future payment for claims and claim related expenses below the 122 Table of Contents deductible amount, net of the estimated recovery of the deductible. The liability and the related deductible receivable for unpaid claims are presented in the consolidated balance sheet as "contractholder payables" and "contractholder receivables," respectively. Most deductibles for such policies are paid directly from the policyholders escrow which is periodically replenished by the policyholder. The payment of the loss amounts above the deductible are reported within "Claims and claim adjustment expenses" in the above table. Because the timing of the collection of the deductible (contractholder receivables) occurs shortly after the payment of the deductible to a claimant (contractholder payables), these cash flows offset each other in the table. The estimated timing of the payment of the contractholder payables and the collection of contractholder receivables for workers compensation policies is presented below: (in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years Contractholder payables/receivables $ 5,343 $ 1,297 $ 1,465 $ 801 $ 1,780 (9)The amounts in "Loss based assessments" relate to estimated future payments of second injury fund assessments which would result from payment of current claim liabilities. Second injury funds cover the cost of any additional benefits for aggravation of a pre existing condition. For loss based assessments, the cost is shared by the insurance industry and self insureds, funded through assessments to insurance companies and self insureds based on losses. Amounts relating to second injury fund assessments are included in "other liabilities" in the consolidated balance sheet. (10)The amounts in "Reinsurance contracts accounted for as deposits" represent estimated future nominal payments for reinsurance agreements that are accounted for as deposits. Amounts payable under deposit agreements are included in "other liabilities" in the consolidated balance sheet. The amounts reported in the table are presented on a nominal basis and have not been adjusted to reflect the time value of money. Accordingly, the amounts above will differ from the Companys balance sheet to the extent that deposit values in the balance sheet have been discounted using deposit accounting. (11)The amounts in "Payout from ceded funds withheld" represent estimated payments for losses and return of funds held related to certain reinsurance arrangements whereby the Company holds a portion of the premium due to the reinsurer and is allowed to pay claims from the amounts held. (12)The Companys current liabilities related to unrecognized tax benefits from uncertain tax positions are $1.12 billion. Offsetting these liabilities are deferred tax assets of $1.01 billion associated with the temporary differences that would exist if these positions become realized. The above table does not include an analysis of liabilities reported for structured settlements for which the Company has purchased annuities and remains contingently liable in the event of default by the company issuing the annuity. The Company is not reasonably likely to incur material future payment obligations under such agreements. In addition, the Company does not have a best estimate of contributions expected to be paid to its qualified pension plan. Accordingly, any future contributions are not included in the foregoing table. This table does not include the Companys obligations related to its agreement to commence a joint venture with J. Malucelli Participa&ccedil;&otilde;es em Seguros e Resseguros S.A, a Brazilian company ("J. Malucelli"), a transaction that is described in more detail in note 15 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements. The purchase price for this acquisition will be R$625 million Brazilian Reais (the U.S. dollar equivalent of which will depend on the exchange rate at closing) plus an amount based on a Brazilian inter bank lending rate (CDI) from January 1, 2011 through the closing date of the transaction. At December 31, 2010, R$625 million Brazilian Reais was equivalent to approximately $377 million in U.S. dollars. The purchase price is expected to be paid in cash from internal sources in the first half of 2011. In order to reduce its exposure to a significant strengthening 123 Table of Contents of the Brazilian Reais prior to the closing of the transaction, the Company entered into a foreign currency option contract on February 7, 2011 in the notional amount of R$635 million which expires on March 31, 2011. The joint venture transaction is subject to customary closing conditions and is expected to be finalized in the first half of 2011. Dividend Availability The Companys principal insurance subsidiaries are domiciled in the state of Connecticut. The insurance holding company laws of Connecticut applicable to the Companys subsidiaries requires notice to, and approval by, the state insurance commissioner for the declaration or payment of any dividend that, together with other distributions made within the preceding twelve months, exceeds the greater of 10% of the insurers capital and surplus as of the preceding December 31, or the insurers net income for the twelve month period ending the preceding December 31, in each case determined in accordance with statutory accounting practices and by state regulation. This declaration or payment is further limited by adjusted unassigned surplus, as determined in accordance with statutory accounting practices. The insurance holding company laws of other states in which the Companys subsidiaries are domiciled generally contain similar, although in some instances somewhat more restrictive, limitations on the payment of dividends. A maximum of $3.61 billion is available by the end of 2011 for such dividends without prior approval of the Connecticut Insurance Department. The Company may choose to accelerate the timing within 2011 and or increase the amount of dividends from its insurance subsidiaries in 2011, which could result in certain dividends being subject to approval by the Connecticut Insurance Department. The holding company received $6.59 billion of dividends from its domestic insurance subsidiaries in 2010, including $5.26 billion of dividends that were subject to regulatory approval, primarily due to the Companys request for the accelerated timing of payment. Risk Based Capital The NAIC adopted RBC requirements for property casualty companies to be used as minimum capital requirements by the NAIC and states to identify companies that merit further regulatory action. The formulas have not been designed to differentiate among adequately capitalized companies that operate with levels of capital higher than RBC requirements. Therefore, it is inappropriate and ineffective to use the formulas to rate or to rank these companies. At December 31, 2010, all of the Companys insurance subsidiaries had adjusted capital in excess of amounts requiring any company or regulatory action. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company has entered into certain contingent obligations for guarantees related to letters of credit, issuance of debt securities, certain investments, third party loans related to certain investments and various indemnifications, including those related to the sale of business entities. See note 15 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements. The Company does not expect these arrangements to have a material effect on the Companys financial position, changes in financial position, revenues and expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES The Company considers its most significant accounting estimates to be those applied to claims and claim adjustment expense reserves and related reinsurance recoverables, investment valuation and impairments, and goodwill impairments. 124 Table of Contents Claims and Claim Adjustment Expense Reserves Claims and claim adjustment expense reserves (loss reserves) represent managements estimate of ultimate unpaid costs of losses and loss adjustment expenses for claims that have been reported and claims that have been incurred but not yet reported. Loss reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability, but instead represent management estimates, generally utilizing actuarial expertise and projection techniques, at a given accounting date. These loss reserve estimates are expectations of what the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost upon final resolution in the future, based on the Companys assessment of facts and circumstances then known, review of historical settlement patterns, estimates of trends in claims severity and frequency, expected interpretations of legal theories of liability and other factors. In establishing loss reserves, the Company also takes into account estimated recoveries from reinsurance, salvage and subrogation. The loss reserves are reviewed regularly by qualified actuaries employed by the Company. The process of estimating loss reserves involves a high degree of judgment and is subject to a number of variables. These variables can be affected by both internal and external events, such as changes in claims handling procedures, changes in individuals involved in the reserve estimation process, economic inflation, legal trends and legislative changes, among others. The impact of many of these items on ultimate costs for claims and claim adjustment expenses is difficult to estimate. Loss reserve estimation difficulties also differ significantly by product line due to differences in claim complexity, the volume of claims, the potential severity of individual claims, the determination of occurrence date for a claim and reporting lags (the time between the occurrence of the policyholder event and when it is actually reported to the insurer). Informed judgment is applied throughout the process, including the application of various individual experiences and expertise to multiple sets of data and analyses. The Company continually refines its loss reserve estimates in a regular ongoing process as historical loss experience develops and additional claims are reported and settled. The Company rigorously attempts to consider all significant facts and circumstances known at the time loss reserves are established. Due to the inherent uncertainty underlying loss reserve estimates including, but not limited to, the future settlement environment, final resolution of the estimated liability for claims and claim adjustment expenses may be higher or lower than the related loss reserves at the reporting date. Therefore, actual paid losses, as claims are settled in the future, may be materially different in amount than current loss reserves favorable or unfavorable. Because establishment of loss reserves is an inherently uncertain process involving estimates, currently established loss reserves may change. The Company reflects adjustments to loss reserves in the results of operations in the period the estimates are changed. There are also additional risks which impact the estimation of ultimate costs for catastrophes. For example, the estimation of reserves related to hurricanes and other catastrophic events can be affected by the inability of the Company and its insureds to access portions of the impacted areas, the complexity of factors contributing to the losses, the legal and regulatory uncertainties and the nature of the information available to establish the reserves. Complex factors include, but are not limited to: determining whether damage was caused by flooding versus wind; evaluating general liability and pollution exposures; estimating additional living expenses; estimating the impact of demand surge, infrastructure disruption, fraud, the effect of mold damage and business interruption costs; and reinsurance collectibility. The timing of a catastrophe, such as at or near the end of a reporting period, can also affect the information available to the Company in estimating reserves for that reporting period. The estimates related to catastrophes are adjusted as actual claims emerge. A portion of the Companys gross claims and claim adjustment expense reserves (totaling $3.30 billion at December 31, 2010) are for asbestos and environmental claims and related litigation. While the ongoing review of asbestos and environmental claims and associated liabilities considers the inconsistencies of court decisions as to coverage, plaintiffs expanded theories of liability and the risks 125 Table of Contents inherent in complex litigation and other uncertainties, in the opinion of the Companys management, it is possible that the outcome of the continued uncertainties regarding these claims could result in liability in future periods that differs from current reserves by an amount that could be material to the Companys future operating results. See the preceding discussion of "Asbestos Claims and Litigation" and "Environmental Claims and Litigation." Gross claims and claim adjustment expense reserves by product line were as follows: 2010 2009 (at December 31, in millions) Case IBNR Total Case IBNR Total General liability $ 5,809 $ 10,449 $ 16,258 $ 6,211 $ 11,354 $ 17,565 Property 945 627 1,572 1,091 780 1,871 Commercial multi peril 1,897 1,766 3,663 1,878 1,762 3,640 Commercial automobile 2,256 1,060 3,316 2,211 1,238 3,449 Workers compensation 9,447 7,082 16,529 9,354 7,121 16,475 Fidelity and surety 542 1,124 1,666 649 1,083 1,732 Personal automobile 1,434 935 2,369 1,457 993 2,450 Homeowners and personal other 653 769 1,422 633 717 1,350 International and other 2,353 1,914 4,267 2,344 2,178 4,522 Property casualty 25,336 25,726 51,062 25,828 27,226 53,054 Accident and health 61 8 69 64 9 73 Claims and claim adjustment expense reserves $ 25,397 $ 25,734 $ 51,131 $ 25,892 $ 27,235 $ 53,127 The $2.00 billion decline in gross claims and claim adjustment expense reserves since December 31, 2009 primarily reflected the impact of net favorable prior year reserve development and payments related to asbestos and environmental claims as well as operations in runoff. Asbestos and environmental reserves are included in the General liability, Commercial multi peril and International and other lines in the foregoing summary table. Asbestos and environmental reserves are discussed separately; see "Asbestos Claims and Litigation", "Environmental Claims and Litigation" and "Uncertainty Regarding Adequacy of Asbestos and Environmental Reserves." General Discussion The process for estimating the liabilities for claims and claim adjustment expenses begins with the collection and analysis of claim data. Data on individual reported claims, both current and historical, including paid amounts and individual claim adjuster estimates, are grouped by common characteristics (components) and evaluated by actuaries in their analyses of ultimate claim liabilities by product line. Such data is occasionally supplemented with external data as available and when appropriate. The process of analyzing reserves for a component is undertaken on a regular basis, generally quarterly, in light of continually updated information. Multiple estimation methods are available for the analysis of ultimate claim liabilities. Each estimation method has its own set of assumption variables and its own advantages and disadvantages, with no single estimation method being better than the others in all situations and no one set of assumption variables being meaningful for all product line components. The relative strengths and weaknesses of the particular estimation methods when applied to a particular group of claims can also change over time. Therefore, the actual choice of estimation method(s) can change with each evaluation. The estimation method(s) chosen are those that are believed to produce the most reliable indication at that particular evaluation date for the claim liabilities being evaluated. 126  Table of Contents In most cases, multiple estimation methods will be valid for the particular facts and circumstances of the claim liabilities being evaluated. This will result in a range of reasonable estimates for any particular claim liability. The Company uses such range analyses to back test whether previously established estimates for reserves at the reporting segments are reasonable, given subsequent information. Reported values found to be closer to the endpoints of a range of reasonable estimates are subject to further detailed reviews. These reviews may substantiate the validity of managements recorded estimate or lead to a change in the reported estimate. The exact boundary points of these ranges are more qualitative than quantitative in nature, as no clear line of demarcation exists to determine when the set of underlying assumptions for an estimation method switches from being reasonable to unreasonable. As a result, the Company does not believe that the endpoints of these ranges are or would be comparable across companies. In addition, potential interactions among the different estimation assumptions for different product lines make the aggregation of individual ranges a highly judgmental and inexact process. Property casualty insurance policies are either written on a claims made or on an occurrence basis. Claims made policies generally cover, subject to requirements in individual policies, claims reported during the policy period. Policies that are written on an occurrence basis require that the insured demonstrate that a loss occurred in the policy period, even if the insured reports the loss many years later. Most general liability policies are written on an occurrence basis. These policies are subject to substantial loss development over time as facts and circumstances change in the years following the policy issuance. The occurrence form, which accounts for much of the reserve development in asbestos and environmental exposures, is also used to provide coverage for construction general liability, including construction defect. Occurrence based forms of insurance for general liability exposures require substantial projection of various trends, including future inflation and judicial interpretations and societal litigation dynamics, among others. A basic premise in most actuarial analyses is that past patterns demonstrated in the data will repeat themselves in the future, absent a material change in the associated risk factors discussed below. To the extent a material change affecting the ultimate claim liability is known, such change is quantified to the extent possible through an analysis of internal company data and, if available and when appropriate, external data. Such a measurement is specific to the facts and circumstances of the particular claim portfolio and the known change being evaluated. Significant structural changes to the available data, product mix or organization can materially impact the reserve estimation process. Informed judgment is applied throughout the reserving process. This includes the application of various individual experiences and expertise to multiple sets of data and analyses. In addition to actuaries, experts involved with the reserving process also include underwriting and claims personnel and lawyers, as well as other company management. Therefore, management may have to consider varying individual viewpoints as part of its estimation of loss reserves. It is also likely that during periods of significant change, such as a merger, consistent application of informed judgment becomes even more complicated and difficult. The variables discussed above in this general discussion have different impacts on reserve estimation uncertainty for a given product line, depending on the length of the claim tail, the reporting lag, the impact of individual claims and the complexity of the claim process for a given product line. Product lines are generally classifiable as either long tail or short tail, based on the average length of time between the event triggering claims under a policy and the final resolution of those claims. Short tail claims are reported and settled quickly, resulting in less estimation variability. The longer the time before final claim resolution, the greater the exposure to estimation risks and hence the greater the estimation uncertainty. 127 Table of Contents A major component of the claim tail is the reporting lag. The reporting lag, which is the time between the event triggering a claim and the reporting of the claim to the insurer, makes estimating IBNR inherently more uncertain. In addition, the greater the reporting lag, the greater the proportion of IBNR to the total claim liability for the product line. Writing new products with material reporting lags can result in adding several years worth of IBNR claim exposure before the reporting lag exposure becomes clearly observable, thereby increasing the risk associated with pricing and reserving such products. The most extreme example of claim liabilities with long reporting lags are asbestos claims. For some lines, the impact of large individual claims can be material to the analysis. These lines are generally referred to as being "low frequency/high severity," while lines without this "large claim" sensitivity are referred to as "high frequency/low severity." Estimates of claim liabilities for low frequency/high severity lines can be sensitive to the impact of a small number of potentially large claims. As a result, the role of judgment is much greater for these reserve estimates. In contrast, for high frequency/low severity lines the impact of individual claims is relatively minor and the range of reasonable reserve estimates is narrower and more stable. Claim complexity can also greatly affect the estimation process by impacting the number of assumptions needed to produce the estimate, the potential stability of the underlying data and claim process, and the ability to gain an understanding of the data. Product lines with greater claim complexity, such as for certain surety and construction exposures, have inherently greater estimation uncertainty. Actuaries have to exercise a considerable degree of judgment in the evaluation of all these factors in their analysis of reserves. The human element in the application of actuarial judgment is unavoidable when faced with material uncertainty. Different actuaries may choose different assumptions when faced with such uncertainty, based on their individual backgrounds, professional experiences and areas of focus. Hence, the estimates selected by the various actuaries may differ materially from each other. Lastly, significant structural changes to the available data, product mix or organization can also materially impact the reserve estimation process. Events such as mergers increase the inherent uncertainty of reserve estimates for a period of time, until stable trends re establish themselves within the new organization. Risk factors The major causes of material uncertainty ("risk factors") generally will vary for each product line, as well as for each separately analyzed component of the product line. In a few cases, such risk factors are explicit assumptions of the estimation method, but in most cases, they are implicit. For example, a method may explicitly assume that a certain percentage of claims will close each year, but will implicitly assume that the legal interpretation of existing contract language will remain unchanged. Actual results will likely vary from expectations for each of these assumptions, causing actual paid losses, as claims are settled in the future, to be different in amount than the reserves being estimated currently. Some risk factors will affect more than one product line. Examples include changes in claim department practices, changes in settlement patterns, regulatory and legislative actions, court actions, timeliness of claim reporting, state mix of claimants and degree of claimant fraud. The extent of the impact of a risk factor will also vary by components within a product line. Individual risk factors are also subject to interactions with other risk factors within product line components. The effect of a particular risk factor on estimates of claim liabilities cannot be isolated in most cases. For example, estimates of potential claim settlements may be impacted by the risk associated with potential court rulings, but the final settlement agreement typically does not delineate how much of the settled amount is due to this and other factors. 128 Table of Contents The evaluation of data is also subject to distortion from extreme events or structural shifts, sometimes in unanticipated ways. For example, the timing of claims payments in one geographic region will be impacted if claim adjusters are temporarily reassigned from that region to help settle catastrophe claims in another region. While some changes in the claim environment are sudden in nature (such as a new court ruling affecting the interpretation of all contracts in that jurisdiction), others are more evolutionary. Evolutionary changes can occur when multiple factors affect final claim values, with the uncertainty surrounding each factor being resolved separately, in stepwise fashion. The final impact is not known until all steps have occurred. Sudden changes generally cause a one time shift in claim liability estimates, although there may be some lag in reliable quantification of their impact. Evolutionary changes generally cause a series of shifts in claim liability estimates, as each component of the evolutionary change becomes evident and estimable. Actuarial methods for analyzing and estimating claims and claim adjustment expense reserves The principal estimation and analysis methods utilized by the Companys actuaries are the paid development method, the case incurred development method, the Bornhuetter Ferguson (BF) method, and average value analysis combined with the reported claim development method. The BF method is usually utilized for more recent accident periods, with a transition to other methods as the underlying claim data becomes more voluminous and therefore more credible. These are typically referred to as traditional actuarial methods. (See Glossary for an explanation of these methods). While these are the principal methods utilized throughout the Company, actuaries evaluating a particular component for a product line have available to them the full range of methods developed within the casualty actuarial profession. The Companys actuaries are also continually monitoring developments within the profession for advances in existing techniques or the creation of new techniques that might improve current and future estimates. Some components of product line reserves are susceptible to relatively infrequent large claims that can materially impact the total estimate for that component. In such cases, the Companys actuarial analysis generally isolates and analyzes separately such large claims. The reserves excluding such large claims are generally analyzed using the traditional methods described above. The reserves associated with large claims are then analyzed utilizing various methods, such as: Estimating the number of large claims and their average values based on historical trends from prior accident periods, adjusted for the current environment and supplemented with actual data for the accident year analyzed to the extent available. Utilizing individual claim adjuster estimates of the large claims, combined with continual monitoring of the aggregate accuracy of such claim adjuster estimates. (This monitoring may lead to supplemental adjustments to the aggregate of such claim estimates.) Utilizing historic longer term average ratios of large claims to small claims, and applying such ratios to the estimated ultimate small claims from traditional analysis. Ground up analysis of the underlying exposure (typically used for asbestos and environmental). The results of such methodologies are subjected to various reasonability and diagnostic tests, including paid to incurred loss ratios, implied incurred loss to earned premium ratios and non zero claim severity trends. An actual versus expected analysis is also performed comparing actual loss development to expected development based on the prior review. Additional analyses may be performed based on the results of these diagnostics, including the investigation of other actuarial methods. 129 Table of Contents The methods described above are generally utilized to evaluate managements existing estimate for prior accident periods. For the initial estimate of the current accident year, the available claim data is typically insufficient to produce a reliable indication. Hence, the initial estimate for an accident year is generally based on a loss ratio projection method, which uses the earned premium for the current year multiplied by a projected loss ratio. The projected loss ratio is determined through an analysis of prior periods experience, using loss trend, rate level differences, mix of business changes and other known or observed factors influencing the current accident year relative to prior accident years. The exact number of prior accident years utilized varies by product line component, based on the volume of business for that component and the reliability of an individual accident year estimate. Managements estimates At least once per quarter, certain Company management meets with its actuaries to review the latest claims and claim adjustment expense reserve analyses. Based on these analyses, management determines whether its ultimate claim liability estimates should be changed. In doing so, it must evaluate whether the new data provided represents credible actionable information or an anomaly that will have no effect on estimated ultimate claim liability. For example, as described above, payments may have decreased in one geographic region due to fewer claim adjusters being available to process claims. The resulting claim payment patterns would be analyzed to determine whether or not the change in payment pattern represents a change in ultimate claim liability. Such an assessment requires considerable judgment. It is frequently not possible to determine whether a change in the data is an anomaly until sometime after the event. Even if a change is determined to be permanent, it is not always possible to reliably determine the extent of the change until sometime later. The overall detailed analyses supporting such an effort can take several months to perform. This is because the underlying causes of the trends observed need to be evaluated, which may require the gathering or assembling of data not previously available. It may also include interviews with experts involved with the underlying processes. As a result, there can be a time lag between the emergence of a change and a determination that the change should be reflected in the Companys estimated claim liabilities. The final estimate selected by management in a reporting period is based on these various detailed analyses of past data, adjusted to reflect any new actionable information. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors is responsible for providing oversight of reserving propriety, and annually reviews the process by which the Company establishes reserves. Discussion of Product Lines The following section details reserving considerations and common risk factors by product line. There are many additional risk factors that may impact ultimate claim costs. Each risk factor presented will have a different impact on required reserves. Also, risk factors can have offsetting or compounding effects on required reserves. For example, in workers compensation, the use of expensive medical procedures that result in medical cost inflation may enable workers to return to work faster, thereby lowering indemnity costs. Thus, in almost all cases, it is impossible to discretely measure the effect of a single risk factor and construct a meaningful sensitivity expectation. In order to provide information on reasonably possible reserving changes by product line, the historical changes in year end loss reserves over a one year period are provided for the U.S. product lines. This information is provided for both the Company and the industry for the nine most recent years, and is based on the most recent publicly available data for the reported line(s) that most closely match the individual product line being discussed. These changes were calculated, net of reinsurance, from statutory annual statement data found in Schedule P of those statements, and represent the reported reserve development on the beginning of the year claim liabilities divided by the beginning claim liabilities, all accident years combined, excluding non defense related claim adjustment expense. 130 Table of Contents Data presented for the Company includes history for the entire Travelers group (U.S. companies only), whether or not the individual subsidiaries were originally part of SPC or TPC. This treatment is required by the statutory reporting instructions promulgated by state regulatory authorities for Schedule P. Comparable data for non U.S. companies is not available. General Liability General liability is generally considered a long tail line, as it takes a relatively long period of time to finalize and settle claims from a given accident year. The speed of claim reporting and claim settlement is a function of the specific coverage provided, the jurisdiction and specific policy provisions such as self insured retentions. There are numerous components underlying the general liability product line. Some of these have relatively moderate payment patterns (with most of the claims for a given accident year closed within 5 to 7 years), while others can have extreme lags in both reporting and payment of claims (e.g., a reporting lag of a decade or more for "construction defect" claims). While the majority of general liability coverages are written on an "occurrence" basis, certain general liability coverages (such as those covering directors and officers or professional liability) are typically insured on a "claims made" basis. General liability reserves are generally analyzed as two components: primary and excess/umbrella, with the primary component generally analyzed separately for bodily injury and property damage. Bodily injury liability payments reimburse the claimant for damages pertaining to physical injury as a result of the policyholders legal obligation arising from non intentional acts such as negligence, subject to the insurance policy provisions. In some cases the damages can include future wage loss (which is a function of future earnings power and wage inflation) and future medical treatment costs. Property damage liability payments result from damages to the claimants private property arising from the policyholders legal obligation for non intentional acts. In most cases, property damage losses are a function of costs as of the loss date, or soon thereafter. In addition, sizable or unique exposures are reviewed separately. These exposures include asbestos, environmental, other mass torts, construction defect, medical malpractice and large unique accounts that would otherwise distort the analysis. These unique categories often require a very high degree of judgment and require reserve analyses that do not rely on traditional actuarial methods. Defense costs are also a part of the insured costs covered by liability policies and can be significant, sometimes greater than the cost of the actual paid claims. For some products this risk is mitigated by policy language such that the insured portion of defense costs erodes the amount of policy limit available to pay the claim. Such "defense within the limits" policies are most common for "claims made" products. When defense costs are outside of the limits, amounts paid for defense costs do not erode the policy limits. This line is typically the largest source of reserve estimate uncertainty in the United States (excluding assumed reinsurance contracts covering the same risk). Major contributors to this reserve estimate uncertainty include the reporting lag (i.e., the length of time between the event triggering coverage and the actual reporting of the claim), the number of parties involved in the underlying tort action, whether the "event" triggering coverage is confined to only one time period or is spread over multiple time periods, the potential dollars involved (in the individual claim actions), whether such claims were reasonably foreseeable and intended to be covered at the time the contracts were written (i.e., coverage dispute potential), and the potential for mass claim actions. Claims with longer reporting lags result in greater inherent risk. This is especially true for alleged claims with a latency feature, particularly where courts have ruled that coverage is spread over multiple policy years, hence involving multiple defendants (and their insurers and reinsurers) and multiple policies (thereby increasing the potential dollars involved and the underlying settlement complexity). Claims with long latencies also 131 Table of Contents increase the potential recognition lag (i.e., the lag between writing a type of policy in a certain market and the recognition that such policies have potential mass tort and or latent claim exposure). The amount of reserve estimate uncertainty also varies significantly by component for the general liability product line. The components in this product line with the longest latency, longest reporting lags, largest potential dollars involved and greatest claim settlement complexity are asbestos and environmental. Components that include latency, reporting lag and or complexity issues, but to a materially lesser extent than asbestos and environmental, include construction defect, medical malpractice and other mass tort actions. Many components of general liability are not subject to material latency or claim complexity risks and hence have materially less uncertainty than the previously mentioned components. In general, policies providing coverage with shorter reporting lags, fewer parties involved in settlement negotiations, only one policy potentially triggered per claim, fewer potential settlement dollars, reasonably foreseeable (and stable) potential hazards/claims and no mass tort potential result in much less reserve estimate uncertainty than policies without those characteristics. In addition to the traditional actuarial methods mentioned in the general discussion section, the company utilizes various report year development and S curve methods for the construction defect components of this product line. The Construction Defect report year development analysis is supplemented with projected claim counts and average values for IBNR claim counts. For components with greater lags in claim reporting, such as excess and umbrella components of this product line, the company relies more heavily on the BF method than on the paid and case incurred development methods. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required general liability reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: General liability risk factors Changes in claim handling philosophies Changes in policy provisions or court interpretation of such provisions New theories of liability Trends in jury awards Changes in the propensity to sue, in general with specificity to particular issues Changes in statutes of limitations Changes in the underlying court system Distortions from losses resulting from large single accounts or single issues Changes in tort law Shifts in law suit mix between federal and state courts Changes in claim adjuster office structure (causing distortions in the data) Changes in settlement patterns (e.g., medical malpractice) General liability book of business risk factors Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements) Changes in underwriting standards Product mix (e.g., size of account, industries insured, jurisdiction mix) Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for general liability (excluding asbestos and environmental), a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.5% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line, excluding estimated asbestos and environmental amounts, over the last nine years has varied from 5% to 14% (averaging 2%) for the Company and from 5% to 7% (averaging 1%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. Because the 132 Table of Contents high end of the Companys range of historical adverse development comes from certain businesses that the Company has since exited, the Company believes that the industrys range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. General liability reserves (excluding asbestos and environmental) represent approximately 26% of the Companys total loss reserves. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line, excluding estimated asbestos and environmental amounts, was 5% for 2010, 5% for 2009 and 5% for 2008. The 2010 change was primarily concentrated in excess coverages for accident years 2006 and prior and reflected what the Company believes are favorable legal and judicial environments. The 2009 and 2008 changes were driven by several factors, including improved legal and judicial environments, as well as enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. Property Property is generally considered a short tail line with a simpler and faster claim reporting and adjustment process than liability coverages, and less uncertainty in the reserve setting process (except for more complex business interruption claims). It is generally viewed as a moderate frequency, low to moderate severity line, except for catastrophes and coverage related to large properties. The claim reporting and settlement process for property coverage claim reserves is generally restricted to the insured and the insurer. Overall, the claim liabilities for this line create a low estimation risk, except possibly for catastrophes and business interruption claims. Property reserves are typically analyzed in two components, one for catastrophic or other large single events, and another for all other events. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required property reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Property risk factors Physical concentration of policyholders Availability and cost of local contractors For the more severe catastrophic events, "demand surge" inflation, which refers to significant short term increases in building material and labor costs due to a sharp increase in demand for those materials and services Local building codes Amount of time to return property to full usage (for business interruption claims) Court interpretation of policy provisions (such as occurrence definition, or wind versus flooding) Lags in reporting claims (e.g., winter damage to summer homes, hidden damage after an earthquake) Court or legislative changes to the statute of limitations Property book of business risk factors Policy provisions mix (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements) Changes in underwriting standards Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for property, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.1% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 34% to 26% (averaging 10%) for the Company, and from 14% to 7% (averaging 5%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. Because the high end of the Companys range of historical adverse development comes from certain businesses that the Company has since exited, the Company 133 Table of Contents believes that the industrys range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Property reserves represent approximately 3% of the Companys total loss reserves. Since property is considered a short tail coverage, the one year change for property can be more volatile than that for the longer tail product lines. This is due to the fact that the majority of the reserve for property relates to the most recent accident year, which is subject to the most uncertainty for all product lines. This recent accident year uncertainty is relevant to property because of weather related events which, notwithstanding 2010 experience, tend to be concentrated in the second half of the year, and generally are not completely resolved until the following year. Reserve estimates associated with major catastrophes may take even longer to resolve. The reserve estimates for this product line are also potentially subject to material changes due to uncertainty in measuring ultimate losses for unprecedented significant catastrophes such as the events of September 11, 2001 and Hurricane Katrina. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 25% for 2010, 9% for 2009 and 22% for 2008. The 2010 change primarily occurred in the 2008 and 2009 accident years as a result of better than expected loss development in Industry Focused Underwriting and Target Risk Underwriting. The 2009 change was primarily driven by better than expected loss development in the 2007 and 2008 accident years for certain large national property and inland marine exposures. In addition, the 2005 accident year experience improved due to the litigation environment relating to, and ongoing claim settlements for, Hurricane Katrina. The 2008 change was primarily driven by favorable loss development in the 2007 accident year for certain large property, national programs and ocean marine claim exposures, and improvements in the litigation environment relating to, and ongoing claim settlements for, Hurricane Katrina. Commercial Multi Peril Commercial multi peril provides a combination of property and liability coverage typically for small businesses and, therefore, includes both short and long tail coverages. For property coverage, it generally takes a relatively short period of time to close claims, while for the other coverages, generally for the liability coverages, it takes a longer period of time to close claims. The reserving risk for this line is dominated by the liability coverage portion of this product, except occasionally in the event of catastrophic or large single losses. The reserving risk for this line differs from that of the general liability product line and the property product line due to the nature of the customer. Commercial multi peril is generally sold to smaller sized accounts, while the customer profile for general liability and property includes larger customers. See "Property risk factors" and "General liability risk factors," discussed above, with regard to reserving risk for commercial multi peril. Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for commercial multi peril (excluding asbestos and environmental), a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.2% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 16% to 2% (averaging 5%) for the Company, and from 5% to 6% (averaging 1%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Commercial multi peril reserves (excluding asbestos and environmental reserves) represent approximately 7% of the Companys total loss reserves. 134  Table of Contents As discussed above, this line combines general liability and property coverages and it has been impacted in the past by many of the same events as those two lines. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 0% for 2010, 8% for 2009 and 16% for 2008. The 2009 and 2008 changes were attributable to several factors, including improved legal and judicial environments, and enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. Also contributing to the change was improvement in the litigation environment relating to, and ongoing claim settlements for, Hurricane Katrina. Commercial Automobile The commercial automobile product line is a mix of property and liability coverages and, therefore, includes both short and long tail coverages. The payments that are made quickly typically pertain to auto physical damage (property) claims and property damage (liability) claims. The payments that take longer to finalize and are more difficult to estimate relate to bodily injury claims. In general, claim reporting lags are minor, claim complexity is not a major issue, and the line is viewed as high frequency, low to moderate severity. Overall, the claim liabilities for this line create a moderate estimation risk. Commercial automobile reserves are typically analyzed in four components: bodily injury liability; property damage liability; collision claims; and comprehensive claims. These last two components have minimum reserve risk and fast payouts and, accordingly, separate risk factors are not presented. The Company utilizes the traditional actuarial methods mentioned in the general discussion above in estimating claim liabilities for this line. This is supplemented with detailed custom analyses where needed. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required commercial automobile reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Bodily injury and property damage liability risk factors Trends in jury awards Changes in the underlying court system Changes in case law Litigation trends Frequency of claims with payment capped by policy limits Change in average severity of accidents, or proportion of severe accidents Changes in auto safety technology Subrogation opportunities Changes in claim handling philosophies Frequency of visits to health providers Number of medical procedures given during visits to health providers Types of health providers used Types of medical treatments received Changes in cost of medical treatments Degree of patient responsiveness to treatment Commercial automobile book of business risk factors Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements, etc.) Changes in mix of insured vehicles (e.g., long haul trucks versus local and smaller vehicles, fleet risks versus non fleets) Changes in underwriting standards 135 Table of Contents Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for commercial automobile, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.2% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 10% to 9% (averaging 3%) for the Company, and from 3% to 9% (averaging 1%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Commercial automobile reserves represent approximately 7% of the Companys total loss reserves. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 1% for 2010, 6% for 2009 and 7% for 2008. The 2009 and 2008 changes were a result of better than expected loss development, primarily for recent accident years, which was attributable to several factors, including improved legal and judicial environments, and enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. Workers Compensation Workers compensation is generally considered a long tail coverage, as it takes a relatively long period of time to finalize claims from a given accident year. While certain payments such as initial medical treatment or temporary wage replacement for the injured worker are made quickly, some other payments are made over the course of several years, such as awards for permanent partial injuries. In addition, some payments can run as long as the injured workers life, such as permanent disability benefits and on going medical care. Despite the possibility of long payment tails, the reporting lags are generally short, settlements are generally not complex, and most of the liability can be considered high frequency with moderate severity. The largest reserve risk generally comes from the low frequency, high severity claims providing lifetime coverage for medical expense arising from a workers injury. Overall, the claim liabilities for this line create a somewhat greater than moderate estimation risk. Workers compensation reserves are typically analyzed in three components: indemnity losses, medical losses and claim adjustment expenses. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required workers compensation reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Indemnity risk factors Time required to recover from the injury Degree of available transitional jobs Degree of legal involvement Changes in the interpretations and processes of the workers compensation commissions oversight of claims(1) Future wage inflation for states that index benefits Changes in the administrative policies of second injury funds Medical risk factors Changes in the cost of medical treatments (including prescription drugs) and underlying fee schedules ("inflation") Frequency of visits to health providers (1)These are administrative bodies that evaluate whether or not a given claim for workers compensation benefits is valid. Their duties include the determination of whether a given injury arose out of the scope of employment or the determination of the degree of injury where disputes exist. 136 Table of Contents Number of medical procedures given during visits to health providers Types of health providers used Type of medical treatments received Use of preferred provider networks and other medical cost containment practices Availability of new medical processes and equipment Changes in the use of pharmaceutical drugs Degree of patient responsiveness to treatment General workers compensation risk factors Frequency of claim reopenings on claims previously closed Mortality trends of injured workers with lifetime benefits and medical treatment Degree of cost shifting between workers compensation and health insurance Workers compensation book of business risk factors Product mix Injury type mix Changes in underwriting standards Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for workers compensation, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.2% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 1% to 2% (averaging 0%) for the Company, and from 1% to 4% (averaging 1%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Workers compensation reserves represent approximately 32% of the Companys total loss reserves. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 1% in 2010, 1% in 2009 and 1% for 2008. Fidelity and Surety Fidelity is generally considered a short tail coverage. It takes a relatively short period of time to finalize and settle fidelity claims. The volatility of fidelity reserves is generally related to the type of business of the insured, the size and complexity of the insureds business operations, amount of policy limit and attachment point of coverage. The uncertainty surrounding reserves for small, commercial insureds is typically less than the uncertainty for large commercial or financial institutions. The high frequency, low severity nature of small commercial fidelity losses provides for stability in loss estimates whereas, the low frequency, high severity nature of losses for large insureds results in a wider range of ultimate loss outcomes. Actuarial techniques that rely on a stable pattern of loss development are generally not applicable to low frequency, high severity policies. Surety has certain components that are generally considered short tail coverages with short reporting lags, although large individual construction and commercial surety contracts can result in a long settlement tail, based on the length and complexity of the construction project or commercial transaction being insured. (Large construction projects can take many years to complete.) The frequency of losses in surety correlates with economic cycles as the primary cause of surety loss is the inability of the Companys insureds to perform financially. The volatility of surety losses is generally related to the type of business performed by the insured, the type of bonded obligation, the amount of limit exposed to loss and the amount of assets available to the insurer to mitigate losses, such as unbilled contract funds, collateral, first and third party indemnity, and other security positions of an 137 Table of Contents insureds assets. Certain classes of surety claims are very high severity, low frequency in nature. These can include large construction contractors involved with one or multiple large, complex projects as well as certain large commercial surety exposures. Other claim factors affecting reserve variability of surety include litigation related to amounts owed by and due the insured (e.g., salvage and subrogation efforts) and the results of financial restructuring of an insured. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required fidelity and surety reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Fidelity risk factors Type of business of insured Policy limit and attachment points Third party claims Coverage litigation Complexity of claims Growth in insureds operations Surety risk factors Economic trends, including the general level of construction activity Concentration of reserves in a relatively few large claims Type of business insured Type of obligation insured Cumulative limits of liability for insured Assets available to mitigate loss Defective workmanship/latent defects Financial strategy of insured Changes in statutory obligations Geographic spread of business Fidelity and Surety book of business risk factors Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, limits, endorsements) Changes in underwriting standards Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for fidelity and surety, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.3% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 10% to 138% (averaging 19%) for the Company, and from 13% to 24% (averaging 6%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. Because the high end of the Companys range was due to acquired business in 2004, the Company believes that the industrys range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Fidelity and surety reserves represent approximately 3% of the Companys total loss reserves. In general, developments on single large claims (both adverse and favorable) are a primary source of changes in reserve estimates for this product line. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 6% for 2010, 7% for 2009 and 10% for 2008. The 2010 change was driven by better than expected loss development due to lower than expected claim activity and loss severity, primarily for the contract surety business in this product line for the 2008 and prior accident years. The 2009 and 2008 changes were a result of better than expected loss development for the contract surety business within this product line, primarily driven by favorable settlements on large claims from older accident years. 138 Table of Contents Personal Automobile Personal automobile includes both short and long tail coverages. The payments that are made quickly typically pertain to auto physical damage (property) claims and property damage (liability) claims. The payments that take longer to finalize and are more difficult to estimate relate to bodily injury claims. Reporting lags are relatively short and the claim settlement process for personal automobile liability generally is the least complex of the liability products. It is generally viewed as a high frequency, low to moderate severity product line. Overall, the claim liabilities for this line create a moderate estimation risk. Personal automobile reserves are typically analyzed in five components: bodily injury liability, property damage liability, no fault losses, collision claims and comprehensive claims. These last two components have minimum reserve risk and fast payouts and, accordingly, separate factors are not presented. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required personal automobile reserves (beyond those included in the general reserve discussion section) include: Bodily injury and property damage liability risk factors Trends in jury awards Changes in the underlying court system and its philosophy Changes in case law Litigation trends Frequency of claims with payment capped by policy limits Change in average severity of accidents, or proportion of severe accidents Subrogation opportunities Degree of patient responsiveness to treatment Changes in claim handling philosophies No fault risk factors (for selected states and time periods) Effectiveness of no fault laws Frequency of visits to health providers Number of medical procedures given during visits to health providers Types of health providers used Types of medical treatments received Changes in cost of medical treatments Degree of patient responsiveness to treatment Personal automobile book of business risk factors Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements, etc.) Changes in underwriting standards Changes in the use of credit data for rating and underwriting Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for personal automobile, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.1% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 9% to 0% (averaging 3%) for the Company, and from 4% to 0% (averaging 2%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Personal automobile reserves represent approximately 5% of the Companys total loss reserves. 139 Table of Contents The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 0% for 2010, 0% for 2009 and 1% for 2008. The decrease in 2008 was primarily due to better than expected results from changes in claim handling practices as well as initiatives to fight fraud. Homeowners and Personal Lines Other Homeowners is generally considered a short tail coverage. Most payments are related to the property portion of the policy, where the claim reporting and settlement process is generally restricted to the insured and the insurer. Claims on property coverage are typically reported soon after the actual damage occurs, although delays of several months are not unusual. The claim is settled when the two parties agree on the amount due in accordance with the policy contract language and the appropriate payment is made (or alternatively, the property replacement/repair is performed by the insurer). The resulting settlement process is typically fairly short term, although exceptions do exist. The liability portion of the homeowners policy generates claims which take longer to pay due to the involvement of litigation and negotiation, but with generally small reporting lags. In addition, reserves related to umbrella coverages have greater uncertainty since umbrella liability payments are often made far into the future. Overall, the line is generally high frequency, low to moderate severity (except for catastrophes), with simple to moderate claim complexity. Homeowners reserves are typically analyzed in two components: non catastrophe related losses and catastrophe loss payments. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required homeowners reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Non catastrophe risk factors Salvage opportunities Amount of time to return property to residential use Changes in weather patterns Local building codes Litigation trends Trends in jury awards Catastrophe risk factors Physical concentration of policyholders Availability and cost of local contractors Local building codes Quality of construction of damaged homes Amount of time to return property to residential use For the more severe catastrophic events, "demand surge" inflation, which refers to significant short term increases in building material and labor costs due to a sharp increase in demand for those materials and services Homeowners book of business risk factors Policy provisions mix (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements, etc.) Degree of concentration of policyholders Changes in underwriting standards Changes in the use of credit data for rating and underwriting Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for homeowners and personal lines other, a 140 Table of Contents 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.1% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line (excluding the umbrella line of business, which for statutory reporting purposes is included with the general liability line of business) over the last nine years has varied from 31% to 3% (averaging 12%) for the Company, and from 8% to 11% (averaging 2%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Homeowners and personal lines other reserves represent approximately 3% of the Companys total loss reserves. This line combines both liability and property coverages; however, the majority of the reserves relate to property. While property is considered a short tail coverage, the one year change for property can be more volatile than that for the longer tail product lines. This is due to the fact that the majority of the reserve for property relates to the most recent accident year, which is subject to the most uncertainty for all product lines. This recent accident year uncertainty is relevant to property because of weather related events which tend to be concentrated in the second half of the year, and generally are not completely resolved until the following year. Reserve estimates associated with major catastrophes may take even longer to resolve. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line (excluding the umbrella line of business) was 2% for 2010, 14% for 2009 and 13% for 2008. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line including the umbrella line of business was 4% for 2010, 12% for 2009 and 12% for 2008. The 2010 change reflected favorable loss development in the 2008 and prior accident years, primarily for the umbrella line of business, partially offset by unfavorable loss development in the 2009 accident year for the homeowners line of business that was driven by higher than anticipated late reported claims related to storms in 2009. The 2009 change primarily reflected favorable loss development related to Hurricanes Ike and Katrina, as well as the 2007 California wildfires. The 2008 change was primarily driven by favorable loss development related to Hurricane Katrina, by claim initiatives, by better than expected outcomes on 2007 catastrophe related claims and by improvements in older accident years for the umbrella line. International and other International and other includes products written by International and other products not discussed above. The principal component of "other" claim reserves is assumed reinsurance written on an excess of loss basis, which may include reinsurance of non U.S. exposures, and is runoff business. International and other claim liabilities result from a mix of coverages, currencies and jurisdictions/countries. The common characteristic is the need to customize the analysis to the individual component, and the inability to rely on data characterizations and reporting requirements in the U.S. statutory reporting framework. Due to changes in the business mix for this line over time, the recently incurred claim liabilities are relatively short term (due to both the products and the jurisdictions involved, e.g., the Republic of Ireland and the United Kingdom), while the older liabilities include some from runoff operations that are extremely long tail (e.g., U.S. excess liabilities reinsured through the London market, and several underwriting pools in runoff). The speed of claim reporting and claim settlement is a function of the specific coverage provided, the jurisdiction, the distribution system (e.g., underwriting pool versus direct) and the proximity of the insurance sale to the insured hazard (e.g., insured and insurer located in different countries). In particular, liabilities arising from the underwriting pools in runoff may result in significant reporting lags, settlement lags and claim complexity, due to the need to coordinate with other pool members or co insurers through a broker or lead insurer for claim settlement purposes. 141 Table of Contents International and other reserves are generally analyzed by program/pool, country and general coverage category (e.g., U.S. Liability excess of loss reinsurance, or General Liability Municipalities by country). The business is also generally split by direct versus assumed reinsurance for a given coverage/jurisdiction. Where the underlying insured hazard is outside the United States, the underlying coverages are generally similar to those described under the General Liability and Automobile discussion above, but under a different legal system. Where the underlying hazard is within the U.S., the coverage involved is typically that of General Liability, but on an excess or excess of loss reinsurance basis. Excess exposure requires the insured to "prove" not only claims under the policy, but also the prior payment of claims reaching up to the excess policys attachment point. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required International and other reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: International and other risk factors Changes in claim handling procedures, including those of the primary carriers Changes in policy provisions or court interpretation of such provision New theories of liability Trends in jury awards Changes in the propensity to sue Changes in statutes of limitations Changes in the underlying court system Distortions from losses resulting from large single accounts or single issues Changes in tort law Changes in claim adjuster office structure (causing distortions in the data) International and other book of business risk factors Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements, "claims made" language) Changes in underwriting standards Product mix (e.g., size of account, industries insured, jurisdiction mix) Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for International and other (excluding asbestos and environmental), a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.3% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. International and other reserves (excluding asbestos and environmental) represent approximately 8% of the Companys total loss reserves. International and other represents a combination of different product lines, some of which are in runoff. Comparative historical information is not available for international product lines as insurers domiciled outside of the U.S. do not file U.S. statutory reports. Comparative historical information on runoff business is not indicative of reasonably possible one year changes in the reserve estimate for this mix of runoff business. Accordingly, the Company has not included comparative analyses for International and other. Reinsurance Recoverables Amounts recoverable from reinsurers are estimated in a manner consistent with the associated claim liability. The Company evaluates and monitors the financial condition of its reinsurers under voluntary reinsurance arrangements to minimize its exposure to significant losses from reinsurer insolvencies. In addition, in the ordinary course of business, the Company becomes involved in coverage disputes with its reinsurers. Some of these disputes could result in lawsuits and arbitrations brought by or against the reinsurers to determine the Companys rights and obligations under the 142 Table of Contents various reinsurance agreements. The Company employs dedicated specialists and aggressive strategies to manage reinsurance collections and disputes. The reinsurance agreements that the Company entered into as part of its catastrophe bond programs are dual trigger contracts and meet the requirements to be accounted for as reinsurance in accordance with guidance for accounting for reinsurance contracts. The Companys catastrophe bond programs are described in more detail in the "Catastrophe Reinsurance Coverage" section herein. The Company reports its reinsurance recoverables net of an allowance for estimated uncollectible reinsurance recoverables. The allowance is based upon the Companys ongoing review of amounts outstanding, length of collection periods, changes in reinsurer credit standing, disputes, applicable coverage defenses and other relevant factors. Accordingly, the establishment of reinsurance recoverables and the related allowance for uncollectible reinsurance recoverables is also an inherently uncertain process involving estimates. From time to time, as a result of the long tailed nature of the underlying liabilities, coverage complexities and potential for disputes, the Company considers the commutation of reinsurance contracts. Changes in estimated reinsurance recoverables and commutation activity could result in additional income statement charges. Recoverables attributable to structured settlements relate primarily to personal injury claims, of which workers compensation claims comprise a significant portion, for which the Company has purchased annuities and remains contingently liable in the event of a default by the companies issuing the annuities. Recoverables attributable to mandatory pools and associations relate primarily to workers compensation service business. These recoverables are supported by the participating insurance companies obligation to pay a pro rata share based on each companys voluntary market share of written premium in each state in which it is a pool participant. In the event a member of a mandatory pool or association defaults on its share of the pools or associations obligations, the other members share of such obligation increases proportionally. On August 20, 2010, in a reinsurance dispute in New York state court captioned United States Fidelity & Guaranty Company v. American Re Insurance Company, et al., the trial court granted summary judgment for the Company, and on October 25, 2010, entered judgment awarding the Company $251 million plus pre judgment interest in the amount of $169 million. The judgment, including the award of interest, has been appealed. See note 15 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements for further discussion of this reinsurance dispute. The following table summarizes the composition of the Companys reinsurance recoverable assets: (at December 31, in millions) 2010 2009 Gross reinsurance recoverables on paid and unpaid claims and claim adjustment expenses $ 6,934 $ 8,138 Allowance for uncollectible reinsurance (363 ) (523 ) Net reinsurance recoverables 6,571 7,615 Structured settlements 3,380 3,456 Mandatory pools and associations 1,568 1,745 Total reinsurance recoverables $ 11,519 $ 12,816 The $1.04 billion decline in net reinsurance recoverables since December 31, 2009 reflected cash collections and the impact of net favorable prior year reserve development, partially offset by a reduction in the allowance for uncollectible reinsurance that included the impact of a $70 million benefit resulting from the summary judgment in the reinsurance dispute referenced above. As a result, at December 31, 2010, reinsurance recoverables included the full $251 million owed to the Company under the terms of the related reinsurance agreement. 143  Table of Contents Investment Valuation and Impairments Fair Value Measurements The Companys estimates of fair value for financial assets and financial liabilities are based on the framework established in the fair value accounting guidance. The framework is based on the inputs used in valuation, gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets, and requires that observable inputs be used in the valuations when available. The disclosure of fair value estimates in the fair value accounting guidance hierarchy is based on whether the significant inputs into the valuation are observable. In determining the level of the hierarchy in which the estimate is disclosed, the highest priority is given to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs that reflect the Companys significant market assumptions. The three levels of the hierarchy are as follows: Level 1 Unadjusted quoted market prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets that the Company has the ability to access. Level 2 Quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in inactive markets; or valuations based on models where the significant inputs are observable (e.g., interest rates, yield curves, prepayment speeds, default rates, loss severities, etc.) or can be corroborated by observable market data. Level 3 Valuations based on models where significant inputs are not observable. The unobservable inputs reflect the Companys own assumptions about the inputs that market participants would use. Valuation of Investments Reported at Fair Value in Financial Statements The fair value of a financial instrument is the estimated amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in an orderly transaction between knowledgeable, unrelated, willing parties, i.e., not in a forced transaction. The estimated fair value of a financial instrument may differ from the amount that could be realized if the security was sold in an immediate sale, e.g., a forced transaction. Additionally, the valuation of fixed maturity investments is more subjective when markets are less liquid due to the lack of market based inputs, which may increase the potential that the estimated fair value of an investment is not reflective of the price at which an actual transaction would occur. For investments that have quoted market prices in active markets, the Company uses the quoted market prices as fair value and includes these prices in the amounts disclosed in Level 1 of the hierarchy. The Company receives the quoted market prices from a third party, nationally recognized pricing service (pricing service). When quoted market prices are unavailable, the Company utilizes a pricing service to determine an estimate of fair value, which is mainly used for its fixed maturity investments. The fair value estimates provided from this pricing service are included in the amount disclosed in Level 2 of the hierarchy. If quoted market prices and an estimate from a pricing service are unavailable, the Company produces an estimate of fair value based on internally developed valuation techniques, which, depending on the level of observable market inputs, will render the fair value estimate as Level 2 or Level 3. The Company bases all of its estimates of fair value for assets on the bid price as it represents what a third party market participant would be willing to pay in an arms length transaction. Fixed Maturities The Company utilizes a pricing service to estimate fair value measurements for approximately 99% of its fixed maturities. The pricing service utilizes market quotations for fixed maturity securities that have quoted prices in active markets. Since fixed maturities other than U.S. Treasury securities generally do not trade on a daily basis, the pricing service prepares estimates of fair value 144 Table of Contents measurements for these securities using its proprietary pricing applications, which include available relevant market information, benchmark curves, benchmarking of like securities, sector groupings and matrix pricing. Additionally, the pricing service uses an Option Adjusted Spread model to develop prepayment and interest rate scenarios. The pricing service evaluates each asset class based on relevant market information, relevant credit information, perceived market movements and sector news. The market inputs utilized in the pricing evaluation, listed in the approximate order of priority, include: benchmark yields, reported trades, broker/dealer quotes, issuer spreads, two sided markets, benchmark securities, bids, offers, reference data, and industry and economic events. The extent of the use of each market input depends on the asset class and the market conditions. Depending on the security, the priority of the use of inputs may change or some market inputs may not be relevant. For some securities, additional inputs may be necessary. The pricing service utilized by the Company has indicated that they will only produce an estimate of fair value if there is objectively verifiable information to produce a valuation. If the pricing service discontinues pricing an investment, the Company would be required to produce an estimate of fair value using some of the same methodologies as the pricing service but would have to make assumptions for market based inputs that are unavailable due to market conditions. The fair value estimates of most fixed maturity investments are based on observable market information rather than market quotes. Accordingly, the estimates of fair value for such fixed maturities, other than U.S. Treasury securities, provided by the pricing service are included in the amount disclosed in Level 2 of the hierarchy. The estimated fair value of U.S. Treasury securities is included in the amount disclosed in Level 1 as the estimates are based on unadjusted market prices. The Company reviews the estimates of fair value provided by the pricing service and compares the estimates to the Companys knowledge of the market to determine if the estimates obtained are representative of the prices in the market. The Company produces a report monthly that lists all price changes from the previous month in excess of 10%. The Company reviews the report and will challenge any prices deemed not to be representative of fair value. In addition, the Company has implemented various other processes including randomly selecting purchased or sold securities and comparing execution prices to the estimates from the pricing service as well as reviewing reports that contain securities whose valuation did not change from their previous valuation (stale price review). The Company also uses an additional independent pricing service to further test the primary pricing services valuation of the Companys fixed maturity portfolio. These processes have not highlighted any significant issues with the fair value estimates received from the pricing service. The Company holds privately placed corporate bonds and estimates the fair value of these bonds using an internal matrix that is based on market information regarding interest rates, credit spreads and liquidity. The underlying source data for calculating the matrix of credit spreads relative to the U.S. Treasury curve are the BofA Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate Index and the BofA Merrill Lynch High Yield BB Rated Index. The Company includes the fair value estimates of these corporate bonds in Level 2, since all significant inputs are market observable. As many of these securities are issued by public companies, the Company compares the estimates of fair value to the fair values of these companies publicly traded debt to test the validity of the internal pricing matrix. While the vast majority of the Companys municipal bonds are included in Level 2, the Company holds a small number of municipal bonds which are not valued by the pricing service and estimates the fair value of these bonds using an internal pricing matrix with some unobservable inputs that are significant to the valuation. Due to the limited amount of observable market information, the Company includes the fair value estimates for these particular bonds in Level 3. Additionally, the Company holds a small amount of fixed maturities that have characteristics that make them unsuitable for matrix pricing. For these fixed maturities, the Company obtains a quote from a broker (typically a market 145 Table of Contents maker). Due to the disclaimers on the quotes that indicate that the price is indicative only, the Company includes these fair value estimates in Level 3. See note 4 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the determination of fair value of non fixed maturities and valuation of investments not reported at fair value in the financial statements. Investment Impairments The Company conducts a periodic review to identify and evaluate invested assets having other than temporary impairments. Some of the factors considered in identifying other than temporary impairments include: (1) for fixed maturity investments, whether the Company intends to sell the investment or whether it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell the investment prior to an anticipated recovery in value; (2) for non fixed maturity investments, the Companys ability and intent to retain the investment for a reasonable period of time sufficient to allow for an anticipated recovery in value; (3) the likelihood of the recoverability of principal and interest for fixed maturity securities (i.e., whether there is a credit loss), or cost for equity securities; (4) the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than amortized cost for fixed maturity securities or cost for equity securities; and (5) the financial condition, near term and long term prospects for the issuer, including the relevant industry conditions and trends, and implications of rating agency actions and offering prices. Reporting of Other Than Temporary Impairments For fixed maturity investments that the Company does not intend to sell or for which it is more likely than not that the Company would not be required to sell before an anticipated recovery in value, the Company separates the credit loss component of the impairment from the amount related to all other factors and reports the credit loss component in net realized investment gains (losses). The impairment related to all other factors is reported in accumulated other changes in equity from nonowner sources. For non fixed maturity investments and for fixed maturity investments the Company intends to sell or for which it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell before an anticipated recovery in value, the full amount of the impairment is included in net realized investment gains (losses). Upon recognizing an other than temporary impairment, the new cost basis of the investment is the previous amortized cost basis less the other than temporary impairment recognized in net realized investment gains (losses). The new cost basis is not adjusted for any subsequent recoveries in fair value; however, for fixed maturity investments, the difference between the new cost basis and the expected cash flows is accreted on a quarterly basis to net investment income over the remaining expected life of the investment. Due to the subjective nature of the Companys analysis and estimates of future cash flows, along with the judgment that must be applied in the analysis, it is possible that the Company could reach a different conclusion whether or not to impair a security if it had access to additional information about the issuer. Additionally, it is possible that the issuers actual ability to meet contractual obligations may be different than what the Company determined during its analysis, which may lead to a different impairment conclusion in future periods. See note 1 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements for a further discussion of investment impairments. 146 Table of Contents Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Impairments See note 1 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements for a discussion of impairments of goodwill and other intangible assets. OTHER UNCERTAINTIES For a discussion of other risks and uncertainties that could impact the Companys results of operations or financial position, see note 15 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements and "Item 1A Risk Factors." FUTURE APPLICATION OF ACCOUNTING STANDARDS See note 1 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements for a discussion of recently issued accounting standards updates. The Company is currently required to prepare its financial statements in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), as promulgated by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB). During 2008, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) issued a proposed Roadmap for comment for the potential use in filings with the SEC of financial statements for U.S. issuers prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as promulgated by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), instead of in accordance with GAAP. The Roadmap contains milestones that, if achieved, may lead the SEC to decide in 2011 to require the use of IFRS for large accelerated filers, including the Company. In March 2010, the SEC reaffirmed its support for a single set of high quality, global standards and acknowledged that IFRS may be best positioned to accomplish this goal. Additionally, the SEC established a Work Plan for its staff to evaluate whether, when and how IFRS should be incorporated into the U.S. financial reporting system. Under the Work Plan, the SEC staff will evaluate several key issues related to a possible convergence to IFRS. The SEC is expected to re deliberate the proposed Roadmap during 2011 taking into consideration the comments received from constituents as well as the result of the staffs Work Plan. The IASB and the FASB are in the process of developing a global insurance standard that involves methodologies for valuing insurance contract liabilities that may be significantly different from the methodologies required by current GAAP. The FASB and the IASB have also embarked on a long term project to converge GAAP and IFRS. The Company is not able to predict whether it will choose to, or be required to, adopt IFRS or how the adoption of IFRS (or the convergence of GAAP and IFRS, including the project for valuing insurance contract liabilities) may impact the Companys financial statements in the future. FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS This report contains, and management may make, certain "forward looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, may be forward looking statements. Words such as "may," "will," "should," "likely," "anticipates," "expects," "intends," "plans," "projects," "believes," "estimates" and similar expressions are used to identify these forward looking statements. Specifically, statements about the Companys share repurchase plans and statements about the potential impact of investment markets and other economic conditions on the Companys investment portfolio and underwriting results, among others, are forward looking, and the Company may also make forward looking statements about, among other things: its results of operations and financial condition (including, among other things, premium volume, premium rates, net and operating income, investment income and performance, return on equity, and expected current returns and combined ratios); 147 Table of Contents the sufficiency of the Companys asbestos and other reserves (including, among other things, asbestos claim payment patterns); the impact of emerging claims issues; the cost and availability of reinsurance coverage; catastrophe losses; the impact of investment, economic and underwriting market conditions; strategic initiatives; and the Companys proposed joint venture with J. Malucelli Participa&ccedil;&otilde;es em Seguros e Resseguros S.A. The Company cautions investors that such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the Companys control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward looking information and statements. For a discussion of some of the factors that could cause actual results to differ, see "Item 1A Risk Factors" and "Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates." The Companys forward looking statements speak only as of the date of this report or as of the date they are made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update its forward looking statements.  Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK MARKET RISK Market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates (inclusive of credit spreads), foreign currency exchange rates and other relevant market rate or price changes. Market risk is directly influenced by the volatility and liquidity in the markets in which the related underlying assets are traded. The following is a discussion of the Companys primary market risk exposures and how those exposures are managed as of December 31, 2010. The Companys market risk sensitive instruments, including derivatives, are primarily entered into for purposes other than trading. The carrying value of the Companys investment portfolio at December 31, 2010 and 2009 was $72.72 billion and $74.97 billion, respectively, of which 86% and 88% was invested in fixed maturity securities, respectively. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, approximately 6.0% and 5.8%, respectively, of the Companys invested assets were denominated in foreign currencies. The Companys exposure to equity price risk is not significant. The Company has no direct commodity risk and is not a party to any credit default swaps. The primary market risks to the investment portfolio are interest rate risk and credit risk associated with investments in fixed maturity securities. The portfolio duration relative to the liabilities duration is primarily managed through cash market transactions and treasury futures transactions. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio included collateralized mortgage obligations backed by alternative documentation mortgages and asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages with a collective fair value of $297 million and $270 million, respectively (comprising approximately 0.5% and 0.4% of the Companys total fixed maturity investments, respectively). The disruption in secondary investment markets for mortgage backed securities provided the Company with the opportunity to selectively acquire additional 148 Table of Contents asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages at discounted prices. The Company purchased $31 million and $74 million of such securities in 2010 and 2009, respectively. The Company defines sub prime mortgage backed securities as investments in which the underlying loans primarily exhibit one or more of the following characteristics: low FICO scores, above prime interest rates, high loan to value ratios or high debt to income ratios. Alternative documentation securitizations are those in which the underlying loans primarily meet the government sponsored entities requirements for credit score but do not meet the government sponsored entities guidelines for documentation, property type, debt and loan to value ratios. The average credit rating on these securities and obligations held by the Company was "Baa2" and "A3" at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio at December 31, 2010 included securities issued by numerous states, municipalities and political subdivisions (collectively referred to as the municipal bond portfolio), a number of which were enhanced by third party insurance for the payment of principal and interest in the event of an issuer default. The downgrade of credit ratings of insurers of these securities in recent years has resulted in a corresponding downgrade in the ratings of the securities to the underlying rating of the respective security. Of the insured municipal securities in the Companys investment portfolio at December 31, 2010, approximately 99% were rated at A3 or above, and approximately 90% were rated at Aa3 or above, without the benefit of insurance. The Company believes that a loss of the benefit of insurance would not result in a material adverse impact on the Companys results of operations, financial position or liquidity, due to the underlying credit strength of the issuers of the securities, as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the securities. The average credit rating of the underlying issuers of these securities was "Aa2" at December 31, 2010. The average credit rating of the entire municipal bond portfolio was "Aa1" at December 31, 2010 with and without the third party insurance. On April 2, 2009, municipal securities issued by local governments within the United States were assigned a negative outlook by Moodys Investors Service. Notwithstanding the relatively low historical rates of default on many of these obligations and notwithstanding that the Company typically seeks to invest in high credit quality securities (including those with structural protections such as being secured by dedicated or pledged sources of revenue), during or following an economic downturn, the Companys municipal bond portfolio could be subject to a higher risk of default or impairment due to declining municipal tax bases and revenue. The severity and duration of state and local government budget deficits could have an adverse impact on the collectability and valuation of the Companys municipal bond portfolio. In addition, some issuers may be unwilling to increase tax rates, or to reduce spending, to fund interest or principal payments on their municipal bonds, or may be unable to access the municipal bond market to fund such payments. The risk of widespread defaults may increase if some issuers voluntarily choose to default, instead of implementing difficult fiscal measures, and the actual or perceived consequences (such as reduced access to capital markets) are less severe than expected. The risk may also increase if there are changes in legislation that permit states, or additional municipalities and political subdivisions, to file for bankruptcy protection or if there are judicial interpretations that, in a bankruptcy or other proceeding, lessen the value of structural protections. The Companys tax exempt fixed maturity investment portfolio totaled $39.03 billion and $40.84 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Federal and or state tax legislation could be enacted that would lessen or improve some or all of the tax advantages currently benefiting the Company and result in an adverse or favorable impact on the value of these holdings. The primary market risk for all of the Companys debt is interest rate risk at the time of refinancing. The Company monitors the interest rate environment and evaluates refinancing opportunities as maturity dates approach. For additional information regarding the Companys debt see note 8 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements as well as the "Liquidity and Capital Resources" section of "Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." 149 Table of Contents The Companys foreign exchange market risk exposure is concentrated in the Companys invested assets and insurance reserves denominated in foreign currencies. Cash flows from the Companys foreign operations are the primary source of funds for the purchase of investments denominated in foreign currencies. The Company purchases these investments primarily to fund insurance reserves and other liabilities denominated in the same currency, effectively reducing its foreign currency exchange rate exposure. Invested assets denominated in the British Pound Sterling comprised approximately 2.5% of the total invested assets at both December 31, 2010 and 2009. Invested assets denominated in the Canadian dollar comprised approximately 2.3% and 2.1% of the total invested assets at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Invested assets denominated in other currencies at December 31, 2010 and 2009 were not material. There were no other significant changes in the Companys primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures were managed for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to the year ended December 31, 2009. The Company does not currently anticipate significant changes in its primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures are managed in future reporting periods based upon what is known or expected to be in effect in future reporting periods. SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS Sensitivity analysis is defined as the measurement of potential loss in future earnings, fair values or cash flows of market sensitive instruments resulting from one or more selected hypothetical changes in interest rates and other market rates or prices over a selected period of time. In the Companys sensitivity analysis model, a hypothetical change in market rates is selected that is expected to reflect reasonably possible near term changes in those rates. "Near term" means a period of time going forward up to one year from the date of the consolidated financial statements. Actual results may differ from the hypothetical change in market rates assumed in this disclosure, especially since this sensitivity analysis does not reflect the results of any actions that would be taken by the Company to mitigate such hypothetical losses in fair value. Interest Rate Risk In this sensitivity analysis model, the Company uses fair values to measure its potential loss. The sensitivity analysis model includes the following financial instruments entered into for purposes other than trading: fixed maturities, non redeemable preferred stocks, mortgage loans, short term securities, debt and derivative financial instruments. The primary market risk to the Companys market sensitive instruments is interest rate risk (inclusive of credit spreads). The sensitivity analysis model uses a 100 basis point change in interest rates to measure the hypothetical change in fair value of financial instruments included in the model. For invested assets with primary exposure to interest rate risk, estimates of portfolio duration and convexity are used to model the loss of fair value that would be expected to result from a parallel increase in interest rates. Durations on invested assets are adjusted for call, put and interest rate reset features. Durations on tax exempt securities are adjusted for the fact that the yields on such securities do not normally move in lockstep with changes in the U.S. Treasury curve. Fixed maturity portfolio durations are calculated on a market value weighted basis, including accrued interest, using holdings as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. For debt, the change in fair value is determined by calculating hypothetical December 31, 2010 and 2009 ending prices based on yields adjusted to reflect a 100 basis point change, comparing such hypothetical ending prices to actual ending prices, and multiplying the difference by the par or securities outstanding. 150 Table of Contents The sensitivity analysis model used by the Company produces a loss in fair value of market sensitive instruments of approximately $2.00 billion and $2.34 billion based on a 100 basis point increase in interest rates at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The loss estimates do not take into account the impact of possible interventions that the Company might reasonably undertake in order to mitigate or avoid losses that would result from emerging interest rate trends. In addition, the loss value only reflects the impact of an interest rate increase on the fair value of the Companys financial instruments. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk The Company uses fair values of investment securities to measure its potential loss from foreign denominated investments. A hypothetical 10% reduction in value of foreign denominated investments is used to estimate the impact on the market value of the foreign denominated holdings. The Companys analysis indicates that a hypothetical 10% reduction in the value of foreign denominated investments would be expected to produce a loss in fair value of approximately $434 million and $431 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. At December 31, 2010, The Company had a definitive agreement to commence a joint venture with J. Malucelli, through the acquisition of approximately 43% of J. Malucellis common stock. The purchase price for this acquisition will be R$625 million Brazilian Reais (the U.S. dollar equivalent of which will depend on the exchange rate at closing) plus an amount based on a Brazilian inter bank lending rate (CDI) from January 1, 2011 through the closing date of the transaction. In order to reduce its exposure to a significant strengthening of the Brazilian Reais prior to the closing of the transaction, the Company entered into a foreign currency option contract on February 7, 2011 in the notional amount of R$635 million which expires on March 31, 2011. 151  Table of Contents  
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates." The Companys forward looking statements speak only as of the date of this report or as of the date they are made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update its forward looking statements.  Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK MARKET RISK Market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates (inclusive of credit spreads), foreign currency exchange rates and other relevant market rate or price changes. Market risk is directly influenced by the volatility and liquidity in the markets in which the related underlying assets are traded. The following is a discussion of the Companys primary market risk exposures and how those exposures are managed as of December 31, 2010. The Companys market risk sensitive instruments, including derivatives, are primarily entered into for purposes other than trading. The carrying value of the Companys investment portfolio at December 31, 2010 and 2009 was $72.72 billion and $74.97 billion, respectively, of which 86% and 88% was invested in fixed maturity securities, respectively. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, approximately 6.0% and 5.8%, respectively, of the Companys invested assets were denominated in foreign currencies. The Companys exposure to equity price risk is not significant. The Company has no direct commodity risk and is not a party to any credit default swaps. The primary market risks to the investment portfolio are interest rate risk and credit risk associated with investments in fixed maturity securities. The portfolio duration relative to the liabilities duration is primarily managed through cash market transactions and treasury futures transactions. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio included collateralized mortgage obligations backed by alternative documentation mortgages and asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages with a collective fair value of $297 million and $270 million, respectively (comprising approximately 0.5% and 0.4% of the Companys total fixed maturity investments, respectively). The disruption in secondary investment markets for mortgage backed securities provided the Company with the opportunity to selectively acquire additional 148 Table of Contents asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages at discounted prices. The Company purchased $31 million and $74 million of such securities in 2010 and 2009, respectively. The Company defines sub prime mortgage backed securities as investments in which the underlying loans primarily exhibit one or more of the following characteristics: low FICO scores, above prime interest rates, high loan to value ratios or high debt to income ratios. Alternative documentation securitizations are those in which the underlying loans primarily meet the government sponsored entities requirements for credit score but do not meet the government sponsored entities guidelines for documentation, property type, debt and loan to value ratios. The average credit rating on these securities and obligations held by the Company was "Baa2" and "A3" at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio at December 31, 2010 included securities issued by numerous states, municipalities and political subdivisions (collectively referred to as the municipal bond portfolio), a number of which were enhanced by third party insurance for the payment of principal and interest in the event of an issuer default. The downgrade of credit ratings of insurers of these securities in recent years has resulted in a corresponding downgrade in the ratings of the securities to the underlying rating of the respective security. Of the insured municipal securities in the Companys investment portfolio at December 31, 2010, approximately 99% were rated at A3 or above, and approximately 90% were rated at Aa3 or above, without the benefit of insurance. The Company believes that a loss of the benefit of insurance would not result in a material adverse impact on the Companys results of operations, financial position or liquidity, due to the underlying credit strength of the issuers of the securities, as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the securities. The average credit rating of the underlying issuers of these securities was "Aa2" at December 31, 2010. The average credit rating of the entire municipal bond portfolio was "Aa1" at December 31, 2010 with and without the third party insurance. On April 2, 2009, municipal securities issued by local governments within the United States were assigned a negative outlook by Moodys Investors Service. Notwithstanding the relatively low historical rates of default on many of these obligations and notwithstanding that the Company typically seeks to invest in high credit quality securities (including those with structural protections such as being secured by dedicated or pledged sources of revenue), during or following an economic downturn, the Companys municipal bond portfolio could be subject to a higher risk of default or impairment due to declining municipal tax bases and revenue. The severity and duration of state and local government budget deficits could have an adverse impact on the collectability and valuation of the Companys municipal bond portfolio. In addition, some issuers may be unwilling to increase tax rates, or to reduce spending, to fund interest or principal payments on their municipal bonds, or may be unable to access the municipal bond market to fund such payments. The risk of widespread defaults may increase if some issuers voluntarily choose to default, instead of implementing difficult fiscal measures, and the actual or perceived consequences (such as reduced access to capital markets) are less severe than expected. The risk may also increase if there are changes in legislation that permit states, or additional municipalities and political subdivisions, to file for bankruptcy protection or if there are judicial interpretations that, in a bankruptcy or other proceeding, lessen the value of structural protections. The Companys tax exempt fixed maturity investment portfolio totaled $39.03 billion and $40.84 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Federal and or state tax legislation could be enacted that would lessen or improve some or all of the tax advantages currently benefiting the Company and result in an adverse or favorable impact on the value of these holdings. The primary market risk for all of the Companys debt is interest rate risk at the time of refinancing. The Company monitors the interest rate environment and evaluates refinancing opportunities as maturity dates approach. For additional information regarding the Companys debt see note 8 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements as well as the "Liquidity and Capital Resources" section of "Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." 149 Table of Contents The Companys foreign exchange market risk exposure is concentrated in the Companys invested assets and insurance reserves denominated in foreign currencies. Cash flows from the Companys foreign operations are the primary source of funds for the purchase of investments denominated in foreign currencies. The Company purchases these investments primarily to fund insurance reserves and other liabilities denominated in the same currency, effectively reducing its foreign currency exchange rate exposure. Invested assets denominated in the British Pound Sterling comprised approximately 2.5% of the total invested assets at both December 31, 2010 and 2009. Invested assets denominated in the Canadian dollar comprised approximately 2.3% and 2.1% of the total invested assets at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Invested assets denominated in other currencies at December 31, 2010 and 2009 were not material. There were no other significant changes in the Companys primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures were managed for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to the year ended December 31, 2009. The Company does not currently anticipate significant changes in its primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures are managed in future reporting periods based upon what is known or expected to be in effect in future reporting periods. SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS Sensitivity analysis is defined as the measurement of potential loss in future earnings, fair values or cash flows of market sensitive instruments resulting from one or more selected hypothetical changes in interest rates and other market rates or prices over a selected period of time. In the Companys sensitivity analysis model, a hypothetical change in market rates is selected that is expected to reflect reasonably possible near term changes in those rates. "Near term" means a period of time going forward up to one year from the date of the consolidated financial statements. Actual results may differ from the hypothetical change in market rates assumed in this disclosure, especially since this sensitivity analysis does not reflect the results of any actions that would be taken by the Company to mitigate such hypothetical losses in fair value. Interest Rate Risk In this sensitivity analysis model, the Company uses fair values to measure its potential loss. The sensitivity analysis model includes the following financial instruments entered into for purposes other than trading: fixed maturities, non redeemable preferred stocks, mortgage loans, short term securities, debt and derivative financial instruments. The primary market risk to the Companys market sensitive instruments is interest rate risk (inclusive of credit spreads). The sensitivity analysis model uses a 100 basis point change in interest rates to measure the hypothetical change in fair value of financial instruments included in the model. For invested assets with primary exposure to interest rate risk, estimates of portfolio duration and convexity are used to model the loss of fair value that would be expected to result from a parallel increase in interest rates. Durations on invested assets are adjusted for call, put and interest rate reset features. Durations on tax exempt securities are adjusted for the fact that the yields on such securities do not normally move in lockstep with changes in the U.S. Treasury curve. Fixed maturity portfolio durations are calculated on a market value weighted basis, including accrued interest, using holdings as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. For debt, the change in fair value is determined by calculating hypothetical December 31, 2010 and 2009 ending prices based on yields adjusted to reflect a 100 basis point change, comparing such hypothetical ending prices to actual ending prices, and multiplying the difference by the par or securities outstanding. 150 Table of Contents The sensitivity analysis model used by the Company produces a loss in fair value of market sensitive instruments of approximately $2.00 billion and $2.34 billion based on a 100 basis point increase in interest rates at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The loss estimates do not take into account the impact of possible interventions that the Company might reasonably undertake in order to mitigate or avoid losses that would result from emerging interest rate trends. In addition, the loss value only reflects the impact of an interest rate increase on the fair value of the Companys financial instruments. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk The Company uses fair values of investment securities to measure its potential loss from foreign denominated investments. A hypothetical 10% reduction in value of foreign denominated investments is used to estimate the impact on the market value of the foreign denominated holdings. The Companys analysis indicates that a hypothetical 10% reduction in the value of foreign denominated investments would be expected to produce a loss in fair value of approximately $434 million and $431 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. At December 31, 2010, The Company had a definitive agreement to commence a joint venture with J. Malucelli, through the acquisition of approximately 43% of J. Malucellis common stock. The purchase price for this acquisition will be R$625 million Brazilian Reais (the U.S. dollar equivalent of which will depend on the exchange rate at closing) plus an amount based on a Brazilian inter bank lending rate (CDI) from January 1, 2011 through the closing date of the transaction. In order to reduce its exposure to a significant strengthening of the Brazilian Reais prior to the closing of the transaction, the Company entered into a foreign currency option contract on February 7, 2011 in the notional amount of R$635 million which expires on March 31, 2011. 151  Table of Contents  
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." 149 Table of Contents The Companys foreign exchange market risk exposure is concentrated in the Companys invested assets and insurance reserves denominated in foreign currencies. Cash flows from the Companys foreign operations are the primary source of funds for the purchase of investments denominated in foreign currencies. The Company purchases these investments primarily to fund insurance reserves and other liabilities denominated in the same currency, effectively reducing its foreign currency exchange rate exposure. Invested assets denominated in the British Pound Sterling comprised approximately 2.5% of the total invested assets at both December 31, 2010 and 2009. Invested assets denominated in the Canadian dollar comprised approximately 2.3% and 2.1% of the total invested assets at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Invested assets denominated in other currencies at December 31, 2010 and 2009 were not material. There were no other significant changes in the Companys primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures were managed for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to the year ended December 31, 2009. The Company does not currently anticipate significant changes in its primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures are managed in future reporting periods based upon what is known or expected to be in effect in future reporting periods. SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS Sensitivity analysis is defined as the measurement of potential loss in future earnings, fair values or cash flows of market sensitive instruments resulting from one or more selected hypothetical changes in interest rates and other market rates or prices over a selected period of time. In the Companys sensitivity analysis model, a hypothetical change in market rates is selected that is expected to reflect reasonably possible near term changes in those rates. "Near term" means a period of time going forward up to one year from the date of the consolidated financial statements. Actual results may differ from the hypothetical change in market rates assumed in this disclosure, especially since this sensitivity analysis does not reflect the results of any actions that would be taken by the Company to mitigate such hypothetical losses in fair value. Interest Rate Risk In this sensitivity analysis model, the Company uses fair values to measure its potential loss. The sensitivity analysis model includes the following financial instruments entered into for purposes other than trading: fixed maturities, non redeemable preferred stocks, mortgage loans, short term securities, debt and derivative financial instruments. The primary market risk to the Companys market sensitive instruments is interest rate risk (inclusive of credit spreads). The sensitivity analysis model uses a 100 basis point change in interest rates to measure the hypothetical change in fair value of financial instruments included in the model. For invested assets with primary exposure to interest rate risk, estimates of portfolio duration and convexity are used to model the loss of fair value that would be expected to result from a parallel increase in interest rates. Durations on invested assets are adjusted for call, put and interest rate reset features. Durations on tax exempt securities are adjusted for the fact that the yields on such securities do not normally move in lockstep with changes in the U.S. Treasury curve. Fixed maturity portfolio durations are calculated on a market value weighted basis, including accrued interest, using holdings as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. For debt, the change in fair value is determined by calculating hypothetical December 31, 2010 and 2009 ending prices based on yields adjusted to reflect a 100 basis point change, comparing such hypothetical ending prices to actual ending prices, and multiplying the difference by the par or securities outstanding. 150 Table of Contents The sensitivity analysis model used by the Company produces a loss in fair value of market sensitive instruments of approximately $2.00 billion and $2.34 billion based on a 100 basis point increase in interest rates at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The loss estimates do not take into account the impact of possible interventions that the Company might reasonably undertake in order to mitigate or avoid losses that would result from emerging interest rate trends. In addition, the loss value only reflects the impact of an interest rate increase on the fair value of the Companys financial instruments. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk The Company uses fair values of investment securities to measure its potential loss from foreign denominated investments. A hypothetical 10% reduction in value of foreign denominated investments is used to estimate the impact on the market value of the foreign denominated holdings. The Companys analysis indicates that a hypothetical 10% reduction in the value of foreign denominated investments would be expected to produce a loss in fair value of approximately $434 million and $431 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. At December 31, 2010, The Company had a definitive agreement to commence a joint venture with J. Malucelli, through the acquisition of approximately 43% of J. Malucellis common stock. The purchase price for this acquisition will be R$625 million Brazilian Reais (the U.S. dollar equivalent of which will depend on the exchange rate at closing) plus an amount based on a Brazilian inter bank lending rate (CDI) from January 1, 2011 through the closing date of the transaction. In order to reduce its exposure to a significant strengthening of the Brazilian Reais prior to the closing of the transaction, the Company entered into a foreign currency option contract on February 7, 2011 in the notional amount of R$635 million which expires on March 31, 2011. 151  Table of Contents  
 
