FILE:WFM/WFM-8K-20041215165739.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the reporting obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 3.03 Material Modification to Rights of Securities Holders
 
On December 15, 2004, we executed an amendment to our Rights Agreement, accelerating the final expiration date of the outstanding rights to purchase shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock (the "Rights") from September 22, 2009 to December 15, 2004. The effect of this amendment is that our outstanding Rights will expire on December 15, 2004, and the shareholders' rights plan pursuant to which Rights have been issued will be of no further force or effect.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
AMENDMENT NO. 1, dated as of December 15, 2004, to the Rights Agreement, dated as of September 22, 1999 (the "Rights Agreement"), between Whole Foods Market, Inc. (the "Company"), and Securities Transfer Corporation, as Rights Agent (the "Rights Agent").
 
WHEREAS, the Company and the Rights Agent entered into the Rights Agreement specifying the terms of the Rights (as defined therein); and
 
WHEREAS, the Company and the Rights Agent desire to amend the Rights Agreement in accordance with Sections 27 and 29 of the Rights Agreement; and
 
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Company has duly approved and adopted this Amendment;
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and mutual agreements set forth in the Rights Agreement and this Amendment, the parties hereby agree as follows:
 
1. Section 1 of the Rights Agreement is hereby amended to delete the definition of "Final Expiration Date" and replace it with the following:
 
"Final Expiration Date" shall mean the close of business on December 15, 2004.
 
2. Exhibit C to the Rights Agreement shall be replaced with Exhibit C in the form attached hereto.
 
3. The foregoing amendment shall be effective upon the execution by both parties as of the date hereof and, except as set forth herein, the Rights Agreement shall remain in full force and effect through the Final Expiration Date and shall be otherwise unaffected hereby.
 
4. This Amendment may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.
 
Exhibit C
 
Under certain circumstances set forth in the Rights Agreement, Rights beneficially owned by or transferred to any Person who is, was or becomes an Acquiring Person or an Affiliate or Associate thereof (as such terms are defined in the Rights Agreement), and certain transferees thereof, will become null and void and will no longer be transferable.
 
 
On September 22, 1999, the Board of Directors of Whole Foods Market, Inc. (the "Company") declared a dividend of one right to purchase preferred stock ("Right") for each outstanding share of the Company's Common Stock, with no par value ("Common Stock"), to shareholders of record at the close of business on October 4, 1999. Each Right entitles the registered holder to purchase from the Company a unit consisting of one one-thousandth of a share (a "Fractional Share") of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, par value $.01 per share (the "Preferred Stock"), at a purchase price of $225 per Fractional Share, subject to adjustment (the "Purchase Price"). The description and terms of the Rights are set forth in a Rights Agreement dated as of September 22, 1999 as it may from time to time be supplemented or amended (the "Rights Agreement") between the Company and Securities Transfer Corporation, as Rights Agent.
 
Initially, the Rights will be attached to all certificates representing outstanding shares of Common Stock, and no separate certificates for the Rights ("Rights Certificates") will be distributed. The Rights will separate from the Common Stock and a "Distribution Date" will occur, with certain exceptions, upon the earlier of (i) ten days following a public announcement that a person or group of affiliated or associated persons (an "Acquiring Person") has acquired, or obtained the right to acquire, beneficial ownership of 20% or more of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (the date of the announcement being the "Stock Acquisition Date"), or (ii) ten business days following the commencement of a tender offer or exchange offer that would result in a person's becoming an Acquiring Person. In certain circumstances, the Distribution Date may be deferred by the Board of Directors. Certain inadvertent acquisitions will not result in a person's becoming an Acquiring Person if the person promptly divests itself of sufficient Common Stock. If at the time of the adoption of the Rights Agreement, any person or group of affiliated or associated persons is the beneficial owner of 20% or more of the outstanding shares of Common Stock, such person shall not become an Acquiring Person unless and until certain increases in such person's beneficial ownership occur or are deemed to occur. Until the Distribution Date, (a) the Rights will be evidenced by the Common Stock certificates (together with a copy of this Summary of Rights or bearing the notation referred to below) and will be transferred with and only with such Common Stock certificates, (b) new Common Stock certificates issued after October 4, 1999 will contain a notation incorporating the Rights Agreement by reference and (c) the surrender for transfer of any certificate for Common Stock (with or without a copy of this Summary of Rights) will also constitute the transfer of the Rights associated with the Common Stock represented by such certificate.
The Rights are not exercisable until the Distribution Date and will expire at the close of business on December 15, 2004, unless earlier redeemed or exchanged by the Company as described below.
 
As soon as practicable after the Distribution Date, Rights Certificates will be mailed to holders of record of Common Stock as of the close of business on the Distribution Date and, from and after the Distribution Date, the separate Rights Certificates alone will represent the Rights. All shares of Common Stock issued prior to the Distribution Date will be issued with Rights. Shares of Common Stock issued after the Distribution Date in connection with certain employee benefit plans or upon conversion of certain securities will be issued with Rights. Except as otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, no other shares of Common Stock issued after the Distribution Date will be issued with Rights.
 
In the event (a "Flip-In Event") that a person becomes an Acquiring Person (except pursuant to a tender or exchange offer for all outstanding shares of Common Stock at a price and on terms that the Board of Directors (during such time as a majority thereof is composed of directors independent of the offeror or any Acquiring Person) determines to be fair to and otherwise in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders (a "Permitted Offer")), each holder of a Right will thereafter have the right to receive, upon exercise of such Right, a number of shares of Common Stock (or, in certain circumstances, cash, property or other securities of the Company) having a Current Market Price (as defined in the Rights Agreement) equal to two times the exercise price of the Right. Notwithstanding the foregoing, following the occurrence of any Triggering Event, all Rights that are, or (under certain circumstances specified in the Rights Agreement) were, beneficially owned by or transferred to an Acquiring Person (or by certain related parties) will be null and void in the circumstances set forth in the Rights Agreement. However, Rights are not exercisable following the occurrence of any Flip-In Event until such time as the Rights are no longer redeemable by the Company as set forth below.
 
In the event (a "Flip-Over Event") that, at any time from and after the time an Acquiring Person becomes such, (i) the Company is acquired in a merger or other business combination transaction (other than certain mergers that follow a Permitted Offer), or (ii) 50% or more of the Company's assets or earning power is sold or transferred, each holder of a Right (except Rights that are voided as set forth above) shall thereafter have the right to receive, upon exercise, a number of shares of common stock of the acquiring company having a Current Market Price equal to two times the exercise price of the Right. Flip-In Events and Flip-Over Events are collectively referred to as "Triggering Events."
 
The number of outstanding Rights associated with a share of Common Stock, or the number of Fractional Shares of Preferred Stock issuable upon exercise of a Right and
the Purchase Price, are subject to adjustment in the event of a stock dividend on, or a subdivision, combination or reclassification of, the Common Stock occurring prior to the Distribution Date. The Purchase Price payable, and the number of Fractional Shares of Preferred Stock or other securities or property issuable, upon exercise of the Rights are subject to adjustment from time to time to prevent dilution in the event of certain transactions affecting the Preferred Stock.
 
With certain exceptions, no adjustment in the Purchase Price will be required until cumulative adjustments amount to at least 1% of the Purchase Price. No fractional shares of Preferred Stock that are not integral multiples of a Fractional Share are required to be issued and, in lieu thereof, an adjustment in cash may be made based on the market price of the Preferred Stock on the last trading date prior to the date of exercise. Pursuant to the Rights Agreement, the Company reserves the right to require prior to the occurrence of a Triggering Event that, upon any exercise of Rights, a number of Rights be exercised so that only whole shares of Preferred Stock will be issued.
 
At any time until ten days following the first date of public announcement of the occurrence of a Flip-In Event, the Company may redeem the Rights in whole, but not in part, at a price of $0.01 per Right, payable, at the option of the Company, in cash, shares of Common Stock or such other consideration as the Board of Directors may determine. Under certain circumstances set forth in the Rights Agreement, redemption may only be made if a majority of the Board of Directors is composed of directors that are independent of any Acquiring Person. Immediately upon the effectiveness of the action of the Board of Directors ordering redemption of the Rights, the Rights will terminate and the only right of the holders of Rights will be to receive the $0.01 redemption price.
 
At any time after the occurrence of a Flip-In Event and prior to a person's becoming the beneficial owner of 50% or more of the shares of Common Stock then outstanding or the occurrence of a Flip-Over Event, the Company (if a majority of the Board is composed of directors independent of any Acquiring Person) may exchange the Rights (other than Rights owned by an Acquiring Person or an affiliate or an associate of an Acquiring Person, which will have become void), in whole or in part, at an exchange ratio of one share of Common Stock, and/or other equity securities deemed to have the same value as one share of Common Stock, per Right, subject to adjustment.
 
Until a Right is exercised, the holder thereof, as such, will have no rights as a shareholder of the Company, including, without limitation, the right to vote or to receive dividends. While the distribution of the Rights should not be taxable to shareholders or to the Company, shareholders may, depending upon the circumstances, recognize taxable income in the event that the Rights become exercisable for Common Stock (or other consideration) of the Company or for the common stock of the acquiring company as set forth above or are exchanged as provided in the preceding paragraph.
 
Other than the redemption price, any of the provisions of the Rights Agreement may be amended by the Board of Directors of the Company (if a majority of the Board is composed of directors independent of any Acquiring Person) as long as the Rights are
redeemable. Thereafter, the provisions of the Rights Agreement other than the redemption price may be amended by the Board of Directors (if a majority of the Board is composed of directors independent of any Acquiring Person) in order to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency, to make changes that do not materially adversely affect the interests of holders of Rights (excluding the interests of any Acquiring Person), or to shorten or lengthen any time period under the Rights Agreement; that no amendment to lengthen the time period governing redemption shall be made at such time as the Rights are not redeemable.
provided, however,
 
A copy of the Rights Agreement has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as an exhibit to a Current Report on Form 8-K. A copy of the Rights Agreement is available free of charge from the Company. This summary description of the Rights does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Rights Agreement, which is incorporated herein by reference.


