FILE:WFM/WFM-8K-20060503161914.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the reporting obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 2.02     Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On May 3, 2006, the Company issued a press release announcing its results of operations for its second fiscal quarter ended April 9, 2006. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
In addition to reporting financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, the Company provides information regarding Economic Value Added ("EVA") in the press release as additional information about its operating results.  This measure is not in accordance with, or an alternative to, GAAP.  The Company's management believes that this presentation provides useful information to management, analysts and investors regarding certain additional financial and business trends relating to its results of operations and financial condition.  In addition, management uses this measure for reviewing the financial results of the Company and for incentive compensation and capital planning purposes. The press release includes a tabular reconciliation of this non-GAAP financial measure to GAAP net income, which the Company believes to be the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.
The information contained in this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, is being furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section.  Furthermore, the information contained in this Item 2.02 or Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01     Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)     Exhibits
          99.1     Press release dated May 3, 2006, regarding second fiscal quarter results of operations.
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
          AUSTIN, Texas, May 3 /PRNewswire-FirstCall/ -- Whole Foods Market, Inc. (Nasdaq: WFMI) today reported sales and earnings for the 12-week quarter ended April 9, 2006.  For the quarter, sales increased 21% to $1.3 billion driven by 14% weighted average square footage growth and 11.9% comparable store sales growth including an estimated 55 basis point negative impact from Easter shifting from the second quarter last year to the third quarter this year.  Sales in identical stores (excluding four relocated stores) increased 10.9%.  Net income increased 27% to $51.8 million, diluted earnings per share increased 20% to $0.36, operating cash flow per share was $0.88, and Economic Value Added (EVA) improved $8.8 million to $19.2 million.  These results include approximately $2.0 million in pre-tax share-based compensation expense.
          For the 28-week period ended April 9, 2006, sales increased 21% to $3.0 billion driven by 15% weighted average square footage growth and comparable store sales growth of 12.5%.  Sales in identical stores (excluding four relocated stores) increased 11.5%.  Net income increased 27% to $110.1 million, diluted earnings per share increased 18% to $0.76, operating cash flow per share was $1.49, and Economic Value Added (EVA) improved $17.5 million to $35.5 million.  These results include approximately $3.1 million in pre-tax share-based compensation expense.
          "We are very pleased to report our tenth consecutive quarter of double-digit comparable store sales growth," said John Mackey, chairman, chief executive officer, and co-founder of Whole Foods Market.  "Based on our performance year to date, including our stronger-than-expected 12.5% comp results and new store sales, we are increasing our 2006 comp sales growth guidance to 10% to 12% and our sales growth guidance to the upper end of our 18% to 21% range."
          The following table shows the Company's growth in sales, comparable store sales, and square footage year to date compared to its historical five-year ranges and average results, highlighting the Company's strong historical performance as well as its above-average performance year to date.
          The following table breaks out additional information on the quarter for comparable stores and all stores, highlighting the Company's strong performance throughout its store base.
          Gross profit consists of sales less cost of goods sold and occupancy costs plus the contribution from non-retail distribution and food preparation operations.  Gross profit decreased 37 basis points to 35.3% of sales from a record 35.7% of sales in the prior year.  These results include a LIFO charge of $1.2 million versus a charge of $750,000 in the second quarter last year.  For stores in the comparable store base, gross profit improved four basis points with an improvement in cost of goods sold partially offset by an increase in energy-related costs included in occupancy.
          Direct store expenses improved 27 basis points to 25.2% of sales.  For stores in the comparable store base, direct store expenses improved 34 basis points to 25.1% of sales.
          Including $1.6 million in pre-tax share-based compensation expense, G&A expenses increased 11 basis points to 3.3% of sales. 
          The following table shows the Company's year-to-date results for certain line items as a percentage of sales compared to its historical five-year ranges and average results, highlighting that these results have historically been very consistent on an annualized basis over time and that the Company's year-to-date results are in line with these historical ranges and averages.
          Pre-opening and relocation costs were $7.3 million of which approximately $2.1 million was pre-opening rent and approximately $1.5 million was accelerated depreciation.  Additionally, the total includes approximately $900,000 of pre-opening expenses related to the re-opening of the Company's two New Orleans-area stores. 
          Year over year, net interest income increased $2.3 million to $4.1 million. During the quarter, the Company produced cash flow from operations of $128 million, received $39 million in proceeds from the exercise of stock options and paid approximately $299 million to shareholders in cash dividends. Capital expenditures in the quarter were $54 million of which $31 million was for new stores and $23 million was for remodels and other.  Cash and cash equivalents, including restricted cash, were approximately $329 million at the end of the quarter, and total long-term debt was approximately $15 million.
          Including $2.0 million in share-based compensation expense, net income increased 27% to $51.8 million or 4.0% of sales, and fully diluted earnings per share increased 20% to $0.36.
          Weighted average fully diluted shares outstanding increased 5% year over year due to an increase in stock option exercises following the Company's September 2005 accelerated vesting date and a 35% year-over-year increase in the Company's average stock price.
          New Store Development
          In the second quarter, the Company relocated one store in Alexandria, VA, opened two new stores in Woburn, MA and Henderson, NV, completely re-opened its two New Orleans stores, and acquired one small store in Portland, ME which the Company plans to relocate to a larger store currently in development, ending the quarter with 183 stores.  The Company has opened one new store in Greenville, SC in the third quarter and plans to open three to four additional stores during the fourth quarter.
          The Company continues to add to its store development pipeline with the recent signing of nine new store leases representing a total of approximately 520,000 square feet which are as follows: Tempe, AZ (53,000 s.f.); Burbank, CA (60,000 s.f.); Naperville, IL (60,000 s.f.); Dedham, MA (60,000 s.f.); Charlotte, NC (50,000 s.f.); Las Vegas, NV (50,000 s.f.); Tannasbourne, OR (54,000 s.f.); Houston, TX (78,000 s.f.); and Sugarland, TX (55,000 s.f.).  The following table provides additional information about the Company's current store development pipeline for stores scheduled to open through fiscal year 2009. 
          Growth Goals for Fiscal Year 2006 and Beyond
          For the last five fiscal years, the Company has produced average sales growth, comparable store sales growth, and weighted average square footage growth of 21%, 11% and 14%, respectively.  Based on the Company's strong sales trends over the last few years and its 4.4 million square feet under development, the Company's goal is to reach $12 billion in sales in 2010. 
          Given the Company's strong 21% increase in sales year to date, the Company now expects sales growth for fiscal year 2006 at the high end of its previously stated range of 18% to 21%.  The Company continues to expect weighted average square footage growth in line with its 14% average but now expects comparable store sales growth of 10% to 12% compared to a previous guidance range of 8% to 11%.
          The Company continues to believe it will produce earnings growth through sales growth rather than through significant operating margin leverage and that its historical results are the best indicator of future results; however, due to fluctuations in the number of new store openings each year and quarter over quarter, there could be some temporary negative impact on store contribution, as new stores generally have lower gross margins and higher direct store expenses than more mature stores.  A significant acceleration in leases tendered and new store openings could also lead to materially higher pre-opening and relocation costs year over year.
          The Company continues to expect pre-opening and relocation costs for fiscal year 2006 to be slightly higher than the amount incurred in fiscal year 2005.  The Company expects average pre-opening costs per new store, including pre-opening rent expense, in the range of $1.7 million to $2.0 million. The Company expects pre-opening and relocation expense in the third quarter to be slightly higher than in the second quarter and then increase to approximately $13 million to $15 million in the fourth quarter due to an anticipated higher number of new store openings in fiscal year 2007. 
          Capital expenditures are still expected to be in the range of $340 million to $360 million of which approximately 60% is related to new stores. 
          Excluding the $16.5 million in costs relating to Hurricane Katrina in fiscal year 2005 and share-based compensation expense in fiscal years 2005 and 2006, and using a 40% tax rate in both years, the Company continues to expect diluted earnings per share growth to be slightly less than the Company's guidance for sales growth due to an estimated increase of approximately 5% to 6% in diluted shares outstanding resulting from an expected year-over-year increase in stock price and stock option exercises. 
          The Company began expensing share-based compensation in the first quarter of this fiscal year. The Company expects share-based compensation to be approximately $2 million to $3 million in the third and fourth quarters following the Company's annual grant date early in the third quarter, when the majority of options are granted.  The Company's current intention is to keep its broad-based stock option program in place but, going forward, limit the number of shares granted in any one year so that annual diluted earnings per share dilution from share-based compensation expense will ramp up but not exceed 10% over time.  The Company believes this strategy is best aligned with its stakeholder philosophy because it limits future earnings dilution from options while at the same time retains the broad-based stock option plan, which it believes is important to team member morale, its unique corporate culture and its success. 
          Based on the Company's store development pipeline and current number of tendered leases, the Company's preliminary weighted average square footage growth goal for fiscal year 2007 is in the range of 15% to 20%.
          About Whole Foods Market:  Founded in 1980 in Austin, Texas, Whole Foods Market(R) is a Fortune 500 company and the largest natural and organic foods retailer.  The Company had sales of $4.7 billion in fiscal year 2005 and currently has 184 stores in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom. 
          The following constitutes a "Safe Harbor" statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Except for the historical information contained herein, the matters discussed in this press release are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, which could cause our actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward looking statements.  These risks include but are not limited to general business conditions, the timely development and opening of new stores, the impact of competition, and other risks detailed from time to time in the Company's SEC reports, including the reports on Form 10-K and 10-K/A Amendment No. 1 for the fiscal year ended September 25, 2005.  The Company does not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements.
          The Company will host a conference call today to discuss this earnings announcement at 4:00 p.m. CT.  The dial in number is 1-800-540-0559 and the conference ID is "Whole Foods."  A simultaneous audio webcast will be available at http://www.wholefoodsmarket.com . 
A reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of the basic and diluted earnings per share calculations follows (in thousands):
          In addition to reporting financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, the Company provides information regarding Economic Value Added ("EVA") in the press release as additional information about its operating results.  This measure is not in accordance with, or an alternative to, GAAP.  The Company's management believes that this presentation provides useful information to management, analysts and investors regarding certain additional financial and business trends relating to its results of operations and financial condition.  In addition, management uses this measure for reviewing the financial results of the Company and for incentive compensation and capital planning purposes. The following is a tabular reconciliation of this non-GAAP financial measure to GAAP net income, which the Company believes to be the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.
SOURCE  Whole Foods Market, Inc.           -0-                                                  05/03/2006           /CONTACT:  Cindy McCann, VP of Investor Relations of Whole Foods Market, Inc., +1-512-542-0204/           /Web site:  http://www.wholefoodsmarket.com /           (WFMI)


