FILE:WFM/WFM-8K-20070828163504.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
   
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
(512) 477-4455
Check the appropriate box if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the reporting obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act
o
                       
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 of the Exchange Act
o
                       
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) Exchange Act
o
                       
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) Exchange Act
o
                       
 
Item 1.01.
         
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
The information set forth in Item 2.03 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 1.02.
         
Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
As a result of entering into the Revolving Credit Agreement and Term Loan Agreement described below in Item 2.03, we terminated our existing Third Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of October 1, 2004 (as amended to date, the "Old Credit Agreement"), among the Company, its subsidiaries, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.; Wells Fargo Bank, National Association; Wachovia Bank, National Association; and Fleet National Bank.  The Old Credit Agreement matured on October 1, 2009.  The Old Credit Agreement was an unsecured facility with total borrowing capacity of $200 million.  The Old Credit Agreement contained certain affirmative covenants including maintenance of certain financial ratios and certain negative covenants including limitations on additional indebtedness.  All outstanding amounts borrowed under the Old Credit Agreement bore interest at our option of either the defined base rate or the LIBOR rate plus a premium. Commitment fees of 0.15% of the undrawn amount were payable under the Old Credit Agreement.
Item 2.01.
         
Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
The purchased shares, including the shares represented by guaranteed delivery, constitute approximately 96.8% of the outstanding shares of Wild Oats common stock.  The transaction has been financed primarily from loans under the Term Loan Agreement described below under Item 2.03.
25,175,997 shares of common stock of Wild Oats Markets, Inc. ("Wild Oats") by means of a tender offer for all of the outstanding shares of Wild Oats at a price of $18.50 per share.  Such amount excludes an additional 3,795,973 shares subject to guaranteed delivery. 
Effective August 28, 2007, pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of February 21, 2007 (the "Merger Agreement"), we, through our wholly-owned subsidiary, purchased
As promptly as practicable, Whole Foods will acquire all of the remaining outstanding shares of Wild Oats common stock by means of a short-form merger under Delaware law.  In this merger, a subsidiary of Whole Foods will merge with and into Wild Oats, and Wild Oats will become a wholly owned subsidiary of Whole Foods. In the merger, each share of Wild Oats' outstanding common stock will be cancelled and will be converted into the right to receive $18.50 per share, net to the seller in cash without interest. Thereafter, Wild Oats' common stock will cease to be traded on Nasdaq.
The description of the Merger Agreement set forth above does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Merger Agreement, which were filed by the Company as Exhibit 2.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 21, 2007.
2
A copy of the Company's press release dated August 28, 2007 announcing the closing of the Wild Oats acquisition is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 2.03.
         
Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
Term Loan Agreement
On August 28, 2007, we entered into a Term Loan Agreement (the "Term Loan Agreement") with Royal Bank of Canada, as Administrative Agent, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Syndication Agent and Collateral Agent, and the lenders party thereto. The Term Loan Agreement has a maturity date of August 28, 2012.  The Term Loan Agreement provides for loans of up to $700 million, all of which was drawn on August 28, 2007.  The Term Loan Agreement, which is secured by a pledge of substantially all of the stock of our subsidiaries, is being used to finance the Wild Oats acquisition and for related transaction expenses, and to repay Wild Oats outstanding indebtedness.  Borrowings can be either base rate loans or be based on an interest rate of LIBOR plus a premium that adjusts based upon the Company's corporate ratings published by Moody's and Standard & Poor's.  The Term Loan Agreement contains customary restrictive covenants, including limitations on debt, investments and dividends, and financial covenants relating to fixed charge coverage and maximum leverage.
Revolving Credit Agreement
On August 31, 2007 and in connection with the Term Loan Agreement, we entered into a Revolving Credit Agreement (the "Revolving Credit Agreement") with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as Administrative Agent and Collateral Agent, Royal Bank of Canada, as Syndication Agent, and the lenders party thereto.  The Revolving Credit Agreement matures on August 28, 2012.  The Revolving Credit Agreement is secured pari passu with the collateral that secures borrowings under the Term Loan Agreement.  Borrowings under the Revolving Credit Agreement may be used to finance the Wild Oats acquisition, repay existing indebtedness, support new store development and for general corporate purposes.  The Revolving Credit Agreement provides for a quarterly commitment fee ranging from 0.09% to 0.35% per annum, based upon the Company's published corporate ratings, and letter of credit fees that are subject to adjustment based upon the rate charged for borrowings under the Revolving Credit Agreement.  Borrowings can be either base rate loans or be based on an interest rate of LIBOR plus a premium based upon the Company's published corporate ratings.  Availability under the Revolving Credit Agreement is subject to the accuracy of representations and warranties and absence of a default.  The Revolving Credit Agreement contains customary restrictive covenants, including limitations on debt, investments and dividends, and financial covenants relating to fixed charge coverage and maximum leverage.  At August 28, 2007, no amounts were drawn under the Revolving Credit Agreement; however, the amount available to the Company under the agreement at such date was effectively
3
reduced to approximately $164.9 million by outstanding letters of credit totaling approximately $85.1 million.
Item 8.01.
Other Events.
        
On August 27, 2007, we issued a press release regarding our acceptance of tendered shares of common stock of Wild Oats Markets pursuant to our tender offer to purchase such shares.  A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.2.
Item 9.01.
         
Financial Statements and Exhibits
.
(a)
       
Financial Statements of Business Acquired
he Company will file the financial statements required by this Item not later than 71 days after the date on which this Form 8-K is required to be filed.
T
(b)
       
Pro Forma Financial Information.
The Company will file the financial statements required by this Item not later than 71 days after the date on which this Form 8-K is required to be filed.
(d)
       
Exhibits.
 
4
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
5

Exhibit 99.1
 Whole Foods Market, Inc. (NASDAQ:  WFMI) and Wild Oats Markets, Inc. (NASDAQ:  OATS) announced today that Whole Foods Market has purchased 84.1% of Wild Oats Markets' outstanding common stock in a cash tender offer of $18.50 per share, and will purchase as delivered over the next three business days approximately 12.7% of the outstanding shares of Wild Oats Markets common stock, represented by the shares subject to guaranteed delivery. Whole Foods Market will acquire all of the remaining outstanding shares of Wild Oats Markets common stock pursuant to the short-form merger procedure available under Delaware law.  Whole Foods Market has also assumed existing debt, net of cash, totaling approximately $137 million.  Whole Foods Market has entered into a five-year $700 million senior term loan agreement to fund the transaction, and has signed a new five-year $250 million revolving credit agreement, which will replace its existing $200 million revolver.
(Austin, TX and
Boulder, CO, August 28, 2007)
"While closing this merger has taken longer than we anticipated, we are very excited to now begin the integration process.  We have found it generally takes up to two years to transition to our decentralized operations and implement our incentive programs.  We expect this acquisition to be similar and that over time we will recognize significant synergies through G&A cost reductions, greater purchasing power, increased utilization of our facilities and new team member talent," said John Mackey, Chairman, CEO, and co-founder of Whole Foods Market.  "We have always benefited from learning from our past acquisitions and believe this merger will result in a company that is much stronger and better positioned for the future."
With annual sales of approximately $1.2 billion, Wild Oats Markets is one of the leading natural and organic foods retailers in North America with 109 stores in 23 states and British Columbia, Canada operating under four banners:  Wild Oats Marketplace (nationwide), Henry's Farmers Market (Southern California), Sun Harvest (Texas), and Capers Community Market (British Columbia).
Whole Foods Market previously announced it will sell all 35 Henry's and Sun Harvest stores and a Riverside, CA distribution center to a wholly owned subsidiary of Smart & Final Inc., a Los Angeles-based food retailer.   The transaction is expected to close by late September.
"
Wild Oats Markets
and Whole Foods Market have both had a large and positive impact on the natural and organic foods movement throughout the United States, leading the industry to nationwide acceptance and helping it become one of the fastest growing segments in food retailing today," said Mr. Mackey.  "Our companies have similar missions and core values, and we believe this merger will create long-term value for our customers, vendors and shareholders as well as exciting opportunities for our new and existing team members."
All of Whole Foods Market's 11 operating regions will gain stores, with three of its smallest regions gaining critical mass, and Whole Foods Market will gain immediate entry into a significant number of new markets.  Whole Foods Market will evaluate each store to see how it
1
fits into its overall brand and real estate strategy.  Wild Oats Markets has been rationalizing its store base over the last several years to shed underperforming stores, but some additional store closures are expected as well as the relocation of some stores that overlap with stores Whole Foods Market currently has in development.  Whole Foods Market expects to make significant investments in upgrading and improving stores before eventually re-branding them as Whole Foods Market stores.
"We are pleased with the successful outcome of this merger and look forward to working with Whole Foods to make this a smooth transition," said Gregory Mays, Chairman and CEO of Wild Oats Markets.
Approximately $3.8 million in direct acquisition-related costs had been incurred by Whole Foods Market through July 1, 2007.  These costs, along with any additional acquisition-related costs incurred since that time, will be capitalized as part of goodwill.
For further information, please contact:
Whole Foods Market
Investor Contact  Cindy McCann, 512.542.0204
Media Contact  Kate Lowery, 512.542.0390
Wild Oats Markets
Investor and Media Contact  Sonja Tuitele, 303.396.6984
About Whole Foods Market:
Founded in 1980 in Austin, Texas, Whole Foods Market(R) is a Fortune 500 company and one of the leading retailers of natural and organic foods. The Company had sales of $5.6 billion in fiscal year 2006 and currently has 307 stores in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom. The Company has signed an agreement to sell 35 of these stores in a transaction expected to close by late September.
The following constitutes a "Safe Harbor" statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Except for the historical information contained herein, the matters discussed in this press release are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, which could cause our actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward looking statements. These risks include but are not limited to general business conditions, the timely development and opening of new stores, the impact of competition, and other risks detailed from time to time in the Company's SEC reports, including the reports on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 24, 2006. Whole Foods Market undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements.
2

Exhibit 99.2
WHOLE FOODS MARKET RECEIVES TENDERS FOR APPROXIMATELY 96.8 PERCENT OF WILD OATS MARKETS' COMMON STOCK
Whole Foods Market, Inc. (Nasdaq: WFMI) announced today that it has accepted all of the shares tendered and not withdrawn pursuant to its tender offer for all of the outstanding shares of Wild Oats Markets (Nasdaq: OATS) common stock at $18.50 per share, net to the seller in cash without interest.
Austin, Texas, August 27, 2007 -
The tender offer and withdrawal rights expired at 5:00 p.m., Eastern Time, on August 27, 2007.  According to the depositary for the offer, a total of 25,175,997 shares of common stock of Wild Oats Markets were tendered and not withdrawn prior to the expiration of the offer, excluding an additional 3,795,973 shares subject to guaranteed delivery. Stockholders who validly tendered prior to the expiration of the offer and whose shares were not properly withdrawn will promptly receive the offer price of $18.50 per share, net to the seller in cash without interest.  As a result of these purchases in the tender offer, Whole Foods Market will own approximately 84.1 percent of the outstanding shares of Wild Oats Markets common stock, effective Tuesday, August 28, 2007.  In addition, approximately 12.7 percent of the outstanding shares of Wild Oats Markets common stock, represented by the shares subject to guaranteed delivery, will be purchased by Whole Foods Market as those shares are delivered during the next three business days.
After purchase of the shares guaranteed for delivery, Whole Foods Market will acquire all of the remaining outstanding shares of Wild Oats Markets common stock pursuant to the short-form merger procedure available under Delaware law.  In this merger, a subsidiary of Whole Foods Market will merge with and into Wild Oats Markets, and Wild Oats Markets will become a wholly owned subsidiary of Whole Foods Market.  In the merger, each share of Wild Oats Markets' outstanding common stock will be cancelled and will be converted into the right to receive $18.50 per share, net to the seller in cash without interest.  Thereafter, Wild Oats Markets' common stock will no longer be traded on Nasdaq.
For further information, please contact:
Whole Foods Market
Investor Contact  Cindy McCann, 512.542.0204
Media Contact  Kate Lowery, 512.542.0390
About Whole Foods Market: Founded in 1980 in Austin, Texas, Whole Foods Market(R) is a Fortune 500 company and one of the leading retailers of natural and organic foods. The Company had sales of $5.6 billion in fiscal year 2006 and currently has 197 stores in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom.
1
About Wild Oats: Wild Oats Markets, Inc. is a nationwide chain of natural and organic foods markets in the U.S. and Canada. With more than $1.2 billion in annual sales, Wild Oats currently operates 109 natural food stores in 23 states and British Columbia, Canada. The Company's markets include: Wild Oats Marketplace, Henry's Farmers Market, Sun Harvest and Capers Community Markets. For more information, please visit Wild Oats' website at www.wildoats.com.
The following constitutes a "Safe Harbor" statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Except for the historical information contained herein, the matters discussed in this press release are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, which could cause our actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward looking statements. These risks include but are not limited to general business conditions, the timely development and opening of new stores, the impact of competition, and other risks detailed from time to time in the Company's SEC reports, including the reports on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 24, 2006. Whole Foods Market undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements.
2


