FILE:WFM/WFM-8K-20071113061507.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2.):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.01 Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
This amendment to the Form 8-K filed on August 28, 2007 is to include the financial statement information required by Item 9.01 of Form 8-K.
Effective August 28, 2007, pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of February 21, 2007, Whole Foods Market, Inc. ("Whole Foods Market" or the "Company") acquired Wild Oats Markets, Inc. ("Wild Oats") by means of a tender offer. In this merger, a subsidiary of Whole Foods Market merged with and into Wild Oats, and Wild Oats became a wholly owned subsidiary of Whole Foods Market. The Company purchased Wild Oats for a total purchase price, excluding related transaction costs, of approximately $565 million in cash, financed primarily by loans under a new Term Loan Agreement entered into on August 28, 2007. The Term Loan Agreement provides for loans of up to $700 million, all of which was drawn on August 28, 2007. The Term Loan Agreement, which is secured by a pledge of substantially all of the stock of our subsidiaries, is being used to finance the Wild Oats acquisition, related transaction expenses and to repay Wild Oats outstanding convertible debentures. The Company assumed debt totaling approximately $148 million in the transaction, including $115 million of convertible debentures. The Company also incurred approximately $34 million in direct acquisition costs.
 
Wild Oats operated natural foods stores in 23 states and Canada under several banners, including Wild Oats Marketplace nationwide, Henry's Farmer's Markets ("Henry's") in Southern California, Sun Harvest in Texas and Capers Community Market ("Capers") in Canada. In connection with the acquisition of Wild Oats, the Company separately entered into an agreement to sell certain assets and liabilities related to all 35 Henry's and Sun Harvest stores and a related distribution center in Riverside, CA to a wholly-owned subsidiary of Smart & Final, Inc., a Los Angeles-based food retailer. This sale was completed effective September 30, 2007, and the Company received proceeds totaling approximately $166 million for the net assets of these locations, consisting primarily of fixed assets, inventories and operating leases. Additionally, the Company and Smart & Final entered into a support agreement under which the Company will continue to provide certain general and administrative services for the 35 stores for up to two years. The Company anticipates that the revenue associated with the agreement will be approximately equal to its incremental cost of providing the support.
 
Regarding the other 74 Wild Oats and Capers banner stores the Company acquired in the Wild Oats Markets transaction, the Company has closed nine stores, including one that will re-open after an extended renovation period, and relocated two stores to date, and currently intends to close an additional store, re-open the renovated location, and relocate an additional seven stores to existing Whole Foods Market sites in development.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(a) Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired
The financial statements of Wild Oats Markets, Inc. required by Item 9.01(a) of Form 8-K are included in Item 9.01(d) Exhibits.
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information
The unaudited pro forma combined balance sheet of Whole Foods Market as of July 1, 2007 and the unaudited pro forma combined statements of operations of Whole Foods Market for the forty weeks ended July 1, 2007 and the fiscal year ended September 24, 2006 required by Item 9.01(b)(1) of Form 8-K are included herein.
(c) Shell Company Transactions.
Not applicable.
(d) Exhibits.
See the Index of Exhibits attached to this Form 8-K/A, which is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Whole Foods Market, Inc.
Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Financial Statements
Effective August 28, 2007, Whole Foods Market ("Whole Foods Market" or the "Company") completed the acquisition of Wild Oats Markets, Inc. ("Wild Oats"). In connection with the acquisition of Wild Oats, the Company separately entered into an agreement to sell the Henry's and Sun Harvest stores and a related distribution center acquired from Wild Oats to a wholly-owned subsidiary of Smart & Final, Inc. This sale was completed effective September 30, 2007. The following unaudited pro forma combined statement of operations for the forty week period ended July 1, 2007 gives effect to the Wild Oats merger and the sale of the Henry's and Sun Harvest stores as if they occurred on September 25, 2006, the first day of Whole Foods Market's fiscal year for the forty week period ended July 1, 2007.  For the fiscal year ended September 24, 2006 the unaudited pro forma combined statement of operations gives effect to these transactions as if they occurred on September 26, 2005, the first day of the Company's fiscal year for the fiscal year ended September 24, 2006. The accompanying unaudited pro forma combined balance sheet as of July 1, 2007 gives effect to the Wild Oats merger and the sale of the Henry's and Sun Harvest stores as if they occurred on July 1, 2007.
The unaudited pro forma combined financial statements were derived from Whole Foods Market's and Wild Oats' most recent quarterly and fiscal year filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The accompanying unaudited pro forma combined statements of operations for the fiscal year ended September 24, 2006 combines the fifty-two weeks of Whole Foods Market's fiscal year ended September 24, 2006 with the fifty-two weeks of Wild Oats' fiscal year ended December 30, 2006. The unaudited pro forma combined statement of operations for the forty weeks ended July 1, 2007 combines the forty weeks ended July 1, 2007 for Whole Foods Market with the thirty-nine weeks ended June 30, 2007 for Wild Oats. Whole Foods Market's fiscal year ends on the last Sunday of September, while Wild Oats' fiscal year historically ended on the Saturday closest to December 31.
The unaudited pro forma combined financial statements should be read in conjunction with the historical consolidated financial statements and notes thereto of Whole Foods Market included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 24, 2006, and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the forty weeks ended July 1, 2007; the historical consolidated financial statements and notes thereto of Wild Oats included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2006, and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the twenty-six weeks ended June 30, 2007, which are incorporated by reference in this Form 8-K/A; and the accompanying Notes to the Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Financial Statements.
The unaudited pro forma combined financial statements reflect adjustments for pro forma events that are (1) directly attributable to the Wild Oats acquisition and the sale of the Henry's and Sun Harvest stores, (2) factually supportable, and (3) expected to have a continuing impact on the combined results. The unaudited pro forma balance sheet also includes certain adjustments that have a one-time impact on the combined results. The unaudited pro forma combined financial statements were prepared using the purchase method of accounting with Whole Foods Market treated as the acquiring entity. Accordingly, the consideration paid by Whole Foods Market to complete the acquisition has been allocated preliminarily to the assets and liabilities acquired based upon their estimated fair values as of the date of the acquisition. The pro forma combined financial statements column entitled "Adjustments for Henry's/Sun Harvest" reflects the sale of the Henry's and Sun Harvest stores. The allocation of purchase price is based upon certain valuations and other studies that have not been completed as of the date of this filing. Accordingly, the pro forma purchase price adjustments are preliminary, subject to future adjustments and have been made solely for the purpose of providing the unaudited pro forma combined financial statements.
 
The allocation of the purchase price to the acquired Wild Oats assets includes an assigned fair value to identifiable intangible assets. Provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 141, "Business Combinations," establish criteria for determining when intangible assets should be recognized separately from goodwill. SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" also provides, among other guidelines, that goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives will not be amortized, but rather tested for impairment on at least an annual basis. The Company believes that trade names owned by Wild Oats have definite lives of approximately one year based upon the expected use of the assets by the Company and other criteria in paragraph 11 of SFAS No. 142.  The estimated costs of providing support services to the Henry's and Sun Harvest stores, net of the estimated payments that will be made by Smart & Final for transition services are included in the unaudited pro forma combined statements of earnings.
 
The unaudited pro forma combined statements of earnings are presented for illustrative purposes only and are not indicative of what Whole Foods Market's actual results of operations would have been had the acquisition and sale been completed on the dates indicated above. Further, the unaudited pro forma combined financial statements do not reflect one-time costs to fully merge and operate the combined organization more efficiently, or anticipated synergies expected to result from the
combination. You should not rely on the unaudited pro forma combined statements of earnings as being indicative of the historical results that would have been achieved had the companies always been combined or the future results that Whole Foods Market will experience.
Whole Foods Market, Inc.
Pro Forma Combined Balance Sheet (unaudited)
July 1, 2007
(In thousands)
 
 
The accompany notes are an integral part of these pro forma combined financial statements.
 
Whole Foods Market, Inc.
Notes to Pro Forma Combined Balance Sheet (unaudited)
 
The column "Adjustments for Henry's/Sun Harvest" reflects adjustments to give effect to the sale of the Henry's and Sun Harvest stores as if it occurred on July 1, 2007. Assets and liabilities of Henry's and Sun Harvest stores have been separated in accordance with the terms of the purchase agreement.
 
The Company purchased Wild Oats for a total purchase price of approximately $598.9 million.  Components of consideration paid are as follows (in thousands):
 
 
The total consideration is allocated as follows, based upon certain valuations and other studies that have not been completed as of the date of this filing.  Accordingly, the allocation is preliminary and subject to future adjustment.  Estimates of adjustments to fair value have been made based on the Company's current plan for integration, but could change to the extent the final plan changes assumptions made in the preliminary allocation.
 
For purposes of the above allocation, the Company assigned approximately $6.6 million in identifiable intangible assets related to the Wild Oats trade and brand names.  The Company believes that these names have definite lives of approximately one year based upon the expected use of the asset by the Company, which will be amortized over its useful life.  Therefore, this adjustment has been made as a one-time impact to the unaudited pro forma combined balance sheet and is not reflected in the unaudited pro forma combined statements of operations.
The Company entered into a new Term Loan Agreement totaling $700 million, which is secured by a pledge of substantially all of the stock of our subsidiaries, to finance the Wild Oats acquisition and related transaction expenses and to repay Wild Oats outstanding indebtedness.  Debt origination fees associated with the Term Loan Agreement were incurred totaling approximately $3.4 million, which will be amortized over the next five years. Use of funds was as follows (in thousands):
Whole Foods Market, Inc.
Pro Forma Combined Statement of Operations (unaudited)
Forty weeks ended July 1, 2007
(In thousands, except per share amounts)
 
 
The accompany notes are an integral part of these pro forma combined financial statements.
Whole Foods Market, Inc.
Pro Forma Combined Statement of Operations (unaudited)
Fiscal year ended September 24, 2006
(In thousands, except per share amounts)
 
 
The accompany notes are an integral part of these pro forma combined financial statements.
Whole Foods Market, Inc.
Notes to Pro Forma Combined Statements of Operations (unaudited)
 
The following adjustments to expenses have been made to reflect fair value adjustments for forty weeks ended July 1, 2007 and the fiscal year ended September 24, 2006, respectively (in thousands):
 
The Company has closed nine stores, including one that will re-open after an extended renovation period, and relocated two stores to date, and currently intends to close an additional store, re-open the renovated location, and relocate an additional seven stores to existing Whole Foods Market sites in development.
The following adjustment reflects the estimated incremental interest expense resulting from acquisition debt:
 
 
Estimated interest expense on the Term Loan Agreement used to fund the purchase price assumes an interest rate of 6.445% (LIBOR on facility at acquisition date of 5.445% plus 1%) for the forty weeks ended July 1, 2007 and the fiscal year ended September 24, 2006.
 
(i6) Adjustment reflects the estimated income taxes that would have been recorded for the pro forma adjustments using the Company's historical effective tax rate of 40%.
 
The column "Adjustments for Henry's/Sun Harvest" reflects adjustments to give effect to the sale of the Henry's and Sun Harvest stores as if it occurred on September 25, 2006, the first day of Whole Foods Market's fiscal year for the forty week period ended July 1, 2007 and as if it occurred on September 26, 2005, the first day of Whole Foods Market's fiscal year for the fiscal year ended September 24, 2006, respectively. The adjustment to pre-opening and relocation costs includes expense associated with closed stores.  Taxes payable on the gain of the sale on Henry's and Sun Harvest stores is included in the "Merger Adjustments" column.
 
In connection with the sale of the Henry's and Sun Harvest stores, Whole Foods Market entered into a transition services agreement with Smart & Final under which Whole Foods Market will continue to provide certain general and administrative services for the 35 stores for up to two years. The transition services agreement provides for payments to the Company calculated for each service area as a certain percentage of total monthly sales of the Henry's and Sun Harvest locations, initially totaling 1.75% of total monthly sales for all services provided under the agreement.
Selling and administrative expenses in the unaudited pro forma combined statements of operations include the historical corporate administrative costs related to the Henry's and Sun Harvest stores and include pro forma reimbursements under the transition services agreements in the amounts of approximately $6.5 million and $5.2 million for the year ended September 24, 2006 and the forty weeks ended July 1, 2007, respectively. The Company anticipates that the revenue associated with the agreement will be approximately equal to its incremental cost of providing the support. No assurance can be given as to the actual length of time the Company will provide the transition services or the extent to which the payments to be received pursuant to the transition service agreements will offset the actual costs of providing those services.
 
Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 23.1
 
We consent to the incorporation by reference of our reports dated March 14, 2007 with respect to the consolidated financial statements of Wild Oats Markets, Inc., Wild Oats Markets, Inc. management's assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Wild Oats Markets, Inc., included in the Annual Report (Form 10-K) for the year ended December 30, 2006, in this Current Report on Form 8-K/A of Whole Foods Market, Inc. filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
 
 
Denver, Colorado
November 12, 2007
 


