FILE:WFM/WFM-8K-20081202165403.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the reporting obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01.    Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
As previously reported, on November 5, 2008 the Company entered into a securities purchase agreement (the "Purchase Agreement") to issue and sell shares of Series A 8.00% Redeemable Convertible Exchangeable Participating Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share ("Preferred Stock"), to certain affiliates of Leonard Green & Partners, L.P. for $425 million pursuant to Regulation D under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. On December 2, 2008, the shares of Preferred Stock were issued to Green Equity Investors V, L.P., Green Equity Investors Side V, L.P. and Thyme Coinvest, LLC (collectively, the "Investors") in accordance with the terms of the Purchase Agreement and a joinder agreement executed among the Investors dated as of December 2, 2008. A copy of the Purchase Agreement is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this report.
In connection with the closing of the transactions contemplated by the Purchase Agreement, the Company filed a statement of designations (the "Statement of Designations") creating the Preferred Stock and establishing the designations, preferences and other rights of the Preferred Stock with the Texas Secretary of State, which upon filing on December 2, 2008 became an amendment to the Company's Restated Articles of Incorporation. A copy of the Statement of Designations is filed as Exhibit 3.1 to this report.
In addition, on December 2, 2008, as contemplated by the Purchase Agreement, the Investors and the Company entered into a registration rights agreement, pursuant to which, among other matters, the Company will be obligated to file a shelf registration statement covering the potential resale of the Preferred Stock and the shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion thereof. A copy of the registration rights agreement is filed as Exhibit 4.1 to this report. In connection with the closing of the transactions contemplated by the Purchase Agreement, the Investors will be required, subject to certain limitations, to vote in favor of any nominee or director designated by the nominating committee of the board of directors (and against removal of any such director) and in accordance with the recommendation of the board of directors with respect to any proposed business combination between the Company and any other entity.
Item 3.03.    Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders.
(b)    The terms of the Preferred Stock previously were disclosed in the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 6, 2008. In addition, the Statement of Designations provides that, upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Company, whether voluntary or involuntary, holders of the Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive for each share of Preferred Stock, out of the assets of the Company or proceeds thereof (whether capital or surplus) available for distribution to the Company's shareholders, and after satisfaction of all liabilities and obligations to the Company's creditors, before any distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set aside for the holders of junior stock, including the Company's common stock, an amount equal to the greater of (1) the sum of (A) the liquidation preference per share of the Preferred Stock plus (b) an amount per share equal to accrued but unpaid dividends not previously added to the liquidation preference from and including the immediately preceding dividend payment date to but excluding the date fixed for such liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company and (2) the per share amount of all cash
and other property to be distributed in respect of the Company's common stock such holder would have been entitled to had it converted such Preferred Stock (without regard to any limits on conversion) immediately prior to the date fixed for such liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company. In addition, as previously disclosed, the Preferred Stock has certain veto rights, which rights, among others, permit the holders of a majority of the shares of Preferred Stock at any time outstanding to prohibit the declaration or payment of any dividend or distribution to any series of capital stock ranking equal or junior to the Preferred Stock, including common stock unless (1) all dividends on the Preferred Stock have been paid in full in cash as of such date and (2) the Company pays the next quarterly dividend on the Preferred Stock in cash.
Item 5.02.    Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
(d)    Effective November 25, 2008, the Company's board of directors increased the size of its board by two persons and elected Stephanie Kugelman and William A. (Kip) Tindell, III to fill the vacancies thereby created.
Stephanie Kugelman is the recently retired Vice Chairman, Chief Strategic Officer of Young & Rubicam Brands, a worldwide marketing communications company. She is the founder and chairman of A.S.O., A Second Opinion, a strategy and branding consultancy. Kip Tindall is the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of The Container Store, Inc., a national retailer of storage and organization products.
In addition, effective December 5, 2008, the holders of the Preferred Stock elected Jonathan D. Sokoloff and Jonathan A. Seiffer (each of Leonard Green & Partners, L.P.) as members of the board of directors of the Company. The Purchase Agreement provides that the Investors and their affiliates have the right to appoint one director to each of the committees of the board of directors as long as a director may be appointed under the terms of the Statement of Designations, federal law and applicable securities exchange regulations. In accordance with this requirement, Messrs. Sokoloff and Seiffer were named to the Compensation Committee and Nominating & Governance Committee, respectively. See Items 1.01 and 3.03 herein for information regarding the Company's issuance of Preferred Stock and the voting rights associated therewith.
Item 5.03.    Amendment to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
(a)    See Items 1.01 and 3.03 herein for information regarding the Company's issuance of Preferred Stock.
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)    Exhibits. The following are filed as exhibits to this report.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Texas (the ""), certifies that pursuant to the authority contained in its Articles of Incorporation, as amended from time to time (the ""), and in accordance with the provisions of Article 2.13(D) of the Texas Business Corporation Act, the Board of Directors of the Company has duly approved and adopted the following resolution on November 4, 2008, and the resolution was adopted by all necessary action on the part of the Company:
WHOLE FOODS MARKET, INC.
Company
Articles of Incorporation
, that pursuant to the authority vested in the Board of Directors by the Articles of Incorporation and Article 2.13(D) of the Texas Business Corporation Act, the Board of Directors does hereby designate, create, authorize and provide for the issue of a series of 425,000 shares of Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, having the designations, preferences, relative, participation, options and other special rights and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof that are set forth in the Articles of Incorporation and in this resolution as follows:
RESOLVED
. The designation of the series of Preferred Stock is "Series A 8.00% Redeemable Convertible Exchangeable Participating Preferred Stock" (the ""). Each share of the Series A Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of the Series A Preferred Stock. The Series A Preferred Stock shall be subordinate, and rank junior in right of payment, to all indebtedness of the Company and may only receive payments pursuant to this Statement of Designations as provided for herein.
Section 1. Designation
Series A Preferred Stock
. The authorized number of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be 425,000. Shares of Series A Preferred Stock that are redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired by the Company, or converted into another series of Preferred Stock, shall revert to authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock (that any such cancelled shares of Series A Preferred Stock may be reissued only as shares of any series other than Series A Preferred Stock).
Section 2. Number of Shares
provided
. As used herein with respect to the Series A Preferred Stock:
Section 3. Definitions
(a) "" of any Person shall mean any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such Person. For purposes of this definition, "control" when used with respect to any Person has the meaning specified in Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
Affiliate
(b) "" shall have the meaning ascribed to it in the recitals hereof.
Articles of Incorporation
(c) "" shall mean "beneficially own" as defined in Rule 13d-3 of the Exchange Act or any successor provision thereto.
Beneficially Own
(d) "" shall mean the board of directors of the Company.
Board of Directors
(e) "" shall mean the amended by-laws of the Company in effect on the date hereof, as they may be amended from time to time.
By-laws
(f) "" shall mean a day that is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday and is not a day on which banking institutions in Austin, Texas generally are authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close.
Business Day
(g) "" shall mean any and all shares, interests, rights to purchase, warrants, options, participations or other equivalents of or interests in (however designated) stock issued by the Company.
Capital Stock
(h) "" shall mean the occurrence of any of the following:
Change of Control
(1) any Person shall Beneficially Own, directly or indirectly, through a purchase, merger or other acquisition transaction or series of transactions, shares of the Company's Capital Stock entitling such Person to exercise 50% or more of the total voting power of all classes of Voting Stock of the Company, other than an acquisition by the Company, any of the Company's Subsidiaries or any of the Company's employee benefit plans (for purposes of this clause (1), "Person" shall include any syndicate or group that would be deemed to be a "person" under Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act);
(2) the Company (i) merges or consolidates with or into any other Person, another Person merges with or into the Company, or the Company conveys, sells, transfers or leases all or substantially all of the Company's assets to another Person or (ii) engages in any recapitalization, reclassification or other transaction in which all or substantially all of the Common Stock is exchanged for or converted into cash, securities or other property, in each case other than a merger or consolidation:
(a) that does not result in a reclassification, conversion, exchange or cancellation of the Company's outstanding Common Stock; or
(b) which is effected solely to change the Company's jurisdiction of incorporation and results in a reclassification, conversion or exchange of outstanding shares of the Common Stock solely into shares of common stock of the surviving entity; or
(c) where the Voting Stock outstanding immediately prior to such transaction is converted into or exchanged for Voting Stock of the surviving or transferee Person constituting a majority of the outstanding shares of such Voting Stock of such surviving or transferee Person (immediately after giving effect to such issuance); or
 
(3) at any time the Continuing Directors do not constitute a majority of the Company's Board of Directors (or, if applicable, a successor Person to the Company),
, that a Change of Control shall not result from transfers by Green Equity Investors V, L.P. or Green Equity Investors Side V, L.P. to any Person.
provided
(i) "" shall mean 5:00 p.m., Austin, Texas time, on any Business Day.
Close of Business
(j) "" shall means the price per share of the final trade of the Common Stock on the applicable Trading Day on the principal national securities exchange on which the Common Stock is listed or admitted to trading.
Closing Price
(k) "" shall mean the common stock, no par value, of the Company.
Common Stock
(l) "" shall have the meaning ascribed to it in the recitals.
Company
(m) "" means (1) individuals who on the Original Issue Date constituted the Board of Directors and (2) any new directors whose election to the Board of Directors or whose nomination for election by the shareholders of the Company was approved by at least a majority of the directors then still in office (or a duly constituted committee thereof), either who were directors on the Original Issue Date or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved.
Continuing Directors
(n) "" shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Section 7(a).
Conversion Cap
(o) "" shall mean 68.9655, subject to adjustment as set forth in Section 8.
Conversion Rate
(p) "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(b).
Convertible Notes
(q) "" shall mean the average Closing Price for the ten (10) consecutive Business Days immediately preceding, but not including, the date as of which the Current Market Price is to be determined.
Current Market Price
(r) "" shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Section 8(c).
Distributed Property
(s) "" shall mean January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1 of each year, commencing on January 1, 2009; that if any such Dividend Payment Date would otherwise occur on a day that is not a Business Day, such Dividend Payment Date shall instead be (and any dividend payable on Series A Preferred Stock on such Dividend Payment Date shall instead be payable on) the immediately succeeding Business Day.
Dividend Payment Date
provided
(t) "" shall mean the period commencing on and include a Dividend Payment Date (other than the initial Dividend Period, which shall commence on and include the Original Issue Date of the Series A Preferred Stock) and shall end on and include the calendar day next preceding the next Dividend Payment Date.
Dividend Period
 
(u) "" shall mean 8.00% per annum, subject to adjustment as set forth in Section 4(c).
Dividend Rate
(v) "" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
(w) "" shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Section 9(a).
Exchange Notes
(x) "" shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Section 11(a).
Exchange Property
(y) "" shall mean, any issuances of (1) Capital Stock pursuant to an employee or director stock option or incentive compensation or similar plan outstanding as of the date hereof or, subsequent to the date hereof, approved by the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, (2) securities pursuant to any merger, joint venture, partnership, consolidation, dissolution, liquidation, tender offer, recapitalization, reorganization, share exchange, business combination or similar transaction or any other direct or indirect acquisition by the Company, whereby the Company's securities comprise, in whole or in part, the consideration paid by the Company in such transaction, (3) securities pursuant to a registration statement declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or a prospectus approved by the appropriate functional regulator under the applicable securities laws of any foreign jurisdiction, for which the securities so registered are to be offered and sold to the broad investing public by means of an at-the-market underwritten offering, (4) Capital Stock pursuant to options, warrants, notes or other rights to acquire securities of the Company outstanding on the date hereof or issued pursuant to an Excluded Issuance under clauses (1) through (3) above, and (5) Common Stock issued upon conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock.
Excluded Issuance
(z) "" shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Section 8(d).
Expiration Date
(aa) "" shall mean (1) a Change of Control, (2) the Company, within the meaning of Title 11 of the U.S. Code or any similar federal or state law for the relief of debtors, (a) commences a voluntary case, (b) consents to the entry of an order for relief against it in an involuntary case, (c) consents to the appointment of a custodian of it for all or substantially all of its property or (d) makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors or (3) the Common Stock ceases to be listed on any of the Nasdaq Global Select Market, the Nasdaq Global Market or the New York Stock Exchange without the simultaneous listing on another of such exchanges.
Fundamental Change
(bb) "" shall mean the Common Stock and any other class or series of stock of the Company that ranks junior to the Series A Preferred Stock (1) as to the payment of dividends or (2) as to the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company, or both.
Junior Stock
(cc) "" shall mean $1,000 per share of Series A Preferred Stock plus accrued but unpaid dividends previously added to such amount as provided in Section 4(b).
Liquidation Preference
 
(dd) "" shall mean December 2, 2008.
Original Issue Date
(ee) "" shall mean any class or series of stock of the Company (other than the Series A Preferred Stock) that ranks equally with the Series A Preferred Stock both (1) in the priority of payment of dividends and (2) in the distribution of assets upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company (in each case, without regard to whether dividends accrue cumulatively or non-cumulatively).
Parity Stock
(ff) "" shall mean, collectively, Green Equity Investors V, L.P., Green Equity Investors Side V, L.P. and their respective Affiliates (including commonly controlled or commonly managed investment funds).
Permitted Holders
(gg) "" shall mean any individual, company, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, association, joint stock company, trust, unincorporated organization, government or agency or political subdivision thereof or any other entity.
Person
(hh) "" has the meaning ascribed to it in Section 10(b).
Preferred Director
(ii) "" shall mean any and all series of preferred stock of the Company, including the Series A Preferred Stock.
Preferred Stock
(jj) "" shall mean, with respect to any dividend, distribution or other transaction or event in which the holders of Common Stock have the right to receive any cash, securities or other property or in which the Common Stock (or other applicable security) is exchanged for or converted into any combination of cash, securities or other property, the date fixed for determination of shareholders entitled to receive such cash, securities or other property (whether such date is fixed by the Board of Directors or by statute, contract, this Statement of Designations or otherwise).
Record Date
(kk) "" shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Section 11(a).
Reorganization Event
(ll) "" shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Section 1.
Series A Preferred Stock
(mm) "" shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Section 8(c).
Spin-Off
(nn) "" shall mean this Statement of Designations relating to the Series A Preferred Stock, as it may be amended from time to time.
Statement of Designations
(oo) "" shall mean any company or corporate entity for which the Company owns at least 50% of the Voting Stock of such entity.
Subsidiary
(pp) "" shall mean any Business Day on which the Common Stock is traded, or able to be traded, on the principal national securities exchange on which the Common Stock is listed or admitted to trading.
Trading Day
(qq) "" shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Section 8(c).
Trigger Event
 
(rr) "" shall mean Capital Stock of the class or classes pursuant to which the holders thereof have the general voting power under ordinary circumstances (determined without regard to any classification of directors) to elect one or more members of the Board of Directors of the Company (without regard to whether or not, at the relevant time, Capital Stock of any other class or classes (other than Common Stock) shall have or might have voting power by reason of the happening of any contingency).
Voting Stock
.
Section 4. Dividends
. Subject to adjustment as set forth herein, holders of the Series A Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, on each share of Series A Preferred Stock, dividends with respect to each Dividend Period (1) in an amount equal to the Dividend Rate on the Liquidation Preference per share of Series A Preferred Stock and (2), in the event a cash dividend or other distribution in cash has been declared on the Common Stock during such Dividend Period, an additional amount equal to (A) the Liquidation Preference divided by the Conversion Rate, each in effect on the record date for such dividend, times (B) the cash amount per share distributed or to be distributed in respect of the Common Stock. Dividends payable at the Dividend Rate shall begin to accrue and be cumulative from the Original Issue Date, whether or not the Company has funds legally available for such dividends or such dividends are declared, shall compound on each Dividend Payment Date (, no dividends shall accrue on other dividends unless and until the first Dividend Payment Date for such other dividends has passed without such other dividends having been paid on such date) and shall be payable in arrears on the first Dividend Payment Date after such Dividend Period. Dividends that are payable on the Series A Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date shall be payable to holders of record of the Series A Preferred Stock as they appear on the stock register of the Company on the record date for such dividend, which shall be the date 15 days prior to the applicable Dividend Payment Date.
(a) Rate
i.e.
Dividends payable at the Dividend Rate on the Series A Preferred Stock in respect of any Dividend Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. The amount of dividends payable at the Dividend Rate on the Series A Preferred Stock on any date prior to the end of a Dividend Period, and for the initial Dividend Period, shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months, and actual days elapsed over a 30-day month.
. Cash dividends shall be paid only to the extent the Company has funds legally available for such payment and the Board of Directors, or an authorized committee thereof, declares a dividend payable. Dividends not paid in cash shall be added to the Liquidation Preference. Notwithstanding the foregoing, prior to the redemption in full of the Company's zero coupon convertible subordinated debentures due March 2, 2018 (the ""), all dividends shall be paid in full in cash and may not be added to the Liquidation Preference pursuant to this Section 4(b). Further, following the date the Convertible Notes are redeemed in full, the next dividend payable on the outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock on the next Dividend Payment Date shall be paid in full in cash and may not be added to the Liquidation Preference pursuant to this Section 4(b).
(b) Payment of Dividends
Convertible Notes
. If, at any time after December 2, 2011, the Closing Price equals or exceeds $17.75 per share (subject to appropriate adjustment in the event
(c) Adjustment to Dividend Rate
 
of a stock split, stock dividend, combination or other similar recapitalization) for each Trading Day during any 20 consecutive Trading Day period, the Dividend Rate shall become 6.00% commencing on the day immediately following the last Trading Day of such 20 consecutive Trading Day period and for all subsequent Dividend Periods. In addition, if, at any time after December 2, 2011, the Closing Price equals or exceeds $23.13 per share (subject to appropriate adjustment in the event of a stock split, stock dividend, combination or other similar recapitalization) for each Trading Day during any 20 consecutive Trading Day period, the Dividend Rate shall become 4.00% commencing on the day immediately following the last Trading Day of such 20 consecutive Trading Day period and for all subsequent Dividend Periods.
Within 30 days of any change to the Dividend Rate, the Company shall send notice by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the Series A Preferred Stock stating the new Dividend Rate. Any notice mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall not affect the validity of the revised Dividend Rate.
. Subject to Section 8 and Section 10, such dividends (payable in cash, securities or other property) as may be determined by the Board of Directors or an authorized committee thereof may be declared and paid on any securities, including Common Stock and other Junior Stock, from time to time out of any funds legally available for such payment.
(d) Priority of Dividends
.
Section 5. Liquidation Rights
. In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Company, whether voluntary or involuntary, holders of the Series A Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive for each share of Series A Preferred Stock, out of the assets of the Company or proceeds thereof (whether capital or surplus) available for distribution to shareholders of the Company, and after satisfaction of all liabilities and obligations to creditors of the Company, before any distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set aside for the holders of Junior Stock, an amount equal to the greater of (1) the sum of (A) the Liquidation Preference per share of the Series A Preferred Stock plus (b) an amount per share equal to accrued but unpaid dividends not previously added to the Liquidation Preference from and including the immediately preceding Dividend Payment Date to but excluding the date fixed for such liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company and (2) the per share amount of all cash and other property to be distributed in respect of the Common Stock such holder would have been entitled to had it converted such Series A Preferred Stock (without regard to the Conversion Cap) immediately prior to the date fixed for such liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company. To the extent such amount is paid in full to all holders of Series A Preferred Stock, the holders of other Capital Stock of the Company shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Company (or proceeds thereof) according to their respective rights and preferences.
(a) Voluntary or Involuntary Liquidation
 
. If in connection with any distribution described in Section 5(a) above the assets of the Company or proceeds thereof are not sufficient to pay the Liquidation Preferences in full to all holders of Series A Preferred Stock and all holders of Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series A Preferred Stock and to the holders of all such other Parity Stock shall be paid in accordance with the respective aggregate Liquidation Preferences of the holders of Series A Preferred Stock and the holders of all such other Parity Stock.
(b) Partial Payment
pro rata
. For purposes of this Section 5, the merger or consolidation of the Company with any other corporation or other entity, including a merger or consolidation in which the holders of Series A Preferred Stock receive cash, securities or other property for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange (for cash, securities or other property) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company, shall not constitute a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company.
(c) Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation
.
Section 6. Redemption
. The Series A Preferred Stock may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at any time after December 2, 2013, at the option of the Company, upon giving notice of redemption pursuant to Section 6(c), at a redemption price per share equal to the applicable percentage set forth below multiplied by the sum of (a) the Liquidation Preference per share of the Series A Preferred Stock plus (b) an amount per share equal to accrued but unpaid dividends not previously added to the Liquidation Preference on such share of Series A Preferred Stock from and including the immediately preceding Dividend Payment Date to but excluding the date of redemption. The following redemption prices are for shares of Series A Preferred Stock redeemed during the 12-month period commencing on December 2 of the years set forth below:
(a) Optional Redemption
 
The Series A Preferred Stock may be redeemed by the Company, in whole or in part, at a redemption price per share equal to the sum of (a) the Liquidation Preference per share plus (b) an amount per share equal to accrued but unpaid dividends not previously added to the Liquidation Preference on such share of Series A Preferred Stock from and including the immediately preceding Dividend Payment Date to but excluding the date of redemption, upon a minimum of 30 days' prior written notice of redemption delivered pursuant to Section 6(c), if, and only if, (1) the Closing Price equals or exceeds $28.50 per share (subject to appropriate adjustment in the event of a stock split, stock dividend, combination or other similar recapitalization) for each Trading Day during any 20 consecutive Trading Day period ending three Business Days before sending the notice of redemption and (2) at the time of such notice and throughout the notice period, the Company has made available an effective resale registration statement and related prospectus that will permit the holder of any Common Stock
 
issued upon conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock to be immediately resold thereunder. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company shall not be permitted to redeem shares of Series A Preferred Stock held by any holder thereof pursuant to this paragraph if and to the extent that such holder would, after giving effect to the conversion of such shares of Series A Preferred Stock, Beneficially Own in excess of 19.99% of the Company's Voting Stock. Shares of Preferred Stock not redeemable as a result of the foregoing shall remain outstanding and shall become redeemable pursuant to this paragraph to the extent the foregoing limitation no longer applies.
. Upon the occurrence of a Fundamental Change, each holder of the Series A Preferred Stock shall have the right to require the Company to repurchase all or any part of such holder's Series A Preferred Stock at a purchase price per share equal to 101% of the sum of (a) the Liquidation Preference per share of the Series A Preferred Stock plus (b) an amount equal to accrued but unpaid dividends not previously added to the Liquidation Preference per share on such share of Series A Preferred Stock from and including the immediately preceding Dividend Payment Date to but excluding the date of redemption.
(b) Redemption at the Option of the Holder
Within 30 days of the occurrence of a Fundamental Change, the Company shall send notice by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock at their respective last addresses appearing on the books of the Company stating (1) that a Fundamental Change has occurred, (2) that all shares of Series A Preferred Stock tendered prior to a Business Day no earlier than 30 days nor later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed shall be accepted for redemption and (3) the procedures that holders of the Series A Preferred Stock must follow in order to redeem their shares of Series A Preferred Stock, including the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price. Any notice mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series A Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series A Preferred Stock.
On and after December 2, 2020, each holder of the Series A Preferred Stock shall have the right, by providing written notice to the Company, to require the Company to repurchase all or any part of such holder's Series A Preferred Stock at a purchase price equal to 100% of the sum of (a) the Liquidation Preference per share of the Series A Preferred Stock plus (b) an amount per share equal to accrued but unpaid dividends not previously added to the Liquidation Preference on such share of Series A Preferred Stock from and including the immediately preceding Dividend Payment Date to but excluding the date of redemption.
. Notice of every redemption of shares of Series A Preferred Stock pursuant to Section 6(a) shall be given by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the books of the Company. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Section 6(c) shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether
(c) Notice of Redemption at the Option of the Company
 
or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series A Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series A Preferred Stock. Each notice of redemption given to a holder shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the number of shares of the Series A Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if less than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (3) the redemption price; and (4) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price.
. In case of any redemption of part of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares to be redeemed shall be selected . Subject to the provisions hereof, the Company shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time. If fewer than all the shares represented by any certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares without charge to the holder thereof.
(d) Partial Redemption
pro rata
. If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been deposited by the Company, in trust for the benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, with a bank or trust company doing business in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, and having a capital and surplus of at least $500 million and selected by the Board of Directors, so as to be and continue to be available solely therefor, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date dividends shall cease to accrue on all shares so called for redemption, all shares so called for redemption shall no longer be deemed outstanding and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from such bank or trust company, without interest. Any funds unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released to the Company, after which time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to the Company for payment of the redemption price of such shares.
(e) Effectiveness of Redemption
pro rata
.
Section 7. Conversion
. Each share of Series A Preferred Stock may be converted on any date, from time to time, at the option of the holder thereof, into the number of shares of Common Stock equal to the quotient of (i) the sum of (A) the Liquidation Preference plus (B) an amount per share equal to accrued but unpaid dividends not previously added to the Liquidation Preference on such share of Series A Preferred Stock from and including the immediately preceding Dividend Payment Date to but excluding the conversion date and (ii) 1,000, multiplied by the Conversion Rate in effect at such time; , , that a holder shall not be permitted to convert shares of Series A Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to this Section 7 if and to the extent that any such holder would Beneficially Own in excess of 19.99% of the Company's Voting Stock as a result thereof (measured at the time of such conversion and calculated after giving effect to the proposed conversion) (such limitation, the
(a) Mechanics
provided
however
 
""). Shares of Preferred Stock not convertible as a result of the foregoing shall remain outstanding and shall become convertible by such holder or another holder to the extent the Conversion Cap no longer applies.
Conversion Cap
The right of conversion attaching to any shares of Series A Preferred Stock may be exercised by the holders thereof by delivering the shares to be converted to the office of the Company, accompanied by a duly signed and completed notice of conversion in form reasonably satisfactory to the Company. The conversion date shall be the date on which the shares of Series A Preferred Stock and the duly signed and completed notice of conversion are received by the Company. The Person entitled to receive the Common Stock issuable upon such conversion shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder or holders of such Common Stock as of such conversion date, and such Person or Persons shall cease to be a record holder of the Series A Preferred Stock on that date. As promptly as practicable on or after the conversion date (and in any event no later than three Trading Days thereafter), the Company shall issue the number of whole shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion, with any fractional shares (after aggregating all Series A Preferred Stock being converted on such date) rounded down to whole shares. Such delivery shall be made, at the option of the applicable holder, in certificated form or by book-entry. Any such certificate or certificates shall be delivered by the Company to the appropriate holder on a book-entry basis or by mailing certificates evidencing the shares to the holders at their respective addresses as set forth in the conversion notice.
. The Company shall at all times reserve and keep available out of its authorized and unissued Common Stock, solely for issuance upon the conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock, such number of shares of Common Stock as shall from time to time be issuable upon the conversion of all the shares of Series A Preferred Stock then outstanding. Any shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion of Series A Preferred Stock shall be (i) duly authorized, validly issued and fully paid and nonassessable, (ii) shall rank pari passu with the other shares of Common Stock outstanding from time to time and (iii) shall be approved for listing on the principal national securities exchange on which the Common Stock is listed or admitted to trading.
(b) Common Stock Reserved for Issuance
. The Company shall pay any and all taxes that may be payable in respect of the issue or delivery of shares of Common Stock on conversion of Series A Preferred Stock. The Company shall not, however, be required to pay any tax which may be payable in respect of any transfer involved in the issue and delivery of shares of Common Stock in a name other than that in which the Series A Preferred Stock so converted were registered, and no such issue or delivery shall be made unless and until the Person requesting such issue has paid to the Company the amount of any such tax, or has established to the satisfaction of the Company that such tax has been paid.
(c) Taxes
. The Conversion Rate shall be adjusted from time to time (successively and for each event described) by the Company as follows:
Section 8. Dilution Adjustments
If the Company shall, at any time or from time to time while any of the Series A Preferred Stock is outstanding, issue shares of Common Stock as a dividend or distribution on shares of Common Stock, or if the Company effects a share split or share combination in respect of the Common Stock, then the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted based on the following formula:
(a)
 
where
 
The Company shall not pay any dividend or make any distribution on shares of Common Stock held in treasury by the Company.
Except as otherwise provided for by Section 8(c), if the Company shall, at any time or from time to time while any of the Series A Preferred Stock is outstanding, distribute to all or substantially all holders of its outstanding shares of Common Stock any options, rights or warrants entitling them for a period of not more than 45 calendar days from the Record Date of such distribution to subscribe for or purchase shares of Common Stock at a price per share less than the Closing Price of the Common Stock on the Trading Day immediately preceding the Record Date of such distribution, the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted based on the following formula:
(b)
 
where
 
To the extent that shares of Common Stock are not delivered pursuant to any such options, rights or warrants that are non-transferable upon the expiration or termination of such options, rights or warrants, the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted to the Conversion Rate which would then be in effect had the adjustments made upon the distribution of such options, rights or warrants been made on the basis of the delivery of only the number of shares of Common Stock actually delivered.
In determining the aggregate price payable to exercise such options, rights or warrants, there shall be taken into account any amount payable on exercise thereof, with the value of such consideration, if other than cash, to be determined in good faith by the Board of Directors.
If the Company, at any time or from time to time while any of the Series A Preferred Stock is outstanding, shall, by dividend or otherwise, distribute to all or substantially all holders of its Common Stock shares of any class of Capital Stock of the Company (other than Common Stock as covered by Section 8(a)), evidences of its indebtedness, assets, property or rights or warrants to acquire Capital Stock or other securities, but excluding (i) dividends or distributions as to which an adjustment under Section 8(a), Section 8(b) or Section 8(c) hereof shall apply, (ii) dividends or distributions paid exclusively in cash (which shall be payable to the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock to the extent set forth in Section 4(a)) and (iii) Spin-Offs to which the provision set forth below in this Section 8(c) shall apply (any of such shares of Capital Stock, indebtedness, assets, property or rights or warrants to acquire Common Stock or other securities, hereinafter in this Section 8(c) called the ""), then, in each such case the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted based on the following formula:
(c)
Distributed Property
 
Where
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the then fair market value (as so determined) of the portion of the Distributed Property so distributed applicable to one share of Common Stock is equal to or greater than SP
0
as set forth above, then in lieu of the foregoing adjustment, the Company shall distribute to each holder of Series A Preferred Stock on the date such Distributed Property is distributed to holders of Common Stock, but without requiring such holder to convert its shares of Series A Preferred Stock, the amount of Distributed Property such holder would have received had such holder owned a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the Conversion Rate on the Record Date fixed for determination for shareholders entitled to receive such distribution. If the Board of Directors determines the fair market value of any distribution for purposes of this Section 8(c) by reference to the actual or when issued trading market for any securities, it shall in doing so consider the prices in such market over the same period used in computing the Current Market Price of the Common Stock for purposes of calculating SP
0
in the formula in this Section 8(c).
With respect to an adjustment pursuant to this Section 8(c) where there has been a payment of a dividend or other distribution on the Common Stock consisting of shares of Capital Stock of any class or series, or similar equity interest, of or relating to a Subsidiary or other business unit of the Company (a ""), the Conversion Rate in effect immediately before the Close of Business on the 10
Spin-Off
th
Trading Day immediately following, and including, the effective date of the Spin-Off shall be increased based on the following formula:
where
 
 
Such adjustment shall occur on the 10
th
Trading Day immediately following, and including, the effective date of the Spin-Off.
For purposes of this Section 8(c), Section 8(a) and Section 8(b) hereof, any dividend or distribution to which this Section 8(c) is applicable that also includes shares of Common Stock, or rights or warrants to subscribe for or purchase shares of Common Stock to which Section 8(a) or 8(b) hereof applies (or both), shall be deemed instead to be (1) a dividend or distribution of the evidences of indebtedness, assets or shares of Capital Stock other than such shares of Common Stock or rights or warrants to which Section 8(a) or 8(b) hereof applies (and any Conversion Rate adjustment required by this Section 8(c) with respect to such dividend or distribution shall then be made) immediately followed by (2) a dividend or distribution of such shares of Common Stock or such options, rights or warrants to which Section 8(a) or 8(b) hereof applies (and any further Conversion Rate adjustment required by Section 8(a) and 8(b) hereof with respect to such dividend or distribution shall then be made), except (A) the Close of Business on the Record Date of such dividend or distribution shall be substituted for "the Close of Business on the Record Date," "the Close of Business on the Record Date or the Close of Business on the effective date," "after the Close of Business on the Record Date for such dividend or distribution or the Close of Business on the effective date of such share split or share combination" and "the Close of Business on the Record Date for such distribution" within the meaning of Section 8(a) and Section 8(b) hereof and (B) any shares of Common Stock included in such dividend or distribution shall not be deemed "outstanding immediately prior to the Close of Business on the Record Date or the Close of Business on the effective date" within the meaning of Section 8(a) hereof.
If the Company shall, at any time or from time to time while any of the Series A Preferred Stock is outstanding, distribute options, rights or warrants to all or substantially all holders of Common Stock entitling the holders thereof to subscribe for, purchase or convert into shares of Capital Stock (either initially or under certain circumstances), which options, rights or warrants, until the occurrence of a specified event or events (""): (x) are deemed to be transferred with such shares of Common Stock; (y) are not exercisable; and (z) are also issued in respect of future issuances of Common Stock, shall be deemed not to have been distributed for purposes of this Section 8(c), (and no adjustment to the Conversion Rate under this Section 8(c) shall be required) until the occurrence of the earliest Trigger Event and a
Trigger Event
 
distribution or deemed distribution under the terms of such options, rights or warrants at which time an appropriate adjustment (if any is required) to the Conversion Rate shall be made in the same manner as provided for under this Section 8(c). If any such options, rights or warrants are subject to events, upon the occurrence of which such options, rights or warrants become exercisable to purchase different securities, evidences of indebtedness or other assets, then the date of the occurrence of any and each such event shall be deemed to be the date of distribution and Record Date with respect to new options, rights or warrants for purposes of this Section 8(c) (and a termination or expiration of the existing rights or warrants without exercise by any of the holders thereof). In addition, in the event of any distribution (or deemed distribution) of options, rights or warrants (of the type described in the preceding sentence) with respect thereto that was counted for purposes of calculating a distribution amount for which an adjustment to the Conversion Rate under this Section 8(c) was made, (1) in the case of any such options, rights or warrants that shall all have been redeemed or repurchased without exercise by any holders thereof, the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted upon such final redemption or repurchase to give effect to such distribution or Trigger Event, as the case may be, as though it were a distribution under this Section 8(c), equal to the per share redemption or repurchase price received by a holder or holders of Common Stock with respect to such options, rights or warrants (assuming such holder had retained such options, rights or warrants), made to all holders of Common Stock as of the date of such redemption or repurchase, and (2) in the case of such options, rights or warrants that shall have expired or been terminated without exercise by any holders thereof, the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted as if such options, rights or warrants had not been issued.
If the Company or any of its Subsidiaries makes a payment of cash or other consideration in respect of a tender offer or exchange offer for all or any portion of the Common Stock, where such cash and the value of any such other consideration included in the payment per share of Common Stock validly tendered or exchanged exceeds the Closing Price of the Common Stock on the Trading Day next succeeding the last date (the "") on which tenders or exchanges may be made pursuant to such tender or exchange offer (as it may be amended), the Conversion Rate shall be increased based on the following formula:
(d)
Expiration Date
Where
 
 
If the Company or any Subsidiary is obligated to purchase shares of Common Stock pursuant to any such tender or exchange offer, but the Company or such Subsidiary is permanently prevented by applicable law from effecting any such purchases or all or any portion of such purchases are rescinded, then the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to be the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such tender or exchange offer had not been made or had only been made in respect of the purchases that were effected.
If the Company, at any time or from time to time while any of the Series A Preferred Stock is outstanding, shall issue shares of Common Stock for a consideration per share less than the Current Market Price on the date the Company fixes the offering price of such additional shares, the Conversion Rate shall be increased based on the following formula:
(e)
Where:
 
 
The adjustment shall become effective immediately after such issuance.
This Section 8(e) does not apply to: (a) the conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock; (b) rights, options, warrants or other distributions referred to in Sections 8(a) and 8(c); and (c) Excluded Issuances.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 8, in no event will any adjustment pursuant to Section 8(d) or Section 8(e) increase the Conversion Rate to in excess of 93.1966.
(f)
.
Section 9. Exchange
. If all accrued and unpaid dividends in respect of each Dividend Period, including the latest completed Dividend Period, on all outstanding shares of the Series A Preferred Stock shall have been declared and paid in full in cash on the Dividend Payment Date on which such dividend was first payable and subject to the provisions of this Section 9, the Series A Preferred Stock shall be exchangeable, in whole and not in part, at the option of the Company, at any time, for cash-pay 8.00% Convertible Subordinated Notes (the "") in such form and substance as is approved by the Board of Directors and the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series A Preferred Stock (it being understood that the economic terms of the Series A Preferred Stock shall be replicated in the terms of the Exchange Notes to the extent practicable and that such Exchange Notes shall include no maintenance or incurrence covenants and market-standard events of default). In addition, the entry into the new registration rights agreement provided for in Section 7 of the Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of the Original Issue Date, between the Company and the initial holders of the Series A Preferred Stock shall be a condition to the exchange of the Series A Preferred Stock for the Exchange Notes. The holders of the outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive in exchange for each share of Series A Preferred Stock to be exchanged by it Exchange Notes dated as of the date of exchange in a principal amount equal to (a) the Liquidation Preference per share of the Series A Preferred Stock plus (b) an amount per share equal to accrued but unpaid dividends not previously added to the Liquidation Preference on such share of Series A Preferred Stock from and including the immediately preceding Dividend Payment Date to but excluding the date of exchange. At the time of any exchange hereunder, the rights of the holders of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock as shareholders of the Corporation shall cease with respect to such Series A Preferred Stock, and the persons entitled to receive the Exchange Notes issuable upon exchange shall be treated for all purposes as the registered holders of such Exchange Notes as of the date which coincides with the date of exchange.
(a) Exchange at the Option of the Company
Exchange Notes
. Notice of any exchange of shares of Series A Preferred Stock pursuant to Section 9(a) shall be given by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares to be exchange at their respective last addresses appearing on the
(b) Notice of Exchange
 
books of the Company. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for exchange. Any notice mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series A Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the exchange of any other shares of Series A Preferred Stock. Each notice of exchange given to a holder shall state: (1) the exchange date; (2) the exchange price; and (3) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for exchange, and include the form of the Exchange Notes and related indenture approved by the Company and the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock.
.
Section 10. Voting Rights
. The holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be entitled to vote with the holders of the Common Stock on all matters submitted to a vote of shareholders of the Company, except as otherwise provided herein or by applicable law. Each holder of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be entitled to the number of votes equal to the largest number of whole shares of Common Stock into which all shares of Series A Preferred Stock held of record by such holder could then be converted pursuant to Section 7 (subject to the Conversion Cap) at the record date for the determination of the shareholders entitled to vote on such matters or, if no such record date is established, at the date such vote is taken or any written consent of shareholders is first executed. The holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be entitled to notice of any shareholders' meeting in accordance with the bylaws of the Company.
(a) General
.
(b) Election of Directors
Effective as of the Original Issue Date and in accordance with Article III, Section 1 of the By-laws, the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall be increased by two persons, from eight persons to ten persons (each such additional director, a "") and the holders of a majority of the outstanding Series A Preferred Stock, voting as a separate series to the exclusion of the holders of Common Stock, shall be entitled to elect the Preferred Directors; provided, however, that unless otherwise approved by the Company's Nominating Committee, in order for a person to qualify to serve as a Preferred Director, such person shall be a partner of Leonard Green & Partners, L.P. as of the Original Issuance Date.
(i) Election.
Preferred Director
Each Preferred Director shall serve until the next annual meeting of the shareholders of the Company and until his or her successor is elected and qualifies in accordance with this Section 10(b) and the By-laws, unless such Preferred Director is earlier removed in accordance with the By-laws, resigns or is otherwise unable to serve. In the event any Preferred Director is removed, resigns or is unable to serve as a member of the Board of Directors, the holders of a majority of the outstanding Series A Preferred Stock, voting as a separate series to the exclusion of the holders of Common Stock, shall have the right to fill such vacancy. Each Preferred Director may only be elected to the Board of Directors by the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock in accordance with this Section 10(b), and each such director's seat shall otherwise remain vacant.
(ii) Term.
 
. At such time as the Permitted Holders hold shares of Series A Preferred Stock representing 7% or more but less than 10% of the Voting Stock of the Company, the number of Preferred Directors shall, automatically and immediately, without any further action on the part of the shareholders or the Board of Directors, be decreased by one (and the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall correspondingly be decreased). At such time as the Permitted Holders hold shares of Series A Preferred Stock representing less than 7% of the Voting Stock of the Company, the number of Preferred Directors shall, automatically and immediately, without any further action on the part of the Company or the Board of Directors, be decreased to zero (and the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall correspondingly be decreased (i.e., an aggregate decrease of two directors)). Subject to the right of the holders of Series A Preferred Stock to remove the Preferred Directors, no decrease in the number of Preferred Directors shall have the effect of shortening the term of any incumbent Preferred Director.
(iii) Removal
. For the avoidance of doubt, the right of the Series A Preferred Stock to vote for the election of the Preferred Directors shall be in addition to the right of the Series A Preferred Stock to vote together with the holders of Common Stock for the election of the other members of the Board of Directors of the Company.
(iv) Non-Limitation of Voting Rights
. So long as any shares of Series A Preferred Stock are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of shareholders required by law or by the Articles of Incorporation, the vote or consent of the holders of at least a majority of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock then outstanding and entitled to vote thereon, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating:
(c) Class Voting Rights as to Particular Matters
.
(i) Dividends, Repurchase and Redemption
(A) the declaration or payment of any dividend or distribution on Common Stock, other Junior Stock or Parity Stock (other than a dividend payable solely in Junior Stock); or
(B) the purchase, redemption or other acquisition for consideration by the Company, directly or indirectly, of any Common Stock, other Junior Stock or Parity Stock or capital stock of any of the Company's Subsidiaries by the Company, (except as necessary to effect (1) a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into other Junior Stock, (2) a reclassification of Parity Stock for or into other Parity Stock with the same or lesser aggregate liquidation preference, (3) a reclassification of Parity Stock into Junior Stock, (4) the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, (5) the exchange or conversion of one share of Parity Stock for or into another share of Parity Stock with the same or lesser per share liquidation amount or (6) the exchange or conversion of one share of Parity Stock into Junior Stock),
, that in the case of clause (A) or clause (B) above, no such vote or consent shall be necessary if (x) all accrued and unpaid dividends in respect of each Dividend Period, including the latest completed Dividend Period, on all outstanding shares of the Series A Preferred Stock shall have been declared and paid in full in cash on the Dividend Payment Date on which such
provided
 
dividend was first payable (i.e., no accrued but unpaid dividends shall have been added to the Liquidation Preference pursuant to Section 4(b)) and (y) the next dividend payable on the outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock is paid in full in cash on the next Dividend Payment Date.
. Any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Articles of Incorporation or By-laws so as to adversely affect the relative rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series A Preferred Stock; or
(ii) Amendment of Series A Preferred Stock
. The authorization of, issuance of, or reclassification into, Parity Stock (including additional shares of the Series A Preferred Stock), Capital Stock that would rank senior to the Series A Preferred Stock or debt securities that are convertible into Capital Stock by their terms.
(iii) Reclassifications
. Any transaction for which an adjustment to the Conversion Rate would not be made in full as a result of the application of Section 8(f).
(iv) Certain Transactions
. No vote or consent of the holders of Series A Preferred Stock shall be required pursuant to Section 10(c) if, at or prior to the time when any such vote or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed, or shall have been called for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds shall have been deposited in trust for such redemption, in each case pursuant to Section 6 above.
(d) Changes after Provision for Redemption
.
Section 11. Reorganization Events
(a) In the event of:
(i) any consolidation or merger of the Company with or into another Person or of another Person with or into the Company;
(ii) any sale, transfer, lease or conveyance to another Person of the property of the Company as an entirety or substantially as an entirety; or
(iii) any statutory share exchange of the Company with another Person (other than in connection with a merger or acquisition),
in each case in which holders of Common Stock would be entitled to receive cash, securities or other property for their shares of Common Stock (any such event specified in this Section 11(a), a ""), each share of Series A Preferred Stock outstanding immediately prior to such Reorganization Event shall (subject to prior redemption, including pursuant to Section 6(b) or conversion), without the consent of the holder thereof, become convertible into the cash, securities and other property receivable in such Reorganization Event by a holder of Common Stock that was not the counterparty to the Reorganization Event or an affiliate of such other party (such cash, securities and other property, the "").
Reorganization Event
Exchange Property
(b) In the event that holders of the shares of the Common Stock have the opportunity to elect the form of consideration to be received in such transaction, the "Exchange Property" that holders of the Series A Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive shall be determined by the
 
holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock. The number of units of Exchange Property for each share of Series A Preferred Stock converted following the effective date of such Reorganization Event shall be determined from among the choices made available to the holders of the Common Stock based on the Conversion Rate then in effect on the applicable conversion date, determined as if the references to a "shares of Common Stock" in this Statement of Designations were to "units of Exchange Property," but without regard to the Conversion Cap.
(c) The above provisions of this Section 11 shall similarly apply to successive Reorganization Events.
(d) The Company (or any successor) shall, within 20 days of the occurrence of any Reorganization Event, provide written notice to the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock of the occurrence of such event and of the kind and amount of the cash, securities or other property that constitutes the Exchange Property. Failure to deliver such notice shall not affect the operation of this Section 11 or the validity of any Reorganization Event.
. To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Company may deem and treat the record holder of any share of the Series A Preferred Stock as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and the Company shall not be affected by any notice to the contrary.
Section 12. Record Holders
.
Section 13. Notices
. All notices or communications in respect of the Series A Preferred Stock shall be sufficiently given if given in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage prepaid, or if given in such other manner as may be permitted in this Statement of Designations, in the Articles of Incorporation or By-laws or by applicable law or regulation. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series A Preferred Stock is issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Company or any similar facility, such notices may be given to the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock in any manner permitted by such facility.
(a) General
. The Company shall provide reasonable prior written notice to each holder of the Series A Preferred Stock of any anticipated event that is reasonably likely to result in (i) a Fundamental Change, (ii) a Reorganization Event and (iii) an event the occurrence of which would result in an adjustment to the Conversion Rate.
(b) Notice of Certain Events
. The Company shall replace any mutilated certificate at the holder's expense upon surrender of that certificate to the Company. The Company shall replace certificates that become destroyed, stolen or lost at the holder's expense upon delivery to the Company of reasonably satisfactory evidence that the certificate has been destroyed, stolen or lost, together with any indemnity that may be required by the Company.
Section 14. Replacement Certificates
. The shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall not have any rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers or relative, participating, optional or other special rights, or qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth herein or in the Articles of Incorporation or as provided by applicable law and regulation.
Section 15. Other Rights
 
I W W, WHOLE FOODS MARKET, INC. has caused this certificate to be signed by Roberta Lang, its Secretary, this 2nd day of December, 2008.
N
ITNESS
HEREOF
 

Exhibit 4.1
EXECUTION VERSION
This Registration Rights Agreement (this "") is made and entered into as of December 2, 2008, by and among Whole Foods Markets, Inc., a Texas corporation (the ""), and Green Equity Investors V, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (""), and Green Equity Investors Side V, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (""), and Thyme Coinvest, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ("", and together with GEI and GEIS, the "").
Agreement
Company
GEI
GEIS
Coinvest
Purchasers
WHEREAS, GEI and GEIS have, pursuant to that certain Securities Purchase Agreement, dated as of November 5, 2008, between the Company and the Purchasers (the ""), agreed to purchase shares of the Company's Series A 8.00% Redeemable Convertible Exchangeable Participating Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share (the "");
Purchase Agreement
Preferred Stock
WHEREAS, each of GEI and GEIS have assigned some of its rights to purchase shares of Preferred Stock to Coinvest, in accordance with Section 15.5 of the Purchase Agreement,
WHEREAS, the shares of Preferred Stock are convertible into shares of the Company's Common Stock, with no par value (the ""); and
Common Stock
WHEREAS, it is a condition to the closing (the "") of the transactions contemplated by the Purchase Agreement that the Company and the Purchasers enter into this Agreement at or prior to the Closing in order to grant the Purchasers certain registration rights as set forth herein.
Closing
NOW, THEREFORE, IN CONSIDERATION of the mutual covenants contained in this Agreement, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the Company and the Purchasers agree as follows:
1. . Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein that are defined in the Purchase Agreement shall have the meanings given such terms in the Purchase Agreement. As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the respective meanings set forth in this Section 1:
Definitions
"" of any Person shall mean any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such Person. For purposes of this definition, "control" when used with respect to any Person has the meaning specified in Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
Affiliate
"" means an "automatic shelf registration statement" as defined under Rule 405.
automatic shelf registration statement
 
"" means a day that is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday and is not a day on which banking institutions in New York, New York generally are authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close.
Business Day
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission or any other federal agency then administering the Securities Act or Exchange Act.
Commission
"" means the time and date that the Registration Statement filed pursuant to Section 2(a) is first declared effective by the Commission or otherwise becomes effective.
Effective Date
"" means:
Effectiveness Date
(a) with respect to the initial Registration Statement required to be filed to cover the resale by the Holders of the Registrable Securities, (i) the date such Registration Statement is filed, if the Company is a WKSI as of such date, or (ii) if the Company is not a WKSI as of the date such Registration Statement is filed, the 90th day following the Closing; and
(b) with respect to any additional Registration Statements that may be required pursuant to Section 2(a) hereof, (i) if the Company is a WKSI, the date such additional Registration Statement is filed or (ii) if the Company is not a WKSI, the earlier of: (x) the 90th day following the date on which the Company first knows, or reasonably should have known, that such additional Registration Statement is required under such Section and (y) the fifth Trading Day following the date on which the Company is notified by the Commission that such additional Registration Statement will not be reviewed or is no longer subject to further review and comments.
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(a).
Effectiveness Period
"" means (i) each of the Purchasers (if such Purchaser holds Registrable Securities) and (ii) the Holder or Holders (as applicable) of no less than a majority of the then outstanding Registrable Securities.
Electing Holders
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
"" means:
Filing Date
(a) with respect to the initial Registration Statement required to be filed to cover the resale by the Holders of the Registrable Securities, the 30th day following the Closing; and
(b) with respect to any additional Registration Statements that may be required pursuant to Section 2(a) hereof, the 30th day following the date on which the Company first knows, or reasonably should have known, that such additional Registration Statement is required under such Section.
 
"" means, with respect to any security, a security (a) that is eligible to be sold by the Holder thereof without any volume or manner of sale restrictions under the Securities Act pursuant to Rule 144, (b) which bears no legends restricting the transfer thereof and (c) bears an unrestricted CUSIP number (if held in global form).
Freely Tradable
"" means a derivative contract of a type described in the incoming letter referred to in Securities Exchange Commission no-action interpretive letter dated October 9, 2003 issued to Goldman, Sachs & Co. (the ""), entered into between a Holder and a financial intermediary (a "") and referencing the Preferred Stock or the Common Stock.
Hedging Contract
Interpretive Letter
Hedging Contract Counterparty
"" or "" means the holder or holders, as the case may be, from time to time of Registrable Securities.
Holder
Holders
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5(c).
Indemnified Party
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5(c).
Indemnifying Party
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5(a).
Losses
means an individual or corporation, partnership, trust, incorporated or unincorporated association, joint venture, limited liability company, joint stock company, government (or an agency or subdivision thereof) or other entity of any kind.
"
Person
"
"" means an action, claim, suit, investigation or proceeding (including, without limitation, an investigation or partial proceeding, such as a deposition), whether commenced or known to the Company to be threatened.
Proceeding
"" means the prospectus included in a Registration Statement (including, without limitation, a prospectus that includes any information previously omitted from a prospectus filed as part of an effective registration statement in reliance upon Rule 430A promulgated under the Securities Act), as amended or supplemented by any prospectus supplement, with respect to the terms of the offering of any portion of the Registrable Securities covered by a Registration Statement, and all other amendments and supplements to the Prospectus, including post-effective amendments, and all material incorporated by reference or deemed to be incorporated by reference in such Prospectus.
Prospectus
"" means (i) the Preferred Stock, (ii) the Common Stock issuable or issued upon conversion of the Preferred Stock, (iii) the Common Stock sold short to hedge the exposure of a Hedging Contract Counterparty (as defined in "Hedging Contract" above) to the Hedging Contract to which such Hedging Contract Counterparty is a party, as contemplated in the Interpretive Letter (as defined in "Hedging Contract" above) and (iv) any securities issued as (or issuable upon the conversion or exercise of any warrant, right or other security that is issued as) a dividend, stock split, recapitalization or other distribution with respect to, or in exchange for, or in replacement of, the securities referenced in clauses (i) (without giving effect to any election by the Company therein) or (ii) above or this clause (iv);
Registrable Securities
 
, , that the term "Registrable Securities" shall exclude in all cases any securities (i) sold or exchanged by a Person pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Act or in compliance with Rule 144 of the Act or (ii) that are Freely Tradable (it being understood that, for purposes of determining eligibility for resale under clause (ii) of this proviso, no securities held by any Purchaser shall be considered Freely Tradable to the extent such Purchaser reasonably determines that it is an "affiliate" (as defined under Rule 144) of the Company).
provided
however
" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(b).
"Registration Default
" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(b).
"Registration Default Date
" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(b).
"Registration Default Period
"" means an initial registration statement which is required to register the resale of the Registrable Securities, and including the Prospectus, amendments and supplements to each such registration statement or Prospectus, including pre- and post-effective amendments, all exhibits thereto, and all material incorporated by reference or deemed to be incorporated by reference in such registration statement.
Registration Statement
"" means Rule 144 promulgated by the Commission pursuant to the Securities Act, as such Rule may be amended from time to time, or any similar rule or regulation hereafter adopted by the Commission having substantially the same effect as such Rule.
Rule 144
"" means Rule 405 promulgated by the Commission pursuant to the Securities Act, as such Rule may be amended from time to time, or any similar rule or regulation hereafter adopted by the Commission having substantially the same effect as such Rule.
Rule 405
"" means Rule 415 promulgated by the Commission pursuant to the Securities Act, as such Rule may be amended from time to time, or any similar rule or regulation hereafter adopted by the Commission having substantially the same effect as such Rule.
Rule 415
"" means Rule 424 promulgated by the Commission pursuant to the Securities Act, as such Rule may be amended from time to time, or any similar rule or regulation hereafter adopted by the Commission having substantially the same effect as such Rule.
Rule 424
"" means Rule 433 promulgated by the Commission pursuant to the Securities Act, as such Rule may be amended from time to time, or any similar rule or regulation hereafter adopted by the Commission having substantially the same effect as such Rule.
Rule 433
"" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Securities Act
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(a).
Suspension Period
"" means a day during which trading in the Common Stock generally occurs.
Trading Day
 
"" means the principal national securities exchange on which the Common Stock is listed.
Trading Market
"" means a "well known seasoned issuer" as defined under Rule 405.
WKSI
2. .
Registration
(a) On or prior to each Filing Date, the Company shall prepare and file with the Commission a Registration Statement covering the resale of all Registrable Securities not already covered by an existing and effective Registration Statement for an offering to be made on a continuous basis pursuant to Rule 415. The Registration Statement (i) shall be on Form S-3 (except if the Company is not then eligible to register for resale the Registrable Securities on Form S-3, in which case such registration shall be on another appropriate form for such purpose) and, if the Company is a WKSI as of the Filing Date, shall be an automatic shelf registration statement; and (ii) shall contain (except if otherwise requested by the Electing Holders or required pursuant to written comments received from the Commission upon a review of such Registration Statement) the "Plan of Distribution" in substantially the form attached hereto as . The Company shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause the Registration Statement to be declared effective or otherwise to become effective under the Securities Act as soon as possible but, in any event, no later than the Effectiveness Date, and shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to keep the Registration Statement continuously effective under the Securities Act until the registration rights under this Agreement terminate in accordance with Section 2(c) (the . In addition, the Company shall, promptly and from time to time, file such additional Registration Statements to cover resales of any Registrable Securities which are not registered for resale pursuant to a pre-existing Registration Statement no later than the Filing Date with respect thereto, and shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause such Registration Statement to be declared effective or otherwise to become effective under the Securities Act as soon as practicable after the applicable Filing Date but, in any event, no later than the applicable Effectiveness Date, and shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to keep the Registration Statement continuously effective under the Securities Act at all times during the Effectiveness Period. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 2(a), upon notice to the Holders, the Company may suspend the use or the effectiveness of the Registration Statement, or extend the time period in which it is required to file the Registration Statement, for up to 75 days in the aggregate, in any 12-month period (a ) if the Board of Directors of the Company determines that there is a valid business purpose for suspension of the Registration Statement; that no such Suspension Period may overlap with any period from a redemption date set pursuant to Section 6 of the Statement of Designations of the Preferred Stock and the date that is 30 Trading Days thereafter. In the event the Company exercises its rights under the preceding sentence, the Holders agree to suspend, immediately upon their receipt of the notice referred to above, their use of the Prospectus relating to such Registration Statement in connection with any sale or offer to sell Registrable Securities. The Company shall promptly notify the Holders when the Registration Statement may once again be used or is effective.
Annex A
"Effectiveness Period")
"Suspension Period"
provided
(b) If: (i) any Registration Statement is not filed on or prior to its Filing Date (it being understood that if the Company files a Registration Statement without affording the
 
Holders the opportunity to review and comment on the same as required by Section 3(a) hereof, the Company shall not be deemed to have satisfied this clause (i)), (ii) a Registration Statement is not declared effective by the Commission or does not otherwise become effective on or prior to its required Effectiveness Date, (iii) the Company fails to file with the Commission a request for acceleration in accordance with Rule 461 promulgated under the Securities Act, within five Trading Days of the date on which the Company is notified (orally or in writing, whichever is earlier) by the Commission that a Registration Statement will not be reviewed or is not subject to further review, or (iv) after its Effective Date, such Registration Statement ceases for any reason to be effective and available to the Holders as to all Registrable Securities to which it is required to cover at any time prior to the expiration of the Effectiveness Period (in each case, except as specifically permitted herein with respect to any applicable Suspension Period) (any such failure or breach being referred to as a and for purposes of clauses (i) or (ii) the date on which such Registration Default occurs, and for purposes of clause (iii) the date on which such five Trading Day period is exceeded and for purposes of clause (iv) the date on which the Registration Statement ceases to be effective and available, being referred to as the and each period from and including the Registration Default Date during which a Registration Default has occurred and is continuing, a ), then, during the Registration Default Period, in addition to any other rights available to the Holders (including, without limitation, pursuant to Section 8(a)), the Company shall pay a special payment (collectively, ) to Holders (x) in respect of each share of Preferred Stock that is a Registrable Security, in an amount equal to 2.00% per annum of the accrued liquidation preference of such share of Preferred Stock, and (y) in respect of each share of Common Stock issued upon conversion of Preferred Stock that is a Registrable Security, in an amount equal to 2.00% per annum of the quotient of (i) the accrued liquidation preference of the share of Preferred Stock at the time of its conversion, divided by (ii) the number of shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion of such share of Preferred Stock. Special Payments shall accrue from the applicable Registration Default Date until all Registration Defaults have been cured, and shall be payable quarterly in arrears on each January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1 following the applicable Registration Default Date to the record holder of the applicable security on the date that is 15 days prior to such payment date, until paid in full. Special Payments payable in respect of any Registration Default Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. Special Payments shall be payable only with respect to a single Registration Default at any given time, notwithstanding the fact that multiple Registration Defaults may have occurred and be continuing.
"Registration Default,"
"Registration Default Date"
"Registration Default Period"
"Special Payments"
(c) The registration rights granted under this Section 2 shall automatically terminate as of the date and time at which all of the Registrable Securities are Freely Tradable.
3.
Registration Procedures
In connection with the Company's registration obligations hereunder, the Company shall:
(a) Not less than five Trading Days prior to the filing of a Registration Statement or any related Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto, the Company shall furnish to the Holders copies of all such documents proposed to be filed, which documents (other
 
than those incorporated by reference) will be subject to the review of such Holders. Except as required by law, the Company shall not file a Registration Statement or any such Prospectus or any amendments or supplements thereto to which the Electing Holders shall reasonably object in good faith.
(b) Use commercially reasonable efforts to (i) prepare and file with the Commission such amendments, including post-effective amendments, to each Registration Statement and the Prospectus used in connection therewith as may be necessary to keep such Registration Statement continuously effective as to the applicable Registrable Securities for its Effectiveness Period and prepare and file with the Commission such additional Registration Statements in order to register for resale under the Securities Act all of the Registrable Securities; (ii) cause the related Prospectus to be amended or supplemented by any required Prospectus supplement, and as so supplemented or amended to be filed pursuant to Rule 424; and (iii) respond as promptly as reasonably possible, and in any event within ten Trading Days, to any comments received from the Commission with respect to each Registration Statement or any amendment thereto and, as promptly as reasonably possible provide the Holders true and complete copies of all correspondence from and to the Commission relating to such Registration Statement that pertains to the Holders as Selling Stockholders but not any comments that would result in the disclosure to the Holders of material and non-public information concerning the Company.
(c) Comply in all material respects with the provisions of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act with respect to the Registration Statements and the disposition of all Registrable Securities covered by each Registration Statement.
(d) Notify the Holders as promptly as reasonably possible (and, in the case of (i)(A) below, not less than three Trading Days prior to such filing) and (if requested by any such Person) confirm such notice in writing no later than one Trading Day following the day: (i)(A) when a Prospectus or any Prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment to a Registration Statement is proposed to be filed; (B) when the Commission notifies the Company whether there will be a "review" of such Registration Statement and whenever the Commission comments in writing on such Registration Statement (in which case the Company shall provide true and complete copies thereof and all written responses thereto to each of the Holders that pertain to the Holders as a Selling Stockholder or to the Plan of Distribution, but not information which the Company believes would constitute material and non-public information); and (C) with respect to each Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment, when the same has been declared effective; (ii) of any request by the Commission or any other Federal or state governmental authority for amendments or supplements to a Registration Statement or Prospectus or for additional information that pertains to the Holders as Selling Stockholders or the Plan of Distribution; (iii) of the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of a Registration Statement covering any or all of the Registrable Securities or the initiation of any Proceedings for that purpose; (iv) of the receipt by the Company of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification or exemption from qualification of any of the Registrable Securities for sale in any jurisdiction, or the initiation or threatening of any Proceeding for such purpose; and (v) of the occurrence of any event or passage of time that makes the financial statements included in a Registration Statement ineligible for inclusion
 
therein or any statement made in such Registration Statement or Prospectus or any document incorporated or deemed to be incorporated therein by reference untrue in any material respect or that requires any revisions to such Registration Statement, Prospectus or other documents so that, in the case of such Registration Statement or the Prospectus, as the case may be, it will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
(e) Use its commercially reasonable efforts to avoid the issuance of, or, if issued, obtain the withdrawal of (i) any order suspending the effectiveness of a Registration Statement, or (ii) any suspension of the qualification (or exemption from qualification) of any of the Registrable Securities for sale in any jurisdiction, at the earliest practicable moment.
(f) Furnish to each Holder, without charge, at least one conformed copy of each Registration Statement and each amendment thereto and all exhibits to the extent requested by such Person (including those incorporated by reference) promptly after the filing of such documents with the Commission; , that the Company shall have no obligation to provide any document pursuant to this clause that is available on the EDGAR system.
provided
(g) Promptly deliver to each Holder, without charge, as many copies of each Prospectus or Prospectuses (including each form of prospectus) and each amendment or supplement thereto as such Persons may reasonably request. The Company hereby consents to the use of such Prospectus and each amendment or supplement thereto by each of the selling Holders in connection with the offering and sale of the Registrable Securities covered by such Prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto.
(h) Prior to any public offering of Registrable Securities, use its commercially reasonable efforts to register or qualify or cooperate with the selling Holders in connection with the registration or qualification (or exemption from such registration or qualification) of such Registrable Securities for offer and sale under the securities or Blue Sky laws of those jurisdictions within the United States as any Holder reasonably requests in writing to keep each such registration or qualification (or exemption therefrom) effective during the Effectiveness Period and to do any and all other acts or things necessary or advisable to enable the disposition in such jurisdictions of the Registrable Securities covered by the Registration Statements; , that the Company shall not be required to qualify generally to do business in any jurisdiction where it is not then so qualified or subject the Company to any material tax in any such jurisdiction where it is not then so subject.
provided
(i) Cooperate with the Holders to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates representing Registrable Securities to be delivered to a transferee pursuant to the Registration Statements, which certificates shall be free, to the extent permitted by the Purchase Agreement, of all restrictive legends, and to enable such Registrable Securities to be in such denominations and registered in such names as any such Holders may request. In connection therewith, if required by the Company's transfer agent, the Company shall promptly after the effectiveness of the Registration Statement cause an opinion of counsel as to the effectiveness of the Registration Statement to be delivered to and maintained with its transfer
 
agent, together with any other authorizations, certificates and directions required by the transfer agent which authorize and direct the transfer agent to issue such Registrable Securities without legend upon sale by the holder of such shares of Registrable Securities under the Registration Statement.
(j) Upon the occurrence of any event contemplated by Section 3(d)(v), as promptly as reasonably possible, prepare a supplement or amendment, including a post-effective amendment, if required by applicable law, to the affected Registration Statements or a supplement to the related Prospectus or any document incorporated or deemed to be incorporated therein by reference, and file any other required document so that, as thereafter delivered, no Registration Statement nor any Prospectus will contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
(k) In connection with filing any Registration Statement, the Company may require each selling Holder to furnish to the Company a certified statement as to the securities of the Company (including shares of Common Stock and Preferred Stock) beneficially owned by such Holder and any Affiliate thereof; , , the Purchasers shall not be required to furnish such statement in connection with the initial Registration Statement if the Purchasers own all of the outstanding Preferred Stock as of the initial Filing Date.
provided
however
(l) In the event the Holders seek to complete an underwritten offering, for a reasonable period prior to the filing of any Registration Statement, and throughout the Effectiveness Period, make available upon reasonable notice at the Company's principal place of business or such other reasonable place for inspection by the Holders (and the managing underwriter or underwriters selected in accordance with Section 3(m)), such financial and other information and books and records of the Company, and cause the officers, employees, counsel and independent certified public accountants of the Company to respond to such inquiries, as shall be reasonably necessary (and in the case of counsel, not violate an attorney-client privilege, in such counsel's reasonable belief), in the judgment of legal counsel to the Holders (and legal counsel for such managing underwriter or underwriters), to conduct a reasonable investigation within the meaning of Section 11 of the Securities Act; , , that the foregoing inspection and information gathering on behalf of the Holders (and any managing underwriter or underwriters) shall be conducted by legal counsel to the Holders (and legal counsel to such managing underwriter or underwriters); and that each such party shall be required to maintain in confidence and not to disclose to any other Person any information or records reasonably designated by the Company as being confidential, until such time as (A) such information becomes a matter of public record (whether by virtue of its inclusion in the Registration Statement or in any other manner other than through the release of such information by any Person afforded access to such information pursuant hereto), or (B) such Person shall be required so to disclose such information pursuant to a subpoena or order of any court or other governmental agency or body having jurisdiction over the matter (subject to the requirements of such order, and only after such Person shall have given the Company prompt prior written notice of such requirement).
provided
however
provided
further
 
(m) The Holders may distribute the Registrable Securities by means of an underwritten offering; that (a) the Electing Holders provide written notice to the Company of their intention to distribute Registrable Securities by means of an underwritten offering, (b) the managing underwriter or underwriters thereof shall be designated by the Electing Holders (, , that such designated managing underwriter or underwriters shall be reasonably acceptable to the Company), (c) each Holder participating in such underwritten offering agrees to sell such Holder's Registrable Securities on the basis provided in any underwriting arrangements approved by the persons entitled selecting the managing underwriter or underwriters hereunder and (d) each Holder participating in such underwritten offering completes and executes all questionnaires, powers of attorney, indemnities, underwriting agreements and other documents reasonably required under the terms of such underwriting arrangements. The Company hereby agrees with each Holder that, in connection with any underwritten offering in accordance with the terms hereof, it will negotiate in good faith and execute all indemnities, underwriting agreements and other documents reasonably required under the terms of such underwriting arrangements, including using all commercially reasonable efforts to procure customary legal opinions and auditor "comfort" letters.
provided
provided
however
4. . All fees and expenses incident to the Company's performance of or compliance with its obligations under this Agreement (excluding any underwriting discounts and selling commissions, but including all legal fees and expenses of one legal counsel to the Holders) shall be borne by the Company whether or not any Registrable Securities are sold pursuant to a Registration Statement. The fees and expenses referred to in the foregoing sentence shall include, without limitation, (i) all registration and filing fees (including, without limitation, fees and expenses (A) with respect to filings required to be made with the Trading Market, and (B) in compliance with applicable state securities or Blue Sky laws), (ii) printing expenses (including, without limitation, expenses of printing certificates for Registrable Securities and of printing prospectuses if the printing of prospectuses is reasonably requested by the holders of a majority of the Registrable Securities included in the Registration Statement), (iii) messenger, telephone and delivery expenses, (iv) fees and disbursements of counsel for the Company, (v) Securities Act liability insurance, if the Company so desires such insurance, and (vi) fees and expenses of all other Persons retained by the Company in connection with the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. In addition, the Company shall be responsible for all of its internal expenses incurred in connection with the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement (including, without limitation, all salaries and expenses of its officers and employees performing legal or accounting duties), the expense of any annual audit and the fees and expenses incurred in connection with the listing of the Registrable Securities on any securities exchange as required hereunder.
Registration Expenses
5. .
Indemnification
(a) . The Company shall, notwithstanding any termination of this Agreement, indemnify and hold harmless each Holder and each underwriter, broker-dealer or selling agent, if any, which facilitates the disposition of Registrable Securities, the officers, directors, agents, partners, members, stockholders and employees of each of them, each Person who controls any such Holder, underwriter, broker-dealer or selling agent (within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act) and
Indemnification by the Company
 
the officers, directors, agents and employees of each such controlling Person, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, from and against any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities, costs (including, without limitation, reasonable costs of preparation and reasonable attorneys' fees) and expenses (collectively, ""), as incurred, arising out of or relating to any untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Registration Statement, any Prospectus or any form of prospectus (including, without limitation, any "issuer free writing prospectus" as defined in Rule 433) or in any amendment or supplement thereto or in any preliminary prospectus, or arising out of or relating to any omission or alleged omission of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein (in the case of any Prospectus or form of prospectus (including, without limitation, any "issuer free writing prospectus" as defined in Rule 433) or supplement thereto, in light of the circumstances under which they were made) not misleading, except to the extent, but only to the extent, that such untrue statements, alleged untrue statements, omissions or alleged omissions are based solely upon information regarding such Holder, underwriter, broker-dealer or selling agent furnished in writing to the Company by such Person expressly for use therein pursuant to Section 3(k). The Company shall notify the Holders promptly of the institution, threat or assertion of any Proceeding of which the Company is aware in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
Losses
(b) . Each Holder shall, notwithstanding any termination of this Agreement, severally and not jointly, indemnify and hold harmless the Company, its directors, officers, agents and employees, each Person who controls the Company (within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act and Section 20 of the Exchange Act), and the directors, officers, agents or employees of such controlling Persons, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, from and against all Losses, as incurred, arising solely out of or based solely upon any untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Registration Statement, any Prospectus, or any form of prospectus (including, without limitation, any "issuer free writing prospectus" as defined in Rule 433), or in any amendment or supplement thereto, or arising solely out of or based solely upon any omission of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein (in the case of any Prospectus, or any form of prospectus (including, without limitation, any "issuer free writing prospectus" as defined in Rule 433) or supplement thereto, in light of the circumstances under which they were made) not misleading to the extent, but only to the extent, that such untrue statements or omissions are based solely upon information regarding such Holder furnished in writing to the Company by such Holder expressly for use therein. In no event shall the liability of any selling Holder hereunder be greater in amount than the dollar amount of the net proceeds received by such Holder upon the sale of the Registrable Securities giving rise to such indemnification obligation.
Indemnification by Holders
(c) . If any Proceeding shall be brought or asserted against any Person entitled to indemnity hereunder (an ), such Indemnified Party shall promptly notify the Person from whom indemnity is sought (the ) in writing, and the Indemnifying Party shall assume the defense thereof, including the employment of counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Party and the payment of all fees and expenses incurred in connection with defense thereof; that the failure of any Indemnified Party to give such notice shall not relieve the Indemnifying Party of its obligations or liabilities pursuant to this Agreement, except (and only) to the extent that it
Conduct of Indemnification Proceedings
"Indemnified Party"
"Indemnifying Party"
provided,
 
shall be finally determined by a court of competent jurisdiction (which determination is not subject to appeal or further review) that such failure shall have proximately and materially adversely prejudiced the Indemnifying Party.
An Indemnified Party shall have the right to employ separate counsel in any such Proceeding and to participate in the defense thereof, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such Indemnified Party or Parties unless: (1) the Indemnifying Party has agreed in writing to pay such fees and expenses; (2) the Indemnifying Party shall have failed promptly to assume the defense of such Proceeding and to employ counsel reasonably satisfactory to such Indemnified Party in any such Proceeding; or (3) the named parties to any such Proceeding (including any impleaded parties) include both such Indemnified Party and the Indemnifying Party, and such Indemnified Party shall have been advised by counsel that a conflict of interest is likely to exist if the same counsel were to represent such Indemnified Party and the Indemnifying Party (in which case, if such Indemnified Party notifies the Indemnifying Party in writing that it elects to employ separate counsel at the expense of the Indemnifying Party, the Indemnifying Party shall not have the right to assume the defense thereof and such counsel shall be at the expense of the Indemnifying Party); that the Indemnifying Party shall not be liable for the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm of attorneys at any time for all Indemnified Parties. The Indemnifying Party shall not be liable for any settlement of any such Proceeding effected without its written consent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. No Indemnifying Party shall, without the prior written consent of the Indemnified Party, effect any settlement of any pending Proceeding in respect of which any Indemnified Party is a party, unless such settlement includes an unconditional release of such Indemnified Party from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such Proceeding.
provided
All fees and expenses of the Indemnified Party (including reasonable fees and expenses to the extent incurred in connection with investigating or preparing to defend such Proceeding in a manner not inconsistent with this Section) shall be paid to the Indemnified Party, as incurred, promptly upon receipt of written notice thereof to the Indemnifying Party (regardless of whether it is ultimately determined that an Indemnified Party is not entitled to indemnification hereunder; that the Indemnifying Party may require such Indemnified Party to undertake to reimburse all such fees and expenses to the extent it is finally judicially determined that such Indemnified Party is not entitled to indemnification hereunder).
provided
(d) . If a claim for indemnification under Section 5(a) or 5(b) is unavailable to an Indemnified Party (by reason of public policy or otherwise), then each Indemnifying Party, in lieu of indemnifying such Indemnified Party, shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such Indemnified Party as a result of such Losses, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative fault of the Indemnifying Party and Indemnified Party in connection with the actions, statements or omissions that resulted in such Losses as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative fault of such Indemnifying Party and Indemnified Party shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any action in question, including any untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission of a material fact, has been taken or made by, or relates to information supplied by, such Indemnifying Party or Indemnified Party, and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such action, statement or
Contribution
 
omission. The amount paid or payable by a party as a result of any Losses shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth in Section 5(c), any reasonable attorneys' or other reasonable fees or expenses incurred by such party in connection with any Proceeding to the extent such party would have been indemnified for such fees or expenses if the indemnification provided for in this Section was available to such party in accordance with its terms.
The parties hereto agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 5(d) were determined by pro rata allocation or by any other method of allocation that does not take into account the equitable considerations referred to in the immediately preceding paragraph. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 5(d), no Holder shall be required to contribute, in the aggregate, any amount in excess of the amount by which the proceeds actually received by such Holder from the sale of the Registrable Securities subject to the Proceeding exceeds the amount of any damages that such Holder has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.
The indemnity and contribution agreements contained in this Section are in addition to any liability that the Indemnifying Parties may have to the Indemnified Parties and are not in diminution or limitation of the indemnification provisions under the Purchase Agreement.
6. . To the extent it shall be required to do so under the Exchange Act, the Company shall timely file the reports required to be filed by it under the Exchange Act or the Securities Act (including the reports under Sections 13 and 15(d) of the Exchange Act referred to in subparagraph (c)(1) of Rule 144), and shall take such further action as any Holder may reasonably request, all to the extent required from time to time to enable the Holders to sell Registrable Securities without registration under the Securities Act within the limitations of the exemption provided by Rule 144. Upon the request of any Holder in connection with that holder's sale pursuant to Rule 144, the Company shall deliver to such Holder a written statement as to whether it has complied with such requirements.
Facilitation of Sales Pursuant to Rule 144
7. . To the extent that the Company exercises its right to exchange Preferred Stock constituting Registrable Securities for convertible debt securities of the Company in accordance with Section 9 of the Statement of Designations of the Preferred Stock, the Company shall enter into a new registration rights agreement with respect to such convertible debt securities and the shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion thereof, which agreement shall be in form and substance to be mutually agreed to by the majority of the Holders of the Preferred Stock constituting Registrable Securities and the Company, but consistent with the terms of this Agreement.
Agreement in Respect of Registration Rights Upon Exchange of Preferred Stock
 
8.
Miscellaneous
(a) . In the event of a breach by the Company or by a Holder, of any of their obligations under this Agreement, each Holder or the Company, as the case may be, in addition to being entitled to exercise all rights granted by law and under this Agreement, including recovery of damages, will be entitled to specific performance of its rights under this Agreement. The Company and each Holder agree that monetary damages would not provide adequate compensation for any losses incurred by reason of a breach by it of any of the provisions of this Agreement and hereby further agrees that, in the event of any action for specific performance in respect of such breach, it shall waive the defense that a remedy at law would be adequate.
Remedies
(b) . Each Holder covenants and agrees that it will comply with the prospectus delivery requirements of the Securities Act as applicable to it in connection with sales of Registrable Securities pursuant to the Registration Statement.
Compliance
(c) . Each Holder agrees by its acquisition of such Registrable Securities that, upon receipt of a notice from the Company of the occurrence of any event of the kind described in Section 3(d), such Holder shall forthwith discontinue disposition of such Registrable Securities under the Registration Statement until such Holder's receipt of the copies of the supplemented Prospectus and/or amended Registration Statement or until it is advised in writing by the Company that the use of the applicable Prospectus may be resumed, and, in either case, has received copies of any additional or supplemental filings that are incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference in such Prospectus or Registration Statement. The Company may provide appropriate stop orders to enforce the provisions of this paragraph.
Discontinued Disposition
(d) . No provision of this Agreement may be waived or amended except in a written instrument signed by the Company and the Electing Holders. The Company shall provide prior notice to all Holders of any proposed waiver or amendment. No waiver of any default with respect to any provision, condition or requirement of this Agreement shall be deemed to be a continuing waiver in the future or a waiver of any subsequent default or a waiver of any other provision, condition or requirement hereof, nor shall any delay or omission of either party to exercise any right hereunder in any manner impair the exercise of any such right.
Amendments and Waivers
(e) . Any and all notices or other communications or deliveries required or permitted to be provided hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed given and effective on the earliest of (i) the date of transmission, if such notice or communication is delivered via facsimile or electronic mail as specified in this Section prior to 5:00 p.m. (New York time) on a Business Day, (ii) the Business Day after the date of transmission, if such notice or communication is delivered via facsimile or electronic mail as specified in this Agreement later than 5:00 p.m. (New York time) on any date and earlier than 11:59 p.m. (New York time) on such date, (iii) the Business Day following the date of mailing, if sent by nationally recognized overnight courier service, or (iv) upon actual receipt by the party to whom such notice is required to be given. The address for such notices and communications shall be as follows:
Notices
 
or such other address as may be designated in writing hereafter, in the same manner, by such Person.
(f) . This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the successors and permitted assigns of each of the parties and shall inure to the benefit of each Holder. The Company may not assign its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of the Electing Holders.
Successors and Assigns
(g) . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and, all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same Agreement. In the event that any signature is delivered by facsimile or electronic mail transmission, such signature shall create a valid binding obligation of the party executing (or on whose behalf such signature is executed) the same with the same force and effect as if such signature delivered by facsimile or electronic mail transmission were the original thereof.
Execution and Counterparts
 
(h) . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law
(i) . The Company and the Purchasers each irrevocably and unconditionally submits, for itself and its property, to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York sitting in New York County and of the United States District Court of the Southern District of New York, and any appellate court from any thereof, in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement, or for the recognition or enforcement of any judgment, and each of the parties hereto irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that all claims in respect of any such action or proceeding may be heard and determined in such New York State court or, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, in such federal court. Each of the parties hereto agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by law.
Submission to Jurisdiction
(j) . The parties hereto each irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, (i) any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement in any court referred to in Section 8(i) and (ii) the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of such action or proceeding in any such court.
Waiver of Venue
(k) . The remedies provided herein are cumulative and not exclusive of any remedies provided by law.
Cumulative Remedies
(l) . If any term, provision, covenant or restriction of this Agreement is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, illegal, void or unenforceable, the remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions set forth herein shall remain in full force and effect and shall in no way be affected, impaired or invalidated, and the parties hereto shall use their reasonable efforts to find and employ an alternative means to achieve the same or substantially the same result as that contemplated by such term, provision, covenant or restriction. It is hereby stipulated and declared to be the intention of the parties that they would have executed the remaining terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions without including any of such that may be hereafter declared invalid, illegal, void or unenforceable.
Severability
(m) . This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties hereto pertaining to the subject matter hereof, and supersedes all other prior agreements and understandings, both written and oral, between the parties, with respect to the subject matter hereof.
Entire Agreement
(n) . The headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning hereof.
Headings
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Registration Rights Agreement as of the date first written above.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Registration Rights Agreement as of the date first written above.
 
The Selling Stockholders and any of their pledgees, donees, transferees, assignees or other successors-in-interest may, from time to time, sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of any or all of their shares of Common Stock or Preferred Stock ("") or interests in Shares on any stock exchange, market or trading facility on which the Shares are traded or in private transactions. These dispositions may be at fixed prices, at prevailing market prices at the time of sale, at prices related to the prevailing market price, at varying prices determined at the time of sale, or at negotiated prices. The Selling Stockholders may use one or more of the following methods when disposing of the Shares or interests therein:
Shares
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Selling Stockholders may also sell Shares under Rule 144 under the Securities Act, if available, rather than under this prospectus.
Broker-dealers engaged by the Selling Stockholders may arrange for other broker-dealers to participate in sales. Broker-dealers may receive commissions or discounts from the Selling Stockholders (or, if any broker-dealer acts as agent for the purchaser of Shares, from the purchaser) in amounts to be negotiated. The Selling Stockholders do not expect these commissions and discounts to exceed what is customary in the types of transactions involved.
 
The Selling Stockholders may from time to time pledge or grant a security interest in some or all of the Shares owned by them and, if they default in the performance of their secured obligations, the pledgees or secured parties may offer and sell Shares from time to time under this prospectus, or under an amendment to this prospectus under Rule 424(b)(3) or other applicable provision of the Securities Act of 1933 amending the list of selling stockholders to include the pledgee, transferee or other successors in interest as selling stockholders under this prospectus.
Upon the Company being notified in writing by a Selling Stockholder that any material arrangement has been entered into with a broker-dealer for the sale of Shares through a block trade, special offering, exchange distribution or secondary distribution or a purchase by a broker or dealer, a supplement to this prospectus will be filed, if required, pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act, disclosing (i) the name of each such Selling Stockholder and of the participating broker-dealer(s), (ii) the number of Shares involved, (iii) the price at which such Shares were sold, (iv) the commissions paid or discounts or concessions allowed to such broker-dealer(s), where applicable, (v) that such broker-dealer(s) did not conduct any investigation to verify the information set out or incorporated by reference in this prospectus, and (vi) other facts material to the transaction. In addition, upon the Company being notified in writing by a Selling Stockholder that a donee or pledge intends to sell more than 500 Shares, a supplement to this prospectus will be filed if then required in accordance with applicable securities law.
The Selling Stockholders also may transfer the Shares in other circumstances, in which case the transferees, pledgees or other successors in interest will be the selling beneficial owners for purposes of this prospectus.
In connection with the sale of Shares or interests in Shares, the Selling Stockholders may enter into hedging transactions with broker-dealers or other financial institutions, which may in turn engage in short sales of the Common Stock in the course of hedging the positions they assume. The Selling Stockholders may also sell shares of Common Stock short and deliver these securities to close out their short positions, or loan or pledge the Common Stock to broker-dealers that in turn may sell these securities. The Selling Stockholders may also enter into option or other transactions with broker-dealers or other financial institutions or the creation of one or more derivative securities which require the delivery to such broker-dealer or other financial institution of Shares offered by this prospectus, which Shares such broker-dealer or other financial institution may resell pursuant to this prospectus (as supplemented or amended to reflect such transaction).
The Selling Stockholders may enter into derivative transactions with third parties, or sell securities not covered by this prospectus to third parties in privately negotiated transactions. If the applicable prospectus supplement indicates, in connection with those derivatives, the third parties may sell securities covered by this prospectus and the applicable prospectus supplement, including in short sale transactions. If so, the third party may use securities pledged by the Selling Stockholders or borrowed from the Selling Stockholders or others to settle those sales or
 
to close out any related open borrowings of stock, and may use securities received from the Selling Stockholders in settlement of those derivatives to close out any related open borrowings of stock. The third party in such sale transactions will be an underwriter and, if not identified in this prospectus, will be identified in the applicable prospectus supplement (or a post-effective amendment).
The Company has advised the Selling Stockholders that they are required to comply with Regulation M promulgated under the Securities and Exchange Act during such time as they may be engaged in a distribution of the Shares. The foregoing may affect the marketability of the Shares.
The Company is required to pay all fees and expenses incident to the registration of the Shares. The Company has agreed to indemnify the Selling Stockholders against certain losses, claims, damages and liabilities, including liabilities under the Securities Act or otherwise.
The Company has agreed with the Selling Stockholders to keep the registration statement of which this prospectus constitutes a part effective until such time as all of the securities covered by this prospectus (i) have been disposed of pursuant to and in accordance with the registration statement or in compliance with Rule 144 of the Securities Act or (ii) are eligible to be sold by the holder thereof without any volume or manner of sale restrictions pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act, bear no legend restricting the transfer thereof and bear an unrestricted CUSIP number (if held in global form).
 

Exhibit 4.2
 
 
INCORPORATED UNDER THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF TEXAS, THIS CERTIFIES THAT IS THE OWNER OF SHARES OF SERIES A 8.00% REDEEMABLE CONVERTIBLE EXCHANGEABLE PARTICIPATING PREFERRED STOCK,
                                                         
                        
PAR VALUE ONE CENT ($0.01) PER SHARE, OF WHOLE FOODS MARKET, INC. (hereinafter called the "") transferable on the books of the Company in person or by duly authorized attorney upon surrender of this Certificate, properly endorsed. This Certificate and the shares represented hereby are issued and shall be held subject to all the provisions of the Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company and the amendments from time to time made thereto and the Statement of Designations related to the Series A 8.00% Redeemable Convertible Exchangeable Participating Preferred Stock, copies of which are filed with the Texas Secretary of State as part of the Company's Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation and are or will be on file at the principal office of the Company, which the Company will furnish to the record holder of this Certificate free of charge upon a written request sent to the Company's principal office, to all of which the holder by acceptance hereof assents.
Company
WITNESS the facsimile seal of the Company and the facsimile signatures of its duly authorized officers.
Dated:
                        
 
THIS SECURITY WAS ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN A TRANSACTION EXEMPT FROM REGISTRATION UNDER THE UNITED STATES SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED, (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), AND THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR AN APPLICABLE EXEMPTION THEREFROM. THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY AGREES FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE COMPANY THAT (A) THIS SECURITY MAY BE OFFERED, RESOLD, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED, ONLY (I) IN A TRANSACTION NOT INVOLVING A PUBLIC OFFERING, (II) PURSUANT TO ANY OTHER EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT, INCLUDING RULE 144 UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT (IF AVAILABLE), (III) PURSUANT TO AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION STATEMENT UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OR (IV) TO THE COMPANY OR ANY OF ITS SUBSIDIARIES, IN EACH OF CASES (I) THROUGH (IV) IN ACCORDANCE WITH ANY APPLICABLE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE OF THE UNITED STATES, AND (B) THE HOLDER WILL NOTIFY ANY SUBSEQUENT PURCHASER OF THIS SECURITY FROM IT OF THE RESALE RESTRICTIONS REFERRED TO IN (A) ABOVE. THIS SECURITY MAY ONLY BE TRANSFERRED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE TERMS OF THE SECURITIES PURCHASE AGREEMENT, DATED AS OF NOVEMBER 5, 2008, AMONG WHOLE FOODS MARKET, INC., GREEN EQUITY INVESTORS V, L.P. AND THE OTHER INVESTORS IDENTIFIED THEREIN.
The Company will furnish without charge to each stockholder who so requests, a statement of the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights of each class of stock or series thereof of the Company and the qualifications, limitations, or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights.
The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of this certificate, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations:
 
Additional Abbreviations may also be used though not in the above list.
For value received, hereby sell, assign and transfer unto
                                                 
 
 
to transfer the said Shares on the books of the within named Company will full power of substitution in the premises.
Dated
                        
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
 
This Securities Purchase Agreement (this "") is made as of the 5th day of November, 2008, among , a Texas corporation (the ""), and , a Delaware limited partnership, and , a Delaware limited partnership (each, an "" and, collectively, the ""; the Investors together with any assignee or transferee of the Series A Preferred Stock (as defined below) in accordance with the terms hereof, the "").
Agreement
WHOLE FOODS MARKET, INC.
Company
GREEN EQUITY INVESTORS V, L.P.
GREEN EQUITY INVESTORS SIDE V, L.P.
Investor
Investors
Holders
WHEREAS, the Company wants to sell, and the Investors want to buy, shares of the Company's Series A Preferred Stock, on the terms and conditions contained herein;
WHEREAS, in connection with such sale and purchase, the Company is willing to make certain representations and warranties and to agree to observe certain covenants set forth herein for the benefit of the Investors, and the Investors will rely on such representations, warranties and covenants as a material inducement to their purchase of the Series A Preferred Stock;
WHEREAS, in connection with such sale and purchase, the Investors are willing to make certain representations and warranties and to agree to observe certain covenants set forth herein for the benefit of the Company, and the Company will rely on such representations, warranties and covenants as a material inducement to its sale of the Series A Preferred Stock; and
WHEREAS, in connection with such sale and purchase, the Company is willing to grant certain rights of first offer as set forth herein and the Investors will rely on such rights as a material inducement to the purchase of the Series A Preferred Stock;
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and of the respective representations, warranties, covenants and conditions contained herein, the parties hereto agree as follows:
1. .
Purchase and Sale of Stock
1.1 .
Sale and Issuance of Series A Preferred Stock
(a) The Company shall adopt and file with the Secretary of State of the State of Texas on or before the Closing (as defined below in Section 1.2) the Statement of Designations of the Series A Preferred Stock (as defined below) in the form attached hereto as (the "").
Exhibit A
Statement of Designations
(b) Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, each Investor agrees, severally and not jointly, to purchase at the Closing, and the Company agrees, severally and not jointly, to sell and issue to the Investors at the Closing, that number of shares of the Company's Series A 8.00% Redeemable Convertible
 
Exchangeable Participating Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share (the ""), set forth opposite such Investor's name on hereto, at a purchase price of $1,000.00 per share. The shares of Series A Preferred Stock to be issued and sold by the Company to the Investors pursuant to this Agreement are collectively referred to herein as the "." The Series A Preferred Stock and the Shares will have the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions set forth in the Statement of Designations.
Series A Preferred Stock
Schedule A
Shares
1.2 . The consummation of the purchase and sale of the Shares and other transactions contemplated hereby (the "") shall take place at the offices of Dechert LLP, 1775 I Street, NW, Washington, D.C. 20006, at 10:00 a.m. New York City time, as promptly as practicable (but no more than three (3) business days) following the first date on which all conditions set forth in Sections 4 and 5 hereof have been satisfied or waived (other than those conditions that by their nature are to be satisfied by actions taken at the Closing), or at such other time and place as the Company and the Investors shall mutually agree. At the Closing, the Company shall deliver to the Investors a certificate or certificates representing that number of Shares set forth in Section 1.1(b) of this Agreement against payment of the purchase price therefor by wire transfer of immediately available funds or such other form of payment as may be approved by the Company's Board of Directors (the ""). At the Closing, the Investors and the Company shall execute and deliver the Registration Rights Agreement of even date herewith between the Company and the Investors, the form of which is attached hereto as (the "").
Closing
Closing
Board
Exhibit B
Registration Rights Agreement
2. . The Company hereby represents and warrants to the Investors as of the date hereof that, except (x) as otherwise disclosed or incorporated by reference in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2007 or its other reports and forms filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") under Sections 12, 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "") after September 30, 2007 (excluding disclosures of risks included in any forward-looking statement disclaimers or other statements that are similarly nonspecific and are predictive and forward-looking in nature) and before the date of this Agreement (all such reports covered by this clause (x) collectively, the "") and (y) as set forth in the disclosure letter dated as of the date hereof provided to the Investors separately, specifically identifying the relevant subparagraph(s) hereof (, that disclosure in any subparagraph of such disclosure letter shall apply to any section or subparagraph hereof to the extent it is reasonably apparent on its face that such disclosure is relevant to such section or subparagraph of this Agreement) (certain capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined in this Agreement have the respective meanings set forth in hereto):
Representations and Warranties of the Company
Commission
Exchange Act
SEC Reports
provided
Exhibit C
2.1 . Each of the Company and its Subsidiaries is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the state of its incorporation; has all corporate power and authority to own its properties and conduct its business as presently conducted; and is duly qualified to do business and in good standing in each and every state in the United States of America where its business requires such qualification, except where failure to qualify would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. True and accurate copies of the Company's Restated Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, each as amended and in effect as of the date hereof, have been made available to the Investors.
Organization, Good Standing and Qualification
 
2.2 .
Financial Statements
(a) The financial statements of the Company and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis for each of the periods included or incorporated by reference in the SEC Reports fairly present in all material respects, in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, the financial condition and the results of operations of the Company and its Subsidiaries as of the dates and for the periods indicated (subject, in the case of unaudited quarterly statements, to normal year-end adjustments).
(b) The Company and its Subsidiaries do not have any liabilities or obligations that would be required under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, as in effect on the date of this Agreement, to be reflected on a consolidated balance sheet of the Company (accrued, absolute, contingent or otherwise), other than liabilities or obligations (i) reflected on, reserved against, or disclosed in the notes to, the Company's consolidated balance sheet included in the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2008, (ii) that were incurred in the ordinary course of business and would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, or (iii) that were not incurred in the ordinary course of business and do not exceed $20,000,000 in the aggregate.
(c) The Company and its Subsidiaries do not have any liabilities or obligations (accrued, absolute, contingent or otherwise), other than liabilities or obligations (i) reflected on, reserved against, or disclosed in the notes to, the Company's consolidated balance sheet included in the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2008, (ii) that were incurred in the ordinary course of business and would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, or (iii) that were not incurred in the ordinary course of business and do not exceed $20,000,000 in the aggregate.
2.3 .
Authorization; Enforceable Agreement
(a) All corporate action on the part of the Company, its officers, directors, and shareholders necessary for the authorization, execution, and delivery of this Agreement and the Registration Rights Agreement, the performance of all obligations of the Company hereunder and thereunder, and the authorization, issuance (or reservation for issuance), sale, and delivery of the Shares being sold hereunder (and the shares of Series A Preferred Stock issuable in respect of dividends thereon from time to time in accordance with the terms of the Statement of Designations) and the Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Shares has been taken, and this Agreement and the Registration Rights Agreement, when executed and delivered, assuming due authorization, execution and delivery by the Investors, constitutes and will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company, enforceable in accordance with their respective terms, subject to: (i) laws limiting the availability of specific
 
performance, injunctive relief, and other equitable remedies; (ii) bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws now or hereafter in effect generally relating to or affecting creditors' rights generally; and (iii) limitations on the enforceability of indemnification provisions contained in the Registration Rights Agreement (the ""). The sale of the Shares is not, and the subsequent conversion of the Shares into Common Stock will not be, subject to any preemptive rights or rights of first offer.
Enforceability Exceptions
(b) On or prior to the date hereof, the Board has duly adopted resolutions (i) evidencing its determination that as of the date hereof this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby are fair to and in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders, (ii) approving this Agreement, the Registration Rights Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby, (iii) declaring this Agreement and the issuance and sale of the Shares advisable and (iv) adopting the Statement of Designations, and, as of the date hereof, such resolutions have not been rescinded, modified or withdrawn in any way. The Company has taken all actions necessary or appropriate to ensure that the restrictions on business combinations contained in Article 13.03.A of the Texas Business Corporation Act and Section 21.606 of the Texas Business Organizations Code will not apply with respect to or as a result of this Agreement, the Statement of Designations, the Registration Rights Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby, including the issuance of Common Stock upon conversion of the Shares, without any further action on the part of the shareholders or the Board. True and complete copies of all resolutions of the Board reflecting such actions have been previously provided to the Investors. No provision of the Articles of Incorporation or the Bylaws of the Company would, directly or indirectly, restrict or impair the ability of the Investors to vote, or otherwise to exercise the rights of a shareholder with respect to, the Shares (or any shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Shares) or any other shares of the Company that may be acquired or controlled by the Investors.
2.4 . Neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries is, immediately prior to this Agreement, or will be, at the time of the Closing after giving effect thereto, in default in the payment of any Indebtedness or in default under any agreement relating to its material Indebtedness or under any mortgage, deed of trust, security agreement or lease to which it is a party.
Indebtedness
2.5 . There is no action, suit, proceeding or investigation pending or, to the Knowledge of the Company, overtly threatened against, nor any outstanding judgment, order or decree against, the Company or any of its Subsidiaries before or by any Governmental Authority or arbitral body which in the aggregate have, or if adversely determined, would reasonably be expected to have, a Material Adverse Effect. Neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries is in default with respect to any judgment, order or decree of any Governmental Authority in a materially adverse manner. The Company is not a party or subject to, and none of its assets is bound by, the provisions of any material order, writ, injunction, judgment, or decree of any court or government agency or instrumentality. There is no material action, suit, or proceeding by the Company currently pending or that the Company intends to initiate.
Litigation
 
2.6 . Each of the Company and its Subsidiaries has good and marketable title to its Property that is real property and good and valid title to all of its other Property (other than negligible assets not material to the operations of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries), free and clear of all Liens except for Incidental Liens, except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the ability of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to conduct their businesses in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practices.
Title
2.7 . Each of the Company and its Subsidiaries has filed all tax returns required to have been filed and paid all taxes shown thereon to be due, except those for which extensions have been obtained and except for those which are being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings and in respect of which adequate reserves with respect thereto are maintained in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Taxes
2.8 . As of the date hereof, the Company has no Subsidiaries other than as listed in the SEC Reports.
Subsidiaries
2.9 . No consent, approval, order, or authorization of, or registration, qualification, declaration, or filing with, any federal, state, or local governmental authority on the part of the Company is required in connection with the offer, sale, or issuance of the Shares (and the Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Shares) or the consummation of any other transaction contemplated hereby, except for the following: (i) the filing of the Statement of Designations in the office of the Secretary of State of the State of Texas, which will be filed by the Company prior to the Closing; (ii) the compliance with other applicable state securities laws, which compliance will have occurred within the appropriate time periods therefor; (iii) the notification of the issuance and sale of the Shares to NASDAQ in accordance with the NASDAQ Rule 4310(c)(17)(B); (iv) the compliance with the applicable requirements of the Hart-Scott-Rodino-Antitrust Improvements Acts of 1976 (the ); and (v) the filing with the Commission of such reports under the Exchange Act as may be required in connection with this Agreement and the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. Assuming that the representations of the Investors set forth in Section 3 below are true and correct, the offer, sale, and issuance of the Shares in conformity with the terms of this Agreement are exempt from the registration requirements of Section 5 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), and all applicable state securities laws, and neither the Company nor any authorized agent acting on its behalf will take any action hereafter that would cause the loss of such exemptions.
Governmental Consents
"
HSR Act
"
Securities Act
2.10 . The Company and each of its Subsidiaries possess all permits and licenses of Governmental Authorities that are required to conduct its business, except for such permits or licenses the absence of which would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the ability of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to conduct their businesses in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practices.
Permits and Licenses
2.11 . No Reportable Event (as defined in Section 4043(c) of ERISA but excluding those events as to which the 30-day notice period is waived by applicable
ERISA
 
regulations) has occurred with respect to any Plan. Each Plan complies in all material respects with all applicable provisions of ERISA, and the Company and each of its Subsidiaries have filed all reports required by ERISA and the Code to be filed with any Governmental Agency with respect to each Plan. The Company has no Knowledge of any event which would reasonably be expected to result in a liability of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation other than for applicable premiums. No event has occurred and no condition exists that might reasonably be expected to constitute grounds for a Plan to be terminated under circumstances which would cause the lien provided under Section 4068 of ERISA to attach to any Property of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries. No event has occurred and no condition exists that might reasonably be expected to cause the lien provided under Section 303 of ERISA or Section 430 of the Code to attach to any Property of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries.
2.12 . The Shares being purchased by the Investors hereunder, when issued, sold, and delivered in accordance with the terms of this Agreement for the consideration expressed herein, will be duly and validly issued, fully paid, and nonassessable, and will be free of restrictions on transfer other than restrictions under this Agreement and under applicable state and federal securities laws. The Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Shares purchased under this Agreement has been duly and validly reserved for issuance and, upon issuance in accordance with the terms of the Statement of Designations, will be duly and validly issued, fully paid, and nonassessable and will be free of restrictions on transfer other than restrictions on transfer under this Agreement and the Registration Rights Agreement and under applicable state and federal securities laws.
Valid Issuance of Preferred and Common Stock
2.13 . The authorized capital stock of the Company consists of 300,000,000 shares of Common Stock, with no par value (""), of which 140,285,553 were issued and outstanding as of September 28, 2008, and 5,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock (""), par value $0.01, none of which are issued and outstanding (excluding the Shares to be issued to the Investors pursuant to this Agreement). Each Share initially will be convertible into 68.9655 shares of Common Stock per $1,000 of accrued liquidation preference of the Series A Preferred Stock, subject to anti-dilution adjustments, all as set forth in the Statement of Designations. As of the close of business of September 28, 2008, the Company has reserved an aggregate of 58,600,000 shares of Common Stock for issuance to employees and consultants pursuant to the Company's 2007 Stock Incentive Plan, under which (i) 36,644,871 shares have been issued and are reflected in the currently outstanding Common Stock, (ii) options to purchase 17,417,741 shares are presently outstanding and (iii) 4,537,388 shares remain available for future grant. As of the close of business of September 28, 2008, the Company has reserved an aggregate of 800,000 shares of Common Stock for issuance to employees and consultants pursuant to the Company's Team Member Stock Purchase Plan, under which (i) 614,777 shares have been issued and are reflected in the currently outstanding Common Stock, (ii) no options to purchase shares are presently outstanding and (iii) 185,223 shares remain available for future grant. As of the close of business of September 28, 2008, the Company has reserved an aggregate of 6,571,413 shares of Common Stock for issuance upon conversion of its Zero Coupon Convertible Subordinated Debentures due 2018 (the ""), of which 6,479,994 shares have been issued upon conversion of Convertible Debentures and are reflected in the currently outstanding Common Stock, and the remaining outstanding Convertible Debentures are entitled to convert
Capitalization
Common Stock
Preferred Stock
Convertible Debentures
 
into 91,419 shares. All issued and outstanding shares have been duly authorized and validly issued and are fully paid and nonassessable. The Company will reserve that number of shares of Common Stock sufficient for issuance upon conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock being issued and sold pursuant to this Agreement. Other than as provided in this Agreement and the Registration Rights Agreement, there are no other outstanding rights, options, warrants, preemptive rights, rights of first offer, or similar rights for the purchase or acquisition from the Company of any securities of the Company, nor are there any commitments to issue or execute any such rights, options, warrants, preemptive rights or rights of first offer. Except as otherwise provided in the Statement of Designations, there are no outstanding rights or obligations of the Company to repurchase or redeem any of its securities. The respective rights, preferences, privileges, and restrictions of the Preferred Stock and the Common Stock are as stated in the Statement of Designations and the Company's Restated Articles of Incorporation. All outstanding securities have been issued in compliance with state and federal securities laws.
2.14 . Neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries is an investment company within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or, directly or indirectly, controlled by or acting on behalf of any Person which is an investment company, within the meaning of said Act.
Investment Company Act
2.15 . The Company is not in violation or default of any provision of its Restated Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws, each as amended and in effect as of the Closing. The execution, delivery, and performance of and compliance with this Agreement and the Registration Rights Agreement and the issuance and sale of the Shares will not (x) result in any default or violation of the Company's Restated Articles of Incorporation (including the Statement of Designations) or Bylaws, (y) result in any default or violation of any agreement relating to its material Indebtedness or under any mortgage, deed of trust, security agreement or lease to which it is a party or in any default or violation of any material judgment, order or decree of any Governmental Authority, or (z) be in conflict with or constitute, with or without the passage of time or giving of notice, a default under any such provision, require any consent or waiver under any such provision, or result in the creation of any mortgage, pledge, lien, encumbrance, or charge upon any of the properties or assets of the Company pursuant to any such provision, or the suspension, revocation, impairment or forfeiture of any material permit, license, authorization, or approval applicable to the Company, its business or operations, or any of its assets or properties pursuant to any such provision.
Compliance with Other Instruments
2.16 . No activity of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries requires any Environmental Permit which has not been obtained and which is not now in full force and effect, except to the extent failure to have any such Environmental Permit would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. The Company and its Subsidiaries are and have been in compliance with all applicable Requirements of Environmental Law and Environmental Permits including applicable limitations, restrictions, conditions, standards, prohibitions, requirements, obligations, schedules and timetables contained in any applicable Requirement of Environmental Law or Environmental Permit, except where failure to be in such compliance would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. The Company and its Subsidiaries (i) including with respect to their Property are not subject to any (A) Environmental Claims or (B) Environmental Liabilities, in either case arising from or based upon any act, omission, event, condition or circumstance occurring or existing on or prior to the
Environmental Matters
 
date hereof which would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, and (ii) have not received individually or collectively any written notice of any violation or alleged violation of any Requirements of Environmental Law or Environmental Permit or any Environmental Claim in connection with their respective Property which would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. To the Knowledge of the Company, the present and future liability (including any Environmental Liability and any other damage to Persons or Property), if any, of the Company and with respect to the Property of any of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries which is reasonably expected to arise in connection with Requirements of Environmental Law, Environmental Permits and other environmental matters will not have a Material Adverse Effect on the Company and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.
2.17 . Neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries is in material violation of any applicable federal, state, local, foreign or other law, statute, regulation, rule, ordinance, code, convention, directive, order, judgment or other legal requirement (collectively, "") of any Governmental Authority, except where such violation would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the ability of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to conduct their businesses in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practices. To the Knowledge of the Company, neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries is being investigated with respect to, or been overtly threatened to be charged with or given notice of any violation of, any applicable Law, except for such of the foregoing as would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the ability of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to conduct their businesses in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practices.
Compliance with Laws
Laws
2.18 . Since September 30, 2007 and except as described in the SEC Reports, no event or circumstance has occurred that, individually or in the aggregate, has had or would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
No Material Adverse Effect
2.19 . Except as provided in the Registration Rights Agreement, (i) the Company has not granted or agreed to grant, and is not under any obligation to provide, any rights to register under the Securities Act any of its presently outstanding securities or any of its securities that may be issued subsequently, and (ii) to the Company's Knowledge, no shareholder of the Company has entered into any agreement with respect to the voting of equity securities of the Company.
Registration Rights; Voting Rights
2.20 .
Reports
(a) Since September 30, 2006, the Company has timely filed all documents required to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Sections 13(a), 14(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, except where the failure to so file would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
(b) The SEC Reports, when they became effective or were filed with the Commission, as the case may be, complied as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, as applicable, and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder, in each case as in effect at
 
such time, and none of such documents contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make such statements, in the light of the circumstances in which they were made, not misleading.
(c) The Company (i) has implemented and maintains disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Exchange Act) that are reasonably designed to ensure that material information relating to the Company, including its consolidated Subsidiaries, is made known to the individuals responsible for the preparation of the Company's filings with the Commission and other public disclosure documents, and (ii) has disclosed, based on its most recent evaluation prior to the date hereof, to the Company's outside auditors and the audit committee of the Company's board of directors (A) any significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal controls over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act) that are reasonably likely to adversely affect the Company's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information and (B) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the Company's internal controls over financial reporting. As of the date hereof, to the Knowledge of the Company, there is no reason that its outside auditors and its chief executive officer and chief financial officer will not be able to give the certifications and attestations required pursuant to the rules and regulations adopted pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, without qualification, when next due.
2.21 . The Company is not party to any contract, agreement, arrangement or other understanding, oral or written, express or implied, and is not subject to any provision in its Restated Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws or other governing documents or resolutions of the Board, that could restrict, limit, prohibit or prevent the Company's ability to pay dividends in full in cash on the Shares in the amounts contemplated by the Statement of Designations for a period of one year from and after the Closing.
No Restriction on Ability to Pay Cash Dividends
3. . Each Investor hereby represents and warrants as of the date hereof as follows:
Representations and Warranties of the Investors
3.1 .
Private Placement
(a) Such Investor is (i) an "accredited investor" within the meaning of Rule 501 of Regulation D promulgated under the Securities Act; (ii) aware that the sale of the Shares (collectively, including the Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Shares, the "") to it is being made in reliance on a private placement exemption from registration under the Securities Act and (iii) acquiring the Securities for its own account.
Securities
(b) Such Investor understands and agrees that the Securities are being offered in a transaction not involving any public offering within the meaning of the Securities Act, that such Securities have not been and, except as contemplated by the Registration Rights Agreement, will not be registered under the Securities Act and that
 
such Securities may be offered, resold, pledged or otherwise transferred only (i) in a transaction not involving a public offering, (ii) pursuant to an exemption from registration under the Securities Act provided by Rule 144 thereunder (if available), (iii) pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, or (iv) to the Company or one of its subsidiaries, in each of cases (i) through (iv) in accordance with any applicable securities laws of any State of the United States, and that it will notify any subsequent purchaser of Securities from it of the resale restrictions referred to above, as applicable.
(c) Such Investor understands that, unless sold pursuant to a registration statement that has been declared effective under the Securities Act or in compliance with Rule 144 thereunder, the Company may require that the Securities will bear a legend or other restriction substantially to the following effect (it being agreed that if the Securities are not certificated, other appropriate restrictions shall be implemented to give effect to the following):
"THIS SECURITY WAS ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN A TRANSACTION EXEMPT FROM REGISTRATION UNDER THE UNITED STATES SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED, (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), AND THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR AN APPLICABLE EXEMPTION THEREFROM. THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY AGREES FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE COMPANY THAT (A) THIS SECURITY MAY BE OFFERED, RESOLD, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED, ONLY (I) IN A TRANSACTION NOT INVOLVING A PUBLIC OFFERING, (II) PURSUANT TO ANY OTHER EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT, INCLUDING RULE 144 UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT (IF AVAILABLE), (III) PURSUANT TO AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION STATEMENT UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OR (IV) TO THE COMPANY OR ANY OF ITS SUBSIDIARIES, IN EACH OF CASES (I) THROUGH (IV) IN ACCORDANCE WITH ANY APPLICABLE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE OF THE UNITED STATES, AND (B) THE HOLDER WILL NOTIFY ANY SUBSEQUENT PURCHASER OF THIS SECURITY FROM IT OF THE RESALE RESTRICTIONS REFERRED TO IN (A) ABOVE. THIS SECURITY MAY ONLY BE TRANSFERRED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE TERMS OF THE SECURITIES PURCHASE AGREEMENT, DATED AS OF NOVEMBER 5, 2008, AMONG WHOLE FOODS MARKET, INC., GREEN EQUITY INVESTORS V, L.P. AND THE OTHER INVESTORS IDENTIFIED THEREIN."
 
(d) Such Investor:
(i) is able to fend for itself in the transactions contemplated hereby;
(ii) has such knowledge and experience in financial and business matters as to be capable of evaluating the merits and risks of its prospective investment in the Securities; and
(iii) has the ability to bear the economic risks of its prospective investment and can afford the complete loss of such investment.
(e) Such Investor acknowledges that (a) it has conducted its own investigation of the Company and the terms of the Securities, (b) it has had access to the Company's public filings with the Commission and to such financial and other information as it deems necessary to make its decision to purchase the Securities, and (c) has been offered the opportunity to conduct such review and analysis of the business, assets, condition, operations and prospects of the Company and its Subsidiaries and to ask questions of the Company and received answers thereto, each as it deemed necessary in connection with the decision to purchase the Securities. Each Investor further acknowledges that it has had such opportunity to consult with its own counsel, financial and tax advisors and other professional advisers as it believes is sufficient for purposes of the purchase of the Securities. The foregoing, however, does not limit or modify the representations and warranties of the Company in Section 2 of this Agreement or the right of the Investors to rely thereon.
(f) Such Investor understands that the Company will rely upon the truth and accuracy of the foregoing representations, acknowledgements and agreements.
(g) Except for the representations and warranties contained in Section 2 of this Agreement, each Investor acknowledges that neither the Company nor any Person on behalf of the Company makes, and such Investor has not relied upon, any other express or implied representation or warranty with respect to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or with respect to any other information provided to the Investors in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
3.2 . Such Investor has been duly organized and is validly existing as a limited partnership under the laws of the State of Delaware.
Organization
3.3 . Such Investor has full right, power, authority and capacity to enter into this Agreement and the Registration Rights Agreement and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby and has taken all necessary action to authorize the execution, delivery and performance hereof and thereof.
Power and Authority
 
3.4 .
Authorization; Enforceability
(a) The execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement has been duly authorized by all necessary action on the part of such Investor, and this Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by such Investor and, assuming due authorization, execution and delivery of this Agreement by the Company, this Agreement constitutes a valid and binding obligation of such Investor, enforceable against it in accordance with its terms, except to the extent that the enforcement thereof may be limited by the Enforceability Exceptions.
(b) The execution, delivery and performance of the Registration Rights Agreement has been duly authorized by all necessary action on the part of such Investor, and the Registration Rights Agreement, when duly executed and delivered by such Investor and, assuming due authorization, execution and delivery thereof by the Company, will constitute a valid and binding obligation of such Investor, enforceable against it in accordance with its terms, except to the extent that the enforcement thereof may be limited by the Enforceability Exceptions.
3.5 . The execution, delivery, and performance of and compliance with this Agreement and the Registration Rights Agreement and the issuance and sale of the Shares will not (x) result in any default or violation of the limited partnership agreement or limited liability company operating agreement, as applicable, of such Investor, (y) result in any default or violation of any agreement relating to its material Indebtedness or under any mortgage, deed of trust, security agreement or lease to which it is a party or in any default or violation of any material judgment, order or decree of any Governmental Authority, or (z) be in conflict with or constitute, with or without the passage of time or giving of notice, a default under any such provision, require any consent or waiver under any such provision, or result in the creation of any mortgage, pledge, lien, encumbrance, or charge upon any of the properties or assets of such Investor pursuant to any such provision, or the suspension, revocation, impairment or forfeiture of any material permit, license, authorization, or approval applicable to such Investor, its business or operations, or any of its assets or properties pursuant to any such provision.
No Default or Violation
3.6 . Such Investor currently has or at Closing will have available funds necessary to purchase the Shares at Closing on the terms and conditions contemplated by this Agreement.
Financial Capability
4. . The obligation of the Investors to purchase the Shares at the Closing is subject to the fulfillment on or before the Closing of each of the following conditions:
Conditions to Investors' Obligations at Closing
4.1 . The representations and warranties of the Company contained in Section 2 (other than the representations and warranties of the Company set forth in Section 2.2(c)) shall be true and correct as of the date hereof, except where the failure of such representations and warranties to be so true and correct without giving effect to any qualification and limitations as to "materiality" or "Material Adverse Effect" set forth therein, individually or in the aggregate, would not have a Material Adverse Effect.
Representations and Warranties
 
4.2 . The Company shall have performed and complied in all material respects with all agreements, obligations, and conditions contained in this Agreement that are required to be performed or complied with by it on or before the Closing.
Performance
4.3 . The Chief Executive Officer and/or Chief Financial Officer of the Company shall deliver to the Investors at the Closing a certificate stating that the conditions specified in Sections 4.1 and 4.2 have been fulfilled.
Compliance Certificate
4.4 . The Company shall have filed the Statement of Designations with the Secretary of State of the State of Texas, and the Statement of Designations shall have become effective as an amendment to the Company's Restated Articles of Incorporation.
Statement of Designations
4.5 . The shares of Common Stock to be issued upon conversion of the Shares shall have been approved for listing on the NASDAQ, subject to official notice of issuance.
Listing of Shares
4.6 . Any applicable waiting period (including any extension thereof) under the HSR Act, as applicable to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, shall have expired or been terminated.
Antitrust
4.7 . The Company and the Investors shall have entered into the Registration Rights Agreement.
Ancillary Agreements
4.8 . The Investors shall have received from Hallett & Perrin, P.C., special Texas counsel for the Company, an opinion, dated as of the Closing, in the form attached hereto as , and the Investors shall have received from Dechert LLP, special counsel for the Company, an opinion, dated as of the Closing, in the form attached hereto as .
Opinion of Company Counsel
Exhibit D
Exhibit E
4.9 . The Board shall have taken all actions necessary and appropriate to permit Mr. Jonathan Sokoloff and Mr. Jonathan Seiffer (collectively, the "") to be elected to the Board effective immediately upon the delivery of a written consent to such effect of the holders of the Shares following the Closing. The Board shall have taken all actions necessary and appropriate to cause at least one of the New Directors to be appointed to each committee of the Board immediately following the receipt of such written consent. The Investors shall have received evidence satisfactory to them of the taking of such actions.
Board of Directors
New Directors
4.10 . Simultaneous with the Closing, the Company shall have paid to Leonard Green & Partners, L.P., a placement fee equal to $6,375,000, representing 1.50% of the aggregate initial liquidation preference of the Shares issued and sold under this Agreement (the "").
Placement Fee
Placement Fee
4.11 . Simultaneous with the Closing, the Company shall have paid the reasonable expenses of the Investors in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the Registration Rights Agreement and any other ancillary documents hereto and thereto, including, without limitation, the fees and expenses
Payment of Expenses
 
of Latham & Watkins LLP, special counsel to the Investors, and Vinson & Elkins, LLP, special Texas counsel to the Investors; , that the aggregate amount of all such fees and expenses payable to the Investors (including with respect to fees and expenses of counsel) by the Company shall not exceed $750,000.
provided
5. . The obligations of the Company to the Investors under this Agreement are subject to the fulfillment on or before the Closing of each of the following conditions by the Investors:
Conditions of the Company's Obligations at Closing
5.1 . The representations and warranties of the Investors contained in Section 3 shall be true on and as of the date hereof.
Representations and Warranties
5.2 . Any applicable waiting period (including any extension thereof) under the HSR Act, as applicable to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, shall have expired or been terminated.
Antitrust
6. . The Company and the Investors hereby covenant and agree, for the benefit of the other parties hereto and their respective assigns, as follows:
Covenants
6.1 . To the extent it has not already done so, promptly following execution of this Agreement the Company shall notify NASDAQ of a potential change of control in compliance with Rule 4310(c)(17)(B) at least 15 calendar days prior to the Closing, and shall apply to cause the shares of Common Stock to be issued upon conversion of the Shares to be approved for listing on the NASDAQ, subject to official notice of issuance.
NASDAQ Notice; Listing of Shares
6.2 . The Company shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to (x) obtain all necessary permits and qualifications, if any, or secure an exemption therefrom, required by any state or country prior to the offer and sale of the Shares, and (y) cause such authorization, approval, permit or qualification to be effective as of the Closing.
State Securities Laws
6.3 . Promptly following execution of this Agreement, the Company and the Investors shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to (a) make an appropriate filing of a Notification and Report Form pursuant to the HSR Act with respect to the acquisition of the Shares as promptly as practicable and supply as promptly as practicable any additional information and documentary material that may be requested pursuant to the HSR Act, (b) take all other actions reasonably necessary, proper or advisable to cause the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting periods under the HSR Act, as promptly as practicable, (c) keep the other party hereto informed of any communication received by the Company or the Investors (as the case may be) from, or given by the Company or the Investors (as the case may be) to, the Federal Trade Commission (the ""), the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice (the "") or any other Governmental Authority and of any communication received or given in connection with any legal, administrative, arbitral or other proceeding by a private party, in each case regarding the issuance and sale of the Shares; and (d) permit the other party hereto to review in advance any communication intended to be given by it to, and consult with it in advance of any meeting or conference with, the FTC, the DOJ or any such other
Antitrust
FTC
DOJ
 
Governmental Authority, and to the extent permitted by the FTC, the DOJ or such other applicable Governmental Authority, give the other party hereto the opportunity to attend and participate in such meetings and conferences.
6.4 . Promptly after the date of this Agreement, the Company shall irrevocably call for redemption all of its Convertible Debentures outstanding, and shall pay in full in cash and irrevocably discharge all obligations in respect thereof as soon as practicable, but in any event no later than the date that is 60 days after the date of Closing. The Company shall not, at any time prior to the redemption of the Convertible Debentures, enter into any contract, agreement, arrangement or other understanding, oral or written, express or implied, or amend its Restated Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws or adopt other governing documents or resolutions of the Board, that restrict, limit, prohibit or prevent the redemption in full in cash of all of the Convertible Debentures and the irrevocable discharge of all obligations in respect thereof.
Redemption of Outstanding Convertible Notes
6.5 . From the date of this Agreement through the Closing the Company shall not:
Negative Covenants Prior to Closing
(a) Declare, or make payment in respect of, any dividend or other distribution upon any shares of capital stock of the Company;
(b) Redeem, repurchase or acquire any capital stock of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries (other than the redemption of the Convertible Debentures in accordance with this Agreement);
(c) Amend the Company's Articles of Incorporation or By-Laws (other than the filing of the Statement of Designations with the Secretary of State of the State of Texas in accordance with this Agreement); or
(d) Authorize, issue or reclassify any capital stock, or debt securities convertible into capital stock, of the Company (other than the authorization and issuance of the Shares, and the authorization of the shares of Common Stock underlying the Shares, in accordance with this Agreement).
6.6 . The Company shall apply the net proceeds from the issuance and sale of the Shares for general corporate purposes, including without limitation (1) repayment of revolving borrowings outstanding under the Company's Revolving Credit Agreement dated as of August 28, 2007 by and among the Company, JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., Royal Bank of Canada, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and RBC Capital Markets, as in existence on the date hereof, (2) investment in capital assets used or useful in the business of the Company and its Subsidiaries, and (3) payment of fees and expenses in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the Registration Rights Agreement; , that the Company shall not use any of the net proceeds from the issuance and sale of the Shares to make any payment in respect of any Indebtedness other than as specifically set forth in clause (1) above.
Use of Proceeds
provided
6.7 . For as long as any Shares remain outstanding, the Company shall at all times reserve and
Reservation of Common Stock; Issuance of Shares of Common Stock
 
keep available, free from preemptive rights, out of its authorized but unissued Common Stock or shares of Common Stock held in treasury by the Company, for the purpose of effecting the conversion of the Shares, the full number of shares of Common Stock then issuable upon the conversion of all Shares (after giving effect to all anti-dilution adjustments) then outstanding. All shares of Common Stock delivered upon conversion or repurchase of the Shares shall be newly issued shares or shares held in treasury by the Company, shall have been duly authorized and validly issued and shall be fully paid and nonassessable, and shall be free from preemptive rights and free of any lien or adverse claim.
6.8 . The Company shall pay any and all documentary, stamp or similar issue or transfer tax due on (x) the issue of the Shares at Closing and (y) the issue of shares of Common Stock upon conversion of the Shares. However, in the case of conversion of Shares, the Company shall not be required to pay any tax or duty that may be payable in respect of any transfer involved in the issue and delivery of shares of Common Stock in a name other than that of the Holder of the Shares to be converted, and no such issue or delivery shall be made unless and until the Person requesting such issue has paid to the Company the amount of any such tax or duty, or has established to the satisfaction of the Company that such tax or duty has been paid.
Transfer Taxes
6.9 . For as long as any Shares remain outstanding, the Company shall not issue or incur any debt security or other Indebtedness that is convertible into or exchangeable for, or accompanied by warrants for or options to purchase, any capital stock of the Company without the prior written consent of the Investors, which may be withheld in their sole discretion.
No Issuance of Convertible Debt
6.10 . For as long as any Shares remain outstanding, the Company shall provide the Investors and any permitted Affiliate transferee in accordance with Section 10 (unless otherwise requested by an Investor) with the following information:
Information Rights/Management Rights
(a) unaudited monthly (as soon as available and in any event within 30 days of the end of each month), unaudited quarterly (as soon as available and in any event within 45 days of the end of each quarter) and audited (by a nationally recognized accounting firm) annual (as soon as available and in any event within 90 days of the end of each year) financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States as in effect from time to time, which statements shall include:
(i) the consolidated balance sheets of the Company and its subsidiaries and the related consolidated statements of income, shareholders' equity and cash flows;
(ii) a comparison to the corresponding data for the corresponding periods of the previous fiscal year and from the Company's financial plan;
 
(iii) a reasonably detailed narrative descriptive report of the operations of the Company and its subsidiaries in the form prepared for presentation to the senior management of the Company for the applicable period and for the period from the beginning of the then current fiscal year to the end of such period;
(iv) to the extent the Company is required by law or pursuant to the terms of any outstanding indebtedness of the Company to prepare such reports, any annual reports, quarterly reports and other periodic reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act actually prepared by the Company as soon as available (, that any such reports shall be deemed to have been provided when such reports are publicly available via the Commission's EDGAR system or any successor to the EDGAR system); and
provided
(b) such other information as the Investors (or such permitted Affiliate transferees) shall reasonably request.
Additionally, (x) the Company shall permit any authorized representatives designated by the Holders reasonable access to visit and inspect any of the properties of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, including its and their books of account, and to discuss its and their affairs, finances and accounts with its and their officers, all at such times as the Holders may reasonably request, and (y) the Holders shall have the right to consult with and advise the management of the Company and its Subsidiaries, upon reasonable notice at reasonable times from time to time, on all matters relating to the operation of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The provisions of this Section 6.10 are intended to permit the Holders' investments in the Company to qualify as "venture capital investments" for purposes of Department of Labor Regulation section 2510.3-101, and the Company agrees to permit any reasonable modifications or additions to this Section 6.10 proposed by the Holders in order to ensure that the Holders continue to have "management rights" with respect to the Company for purposes thereof.
7. .
Right of First Offer
7.1 .
Certain Definitions
(a) . "New Securities" means any shares of capital stock of the Company, including Common Stock and Preferred Stock, whether authorized or not, and rights, options, or warrants to purchase said shares of capital stock, and securities of any type whatsoever that are, or may become, convertible into capital stock; , that the term "New Securities" does not include:
New Securities
provided, however
(i) Shares issued pursuant to this Agreement and securities issued upon conversion of such Shares;
(ii) securities issued to employees, consultants, officers and directors of the Company, pursuant to any arrangement approved by the Board;
 
(iii) securities issued pursuant to any rights or agreements, including, without limitation, convertible securities, options and warrants, that either (x) the Company shall have complied with the preemptive right established by this Section 7 with respect to the initial sale or grant by the Company of such rights or agreements, or (y) such rights or agreements existed prior to the Company's obligations under this Section 7 (it being understood that any modification or amendment to any such pre-existing right or agreement subsequent to the date of this Agreement with the effect of increasing the percentage of the Company's fully-diluted securities underlying such rights agreement shall not be included in this clause (iii)(y));
provided
(iv) securities issued in connection with any stock split, stock dividend or recapitalization by the Company;
(v) securities issued pursuant to the acquisition of another business entity by the Company by merger, purchase of substantially all of the assets or shares, or other reorganization whereby the Company will own equity securities of the surviving or successor corporation;
(vi) securities issued in a registered public offering underwritten on a firm commitment basis by a nationally recognized broker-dealer or pursuant to a prospectus approved by the applicable functional regulator under the applicable laws of any foreign jurisdiction; and
bona fide
(vii) any right, option, or warrant to acquire any security convertible into the securities excluded from the definition of New Securities pursuant to clauses (i) through (vi) above.
(b) . "Pro Rata Portion" means a ratio equal to (x) the sum of the number of shares of the Company's Common Stock held by an Investor immediately prior to the issuance of New Securities, assuming full exercise and/or conversion of the Shares and all Company securities exercisable and/or convertible into the Company's Common Stock then held by such Investor, bears to (y) the sum of the total number of shares of the Company's Common Stock then outstanding, assuming full exercise and/or conversion of all Company securities exercisable and/or convertible into the Company's Common Stock then outstanding, without giving effect to any limitation on the rights of any Investor to convert Shares into shares of Common Stock set forth in Section 7(a) of the Statement of Designations.
Pro Rata Portion
7.2 .
Right of First Offer
(a) . Subject to the terms and conditions contained in this Section 7, the Company hereby grants to each Investor a preemptive right to purchase such Investor's Pro Rata Portion of any New Securities which the Company may, from time to time, propose to issue and sell.
Grant of Right of First Offer
(b) . In the event the Company proposes to undertake an issuance of New Securities, it shall give each Investor written notice of its intention, describing the type of New Securities and the price and terms upon which the
Notice of Right
 
Company proposes to issue the same. Each Investor shall have twenty (20) days from the date of delivery of any such notice to agree to purchase up to such Investor's Pro Rata Portion of such New Securities, for the price and upon the terms specified in the notice, by delivering written notice to the Company and stating therein the quantity of New Securities to be purchased.
(c) . The Company shall have sixty (60) days following the twenty- (20-) day period described in Section 7.2(b) to sell or enter into an agreement (pursuant to which the sale of New Securities covered thereby shall be closed, if at all, within thirty (30) days from the date of said agreement) to sell the New Securities with respect to which the Investors' preemptive right was not exercised, at a price and upon terms no more favorable to the purchasers of such securities than specified in the Company's notice. In the event the Company has not sold the New Securities or entered into an agreement to sell the New Securities within said sixty- (60-) day period (or sold and issued New Securities in accordance with the foregoing within thirty (30) days from the date of said agreement), the Company shall not thereafter issue or sell any New Securities without first offering such securities to the Investors in the manner provided above.
Lapse and Reinstatement of Right
7.3 . The preemptive right granted under Section 7.2 of this Agreement shall expire upon the date on which all Shares have been redeemed or otherwise retired and are no longer outstanding.
Termination of Preemptive Right
8. .
Voting
8.1 . Each Investor hereby agrees to vote all of its shares of Company capital stock that are entitled to vote, whether now owned or hereafter acquired (collectively, the ""), in accordance with this Section 8.
Shares subject to Voting Agreement
Voting Securities
8.2 . In connection with any proposal submitted for Company shareholder approval (at any annual or special meeting called, or in connection with any other action (including the execution of written consents)) related to the election or removal of directors of the Board or any business combination involving the Company, each Investor will vote all of its Voting Securities as follows:
Voting Agreement as to Certain Matters
(a) in favor of any nominee or director designated by the nominating committee of the Board ( that the nominating committee's designation is consistent with the terms of the Statement of Designations and this Agreement);
provided
(b) against the removal of any director designated by the nominating committee of the Board; and
(c) in accordance with the recommendation of the Board with respect to any proposed business combination between the Company and any other Person.
 
8.3 . Except as expressly provided in Section 8.2, each Investor will be entitled to vote all of its Voting Securities in its sole discretion on any matter submitted for Company shareholder approval.
Ability to Vote on All Other Matters
8.4 . The provisions of this Section 8 shall not be binding upon the successors in interest to any of the Voting Securities other than Affiliates of the Investors (including commonly controlled or managed investment funds).
No Successors in Interest
8.5 . With respect to each Investor, the provisions of this Section 8 shall terminate upon the earliest to occur of any one of the following events:
Termination of Voting Agreement
(a) the date on which such Investor ceases to own any Shares and any shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion of the Shares (for the avoidance of doubt, whether by reason of redemption or transfer thereof or conversion thereof into shares of Common Stock);
(b) the liquidation, dissolution or indefinite cessation of the business operations of the Company;
(c) the execution by the Company of a general assignment for the benefit of creditors or the appointment of a receiver or trustee to take possession of the property and assets of the Company; or
(d) the acquisition of the Company by any other Person by means of any transaction or series of related transactions (including, without limitation, any reorganization, merger or consolidation).
9. .
Restrictions on Transfer
9.1 . Each Investor hereby agrees that it will not transfer any Shares or shares of Common Stock issued upon a conversion of the Shares to any Person, other than to its Affiliates (including commonly controlled or managed investment funds) who agree to be bound by the terms of Sections 8, 9 and 10 of this Agreement, at any time prior to the third anniversary of the Closing; , that this Section shall not restrict the ability of the Investors to transfer at any time any Shares or shares of Common Stock issued or issuable upon conversion of the Shares in connection with or at any time after the Company has (x) called the Shares for redemption pursuant to the second paragraph of Section 6(a) of the Statement of Designations or (y) announced any merger or consolidation in which the Company is or will not be the surviving entity.
No Transfer of Shares Prior to Third Anniversary
provided
9.2 . Each Investor hereby agrees that it will not at any time directly or knowingly indirectly (without any duty of investigation) transfer any Shares, or any shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Shares, to any Competitor of the Company. For purposes of this Section, "" shall mean (i) any Person that is a retailer of grocery products in North America or the United Kingdom and (ii) any Person that has direct or indirect majority ownership control of any Person identified in the preceding clause (i).
No Transfer to Competitors
Competitor
 
9.3 . Each Investor hereby agrees that it will not, individually or acting together with other Investors, at any time knowingly, directly or indirectly, transfer Shares, or any shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Shares, constituting 10% or more of the voting capital stock of the Company then outstanding to any individual Person (other than to any Investor or any of its Affiliates (including commonly controlled or managed investment funds) who agree to be bound by the terms of Sections 8, 9 and 10 of this Agreement).
No Block Transfers to Individual Persons
9.4 Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, the Investors shall not be restricted in any manner from entering into any swap, hedge, forward contract or other arrangement that transfers, in whole or in part, any of the economic consequences of ownership of the Shares, or of the shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion thereof, to a third party.
No Restriction on Hedging, Etc.
10. . Each Investor hereby agrees that at any time that Investor holds any Shares or shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion of the Shares, such Investor, its Subsidiaries and its commonly controlled or managed investment funds will not, without the prior written consent of the Company, directly or indirectly, acting alone or with others:
Standstill
(a) acquire or agree, offer, seek or propose to acquire beneficial ownership (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) of any voting securities issued by the Company (or securities convertible or exchangeable into voting securities) to the extent that, after giving effect to any such acquisition, such Investor and its commonly controlled or managed investment funds would beneficially own more than 35% of the Company's voting securities on a fully-diluted basis;
(b) form, join or in any way participate in a "group" (as defined in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) in or with respect to the activities set forth in clause (a) above;
, that this Section 10 shall not apply to the Shares (including the accretion of dividends thereon and any dividends payable in any other security), or to shares of the Company's Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Shares.
provided
11. .
Board Matters
11.1 . For purposes of this Section 11, the terms "," "" and "" shall have the respective meanings set forth in the Statement of Designations.
Definitions
Permitted Holder
Preferred Director
Voting Stock
11.2 . At any time that the Permitted Holders are entitled to elect Preferred Directors in accordance with Section 10(b) of the Statement of Designations or to designate for nomination directors in accordance with Section 11.3 hereof, one Preferred Director will be entitled to sit on each committee of the Board (subject to the chosen Preferred Director satisfying applicable qualifications under law and stock exchange rule). In the event the Permitted Holders are entitled to elect two Preferred Directors in accordance with Section 10(b) of the Statement of Designations or to designate for nomination directors in accordance with Section 11.3 hereof, the Permitted Holders will have the right to designate which director serves on which committee or committees (subject to the chosen director satisfying applicable qualifications under law and stock exchange rule).
Committees
 
11.3 . At any time that the Permitted Holders are not entitled to elect Preferred Directors in accordance with Section 10(b) of the Statement of Designations, but the Permitted Holders hold shares of Common Stock and/or Shares representing 7% or more of the Voting Stock of the Company, then the Company agrees that it shall:
Board Nomination
(a) cause the Board to have at least the number of vacancies (either by adopting a resolution increasing the size of the Board by up to two members or otherwise) as would be required for Preferred Directors in accordance with Section 10(b) of the Statement of Designations, as if the Permitted Holders held an equivalent percentage of Voting Stock in the form of Shares entitled to separate series voting;
(b) nominate for election to the Board up to two individuals designated by the Permitted Holders (if the Permitted Holders hold shares of Common Stock and/or Shares representing 10% or more of the Voting Stock of the Company) or one individual designated by the Permitted Holders (if the Permitted Holders hold shares of Common Stock and/or Shares representing 7% or more but less than 10% of the Voting Stock of the Company); and
(c) recommend that the Company's shareholders vote in favor of the persons designated for nomination by Permitted Holders; , in any such case, that unless otherwise approved by the Company's Nominating Committee, in order for a person to qualify to serve as a Preferred Director, such person shall be a partner of Leonard Green & Partners, L.P. as of the date hereof.
provided
Any director so nominated and elected to the Board shall constitute a "Preferred Director" for purposes of Section 11.2 hereof. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, under no circumstances will the Permitted Holders be entitled to nominate to the Board hereunder and/or elect as a series to the Board in accordance with Section 10(b) of the Statement of Designations an aggregate number of directors that exceeds the maximum number of directors that otherwise would be permitted in accordance with Section 10(b) of the Statement of Designations.
12. .
Termination
12.1 . This Agreement may be terminated at any time prior to the Closing:
Termination of Agreement Prior to Closing
(a) by either the Investors or the Company if the Closing shall not have occurred by the 120th calendar day following the date of this Agreement; , that the right to terminate this Agreement under this Section 12.1 shall not be available to any party whose failure to fulfill any obligation under this Agreement shall have been the cause of, or shall have resulted in, the failure of the Closing to occur on or prior to such date;
provided, however
 
(b) by either the Investors or the Company in the event that any Governmental Authority (as defined in hereto) shall have issued an order, decree or ruling or taken any other action restraining, enjoining or otherwise prohibiting the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and such order, decree, ruling or other action shall have become final and nonappealable; or
Exhibit C
(c) by the mutual written consent of the Investors and the Company.
12.2 . In the event of termination of this Agreement as provided in Section 12.1, this Agreement shall forthwith become void and there shall be no liability on the part of either party hereto, except that nothing herein shall relieve either party from liability for any breach of any covenant of this Agreement.
Effect of Termination Prior to Closing
13. .
Indemnification
(a) In addition to the payment of expenses pursuant to Section 4.12, the Company (as "") hereby agrees to indemnify, pay and hold each Investor, and each of the respective officers, directors, employees and Affiliates of each Investor (collectively, the "") harmless from and against any and all other liabilities, costs, expenses liabilities, obligations, losses, damages (consequential or otherwise), penalties, actions, judgments, suits, claims and disbursements of any kind or nature whatsoever (but including only the reasonable fees and expenses of one counsel) which may be imposed on, incurred by, or asserted against such Indemnified Party, in any manner relating to or arising out of the failure of any of the representations and warranties set forth in Sections 2.2(a), 2.2(c) and 2.18 of this Agreement to be true and correct as of the date of this Agreement (the ""). Each Indemnified Party shall give the Indemnitor prompt written notice of any claim that might give rise to Indemnified Liabilities setting forth a description of those elements of such claim of which such Indemnified Party has knowledge; that any delay or failure to give such notice shall not affect the obligations of the Indemnitor unless (and then solely to the extent) such Indemnitor is materially prejudiced by such delay or failure. The Indemnitor shall have the right at any time during which such claim is pending to select counsel to defend and control the defense thereof and settle any claims for which they are responsible for indemnification hereunder (, that the Indemnitor will not settle any such claim without (i) the appropriate Indemnified Party's prior written consent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or (ii) obtaining an unconditional release of the appropriate Indemnified Party from all claims arising out of or in any way relating to the circumstances involving such claim) so long as in any such event the Indemnitor shall have stated in a writing delivered to the Indemnified Party that, as between the Indemnitor and the Indemnified Party, the Indemnitor is responsible to the Indemnified Party with respect to such claim to the extent and subject to the limitations set forth herein; , that the Indemnitor shall not be entitled to control the defense of any claim in the event that in the reasonable opinion of counsel for the Indemnified Party there are one or more material defenses available to the Indemnified Party which are not available to the Indemnitor; , that with respect to any claim as to which the Indemnified Party is controlling the defense, the
Indemnitor
Indemnified Parties
Indemnified Liabilities
provided,
provided
provided
provided further
 
Indemnitor will not be liable to any Indemnified Party for any settlement of any claim pursuant to this Section that is effected without its prior written consent. To the extent that the undertaking to indemnify, pay and hold harmless set forth in the preceding sentence may be unenforceable because it is violative of any law or public policy, the Company shall contribute the maximum portion which it is permitted to pay and satisfy under applicable law to the payment and satisfaction of all Indemnified Liabilities incurred by the Indemnified Parties or any of them. The obligations of the Company set forth in this Section shall survive until the third anniversary of the date of this Agreement and, with respect to any claim for Indemnified Liabilities made prior to the third anniversary of this Agreement, until the final resolution thereof. The indemnity provided in this Section shall be the sole and exclusive remedy of the Indemnified Parties after the Closing for any inaccuracy or breach of the representations and warranties set forth in Sections 2.2(a), 2.2(c) and 2.18 of this Agreement.
(b) In addition to the payment of expenses pursuant to Section 4.12, the Company (as "") hereby agrees to indemnify, pay and hold each Investor, and each of the respective officers, directors, employees and Affiliates of each Investor, and each of the respective direct and indirect beneficial owners of each Investor (collectively, the "") harmless from and against any and all other liabilities, costs, expenses liabilities, obligations, losses, damages (consequential or otherwise), penalties, actions, judgments, suits, claims and disbursements of any kind or nature whatsoever including, without limitation, liabilities for any taxes in any jurisdiction (but including only the reasonable fees and expenses of one counsel) which may be imposed on, incurred by, or asserted against such Additional Indemnified Party, in any manner relating to or arising out of the failure of any of the representations and warranties set forth in Section 2.21 this Agreement to be true and correct as of the date of this Agreement, the breach or failure to comply with the covenant set forth in Section 6.4 of this Agreement at any time, and the breach, violation or failure to comply with the Company's obligations set forth in Section 4(b) of the Statement of Designations (the ""). Each Additional Indemnified Party shall give the Indemnitor prompt written notice of any claim that might give rise to Additional Indemnified Liabilities setting forth a description of those elements of such claim of which such Additional Indemnified Party has knowledge; that any delay or failure to give such notice shall not affect the obligations of the Indemnitor unless (and then solely to the extent) such Indemnitor is materially prejudiced by such delay or failure. The Indemnitor shall have the right at any time during which such claim is pending to select counsel to defend and control the defense thereof and settle any claims for which they are responsible for indemnification hereunder (, that the Indemnitor will not settle any such claim without (i) the appropriate Additional Indemnified Party's prior written consent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or (ii) obtaining an unconditional release of the appropriate Additional Indemnified Party from all claims arising out of or in any way relating to the circumstances involving such claim) so long as in any such event the Indemnitor shall have stated in a writing delivered to the Additional Indemnified Party that, as between the Indemnitor and the Additional Indemnified Party, the Indemnitor is responsible to the Additional Indemnified Party with respect to such claim to the extent and subject to the limitations set forth herein; , that the Indemnitor shall not be entitled to control
Indemnitor
Additional Indemnified Parties
Additional Indemnified Liabilities
provided,
provided
provided
 
the defense of any claim in the event that in the reasonable opinion of counsel for the Additional Indemnified Party there are one or more material defenses available to the Additional Indemnified Party which are not available to the Indemnitor; , that with respect to any claim as to which the Additional Indemnified Party is controlling the defense, the Indemnitor will not be liable to any Additional Indemnified Party for any settlement of any claim pursuant to this Section that is effected without its prior written consent. To the extent that the undertaking to indemnify, pay and hold harmless set forth in the preceding sentence may be unenforceable because it is violative of any law or public policy, the Company shall contribute the maximum portion which it is permitted to pay and satisfy under applicable law to the payment and satisfaction of all Additional Indemnified Liabilities incurred by the Additional Indemnified Parties or any of them. The obligations of the Company set forth in this Section shall survive until the third anniversary of the date of this Agreement and, with respect to any claim for Additional Indemnified Liabilities made prior to the third anniversary of this Agreement, until the final resolution thereof. The indemnity provided in this Section shall be the sole and exclusive remedy of the Additional Indemnified Parties after the Closing for any inaccuracy or breach of the representations and warranties set forth in Sections 2.21, the breach or failure to comply with the covenant set forth in Section 6.4 and any breach, or the violation or failure to comply with the Company's obligations set forth in Section 4(b) of the Statement of Designations.
provided further
14. . On the date hereof, the Company shall issue a press release substantially in the form of hereto. No other written public release or written announcement concerning the purchase of Series the A Preferred Stock contemplated hereby shall be issued by any party without the prior written consent of the other party (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld), except as such release or announcement may be required by law or the rules or regulations of any securities exchange, in which case the party required to make the release or announcement shall, to the extent reasonably practicable, allow the other party reasonable time to comment on such release or announcement in advance of such issuance. The provisions of this Section shall not restrict the ability of a party to summarize or describe the transactions contemplated by this Agreement in any prospectus or similar offering document so long as the other party is provided a reasonable opportunity to review such disclosure in advance.
Publicity
Exhibit F
15. .
Miscellaneous
15.1 . This Agreement shall be governed in all respects by the laws of the State of New York without regard to choice of laws or conflict of laws provisions thereof that would require the application of the laws of any other jurisdiction.
Governing Law
15.2 . Each of the parties hereto irrevocably submits to the exclusive jurisdiction of any United States Federal court sitting in the County of New York, in the State of New York, over any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated thereby (or, solely to the extent that no such United States Federal court has jurisdiction over such suit, action or proceeding, to the exclusive jurisdiction of any New York State court sitting in the County of New York, in the State of New York, with respect thereto). Each of the parties irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any objection which it may now or
Submission to Jurisdiction; Venue; Waiver of Trial by Jury
 
hereafter have to the laying of venue of any such suit, action or proceeding brought in such a court and any claim that any such suit, action or proceeding brought in such a court has been brought in an inconvenient forum. EACH PARTY ACKNOWLEDGES AND AGREES THAT ANY CONTROVERSY WHICH MAY ARISE UNDER THIS AGREEMENT IS LIKELY TO INVOLVE COMPLICATED AND DIFFICULT ISSUES, AND THEREFORE EACH SUCH PARTY HEREBY IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY WAIVES ANY RIGHT SUCH PARTY MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN RESPECT OF ANY LITIGATION DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT, OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED BY THIS AGREEMENT. EACH PARTY CERTIFIES AND ACKNOWLEDGES THAT (i) NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PARTY HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PARTY WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER, (ii) EACH PARTY UNDERSTANDS AND HAS CONSIDERED THE IMPLICATIONS OF THIS WAIVER, (iii) EACH PARTY MAKES THIS WAIVER VOLUNTARILY, AND (iv) EACH PARTY HAS BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS SET FORTH IN THIS SECTION.
15.3 . The representations and warranties made in Sections 2.2(a), 2.2(c) and 2.18 hereof shall survive any investigation made by any Investor, and shall survive the Closing for a period of three years thereafter, and after the third anniversary of the Closing such Sections of this Agreement shall have no further force and effect, including in respect of Section 13 hereof (subject to the last sentence of such Section 13); and all other representations and warranties in this Agreement shall expire at the Closing and have no further force and effect. All statements of the Company as to factual matters contained in any certificate or exhibit delivered by or on behalf of the Company pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed to be the representations and warranties of the Company hereunder as of the date of such certificate or exhibit.
Survival
15.4 . The parties hereto agree that irreparable damage would occur in the event that any of the provisions of this Agreement were not performed in accordance with its specific terms or was otherwise breached. It is accordingly agreed that the parties shall be entitled to an injunction or injunctions to prevent breaches of this Agreement and to enforce specifically the terms and provisions hereof in any Federal court sitting in the County of New York, in the State of New York (or, solely to the extent that no such Federal court has jurisdiction over such suit, action or proceeding, in any New York State court sitting in the County of New York, in the State of New York), this being in addition to any other remedy to which they are entitled at law or in equity. Additionally, each party hereto irrevocably waives any defenses based on adequacy of any other remedy, whether at law or in equity, that might be asserted as a bar to the remedy of specific performance of any of the terms or provisions hereof or injunctive relief in any action brought therefor.
Enforcement of Agreement
15.5 . Except as otherwise provided herein, the provisions hereof shall inure to the benefit of, and be binding upon, the successors, assigns, heirs, executors, and administrators of the parties hereto; , , the rights of the Investors under this Agreement shall not be assignable to any Person without the consent of the Company; , that the Investors shall be permitted, without the consent of the Company, to
Successors and Assigns
provided
however
provided further
 
assign all or a portion of their respective rights and obligations to purchase Shares at the Closing to one or more co-invest vehicles under common control or management with the Investors, in which case such co-invest vehicle(s) shall become party to this Agreement by execution of a joinder hereto and each such co-invest vehicle(s) shall thereafter constitute an "Investor" for all purposes hereunder as if it were an Investor as of the date hereof, and Schedule A hereto shall be modified to reflect such assignment of rights and obligations accordingly; , that any assignment pursuant to the preceding proviso shall not relieve the assigning Investor of its obligation to purchase Shares at the Closing until the Closing has occurred and the assignee has funded its obligation to purchase Shares hereunder.
provided further
15.6 . Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary, nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, is intended to confer on any Person other than the parties hereto any rights, remedies, obligations or liabilities under or by reason of this Agreement, and no Person that is not a party to this Agreement (including without limitation any partner, member, shareholder, director, officer, employee or other beneficial owner of any party hereto, in its own capacity as such or in bringing a derivative action on behalf of a party hereto) shall have any standing as third party beneficiary with respect to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby.
No Third Party Beneficiaries
15.7 No director, officer, employee, incorporator, shareholder, managing member, member, general partner, limited partner, principal or other agent of any of the Investors or the Company shall have any liability for any obligations of the Investors under this Agreement or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, the respective obligations of the Investors or the Company hereunder. Each party hereto hereby waives and releases all such liability. This waiver and release is a material inducement to each party's entry into this Agreement.
No Personal Liability of Directors, Officers, Owners, Etc.
15.8 . This Agreement and the other documents delivered pursuant hereto constitute the full and entire understanding and agreement among the parties with regard to the subjects hereof and thereof. Neither this Agreement nor any term hereof may be amended, waived, discharged or terminated other than by a written instrument signed by the party against whom enforcement of any such amendment, waiver, discharge, or termination is sought.
Entire Agreement
15.9 Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, all notices, requests, claims, demands, waivers and other communications required or permitted hereunder shall be in writing and shall be mailed by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, or otherwise delivered by hand or by messenger, addressed:
Notices, Etc.
(a) if to any Investor, to:
c/o Leonard Green & Partners, L.P.
11111 Santa Monica Blvd., Suite 2000
Los Angeles, California 90025
Telephone: (310) 954-0444
Attention: Jonathan A. Seiffer
 
With a copy to:
Latham & Watkins LLP
885 Third Avenue
New York, NY 10022
Telephone: (212) 906-1200
Attention: Howard A. Sobel
(b) if to any other Holder of any Shares, at such address as such Holder shall have furnished to the Company in writing or, until any such Holder so furnishes an address to the Company, then to and at the address of the last Holder of such Shares who has so furnished an address to the Company, and
(c) if to the Company, to:
550 Bowie Street
Austin, Texas 78703
Telephone: (512) 477-4455
Attention: Glenda Chamberlain
With a copy to:
Dechert LLP
1775 I Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20006
Telephone: (202) 261-3333
Attention: Thomas J. Friedmann
or in any such case to such other address, facsimile number or telephone as either party may, from time to time, designate in a written notice given in a like manner. If notice is provided by mail, it shall be deemed to be delivered upon proper deposit in a mailbox, and if notice is delivered by hand, messenger or overnight courier service, it shall be deemed to be delivered upon actual delivery.
15.10 . No delay or omission to exercise any right, power, or remedy accruing to any holder of any Shares upon any breach or default of the Company under this Agreement shall impair any such right, power, or remedy of such holder, nor shall it be construed to be a waiver of any such breach or default, or an acquiescence therein, or of or in any similar breach or default thereafter occurring; nor shall any waiver of any single breach or default be deemed a waiver of any other breach or default theretofore or thereafter occurring. Any waiver, permit, consent, or approval of any kind or character on the part of any holder of any breach or default under this Agreement, or any waiver on the part of any holder of any provisions or conditions of this Agreement, must be in writing and shall be effective only to the extent specifically set forth in such writing or as provided in this Agreement. All remedies, either under this Agreement or by law or otherwise afforded to any holder, shall be cumulative and not alternative.
Delays or Omissions
 
15.11 . The Company and the Investors shall bear their own expenses and legal fees incurred on their behalf with respect to this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby, except as otherwise provided in Section 4.12 of this Agreement.
Expenses
15.12 . Any term of this Agreement may be amended and the observance of any term of this Agreement may be waived (either generally or in a particular instance and either retroactively or prospectively), only with the written consent of the Company and the holders of a majority of the Common Stock issuable or issued upon conversion of the Shares; that no such amendment shall impose or increase any liability or obligation on any Investor without the consent of such Investor. Any amendment or waiver effected in accordance with this paragraph shall be binding upon each holder of any securities purchased under this Agreement at the time outstanding (including securities into which such securities are convertible), each future holder of all such securities, and the Company.
Amendments and Waivers
provided
15.13 . Each Investor and its successors and assigns acknowledge that by the operation of Section 15.12 hereof Holders holding more than fifty percent (50%) of the outstanding Shares, acting in conjunction with the Company, will have the right and power to diminish or eliminate any or all rights pursuant to this Agreement.
Effect of Amendment or Waiver
15.14 . Each party to this Agreement shall have the absolute right to exercise or refrain from exercising any right or rights that such party may have by reason of this Agreement, including, without limitation, the right to consent to the waiver or modification of any obligation under this Agreement, and such party shall not incur any liability to any other party or other holder of any securities of the Company as a result of exercising or refraining from exercising any such right or rights.
Rights of Holders
15.15 . The Company shall indemnify and hold each Investor harmless, and each Investor shall indemnify and hold the Company harmless, from any liability for any commission or compensation in the nature of a finder's fee (including the costs, expenses, and legal fees of defending against such liability) for which the Company or the Investors, or any of their respective partners, employees, or representatives, as the case may be, is responsible; that the foregoing shall not apply to the Placement Fee, for which the Company is solely responsible.
Finder's Fee
provided
15.16 . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and signatures may be delivered by facsimile or in electronic format (i.e., "PDF"), each of which may be executed by less than all parties, each of which shall be enforceable against the parties actually executing such counterparts, and all of which together shall constitute one instrument.
Counterparts
15.17 . If any provision of this Agreement becomes or is declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be illegal, unenforceable, or void, portions of such provision, or such provision in its entirety, to the extent necessary, shall be severed from this Agreement and the balance of this Agreement shall be enforceable in accordance with its terms.
Severability
 
15.18 . The titles and subtitles used in this Agreement are used for convenience only and are not to be considered in construing or interpreting this Agreement.
Titles and Subtitles
 
, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 
 
The following terms shall have the respective meanings for all purposes of the Agreement:
"" shall mean any Person controlling, controlled by or under common control with any other Person; and with respect to an individual, "Affiliate" shall also mean any other individual related to such individual by blood or marriage. For purposes of this definition, "control" (including "controlled by" and "under common control with") means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of securities, partnership or other ownership interests, by contract or otherwise.
Affiliate
"" shall mean the obligations of the Company and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis to pay rent or other amounts under a lease of (or other agreement conveying the right to use) real and/or personal Property which obligations are required to be classified and accounted for as a capital lease on a consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (including Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 13 of the Financial Accounting Standards Board, as amended) and, for purposes of this Agreement, the amount of such obligations shall be the capitalized amount thereof, determined in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (including such Statement No. 13).
Capital Lease Obligations
"" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, as now or hereafter in effect, together with all regulations, rulings and interpretations thereof or thereunder by the Internal Revenue Service.
Code
"" shall mean, as to any Person, without duplication, any obligation of such Person guaranteeing or intended to guarantee the payment or performance of any Indebtedness, leases, dividends or other obligations (collectively "primary obligations") of any other Person (the "primary obligor") in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, including without limitation, any obligation of the Person for whom Contingent Obligations is being determined, whether or not contingent, (a) to purchase any such primary obligation or other property constituting direct or indirect security therefor, (b) assume or contingently agree to become or be secondarily liable in respect of any such primary obligation, (c) to advance or supply funds (i) for the purchase or payment of any such primary obligation or (ii) to maintain working capital or equity capital for the primary obligor or otherwise to maintain the net worth or solvency of the primary obligor, (d) to purchase property, securities or services primarily for the purpose of assuring the owner of any such primary obligation of the ability of the primary obligor to make payment of such primary obligation, or (e) otherwise to assure or hold harmless the owner of such primary obligation against loss in respect thereof; , that the term "Contingent Obligations" shall not include (x) endorsements of checks or other negotiable instruments in the ordinary course of business, (y) performance or payment guarantees by the Company of any Indebtedness of any of its Subsidiaries of the type permitted under Section
Contingent Obligations
provided, however
 
6.1(f) of the Company's Revolving Credit Agreement, and (z) the obligations and liabilities of guarantors under the Company's credit facilities outstanding on the date hereof. The amount of any Contingent Obligation shall be deemed to be an amount equal to the stated or determinable amount of the primary obligation in respect of which such Contingent Obligation is made or, if not stated or determinable, the maximum anticipated liability in respect thereof (assuming the Person for whom Contingent Obligations is being determined is required to perform thereunder).
"" shall mean any third party (including any Governmental Authority) action, lawsuit, claim or proceeding (including claims or proceedings at common law) which seeks to impose or alleges liability for (i) preservation, protection, conservation, pollution, contamination of, or releases or threatened releases of Hazardous Substances into the air, surface water, ground water or land or the clean-up, abatement, removal, remediation or monitoring of such pollution, contamination or Hazardous Substances; (ii) generation, recycling, reclamation, handling, treatment, storage, disposal or transportation of Hazardous Substances or solid waste (as defined under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and its regulations, as amended from time to time); (iii) exposure to Hazardous Substances; (iv) the safety or health of employees or other Persons in connection with any of the activities specified in any other subclause of this definition; or (v) the manufacture, processing, distribution in commerce, presence or use of Hazardous Substances. An "Environmental Claim" includes a common law action, as well as a proceeding to issue, modify or terminate an Environmental Permit, or to adopt or amend a regulation to the extent that the Company or its Subsidiaries are parties to such a proceeding and such a proceeding attempts to redress violations of the applicable permit, license, or regulation as alleged by any Governmental Authority.
Environmental Claim
"" shall mean all liabilities arising from any Environmental Claim, Environmental Permit or Requirement of Environmental Law under any theory of recovery, at law or in equity, and whether based on negligence, strict liability or otherwise, including: remedial, removal, response, abatement, restoration (including natural resources) investigative, or monitoring liabilities, personal injury and damage to property, natural resources or injuries to persons, and any other related costs, expenses, losses, damages, penalties, fines, liabilities and obligations, and all costs and expenses necessary to cause the issuance, re-issuance or renewal of any Environmental Permit including attorney's fees and court costs. Environmental Liability shall mean any one of them.
Environmental Liabilities
"" shall mean any permit, license, approval or other authorization under any applicable law, regulation and other requirement of the United States or of any state, municipality or other subdivision thereof relating to pollution or protection of health or the environment, including laws, regulations or other requirements relating to emissions, discharges, releases or threatened releases of pollutants, contaminants or Hazardous Substances or toxic materials or wastes into ambient air, surface water, ground water or land, or otherwise relating to the manufacture, processing, distribution, recycling, presence, use, treatment, storage, disposal, transport, or handling of, wastes, pollutants, contaminants or Hazardous Substances.
Environmental Permit
"" shall mean the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time, and all rules, regulations, rulings and interpretations adopted by the Internal Revenue Service or the Department of Labor thereunder.
ERISA
 
"" shall mean, as to a particular Person, those principles and practices (a) which are recognized as such by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or successor organization, (b) which are applied for all periods after the date hereof in a manner consistent with the manner in which such principles and practices were applied to the most recent audited financial statements of the relevant Person furnished to the Investor and the Holders, and (c) which are consistently applied for all periods after the date hereof so as to reflect properly the financial condition, and results of operations and changes in financial position, of such Person.
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
"" shall mean any foreign governmental authority, the United States of America, any state of the United States and any political subdivision of any of the foregoing, and any agency, instrumentality, department, commission, board, bureau, central bank, authority, court or other tribunal, in each case whether executive, legislative, judicial, regulatory or administrative, having jurisdiction over the Investor, any of the Holders or the Company, any of the Company's Subsidiaries or their respective Property.
Governmental Authority
"" shall mean any hazardous or toxic waste, substance or product or material defined or regulated by any applicable law, rule, regulation or order described in the definition of "Requirements of Environmental Law," including solid waste (as defined under the Resource Conservation and Recover Act of 1976 or its regulations, as amended), petroleum and any fraction thereof, and any radioactive materials and waste.
Hazardous Substance
"" shall mean any transaction (including an agreement with respect thereto) now or hereafter existing which is a rate swap, basis swap, forward rate transaction, commodity swap, commodity option, equity or equity index swap, equity or equity index option, bond option, interest rate option, foreign exchange transaction, cap transaction, floor transaction, collar transaction, forward transaction, currency swap transaction, cross-currency rate swap transaction, currency option or any other similar transaction (including any option with respect to any of these transactions) or any combination thereof, whether linked to one or more interest rates, foreign currencies, commodity prices, equity prices or other financial measures.
Hedging Agreements
"" shall mean (i) Liens for taxes, assessments, levies or other governmental charges (but not Liens for clean up expenses arising pursuant to Requirements of Environmental Law) not yet due (subject to applicable grace periods) or which are being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings if adequate reserves with respect thereto are maintained on the books of the Company in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles; (ii) carriers', warehousemen's, mechanics', landlords', vendors', materialmen's, repairmen's, sureties' or other like Liens (other than Liens for clean up expenses arising pursuant to Requirements of Environmental Law) arising in the ordinary course of business (or deposits to obtain the release of any such Lien) and securing amounts not yet due or which are being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings if, in the case of such contested Liens, adequate reserves with respect thereto are maintained on the books of the Company in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles; (iii) pledges or deposits in connection with workers' compensation, unemployment insurance and other social security legislation; (iv) easements, rights-of-way, covenants, reservations, exceptions, encroachments, zoning and similar restrictions and other similar encumbrances or title defects incurred in the ordinary course of business which, in the aggregate, are not substantial in amount, and which do
Incidental Liens
 
not in any case singly or in the aggregate materially detract from the value or usefulness of the property subject thereto or materially interfere with the ordinary conduct of the business of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole; (v) bankers' liens arising by operation of law; (vi) Liens arising pursuant to any order of attachment, distraint or similar legal process arising in connection with any court proceeding the payment of which is covered in full (subject to customary deductibles) by insurance; (vii) inchoate Liens arising under ERISA to secure contingent liabilities of the Company; and (viii) rights of lessees and sublessees in assets leased by the Company or any Subsidiary not prohibited elsewhere herein.
"" shall mean, as to any Person, without duplication: (a) all indebtedness (including principal, interest, fees and charges) of such Person for borrowed money or for the deferred purchase price of Property or services; (b) any other indebtedness which is evidenced by a promissory note, bond, debenture or similar instrument; (c) any obligation under or in respect of outstanding letters of credit, acceptances and similar obligations created for the account of such Person; (d) all Capital Lease Obligations of such Person; (e) all indebtedness, liabilities, and obligations secured by any Lien on any Property owned by such Person even though such Person has not assumed or has not otherwise become liable for the payment of any such indebtedness, liabilities or obligations secured by such Lien; (f) any obligation under or in respect of Hedging Agreements and (g) all Contingent Obligations and Synthetic Indebtedness of such Person.
Indebtedness
"" of the Company shall mean the actual knowledge of any of the following individuals: John Mackey, Chief Executive Officer; Glenda Chamberlain, Chief Financial Officer; A.C. Gallo, Co-President and Chief Operating Officer; Walter Robb, Co-President and Chief Operating Officer; James Sud, Executive Vice-President Growth and Business Development; and Roberta Lang, General Counsel.
Knowledge
"" shall mean any mortgage, pledge, charge, encumbrance, security interest, collateral assignment or other lien or restriction of any kind, whether based on common law, constitutional provision, statute or contract, and shall include reservations, exceptions, encroachments, easements, rights of way, covenants, conditions, restrictions, leases and other title exceptions.
Lien
"" means any change, development, occurrence or event (each, a "") that, when considered either individually or together with all other Company Effects, is or would reasonably be expected to be materially adverse to (a) the business, properties, assets, liabilities, consolidated results of operations or financial condition of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole or (b) the ability of the Company to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby; that any such Company Effect resulting or arising from or relating to any of the following matters shall not be considered when determining whether a Material Adverse Effect has occurred or would reasonably be expected to occur:
Material Adverse Effect
Company Effect
provided
(i) any change, development, occurrence or event affecting the businesses or industries in which the Company and its Subsidiaries operate;
 
(ii) any conditions affecting the United States general economy or the general economy in any geographic area in which the Company or its Subsidiaries operate or developments or changes therein or the financial and securities markets and credit markets in the United States or elsewhere in the world;
(iii) political conditions, including acts of war (whether or not declared), armed hostilities and terrorism, or developments or changes therein;
(iv) any conditions resulting from natural disasters;
(v) changes in any Laws or Generally Accepted Accounting Principles;
(vi) any action taken or omitted to be taken by or at the written request or with the written consent of the Investor;
(vii) any announcement of this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby, in each case, solely to the extent due to such announcement;
(viii) changes in the market price or trading volume of Common Stock or any other equity, equity-related or debt securities of the Company or its Affiliates (it being understood that the underlying circumstances, events or reasons giving rise to any such change can be taken into account in determining whether a Material Adverse Effect has occurred or would reasonably be expected to occur);
(ix) any failure to meet any internal or public projections, forecasts, estimates or guidance for any period (it being understood that the underlying circumstances, events or reasons giving rise to any such failure can be taken into account in determining whether a Material Adverse Effect has occurred or would reasonably be expected to occur); or
(x) any Company Effects arising out of or resulting from any legal claims or other proceedings made by any of the Company's shareholders (on their own behalf or on behalf of the Company) arising out of or related to this Agreement;
, that Company Effects set forth in clauses (i), (ii), (iii), (iv) and (v) above may be taken into account in determining whether there has been or is a Material Adverse Effect if and only to the extent such Company Effects have a disproportionate impact on the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, relative to the other retailers of grocery products in North America and the United Kingdom.
provided, however
"" shall mean any individual, corporation, trust, unincorporated organization, Governmental Authority or any other form of entity.
Person
 
"" shall mean any employee pension benefit plan (as defined in Section 3(2)(A) of ERISA) subject to Title IV of ERISA and maintained for employees of the Company or of any member of a "controlled group", as such term is defined in Section 4001(a)(14) of ERISA, of which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries it may acquire from time to time is a part, or any such employee pension benefit plan to which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries it may acquire from time to time is required to contribute on behalf of its employees.
Plan
"" shall mean any interest in any kind of property or asset, whether real, personal or mixed, tangible or intangible.
Property
"" shall mean all requirements imposed by any law (including The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, the Clean Water Act, the Clean Air Act, and any state analogues of any of the foregoing), rule, regulation, or order of any Governmental Authority which relate to (i) noise; (ii) pollution, protection or clean-up of the air, surface water, ground water or land; (iii) solid, gaseous or liquid waste or Hazard Substance generation, recycling, reclamation, release, threatened release, treatment, storage, disposal or transportation; (iv) exposure of Persons or property to Hazardous Substances; (v) the safety or health of employees or other Persons or (vi) the manufacture, presence, processing, distribution in commerce, use, discharge, releases, threatened releases, emissions or storage of Hazardous Substances into the environment. Requirement of Environmental Law shall mean any one of them.
Requirements of Environmental Law
"" of any Person shall mean any corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company, trust or estate of which (or in which) more than fifty percent (50%) of (a) the issued and outstanding capital stock having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the board of directors of such corporation (irrespective of whether at the time capital stock of any other class or classes of such corporation shall or might have voting power upon the occurrence of any contingency), (b) the interest in the capital or profits of such partnership, joint venture or limited liability company or (c) the beneficial interest in such trust or estate is at the time directly or indirectly owned or controlled by such Person, by such Person and one or more of its other Subsidiaries or by one or more of such Person's other Subsidiaries.
Subsidiary
"" shall mean the monetary obligation of a Person under (a) a so-called synthetic, off-balance sheet or tax retention lease, or (b) an agreement for the use or possession of property creating obligations that do not appear on the balance sheet of such Person (excluding operating leases) but which upon the insolvency or bankruptcy of such Person, to the extent functioning as debt for borrowed money, would be characterized as the indebtedness of such Person (without regard to accounting treatment).
Synthetic Indebtedness
 
1. The Company is a corporation and has been duly incorporated under the Texas Business Corporation Act (the ""), is validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Texas and has the requisite corporate power to own, lease and operate its properties and assets, and to carry on its business as presently conducted.
TBCA
2. The Company has the requisite power and authority to execute, deliver and perform all of its obligations under the Securities Purchase Agreement, the Registration Rights Agreement and the Restated Articles, and to issue the Shares, and to issue the shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Shares (the "") in accordance with the Restated Articles, assuming such performance was made and the Conversion Shares were issued on the date hereof.
Conversion Shares
3. The filing of the Restated Articles with the Secretary of State of the State of Texas has been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action of the Company, and the Restated Articles have been filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Texas in accordance with the TBCA.
4. The Securities Purchase Agreement has been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action of the Company, and has been duly executed and delivered by the Company.
5. The Registration Rights Agreement has been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action of the Company, has been duly executed and delivered by the Company.
6. The execution and delivery of the Securities Purchase Agreement and the Registration Rights Agreement, the issuance and sale of the Shares by the Company to the Investor pursuant to the Securities Purchase Agreement, and the consummation by the Company of the transactions contemplated by the Securities Purchase Agreement and the Registration Rights Agreement that are scheduled to occur at Closing do not on the date hereof:
 
 
 
7. The Shares have been duly and validly authorized, and, when issued and delivered against payment therefor pursuant to the Securities Purchase Agreement, will be validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable and free of preemptive rights arising from the Governing Documents and the Restated Articles. The Conversion Shares have been duly and validly reserved, and, assuming the Conversion Shares were issued and delivered upon conversion of the Shares on the date hereof in accordance with the terms of the Restated Articles, would be validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable and free of preemptive rights arising from the Governing Documents and the Restated Articles. The rights, preferences and privileges of the Shares included in the Restated Articles are permitted by the TBCA.
8. The authorized capital stock of the Company consists of 300,000,000 shares of Common Stock, with no par value (""), of which [140,285,434] were issued and outstanding as of November [], 2008, and 5,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock (""), par value $0.01, none of which are issued and outstanding (excluding the Shares to be issued to the Investor pursuant to the Securities Purchase Agreement). All issued and outstanding shares of Common Stock have been duly authorized and validly issued and are fully paid and nonassessable.
Common Stock
    
Preferred Stock
 
1. Assuming due authorization, execution and delivery thereof by the Company, the Securities Purchase Agreement is the legally valid and binding agreement of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, subject to the Enforceability Exceptions.
2. Assuming due authorization, execution and delivery thereof by the Company, the Registration Rights Agreement is the legally valid and binding agreement of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, subject to the Enforceability Exceptions.
3. The execution and delivery of the Securities Purchase Agreement and the Registration Rights Agreement, the issuance and sale of the Shares by the Company to the Investor pursuant to the Securities Purchase Agreement, and the consummation by the Company of the transactions contemplated by the Securities Purchase Agreement and the Registration Rights Agreement that are scheduled to occur at Closing do not on the date hereof:
 
 
4. Assuming the truthfulness of the representations and compliance with the agreements contained in the Securities Purchase Agreement, the Shares, upon issuance and delivery and payment therefor in the manner described in the Securities Purchase Agreement, will be issued in a transaction exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act, and the issuance of the shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Shares, if issued and delivered to you on the date hereof in accordance with the terms of the Restated Articles, would also be exempt from such registration requirements.
5. The Company is not required to be, and immediately after giving effect to the sale of the Shares in accordance with the Securities Purchase Agreement and the application of the proceeds therefrom, will not be required to be, registered as an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 Whole Foods Market (NASDAQ: WFMI) announced today that it recently has added four new members to its board of directors, bringing the size of the board to ten. The new board members include Stephanie Kugelman, vice chairman emeritus of Young & Rubicam Inc. and chairman of A Second Opinion strategic consulting group, and Kip Tindell, co-founder, chairman and CEO of The Container Store. Additionally, Jonathan A. Seiffer, partner, and Jonathan D. Sokoloff, managing partner, both of Leonard Green & Partners, L.P. (LGP), have also joined the board in connection with LGP's recent preferred stock investment in Whole Foods Market. Whole Foods Market closed its sale of preferred stock to LGP today.
AUSTIN, TX (December 2, 2008)
"These four talented leaders bring unique wisdom and complement the experience of our current board members," said John Mackey, chairman, chief executive officer, and co-founder of Whole Foods Market. "In this challenging economic environment, we feel fortunate to have this fresh addition of intellectual capital."
Ms. Kugelman is vice chairman emeritus of Young & Rubicam Inc. (Y&R) and chairman of A Second Opinion strategic consulting group. Her previous position was vice chairman chief strategic officer of Young and Rubicam brands. Prior to that, she was chairman and CEO of the New York flagship office of Young and Rubicam. Ms. Kugelman was the first account planner to head the lead office of a top-twenty advertising agency. Before that, she was managing director and vice chairman of Y&RNY, as well as the director of the agency's brand planning group. She was a key player in Y&R's new business development.
Mr. Tindell, chairman and CEO of The Container Store, opened the first location in Dallas in 1978. Since then, the company has been named nine years in a row as one of the "100 Best Companies to Work For" in America by FORTUNE magazine, thanks to its progressive, employee-empowering corporate culture. The Container Store now has 46 stores across the country and 2008 fiscal year sales are projected at $650 million. Retail analysts cite the company's devotion to the original concept as the formula for its success, noting that other retailers haven't focused on an inventory mix solely devoted to storage and organization products like The Container Store.
Mr. Seiffer is a partner with Leonard Green & Partners, L.P., and has been at the firm since 1994. He presently serves on the board of directors for David's Bridal, Inc., The Sports Authority, Inc., The Tire Rack, Inc., and Varsity Brands, Inc.
Mr. Sokoloff is a managing partner with Leonard Green & Partners, L.P., which he joined in 1990. Currently, he serves on the boards of several retail companies including The Container Store, David's Bridal, Inc., Jetro Cash & Carry, Inc., Rite Aid Corporation, The Sports Authority, Inc., The Tire Rack, Inc., and Varsity Brands, Inc.
On Nov. 5, Whole Foods Market announced an agreement to sell $425 million of its Series A 8.00% Redeemable Convertible Exchangeable Participating Preferred Stock to Green Equity Investors V, L.P., Green Equity Investors Side V, L.P. and Thyme Coinvest, LLC, affiliates of Leonard Green & Partners, L.P. At the time of the announcement last month, Mackey called LGP "one of the most experienced and successful investors in the retail industry" and said "LGP's significant stake in Whole Foods Market is a vote of confidence for the company's business model and future growth potential."


