FILE:WFM/WFM-8K-20090911161430.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 5.02(e)          Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On September 9, 2009 the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Whole Foods Market Inc. approved the Company's new Executive Compensation Plan (the "New Bonus Plan"). With respect to all Executive Team Members, the New Bonus Plan will replace the Company's existing incentive bonus plan.  The New Bonus Plan provides for: (A) a qualitative bonus amount (the "Qualitative Bonus Amount"), and (B) a quantitative bonus amount (the "Quantitative Bonus Amount").
 
The Qualitative Bonus Amount is determined by the Compensation Committee in its discretion provided this amount shall not be more than 30% of the applicable executive's annual base salary.
 
The Quantitative Bonus Amount is determined each year through the Compensation Committee's selection of performance criteria, exclusively from the list of thirteen possible criteria discussed below.  Other than for fiscal year 2009, the year in which this plan was adopted, prior to the beginning of the fiscal year the Compensation Committee will select and weight the performance criteria.  For 2009 the performance criteria were selected and weighted concurrent with the Compensation Committee's recommendation of the New Bonus Plan.
 
 
With regard to the performance criteria selected for the applicable fiscal year, the resulting dollar amounts are summed to determine the Quantitative Bonus Amount for such year.  The Company's definition of the non-GAAP measures EBITANCE, NOPAT, EVA and free cash flow are all detailed in certain of our earnings press releases where the relevant term is discussed.  No subtraction from the Quantitative Bonus Amount results from any neutral or negative performance criteria.
 
Total cash compensation received by each executive for any one fiscal year is limited by the Company's salary cap, which is calculated as 19 times the average annual wage of all full time Team Members, and which for 2008 was $652,400.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


