FILE:WFM/WFM-8K-20100308182854.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the reporting obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 of the Exchange Act
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) Exchange Act
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) Exchange Act
 
 
 
 
Item 5.07.
             
Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
The Company convened its annual meeting of shareholders on March 8, 2010 pursuant to notice duly given.  The matters voted upon at the meeting and the results of such voting are set forth below:
 
1.
            
To elect ten directors of the Company.
 
 
All director nominees were duly elected.
 
2.
            
Ratification of the appointment of Ernst & Young, LLP as independent public accountants for fiscal year 2010.
 
 
The Motion was ratified.
 
3.
                                      
Expanding the requirement for majority voting standards.
 
 
The Motion was ratified.
 
4.
            
Amending the Company's by-laws to permit removal of a director without cause
 
 
The Motion was ratified.
 
5.
            
Establishing a board of directors' policy concerning an engagement process with proponents of shareholder proposals that are supported by a majority of the votes cast.
 
 
The proposal was rejected.
 
6.
                                      
Requesting that the board of directors amend the Company's corporate governance principles to adopt and disclose a written and detailed succession planning policy.
 
 
The proposal was rejected.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


