FILE:WFM/WFM-8K-20120502171519.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On May 2, 2012, the Company issued a press release announcing its results of operations for its second fiscal quarter ended April 8, 2012. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
In addition to reporting financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, the Company provides information regarding Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization ("EBITDA"), Return on Invested Capital ("ROIC") and Free Cash Flow in the press release as additional information about its operating results. These measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative to, GAAP. The Company's management believes that these presentations provide useful information to management, analysts and investors regarding certain additional financial and business trends relating to its results of operations and financial condition. In addition, management uses these measures for reviewing the financial results of the Company as well as a component of incentive compensation. The Company defines ROIC as annualized adjusted earnings divided by average invested capital. Earnings are annualized on a 52-week basis. Invested capital represents a trailing four-quarter average. The Company defines Free Cash Flow as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. The press release includes a tabular reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP net income, which the Company believes to be the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.
The information contained in this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, is being furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. Furthermore, the information contained in this Item 2.02 or Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
99.1 Press release dated May 2, 2012, regarding second fiscal quarter results of operations.
    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

EXHIBIT 99.1
AUSTIN, Texas, May 2, 2012 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Whole Foods Market, Inc. (Nasdaq:WFM) today reported results for the 12-week second quarter ended April 8, 2012. Sales for the quarter increased 14% to $2.7 billion. Including a positive impact of 55 basis points from Easter shifting from the third quarter last year to the second quarter this year, comparable store sales increased 9.5% and identical store sales, excluding six relocations and two expansions, increased 9.0%. Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA") increased 24% from the prior year to $259.2 million, net income increased 31% to $117.7 million, and diluted earnings per share increased 26% to $0.64.
"We are pleased to report another outstanding quarter, producing the best results in our company's thirty-two year history," said John Mackey, co-founder and co-chief executive officer of Whole Foods Market. "Our consistent execution and strong capital disciplines have been delivering record returns to our shareholders."
The following table shows the Company's comparable and identical store sales results for the last five quarters and for the five weeks ended April 29, 2012.
Gross profit increased 70 basis points to 36.3% of sales driven by almost equal improvements in occupancy costs and COGS as a percentage of sales. The LIFO charge was $1 million in the second quarter of both years. Direct store expenses improved 37 basis points to 25.5% of sales due primarily to leverage in wages and depreciation.  As a result, store contribution improved 107 basis points to 10.8% of sales.
For stores in the identical store base, gross profit improved 78 basis points to 36.4% of sales, direct store expenses improved 53 basis points to 25.4% of sales, and store contribution improved 131 basis points to 11.0% of sales
.
During the quarter, the Company produced $255.8 million in cash flow from operations and invested $101.9 million in capital expenditures, of which $60.0 million related to new stores. This resulted in free cash flow of $153.9 million. In addition, the Company paid $25.2 million in dividends to shareholders, and received $156.8 million in proceeds from the exercise of team member stock options.
The Company ended the quarter with total cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash, and investments of $1.3 billion, and total debt (capital lease obligations) of $19.2 million. 
Additional information on the quarter for comparable stores and all stores is provided in the following table. 
Fiscal Year Results
For the 28-week period ended April 8, 2012, sales increased 13% to $6.1 billion. Including a positive impact of 25 basis points from Easter shifting from the third quarter last year to the second quarter this year, comparable store sales increased 9.0% and identical store sales, excluding six relocations and three expansions, increased 8.6%. EBITDA increased 23% to $542.2 million, net income increased 32% to $236.0 million, and diluted earnings per share increased 27% to $1.29. 
Year to date, the Company has produced $516.7 million in cash flow from operations and invested $213.3 million in capital expenditures, of which $114.5 million related to new stores. This resulted in free cash flow of $303.4 million. In addition, the Company paid $43.1 million in dividends to shareholders, repurchased $3.6 million of common stock, and received $237.0 million in proceeds from the exercise of team member stock options.
The following table shows the Company's year-to-date results through the second quarter for certain line items compared to its historical five-year ranges and averages.
Growth and Development
The Company opened three stores in the second quarter. In the third quarter, the Company has opened four stores and expects to open five additional stores, including one relocation. The Company currently has 324 stores totaling approximately 12.3 million square feet. 
The Company recently signed eight new leases averaging 38,600 square feet in size in North Burnaby, B.C.; Alpharetta, GA; Savannah, GA; Maple Grove, MN; Albany, NY; Brooklyn, NY; Memphis, TN; and Toronto, Ontario.  These stores currently are scheduled to open in fiscal year 2013 and beyond. 
The following table provides additional information about the Company's store openings in fiscal years 2011 and 2012 year to date; leases currently tendered but unopened; and total development pipeline (including leases currently tendered) for stores scheduled to open through fiscal year 2015. 
Raised Outlook for Fiscal Year 2012
The following table provides information on the Company's updated fiscal year 2012 outlook. The Company notes that fiscal year 2012 will be a 53-week year, with the extra week falling in the fourth quarter, making it a 13-week quarter.
"Our exceptional results in the first half of the year have given us the confidence to significantly raise our guidance for the full year.  We are confident that our sales momentum and operating disciplines will create continued positive results for our shareholders," said Walter Robb, co-chief executive officer of Whole Foods Market.
The Company is committed to producing positive free cash flow on an annual basis, including sufficient cash flow to fund the 70 stores in its current development pipeline. The following table provides information about the Company's estimated store openings for the next two fiscal yearsOver the long term, the Company considers 1,000 stores to be a reasonable indication of its market opportunity in the United States as the Whole Foods Market brand continues to strengthen, consumer demand for natural and organic products continues to increase, and the Company's flexibility on new store size opens up additional market opportunities. The Company believes Canada and the United Kingdom hold great promise as well.
. 
About Whole Foods Market
Founded in 1980 in Austin, Texas, Whole Foods Market (www.wholefoodsmarket.com) is the leading retailer of natural and organic foods and America's first national "Certified Organic" grocer In fiscal year 2011, the Company had sales of approximately $10 billion and currently has 324 stores in the United States, Canada, and the United Kingdom. Whole Foods Market employs over 67,000 Team Members and has been ranked for 15 consecutive years as one of the "100 Best Companies to Work For" in America by magazine.
.
Fortune
The Whole Foods Market, Inc. logo is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/newsroom/prs/?pkgid=6063
Forward-looking statements
The following constitutes a "Safe Harbor" statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Except for the historical information contained herein, the matters discussed in this press release are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, which could cause our actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements.  These risks include general business conditions, changes in overall economic conditions that impact consumer spending, including fuel prices and housing market trends, the impact of competition and other risks detailed from time to time in the SEC reports of Whole Foods Market, including Whole Foods Market's report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 25, 2011.  Whole Foods Market undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements. 
The Company will host a conference call today to discuss this earnings announcement at 4:00 p.m. CT.  The dial-in number is (800) 862-9098, and the conference ID is "Whole Foods."  A simultaneous audio webcast will be available at www.wholefoodsmarket.com. 
 
CONTACT:  Cindy McCann          VP of Investor Relations          512.542.0204


