FILE:WFM/WFM-8K-20120208171245.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On February 8, 2012, the Company issued a press release announcing its results of operations for its first fiscal quarter ended January 15, 2012. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
In addition to reporting financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, the Company provides information regarding Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA"), Adjusted EBITDA, and Free cash flow as additional information about its operating results. These measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative to, GAAP. The Company's management believes that these presentations provide useful information to management, analysts and investors regarding certain additional financial and business trends relating to its results of operations and financial condition. In addition, management uses these measures for reviewing the financial results of the Company as well as a component of incentive compensation. The Company defines Adjusted EBITDA as EBITDA plus non-cash asset impairment charges. The Company defines Free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. The press release includes a tabular reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP net income, which the Company believes to be the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.
The information contained in this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, is being furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. Furthermore, the information contained in this Item 2.02 or Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
99.1 Press release dated February 8, 2012, regarding first fiscal quarter results of operations.
    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

EXHIBIT 99.1
AUSTIN, Texas, Feb. 8, 2012 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Whole Foods Market, Inc. (Nasdaq:WFM) today reported results for the 16-week first quarter ended January 15, 2012. Sales for the quarter increased 13% to $3.4 billion. Comparable store sales increased 8.7%, or 17.7% on a two-year stacked basis. Identical store sales, excluding six relocations and two expansions, increased 8.2%, or 17.3% on a two-year stacked basis. Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA") increased 21% from the prior year to $283.0 million, net income increased 33% to $118.3 million, and diluted earnings per share increased 28% to $0.65.
"We continue to execute at a high level, delivering a great shopping experience for our customers while delivering great returns to our shareholders," said Walter Robb, co-chief executive officer of Whole Foods Market.  "This quarter we produced a 28% increase in earnings on a 13% increase in sales.  We are pleased with our sales momentum and are confident we will continue to leverage our sales to the bottom line as reflected in our increased operating margin and earnings outlook for the year." The following table shows the Company's comparable and identical store sales results for the last five quarters and for the first three weeks of the second quarter through February 5, 2012.
For the quarter, there was no LIFO charge versus a $2 million charge in the prior year, a positive impact of seven basis points. Excluding LIFO, gross profit increased 10 basis points to 34.7% of sales driven by an improvement in occupancy costs as a percentage of sales. Direct store expenses improved 64 basis points to 25.7% of sales due primarily to leverage in wages and depreciation. As a result, store contribution, excluding LIFO, improved 74 basis points to 9.1% of sales.
For stores in the identical store base, gross profit improved 23 basis points to 34.9% of sales, direct store expenses improved 88 basis points to 25.5% of sales, and store contribution improved 111 basis points to 9.4% of sales
.
G&A expenses increased 11 basis points to 3.1% of sales.
Pre-opening expenses were $10.4 million versus $8.6 million in the prior year, with six new store openings in the first quarter this year compared to three in the first quarter last year. Relocation, store closure and lease termination costs were $2.9 million versus $3.1 million in the prior year. 
The effective tax rate was 38.6% versus 40.0% in the prior year due to savings realized by the Company as a result of certain initiatives and investments.
During the quarter, the Company produced $260.9 million in cash flow from operations and invested $111.3 million in capital expenditures, of which $54.5 million related to new stores. This resulted in free cash flow of $149.6 million. In addition, the Company paid $17.8 million in dividends to shareholders, repurchased $3.6 million of stock, and received $80.2 million in proceeds from the exercise of team member stock options.
The Company ended the quarter with total cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash, and investments of $1.0 billion, and total debt (capital lease obligations) of $19.3 million. 
Additional information on the quarter for comparable stores and all stores is provided in the following table.
The following table shows the Company's results for the fiscal year for certain line items compared to its historical five-year ranges and averages.
Growth and Development
The Company opened six stores in the first quarter and expects to open three stores in the second quarter. The Company currently has 317 stores totaling approximately 12.1 million square feet. 
The Company recently signed eight new leases averaging 33,100 square feet in size in Frisco, CO; Miami, FL; Orland Park, IL; South Bend, IN; Minneapolis, MN; Jackson, MS; Port Chester, NY; and Cleveland, OH. These stores currently are scheduled to open in fiscal year 2013 and beyond. 
The following table provides additional information about the Company's store openings in fiscal years 2011 and 2012 year to date; leases currently tendered but unopened; and total development pipeline (including leases currently tendered) for stores scheduled to open through fiscal year 2015.
Outlook for Fiscal Year 2012
The following table provides information on the Company's updated fiscal year 2012 outlook. The Company notes that fiscal year 2012 will be a 53-week year, with the extra week falling in the fourth quarter, making it a 13-week quarter.
The Company is committed to producing positive free cash flow on an annual basis, including sufficient cash flow to fund the 69 stores in its current development pipeline. The following table provides information about the Company's estimated store openings for the next two fiscal years
.
Over the long term, the Company considers 1,000 stores to be a reasonable indication of its market opportunity in the United States as the Whole Foods Market brand continues to strengthen, consumer demand for natural and organic products continues to increase, and the Company's flexibility on new store size opens up additional market opportunities. The Company believes Canada and the United Kingdom hold great promise as well.
About Whole Foods Market
Founded in 1980 in Austin, Texas, Whole Foods Market (www.wholefoodsmarket.com) is the leading retailer of natural and organic foods and America's first national "Certified Organic" grocer In fiscal year 2011, the Company had sales of approximately $10 billion and currently has 317 stores in the United States, Canada, and the United Kingdom. Whole Foods Market employs over 65,000 Team Members and has been ranked for 15 consecutive years as one of the "100 Best Companies to Work For" in America by magazine.
.
Fortune
The Whole Foods Market, Inc. logo is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/newsroom/prs/?pkgid=6063
Forward-looking statements
The following constitutes a "Safe Harbor" statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Except for the historical information contained herein, the matters discussed in this press release are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, which could cause our actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. These risks include general business conditions, changes in overall economic conditions that impact consumer spending, including fuel prices and housing market trends, the impact of competition and other risks detailed from time to time in the SEC reports of Whole Foods Market, including Whole Foods Market's report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 25, 2011. Whole Foods Market undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements. 
The Company will host a conference call today to discuss this earnings announcement at 4:00 p.m. CT. The dial-in number is (800) 862-9098, and the conference ID is "Whole Foods." A simultaneous audio webcast will be available at www.wholefoodsmarket.com.
CONTACT: Cindy McCann         VP of Investor Relations         512.542.0204


