FILE:AA/AA-8K-20030424152601.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.    Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits.
 
(c)    Exhibits.
 
 
Item 9.    Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
The information in this report is being furnished under Item 12 of Form 8-K, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition", and is included under this Item 9 in accordance with SEC Release Nos. 33-8216; 34-47583.
 
The information in this report shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
On April 22, 2003, Alcoa Inc. announced the release of its 2002 Sustainability Report, a detailed data-based review of the company's global environmental, social, and economic performance. A copy of the press release and a copy of the 2002 Sustainability Report are attached hereto as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, and are hereby incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: April 24, 2003
 
 
 
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 Alcoa marked Earth Day 2003 with release of its 2002 Sustainability Report, a detailed data-based review of the company's global environmental, social, and economic performance. The report is available online at .
Pittsburgh, PA  April 22, 2003
www.alcoa.com/lnk/sustainability
 
In releasing the report, Alcoa Chairman and CEO, Alain Belda said that it represented another milestone in Alcoa's long tradition of measuring performance against the high standards set by the company and reporting publicly on progress made.
 
"Truth can be judged by performance, so data and factual information pervade this report," said Belda. "We have presented information that yields meaningful insight into our global operations, where we are making progress and where we are not yet performing to the standards we set for ourselves," he said.
 
Belda attributed the achievements outlined in the report to the hard work of 127,000 Alcoa employees in 40 countries. "Alcoa's employees are working effectively to drive waste from the value chain, from the natural resources that make our products all the way through the supply chain to the customer. That is how we secure the benefits and reduce the cost for our business, our customers, our communities, and our world. This is how we demonstrate leadership," he said.
 
Highlights of the report include:
 
 
 
 
 
Much of the environmental, social, and economic data in the report have been regularly reported in one form or another by Alcoa for decades, but this is the first time that they have been drawn together to provide an integrated view of the company's performance. This report serves as a complementary volume to Alcoa's 2002 Annual Report.
 
Alcoa is the world's leading producer of primary aluminum, fabricated aluminum and alumina, and is active in all major aspects of the industry. Alcoa serves the aerospace, automotive, packaging, building and construction, commercial transportation and industrial markets, bringing design, engineering, production and other capabilities of Alcoa's businesses as a single solution to customers. In addition to aluminum products and components, Alcoa also markets consumer brands including Reynolds Wrap
aluminum foil, Alcoa
wheels, and Baco
household wraps. Among its other businesses are vinyl siding, closures, precision castings, and electrical distribution systems for cars and trucks. The company has 127,000 employees in 40 countries. For more information go to .
www.alcoa.com
 
Forward Looking Statement
Certain statements in this release relate to future events and expectations and as such constitute forward-looking statements involving known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results, performance or achievements of Alcoa to be different from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are summarized in Alcoa's SEC reports.

Exhibit 99.2
 
CEO Statement
 
We believe that sustainable development is the basis for Alcoa's future.
 
Within our company, we have the vision, the values, the strength, the technology, the people, the relationships, and the products to build that future. Aluminum  the core of our business  is one of the most useful, most easily recycled, most sustainable materials available in the world. Our customers provide our opportunity for growth as they challenge Alcoa to help them create solutions for improving the quality of life worldwide.
 
We aim to realize that opportunity by maintaining relentless commitment to achieving better results in our products, our processes, and our relationships today than we did yesterday  and then better results again tomorrow. This is how we secure the benefits and reduce the cost for our business, our customers, our communities, and our world.
 
This is why I'm pleased to present to you our company's 2002 Sustainability Report. It marks another milestone in Alcoa's long tradition of measuring our performance against the high standards we set for ourselves and reporting on our progress.
 
Truth can be judged by performance, so data and historical factual information dominate this report. We have selected information that yields meaningful insight into our global operations, our successes, and, where we are not yet performing to the standards we expect of ourselves, our disappointments.
 
Much of the environmental, social, and economic data you will find here have been regularly reported in one form or another for decades; but this is the first time that we have drawn them together to provide an integrated view of our performance. This report serves as a complementary volume to our 2002 Annual Report, where you can find a more detailed discussion of how we devise solutions for our customers.
 
Guided every day by our Values, we made significant progress in working toward sustainability in 2002. We are proud of that progress  proud but not content.
 
Our people programs continued to build the diversity and inclusiveness we need in our culture to enable people to stretch and be the best they can be. Through the Alcoa Business System, we see increased focus on manufacturing based on customer demand and immediate problem solving. In this way, all 127,000 Alcoa employees are working effectively to drive waste, in its many forms, from the value chain that extends from the ultimate consumer back to the natural resources on which we all depend.
 
As a result, we once again improved on our previous year's safety performance. Our occupational health programs continued to mature.
 
Environmentally, Alcoa businesses and operating locations continued to deliver on the commitments they made to the reduction of waste and emissions outlined in our 2020 strategic framework for sustainability.
 
Partnerships are critical for us; we know that sustainability can't be achieved by any organization in isolation. We continue to engage with and involve supporters and opponents within communities where we have a presence and jointly refine our ability to work together to achieve balance among economic, social, and environmental outcomes. In those communities, we also embarked on an ambitious community investment strategy committed to delivering "More than Money."
 
From this brief summary, you can sense that we have much to report and a strong sense of mission. I offer this report to you and welcome any comments you would like to make. I invite you to submit your comments through our dedicated e-mail address: sustainability@alcoa.com.
 
Alain J. P. Belda
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As yet, there are no Generally Accepted Accounting Principles for reporting social and environmental performance. We have relied on the reporting framework emerging from the voluntary Global Reporting Initiative to guide the structure of this report.
 
Forward-looking Statement
 
Certain statements in this report relate to future events and expectations and as such constitute forward-looking statements involving known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results, performance or achievements of Alcoa to be different from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include the company's inability to achieve the level of cost savings or productivity improvements anticipated by management, including possible increases in the cost of doing business resulting from war or terrorist activities; and other risk factors summarized in Alcoa's SEC reports.
 
 
 
 
Vision and Strategy
 
Sustainable Development
 
In Alcoa's view, economic, environmental, and social sustainability lies in commitment to the corporate vision of being the best company in the world  in the eyes of our customers, suppliers, shareholders, communities, and employees  and achieving this through relentless adherence to Alcoa's Values. On this foundation, we have established a strategic framework supported by measurable objectives for achieving the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Leadership
 
At Alcoa, sustainable development is a critical component of our 21st century business strategy. Alcoa has done business in three centuries by always thinking beyond what laws require today. We take a leadership focus and try to anticipate where society will be decades from now. We would rather do our best to eliminate waste on the front end, rather than clean up a mess afterwards. Our investments are long-term, and the focus on the long-term defines our competitive edge.
 
Take a specific instance: climate change. Our values and premium on leadership demand that we attack the issue now rather than wait to see how governments respond. There is a problem, and we recognize that we contribute to it. So, rather than debate the science, we decided to do something, not because governments are demanding it  which they will  but because it is the right thing to do. We committed to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by 25% from their level in 1990. Today, we are on track to reach that goal well ahead of schedule, and we are developing new technology that may reduce those emissions substantially more.
 
Over time, sustainable development will demand that every business take the far-sighted view, to leave behind an enterprise that is valued by society and positioned for future growth.
 
 
 
Vision and Values
 
At Alcoa, our vision is to be the best company in the world. We expect and demand the best we have to offer by always keeping Alcoa's Values top of mind.
 
Integrity
 
Alcoa's foundation is our integrity. We are open, honest, and trustworthy in dealing with customers, suppliers, coworkers, shareholders, and the communities where we have an impact.
 
Environment, Health, and Safety
 
We work safely in a manner that protects and promotes the health and well-being of the individual and the environment.
 
Customer
 
We support our customers' success by creating exceptional value through innovative product and service solutions.
 
Excellence
 
We relentlessly pursue excellence in everything we do, every day.
 
People
 
We work in an inclusive environment that embraces change, new ideas, respect for the individual, and equal opportunity to succeed.
 
Profitability
 
We earn sustainable financial results that enable profitable growth and superior shareholder value.
 
Accountability
 
We are accountable  individually and in teams  for our behaviors, actions, and results.
 
We live our Values and measure our success by the success of our customers, shareholders, communities, and people.
 
Principles
 
Integrity
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Environment, Health, and Safety
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Customer
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Excellence
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
People
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Profitability
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Accountability
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Profile
 
ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE
 
Reporting Organization
 
Alcoa Inc.
 
Products and Services
 
In addition to aluminum products and components, Alcoa also markets consumer brands including Reynolds Wrap
aluminum foil, Alcoa
wheels, and Baco
household wraps. Among our other businesses are vinyl siding, closures, precision castings, and electrical distribution systems for cars and trucks.
 
 
Countries with Alcoa Operations
 
As of March 2003, Alcoa operates in 40 countries. A complete list is available on alcoa.com.
 
Nature of Ownership
 
Formed in 1888 under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, Alcoa Inc. is a publicly listed company on the New York Stock Exchange (ticker symbol: AA).
 
Markets Served
 
Alcoa serves customers in the aerospace, automotive, packaging, building and construction, commercial transportation, and industrial markets.
 
Key 2002 Statistics
 
As of December 31, 2002
 
*Millions of US dollars
 
REPORT SCOPE
 
Contact Person
 
Dr. Patrick Atkins
 
To provide feedback on this sustainability report, please send an e-mail to sustainability@alcoa.com.
 
Reporting Period
 
January 1 through December 31, 2002. This is Alcoa's first sustainability report in this format, but we have been reporting publicly on our global EHS performance for 10 years and community involvement for three years. Generally, we have provided three years of data for each performance indicator.
 
Boundaries of Report
 
Data contained in this report are for Alcoa's global operations unless otherwise noted as regional.
 
 
 
 
 
Alcoa Metrics System
 
Alcoa's metrics system is the source of much of the data in this report.
 
Almost 15 years ago, Alcoa initiated a process to collect and display current detailed information on safety in a way that would be available to all employees. We built a system that allows every location to enter data electronically through interactive computer displays, and we use the information as a tool for developing action plans, corrective actions, goal setting, and progress measurement.
 
We have expanded the original data system to include incident management, and we now use the system for all environmental, health, and safety data collection and analysis, incident management, and reporting. At any time, we can use the system to determine current safety statistics, including accidents or near misses that occur anywhere in the world on a particular day. We can also view detailed reports on incidents, evaluate the corrective action plans or status of a corrective action, and evaluate our progress toward our goals in environment, health, and safety. The system is an excellent management tool that has helped us facilitate our rapid progress in these areas.
 
Basis for Reporting on Joint Ventures, Partially Owned Subsidiaries, Etc.
 
Data in this report are drawn from those operations where Alcoa has majority interest and/or management control.
 
REPORT PROFILE
 
This is a pilot report intended to help guide Alcoa in the evolution of an integrated report highlighting economic, social, and environmental aspects of our operations from 2004 onward. In all cases, we have selected data that we believe contribute to meaningful insight into Alcoa operations worldwide. We also selected data on the basis that systems for collecting and collating that data already exist or that we can make a reasonable estimate.
 
Criteria/Definitions
 
Please refer to the 2002 Alcoa Annual Report for details on our financial accounting policies.
 
Internal Report Assurance
 
Alcoa management is responsible for the integrity of the data published in this report. The company maintains a system of internal controls, including accounting controls and a strong program of internal and external auditing. The system of controls provides for appropriate procedures that are consistent with high standards of accounting and administration. This report has been prepared within the framework of those standards.
 
Independent Report Assurance
 
This pilot sustainability report has not been verified by an independent external party. Alcoa recognizes the value of external verification of such reports, and we are actively working our way through the complexities of verification of all reported data. We will report on our progress toward verification with the publication of the 2004 report.
 
Information Requests
 
Please visit alcoa.com for additional information about Alcoa's economic, environmental, and social performance.
 
 
Governance Structure and Management Systems
 
STRUCTURE AND GOVERNANCE
 
Board of Directors (As of February 20, 2003)
 
, 59, chairman of the board of Alcoa since January 2001, and chief executive officer since May 1999. Elected president and chief operating officer in January 1997, vice chairman in 1995, and executive vice president in 1994. President of Alcoa Aluminio S.A. from 1979 to 1994; president  Latin America in 1991. Director of Alcoa since 1998.
Alain J.P. Belda
 
, 56, president of the World Wildlife Fund U.S. (WWF), an independent organization dedicated to the conservation of nature, since 1989; various positions with the organization since 1982 including executive vice president, general counsel, and director of WWF's public policy and wildlife trade monitoring programs; prior to WWF, chief, Wildlife and Marine Resources Section, U.S. Department of Justice. Director of Alcoa since 2002.
Kathryn S. Fuller
 
, 48, president and chief executive officer, Nissan Motor Company, Ltd., since 2001. Mr. Ghosn previously served as chief operating officer of Nissan Motor Company, Ltd. from 1999. From 1996 to 1999 he was executive vice president of Renault S.A., and from 1979 to 1996 he served in various capacities with Compagnie Gnrale des stablissements Michelin, including chairman, president, and chief executive officer of Michelin North America, Inc. from 1990 to 1996. Director of Alcoa since 2002.
Carlos Ghosn
 
, 65, former chairman and chief executive officer of TRW Inc., a global company serving the automotive, space, and information systems markets, from 1988-2001; president and chief operating officer 1985-1988; president 1985-1991; executive vice president 1980-1985; vice president and general counsel 1976-1980. Director of Alcoa since 1991.
Joseph T. Gorman
 
, 61, president of Manpower Demonstration Research Corporation (MDRC), a nonprofit research organization, since 1986; executive vice president for research and evaluation 1978-1986; prior to MDRC, director of special projects and studies and a consultant for the New York City Human Resources Administration. Director of Alcoa since 1988.
Judith M. Gueron
 
, 70, former chairman of United Business Media, a U.K.-based media company, from 1999-2002; chairman of Imperial Chemical Industries plc (ICI) 1995-1999, and a director 1985-1999; deputy chairman and chief executive officer 1993-1995; chief operating officer 1991-1993. Director of Alcoa since 1995.
Sir Ronald Hampel
 
, 67, executive director of the Opera Company of Philadelphia since 1999; former president and chief operating officer of Rohm and Haas Company, a specialty chemicals manufacturer, from 1986-1998. Director of Alcoa since 1987.
John P. Mulroney
 
, 68, was chairman of Lucent Technologies Inc., a communications systems and services company, from October 2000 to February 2003 and its chief executive officer from October 2000 to January 2002. He has been on unpaid leave from Warburg Pincus, where he served in various roles, including managing director and partner since 2000, and senior advisor in 1999. Mr. Schacht previously served as chief executive officer of Lucent Technologies Inc. from February 1996 to October 1997, chairman from 1996 to 1998, and senior advisor from February 1998 to February 1999. Mr. Schacht was chairman of Cummins Inc. from 1977 to 1995 and its chief executive officer from 1973 to 1994. Director of Alcoa since 1994.
Henry B. Schacht
 
 
 
 
, 68, consultant, TFF Study Group, a nonprofit institution assisting development in South Africa, since 1996; chairman, September 11 Fund since 2001; president and chief executive officer of The Ford Foundation 1979-1996; president and chief executive officer of Bedford Stuyvesant Restoration Corporation 1967-1977. Director of Alcoa since 1977.
Franklin A. Thomas
 
, 51, director, Yale Center for the Study of Globalization. Dr. Zedillo is the former president of Mexico; elected in 1994 and served until 2000; held various positions in the Mexican federal government since late 1987 including secretary of education, secretary of economic programming and budget, and undersecretary of planning and budget control. Prior to his work with the Mexican government, deputy director of the Bank of Mexico. Director of Alcoa since 2002.
Ernesto Zedillo
 
Committees
 
Audit Committee
 
Reviews Alcoa's auditing, financial reporting, and internal control functions and retains the independent auditors. It also reviews the company's environmental, health, and safety audits and monitors compliance with Alcoa business conduct policies. The members of the Audit Committee are independent, as defined under the New York Stock Exchange listing standards. The independent auditors, the chief financial officer, the vice president  audit, and the general counsel have access to the committee without any other members of management being present.
 
Joseph T. Gorman
 
Judith M. Gueron
 
Henry B. Schacht  Chair
 
Ernesto Zedillo
 
Compensation and Benefits Committee
 
Determines compensation for Alcoa officers, administers the stock option plan, oversees investment management of the principal pension and savings plans, approves any special post-retirement arrangements for retiring Alcoa officers, and performs other functions specified by the company's compensation and benefit plans. The committee retains independent compensation consultants to assist it. The members of the Compensation and Benefits Committee are independent, as defined under the New York Stock Exchange listing standards.
 
Carlos Ghosn
 
Joseph T. Gorman  Chair
 
Sir Ronald Hampel  Chair of Subcommittee, Investment Management
 
John P. Mulroney
 
Franklin A. Thomas
 
Executive Committee
 
Acts on behalf of the board when specific action must be taken between board meetings. Meets regularly between the scheduled board meetings.
 
Alain J. P. Belda  Chair
 
Joseph T. Gorman
 
Henry B. Schacht
 
Franklin A. Thomas
 
Governance and Nominating Committee
 
Recommends nominees for election as directors and has oversight responsibility for corporate governance, director education, and orientation and the performance evaluation process for committees and the board.
 
Kathryn S. Fuller
 
Sir Ronald Hampel
 
John P. Mulroney  Chair
 
Franklin A. Thomas
 
Public Issues Committee
 
Provides advice and guidance on public issues, oversees corporate giving, makes recommendations to the board regarding significant shareholder issues, and reviews company reporting initiatives regarding social and environmental matters.
 
Kathryn S. Fuller
 
Carlos Ghosn
 
Judith M. Gueron  Chair
 
Henry B. Schacht
 
Ernesto Zedillo
 
 
Independence Standard for Board of Directors
 
Alcoa believes that a strong independent board is critical. A majority of directors must be "independent" under the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange, as determined by the board of directors. Board independence depends not only on directors' individual relationships, but also on the board's overall attitude. Providing objective, independent judgment is at the core of the board's oversight function, and the board's composition should reflect this principle. Since 1991, Alcoa has had only one inside director on its board, the chief executive officer, except during a brief period during a CEO transition. Today, nine out of the 10 directors are independent, and the Audit Committee is composed entirely of independent directors.
 
Executive Compensation
 
We believe our compensation procedures and practices are in line with the best corporate governance standards. Our executives have an opportunity to increase their compensation by performing well. Our performance-based cash incentive plans have been established to pay above the median, and the stock option program rewards executives when the company stock is rising. Executive compensation declines when the company's stock price is declining or when financial and non-financial performance objectives are not fully realized. We have never repriced stock options, and our plan, which was approved by the shareholders, prohibits repricing. We think these performance-based designs and practices have served the interests of the shareholders well.
 
Audit Process
 
Our goal is the same through both our internal and external audit processes: to maintain world-class transparency and accountability in Alcoa operations.
 
Independent Auditors
 
Alcoa's corporate governance guidelines strictly limit the non-audit work performed by our independent accounting firm, PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC). Aside from work on the audit, related work, and tax matters, we paid PwC no other fees in either 2002 or 2001.
 
In compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and NYSE Rules, Alcoa's governance standards require the regular rotation of PwC's lead audit and review partner.
 
Internal Audit
 
Alcoa has long had an independent, global, Internal Audit Department (IAD). The IAD is responsible for providing financial, information technology, environmental, and health and safety audits in all Alcoa locations across the world. The group's focus is to assess risk across the company, apply audit resources to address those risks, and develop recommendations to close any gaps that are detected as a result of an audit. IAD is also charged with implementing the Alcoa Self-Assessment Tool, a type of self-audit that is required to be performed at least once every 18 months by every Alcoa location or administrative process worldwide.
 
Ethics and Compliance Program
 
Deployment of Alcoa's Ethics and Compliance Program in 2002 led us to a closer alignment with the Federal Sentencing Guidelines of 1992, recommendations of an independent Compliance Program Assessment completed in December 2000, and requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of July 2002.
 
Our Compliance Advisory Council and the Global Compliance Organization, both formed in 2001, continued to provide meaningful strategic direction and tactical support for the re-energized ethics pro-
 
 
 
gram. Their support facilitated the following accomplishments during 2002:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ethics and Compliance Line
 
In 2001, approximately 20,000 Alcoa employees had access to our ethics and reporting hotline. We increased that number to 59,400 by March 2002 and to 157,000 global employees and contractors by March 2003.
 
In 2001, the hotline was available only in English. Today, we have the capabilities to respond to hotline calls in 16 languages.
 
Shareholder Engagement
 
Alcoa shareholders elect the board of directors.
 
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
 
Stakeholder Identification
 
Stakeholders are defined as any group or individual affected by Alcoa's operations or that has the capacity to influence our operations or future prospects.
 
Stakeholder Consultation
 
Alcoa has deployed a community framework through which each operation can engage the local community by various means. These include forums, workshops, advisory panels, published reports, projects, and open houses.
 
 
 
Stakeholder Consultation Outcomes
 
Some examples of the type of information and initiatives that result from stakeholder engagements are contained throughout this report via case studies.
 
OVERARCHING POLICIES AND MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
 
Alcoa Business System
 
Alcoa's overarching operating system is known as the Alcoa Business System (ABS). It is a system based on the following principles:
 
 
 
 
 
This system provides the most efficient way for eliminating waste by enabling us to supply customers, on demand, with defect-free products at the lowest cost and with the highest degree of safety.
 
External Principles and Initiatives
 
Alcoa subscribes to or endorses the following externally developed principles or initiatives.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Memberships
 
Alcoa is a member of numerous organizations. These include major aluminum associations and metal councils throughout the world and organizations like the Business Roundtable, the Pew Center on Global Climate Change, the World Business Council for Sustainable Development, and the World Resources Institute Green Power Initiative. We choose memberships where we can see a significant role for business in advancing sustainability.
 
Programs and Procedures
 
Some examples of Alcoa's programs and procedures pertaining to economic, environmental, and social performance are contained throughout this report via case studies.
 
Certification Status
 
As of March 31, 2003, Alcoa had 127 locations certified to the ISO 14001 Environmental Management Systems (EMS) Standard, with more than 100 locations actively working toward certification within two years. All of our locations are required to have written environmental management systems based on the continuous improvement principle  which is the major thrust of the ISO Standard and is aligned with the principles of Alcoa Business System  but certification is not required.
 
We will pursue a corporate-wide certification to the ISO14001 EMS Standard in 2003. We have two locations (AFL do Brasil and So Lus) that are certified to the Occupational Health and Safety Management System standard (OHSAS 18001) and others that are working toward such certification.
 
 
 
Economic Performance Indicators
 
At Alcoa, we have consistently focused on creating superior economic value for all our stakeholders while living our Values. Whether it's working closely with a customer in developing a cutting-edge product or providing a return to our shareholders that exceeds comparable investments, we are resolute in fulfilling our economic value-creation goals. This, we believe, is a crucial component of our contribution toward sustainable development, and we are proud to report our achievements.
 
LONG-TERM SHAREHOLDER VALUE
 
Alcoa has been listed on the New York Stock Exchange
1
(ticker symbol: AA) since 1951 and currently has an estimated 273,000 common shareholders that owned, on average, 845 million common shares in 2002.
 
We continue to deliver value to our shareholders that exceed our peers  other aluminum, metal, and broad-based industrial companies. Comparing our performance across various objective financial measures  top-line growth, return on capital, and total shareholder return  we outperformed our peers in almost all of these metrics.
 
1
Alcoa currently has secondary listings on exchanges in Australia, Belgium, Germany, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. Our preferred shares are listed on the American Stock Exchange.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We have achieved these returns within a sound credit rating framework, retaining an investment grade rating with major agencies, such as Moody's and Standard & Poor's, for more than 25 years. This reflects our efforts in managing our financing obligations within sustainable levels, providing security for our providers of capital and other stakeholders.
 
 
 
Alcoa is committed to continually distributing a proportion of our earnings to shareholders through dividends, which have been paid uninterrupted since 1939. Currently, we pay a dividend four times a year. The board of directors determines the amount of dividend paid, taking into account various factors that include operational performance and capital requirements. Our dividends have grown at a compounded annual rate of 12% for the last 10 years.
 
 
Cost Savings Initiative
 
Alcoa has undertaken two cost savings initiatives since 1998. The first initiative, announced in 1998, targeted a reduction of US$1.1 billion in annual costs by the end of 2000. This was achieved with a small offset resulting from higher energy costs.
 
In 2001, we announced a second initiative for a planned reduction of an additional US$1.0 billion in total costs by the end of 2003 to create value for our shareholders in the face of eroding real-term aluminum prices. By the end of 2002, we had successfully achieved an annual savings run-rate of US$600 million through a combination of procurement and productivity improvements. With continued focus on the application of the Alcoa Business System, we are on track to deliver our 2003 cost savings goal.
 
CUSTOMERS
 
In 2002, Alcoa generated revenues of US$20.3 billion in 39 countries. This represents a compounded annual sales growth of 7.9% over the last 10 years and 8.8% over the most recent five years, reflecting our success at growing the business.
 
 
 
Alcoa serves customers across an array of markets. Our products and components are used worldwide in aircraft, automobiles, beverage cans, buildings, chemicals, sports and recreation, and a wide variety of industrial and consumer applications. At every level in the organization, we seek to strengthen our relationship with our existing customers while developing new ones.
 
 
 
We work closely with many of our customers, leveraging our knowledge of our products to develop applications that generate value to them and their customers. Recently, for example, we collaborated with General Motors in the design and engineering of the new Cadillac Sixteen concept car. We were able to use our more than two decades of structural design and engineering expertise to help develop an aluminum auto structure that was unique in its capacity to meet significant performance, occupant comfort, and safety requirements.
 
 
To support our objective of meeting or exceeding customer expectations in quality, delivery, and service, we have formed Market Sector Lead Teams. These teams are led by senior executives with the mission of developing industry, market segment, and specific customer strategies by working across all of Alcoa's multiple businesses. This helps provide a single- face/multiple-solution proposition to each of our customers. To date, we have deployed four Market Sector Lead Teams: Aerospace, Automotive, Commercial Transportation, and Industrial Markets. This new approach is already showing positive results.
 
 
Countries with Significant Alcoa Participation in the Local Economy
 
Alcoa has operations in 40 countries (as of March 2003) with varying significance within the context of the overall scale of economic activity in these economies. In two countries in particular  Suriname
1
and Jamaica
2
 we participate in joint ventures whose operations represent a sizeable component of the national GDP of these countries. We recognize our role and the responsibilities of good corporate citizenship in every one of the countries in which we operate.
 
 
 
SUPPLIER RELATIONSHIPS
 
We spent US$18 billion in operating costs (cost of goods sold; selling, general administrative, and other expenses; and research and development expenses) in 2002. While a sizeable proportion of this total is in metal purchases, energy and employee salaries and benefits, we also spend significant amounts on other goods and services. While no one supplier represents more than 10% of the dollar value of total goods and services we purchased in 2002, we have procurement relationships
 
 
 
with a wide range of suppliers in many countries. Working closely with these suppliers helps us in developing the highest quality, cost-effective products for our customers.
 
Our relationship and conduct with our suppliers is guided by the principles outlined in our Guide to Business Conduct. It is our intention to pay all suppliers on time and within agreed terms. We take all reasonable measures to ensure timely and full compliance with agreed terms.
 
PUBLIC COMMITMENT
 
In addition to our extensive community engagement (discussed below and later in the report), we make significant tax payments to government finances in all the countries in which we operate. In 2002, we paid income taxes of US$583 million. This excludes the numerous other taxes, such as royalties, sales taxes, excise duties, levies, and local taxes, that we paid in those countries.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Environmental Performance Indicators
 
MATERIAL USE
 
Total Materials Use
 
Alcoa uses bauxite, lime, caustic soda, aluminum fluoride, carbon, and several other materials to produce aluminum. The requirements for these materials depend on the initial quality of the bauxite and the process technologies used to convert the materials. In general, approximately two tons of bauxite is required to produce a ton of aluminum oxide, and approximately two tons of aluminum oxide will yield one ton of aluminum metal.
 
Although our total amount of waste generated has increased as a result of the growth of Alcoa, our processes are generally among the most efficient in the world, with several benchmark plants in terms of process efficiencies and low emissions. One of our most efficient plants in terms of resource use, energy requirements, and low emissions is So Lus, Brazil, where both aluminum oxide and aluminum metal are produced using modern technologies and a motivated and well-trained workforce. So Lus was recognized for its performance by the World Business Council for Sustainable Development. This example makes it clear that well-designed processes and well-trained people can be productive anywhere in the world, contributing to sustainable development and lifestyle improvements.
 
Waste Materials Used
 
We use recycled materials within our operating locations to reduce wastes and costs. Scrap aluminum is re-melted, and scrap plastic materials are reused when quality and color requirements allow. We currently use approximately 20% purchased scrap for the metal supply to support our businesses, and we have a goal to increase this scrap utilization rate to 50% of the products that we make, except for raw ingot that is sold to others, by 2020. The current scrap availability limits our opportunities to reach this target, but we anticipate that scrap availability will increase due to the rapid growth of aluminum applications in the construction, transport, and consumer products sectors over the last two decades.
 
We see the benefit in reusing aluminum to the highest degree possible and will strive to achieve this 50% goal as rapidly as possible. We also recycle the polyethylene, polypropylene, and polyvinyl chloride materials used in our construction, automotive, and packaging processes.
 
 
 
 
 
PVC Use
 
We produce a variety of polyvinyl chloride (PVC) films, and an important part of our operation is the recycling of PVC. Whenever possible, we recycle PVC scrap material back into our products. We are careful to segregate films that are approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) from those that are not. If there is PVC scrap we can't use, we sell that material to recyclers who can use it.
 
ENERGY
 
 
 
Renewable Energy
 
Alcoa is committed to increasing its use of clean and renewable hydroelectric power as a means of achieving sustainability for our manufacturing and service operations.
 
From an environmental perspective, hydropower enables Alcoa to rely less on fossil fuels, which are a major source of carbon dioxide emissions.
 
Globally, we are working to increase the replacement of fossil-fuel-based power with natural, renewable energy sources that will help us lower our CO
2
emissions, thus contributing to the fight against global warming.
 
Since 1917, we have owned, operated, and continually improved our North American hydroelectric assets, which generate an average of 5.4 billion kilowatt hours of electricity each year for our operating locations. We are actively engaged in the concomitant goals of increasing our supply of cost-effective renewable resources and supporting the Green Power [continued on page 20]
 
 
 
Market Development Group. Between 2000 and 2002, we purchased more than 32 million kilowatt hours of electricity generated from landfill gas as part of our North American electricity supply portfolio.
 
In Brazil, we are dedicated to helping develop some available options for cleaner power generation. We have been participating, as a minority partner, in the development of projects that extensive and comprehensive studies show to be environmentally sound, socially responsible, and economically feasible.
 
WATER
 
 
 
BIODIVERSITY
 
Alcoa's Position on Conservation of Biodiversity
 
Consistent with Alcoa's environmental policy and our published position on sustainable development, we actively endorse the concept of conservation of biodiversity by operating worldwide in a manner which minimizes impacts on natural habitats and biological resources.
 
Our operations can play a positive role in conserving biodiversity by adopting appropriate land management practices and rehabilitating land disturbed by the operations in an appropriate manner.
 
New or expanding operations should document the level of ecosystem and species diversity within their area of influence by applying techniques, procedures, and information generally accepted by the international sci- [continued on page 21]
 
 
 
 
 
entific community. Measures to minimize adverse impacts on ecologically significant ecosystems or species should be adopted. Particular attention should be paid to the conservation of rare biological communities and rare, endangered, or threatened species.
 
Where relatively extensive operations, such as bauxite mining, are carried out in natural habitats, rehabilitation of the disturbed land should in most circumstances favor the return of the pre-existing vegetation and fauna communities. Such rehabilitation should aim to reestablish the broadest practicable genetic base using local genetic material and provenances wherever possible.
 
Mining Reclamation Process
 
Alcoa has a strict set of mine reclamation standards that require mine planning to fully incorporate reclamation into the program. Mine activities must be designed to prevent erosion, segregate topsoil where feasible, make use of native seeds where possible, utilize native species for reclamation, and restore the area in a way that allows the previous land use to be continued.
 
Our mines have been recognized for outstanding reclamation in Brazil, the United States, and Australia. Our Sandow Mine in the United States was named by the Office of Surface Mining as having the "Best of the Best" surface mine rehabilitation program in 1999.
 
 
 
 
 
EMISSIONS, EFFLUENTS, AND WASTE
 
The Alcoa Business System recognizes that all wastes are costs. We are focused on waste reduction as a way to improve our processes, reduce costs, and reduce our environmental impacts.
 
Over the last 20 years, Alcoa locations have made significant progress. Some smelters have reduced fluoride emissions by half, using improved operating practices and dual volume exhaust systems. Significant gains have been made in extending effective life of smelting pot lining, thereby reducing the amount of spent pot lining that must be managed. Greenhouse gas emissions associated with smelting pot operations also have been reduced by more than 75% at many locations, and water discharge has been reduced by 80% at several large facilities.
 
The technologies and best practices that made these achievements possible are shared widely within Alcoa, and we expect to see continuous improvements in all these areas as we move forward.
 
 
 
 
 
Ozone-depleting Substances
 
Alcoa has eliminated ozone-depleting substances from process operations. In newly acquired facilities, elimination of these substances becomes a high priority. We do continue to use halon gas as a fire suppressant in 71 sensitive locations throughout the world, and these systems will be phased out. There was one release from a halon system at an Alcoa location 2002, and none in 2000 or 2001.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discharges to Water
 
Alcoa's discharges to water are relatively small. The levels (concentrations) of specific pollutants in specific water discharges are important locally, and they are carefully managed and monitored.
 
Recycling Rates for Products
 
Aluminum is recycled extensively. Recycling rates for aluminum cans exceed 80% in many countries, including Brazil, Switzerland, Japan, and Sweden. In the United States, the aluminum can recycling rate has [continued on page 26]
 
 
been as high as 66%, but now stands near 50%. Of the 100 billion cans sold each year in the United States, more than 50 billion are collected and re-melted to make new cans.
 
It is estimated that the recycling rates for automotive components approaches 90%, and the rate for aluminum in construction applications is recycled at about 85%.
 
PRODUCTS AND SERVICES
 
Significant Environmental Impacts of Principal Products and Services
 
Aluminum stands out as one of the most valuable materials for creating and maintaining a sustainable world. For example, each kilogram of primary aluminum used in the construction of an automobile eliminates between 13 and 15 kilograms of greenhouse gas emissions over the life of the car. If the aluminum used is recycled, the net reduction of greenhouse gases can reach up to about 27 kilograms
1
over the life of the vehicle. Aluminum-intensive vehicles not only perform better and consume less fuel, they also offer improved safety over comparable steel vehicles because of the superior strength and energy-absorption capabilities of aluminum automotive alloys.
 
The formability and strength of the metal make it efficient for a wide array of applications. These include food and beverage packages that are more effective, lighter to ship, and easier to recycle; architectural products that require less maintenance and are strong, durable, corrosion resistant; and aerospace components that result in safe, reliable, and affordable air and spacecraft. Compounds of aluminum also find uses in improving human health and hygiene.
 
Manufacturing primary aluminum from raw materials is energy intensive. On average around the world, it takes some 15.7 kilowatt hours of electricity to produce one kilogram (35 ounces) of aluminum from alumina
2
. This means energy conserva- [continued on page 27]
 
 
 
 
tion is a critical issue for aluminum producers such as Alcoa.
 
Recycling aluminum saves 95% of the energy it would take to make new metal from ore, and it lessens the need for solid waste disposal. The metal is almost endlessly recyclable with about two-thirds of the aluminum ever produced still in use. This equals about 440 metric tons (485 million tons) of a total 680 metric tons (750 million tons) manufactured since 1886.
 
 
 
 
COMPLIANCE
 
Compliance with all the laws and regulations in every location where we operate is a requirement for us, but we do not use compliance as our target. Our Values lead us to aspire to be beyond compliance and do what is right for society  today and tomorrow. In many instances, we are performing beyond compliance and leading the establishment of new, higher standards. In the event that performance falls short of our goals, we initiate rigorous review and corrective processes.
 
OVERALL
 
Capital Expenditures Process
 
Alcoa has established a review process to evaluate all capital expenditures for environment, health, and safety to ensure that the appropriate level of attention is being directed to these areas.
 
 
A multidisciplinary team reviews plans at an early stage and assists the locations in risk evaluations and technology transfer. Learnings from Alcoa locations throughout the world are quickly applied to similar situations through this review process.
 
In the case of large expenditures, such as the new aluminum reduction plant planned for East Iceland, a sustainability team is established to address environmental, health, safety, social, and community issues associated with the new facility. In Iceland, the team and the sub-teams began meeting a full two years before the construction is planned to begin.
 
 
 
Social Performance Indicators
 
We measure our success as a company by the success of many stakeholders, including our employees and the people in our communities.
 
Alcoa operates with the conviction that our future is linked to the future of our communities and of society at large. We rely on communities for natural resources, infrastructure, a competitive workforce, and a safe and sustainable quality of life.
 
Communities can rely on us to keep our promises, live our Values, steward wisely the resources with which we're entrusted, provide a safe, productive, and competitive workplace for our employees, comply with laws, and contribute to the creation of a brighter future. We want communities  and the world  to know Alcoa as a values-based and value-creating enterprise.
 
The data that follow offer multiple dimensions of Alcoa's social impact and performance. This information builds on Alcoa's 2002 Community Investment Highlights and our Environment, Health and Safety 2002 Review. The following information also represents movement toward more systematic reporting of these policies  and the metrics and data that reinforce them  for our fuller sustainability report in 2004.
 
WORK ENVIRONMENT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Diversity
 
Diversity and inclusiveness within our organizational culture are central to our aspiration of being a values-based and value-creating enterprise. Our Alcoa Business System begins with a fundamental respect for the contributions of each of our employees, respects individual differences as strengths, and nurtures opportunities to achieve professional and personal success. We seek to ensure that no employee is ever marginalized and that the work climate promotes inclusiveness.
 
One of the challenges that we face is determining the appropriate models of diversity within the cultural complexity of our global family and then collecting data to reflect our progress toward those models. We view our ongoing efforts as a core part of our Values and constantly strive to create an inclusive environment wherever we operate. We still have much work to do in this area, but we are making progress. Our leadership group and board of directors reflect the global nature of our enterprise with representation of both gender and regional diversity.
 
Improving Gender Balance
 
We have focused our efforts to improve the representation of women in our top 1% of corporate leadership positions. Since 1998, we have made substantial progress in the number of women in these positions, and we now have 9% of these positions filled by women. Through the initiative of some of our women leaders, we are developing a global women's network to provide a catalyst for the development and advancement of women leaders in Alcoa.
 
Health Summary
 
In 2002, we continued our progress toward eliminating workplace health hazards. At year's end, 99% of our reporting locations had identified and described these hazards. We also achieved  one year ahead of schedule  a 40% reduction in the number of chemical hazards that exceed Alcoa standards from the established 1999 baseline. At the end of 2002, 88% of our locations had occupational medical services programs in place. In addition, identification and management of ergonomic issues continue to be a priority.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Health and Safety Management Systems
 
Over the years, a comprehensive framework for continuous improvement efforts has evolved into what is today known as the Alcoa Health and Safety Management System. This is a comprehensive system used to proactively manage health and safety at all Alcoa locations.
 
The Alcoa model for such a system consists of nine key components that will help each location reach the goal of an incident-free workplace. The following is a brief summary of these components:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Healthy Workforce Initiatives
 
Zero injuries and zero work-related illnesses are Alcoa's long-standing goals, but we also believe that it is possible to go further  for people to go home healthier than when they came to work.
 
Consequently, one of Alcoa's six strategic health and safety objectives is the deployment of healthy workforce initiatives. These initiatives, which are of growing importance as we look to enhance sustainability in our operations, offer the coordination and support people need to achieve better overall health. From medical screenings and health-risk reduction programs to health education and employee assistance programs, healthy workforce initiatives often focus on factors that extend beyond the workplace. Achieving optimum health ensures that an individual's ability to work safely on the job and to contribute to and enjoy life off the job are all maximized.
 
In each case, healthy workforce initiatives rely on the most efficient combination of community and company resources. The specific type and nature of the initiatives at any given Alcoa location are dictated by local workforce and community expectations.
 
In 2002, we completed an inventory of our global healthy workforce initiatives. Starting in 2003, we will track plant location activity as it relates to community health initiatives.
 
 
 
 
 
 
HIV/AIDS
 
Alcoa maintains corporate health standards on life-threatening and transmittable diseases, which include HIV and AIDS, and chronic illness in the workplace. These standards articulate our position to permit employees suffering from these diseases to continue to pursue active careers with certain provisions. The standards also address issues of reasonable accommodation, coworker education and counseling, and confidentiality.
 
Safety Summary
 
In 2002, Alcoa once again achieved unprecedented safety results. Our global lost workday rate stood at 15 lost workday injuries per 10,000 people in our workforce. Globally, [continued on page 33]
 
 
 
 
 
more than 98% of our employees went home injury free. Our mission is to make that 100%, every year.
 
Despite this success and our unprecedented effort to eliminate fatalities, two people  an Alcoa employee and a contractor  were fatally injured during the year. This ended 17 fatality-free months and served as a sharp reminder that the elimination of the causes of fatalities must be a continuing priority.
 
 
 
 
Equal Opportunity Statement
 
Alcoa is an Equal Opportunity Employer, supporting a diverse work environment that fosters communication and involvement, while providing reward and recognition for team and individual achievement. All qualified individuals seeking job opportunities with the company will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, physical impairment, or national origin.
 
 
 
 
HUMAN RIGHTS
 
Human Rights Policy/Programs
 
Alcoa is a global enterprise that does business in many distinct local markets. In order to do so successfully, we rely on all Alcoans living Alcoa's Values and supporting Principles.
 
Values provide the common framework for our decisions, actions, and behaviors. They are our universal language  transcending culture and geography. Living our Values requires us to meet the highest standards of corporate behavior in all aspects of business  in all regions of the world. The foundation of our Values is dignity and mutual respect, which are fundamental to our enterprise. Alcoa's approach to issues involving human rights is guided by our Values and Principles.
 
To ensure we are living by our Values, we have several systems in place. Environment, health, and safety audits include direct assessment of performance against EHS values. Third party auditors regularly participate in this process to provide us with an outside perspective. Financial and business process auditing reviews our compliance with policies regarding business ethics, financial rules, procurement, payables to customers, and more. Issues are followed to completion, and business leaders certify in writing as to their progress and compliance with requirements.
 
Businesses also conduct regular selfassessments of their processes, and we have a global compliance telephone line to enable employees to anonymously report, in their native language, any concerns they may have. We follow up on every reported issue.
 
Our executive council conducts quarterly reviews with each business leader on key topic areas, such as people, EHS, manufacturing, and customer service. Our human resources group is currently working on worldwide expectations that can further enhance our internal auditing group's ability to help ensure we are living our Values. We will report on progress in future reports.
 
 
 
 
 
Supplier and Contractor Requirements
 
Alcoa has a comprehensive Ethics and Compliance Program that requires adherence to our policies and guidelines, which include environmental and social responsibilities. Available in 18 languages, the materials are provided to all employees and longterm contractors throughout the world.
 
The materials are also available to all current and potential suppliers via alcoa.com. Beginning in 2003, these materials  and training as appropriate  will be provided directly to our major suppliers to ensure that they are aware of our requirements for business conduct.
 
Discrimination Prevention (Equality of Opportunity)
 
We recognize, respect, and embrace the cultural differences found in the worldwide marketplace. Our workplace is a meritocracy where our goal is to attract, develop, promote, and retain the best people from all cultures and segments of the population, based on ability. We have zero tolerance for discrimination or harassment of any kind.
 
Freedom of Association
 
We recognize and respect the freedom of individual Alcoans to join, or refrain from joining, legally authorized associations or organizations.
 
Children and Young Workers
 
As a fundamental principle, we do not employ children or support the use of child labor. We do encourage the creation of educational, training, or apprenticeship programs tied to formal education for young people.
 
Freedom of Engagement
 
We believe that people should work because they want or need to, not because they are forced to do so. We prohibit the use of prison labor, forcibly indentured labor, bonded labor, slavery, or servitude.
 
Compensation
 
We ensure that compensation meets or exceeds the legal minimums and is competitive with industry standards. Our compensation philosophy is clearly communicated to employees and is in full compliance with all applicable laws.
 
Relationships with Indigenous People
 
Within the framework of our Values, we respect the cultures, customs, and values of the people in communities where we operate and take into account their needs, concerns, and aspirations.
 
 
 
 
SOCIETY
 
Alcoa understands that being the best company in the world means putting our Values into action inside and outside the workplace. It means investing for the long-term, even when business conditions make that more difficult. For 50 years, Alcoa Foundation has been the primary instrument of our community investments.
 
This asset-based corporate foundation has invested more than US$356 million in over 29 countries since its inception in 1952, ensuring that Alcoa has been a steady partner with non-governmental organizations (NGOs), with communities, and with their aspirations despite challenging economic or market conditions.
 
In 2002, Alcoa Foundation celebrated one-half-century of engaged investing, offering a global resource to improve the quality of life in Alcoa communities around the world. The foundation's policies, practices, and priorities can be found in the Community section of alcoa.com.
 
To gauge the multiple dimensions of Alcoa's community engagement, it's important to look beyond the grants and money awarded to see the many assets that Alcoa and its employees are sharing in the community.
 
Employee engagement offers a growing and global aspect of our commitment to communities through company-supported but Alcoa Foundation-managed programs like ACTION and Bravo! grants. The giving of products and property provide additional Alcoa assets for community enhancement. The sharing of knowledge and insight and the development of community partnerships and methods to sustain NGOs offer still other dimensions of our work. These are reflected, in part, in our community advisory and community framework data and in the case studies presented throughout this report.
 
Alcoa Community Giving
 
The following data reflect the addition of cash, product, and property- related gifts from Alcoa that began in 2001 to supplement Alcoa Foundation's grantmaking. These additional resources reflect our desire to maintain an appropriate and leading level of investment in our communities as we expand to new markets, countries, and communities. [continued on page 37]
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ACTION Grants
 
Since 2001, Alcoans Coming Together In Our Neighborhoods (ACTION) has recognized Alcoans for designing community projects as a team. When 10 Alcoans organize a project and contribute a day of service for a nonprofit organization, ACTION increases the benefit by awarding the nonprofit $3,000.
 
ACTION began as a pilot in four locations in 2000 and grew to 110 projects representing 60 Alcoa locations around the world in 2001. These figures more than doubled in 2002, with 234 employee-directed community service projects completed in 119 Alcoa locations
 
 
Bravo! Grants
 
Alcoa's Bravo! initiative began worldwide in 2002 after a pilot phase in 2001. When an Alcoan volunteers at least 50 hours a year at a charitable organization, Alcoa awards the organization $250. Applications for community service performed in 2002 were accepted until March 31, 2003, and the following data include the number of Bravo! grants awarded by December 31, 2002.
 
 
 
 
 
Alcoa Community Framework
 
As public institutions, Alcoa locations are part of the social fabric in the communities where we operate. We cannot expect to grow or prosper without the support of our plant communities. When those communities have a problem, it is, in fact, also our problem. To build the mutual understanding and trust that are necessary to solve problems and realize community potential, we have devised several ways to connect with communities.
 
We created the Alcoa Community Framework to help leaders at Alcoa locations better understand the issues and the people who make communities work. This framework suggests ways that we can build stronger relationships with our employees and their families, with community leaders, NGOs, and government officials. It provides information and guidance to undertake the kind of community events and structures that will foster greater understanding of our shared goals and needs.
 
We introduced the Alcoa Community Framework to North American plant management in 2001, with a broader implementation undertaken in 2002. Based on an informal internal survey, about 42% of the nearly 200 responding locations had implemented a community assessment tool like the Alcoa Community Framework as of year-end 2002.
 
The framework allows for great local flexibility in the structure and events a plant adopts to connect with community stakeholders. These events or programs can range from an environmental open house and plant tour for the community to tree plantings and a health fair for neighbors.
 
 
Community Advisory Boards
 
Effective community consultation can be both formal and informal. As part of their work within the Alcoa Community Framework, a number of Alcoa locations have chosen to develop various forms of community advisory groups to foster an exchange of insight and ideas and to resolve local issues.
 
About 47% of our locations have active advisory boards or other mechanisms to meet with community leaders and identify and address areas of shared concern.
 
Community Health Events
 
The safety and health of the people who live in Alcoa communities remain of vital concern to us. We reinforce our Values and demonstrate our commitment to our neighbors when we focus on health in the community and share information that can lead to injury and disease prevention, healthier lifestyles, and better life prospects for community residents. While data do not exist on the number of Alcoa locations that held community health events in 2002, new tracking and reporting methods will capture this information in 2003.
 
 
 
Political Contributions
 
Pursuant to Alcoa's business conduct policies, the use of company funds, property, services, and things of value for or in aid of (or in opposition to) any political parties or candidates for public office is prohibited. Similarly, the policies dictate that no such corporate asset may be used, without the prior written approval of Alcoa's Chairman of the Board and the general counsel, for or in aid of (or in opposition to) any committee whose principal purpose is to influence the outcome of a referendum or other vote of the electorate on a public issue.
 
Employees may volunteer their own time to assist a candidate or campaign committee. However, company facilities, employee work-time, support services, office supplies, electronic mail access, etc., may not, under any circumstances, be utilized in such an effort. Nor does the company allow the formation of political action committees (PACs). Similarly, corporate funds cannot be used to purchase tickets or otherwise pay for the admission fee (or other expenses) to fundraising activities of any candidate, potential candidate, political committee, or political party.
 
PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY
 
Customer Environmental, Health, and Safety Activities
 
In response to increasing requests from customers and suppliers, Alcoa conducts daylong benchmarking sessions on its Environment, Health, and Safety standards and practices. Topics include integration of EHS into manufacturing processes, fatality prevention, occupational health initiatives, environmental programs, internal audit programs, and metrics systems.
 
Product Information and Labeling
 
Product labels and material safety data sheets are made available to all customers, with some available in multiple languages. For a complete listing, visit alcoa.com.
 
Online Privacy Statement
 
Alcoa is committed to safeguarding online privacy. From time to time, Alcoa may make changes to its privacy statement to reflect changes in its business or to serve users better. Alcoa will use reasonable efforts to publish any such changes in the privacy statement.
 
Alcoa's privacy statement is based on four basic principles:
 
 
 
 
 
Because Alcoa offers a wide range of online business opportunities for its customers, the amount of information the company needs to collect in order to serve them in a particular business transaction will sometimes vary from case to case. Regardless of the amount of information collected, the four principles listed above will apply. Wherever Alcoa collects personal information, users will find a link to this privacy statement. If users choose not to provide some information, for example to enable confirmation of credit status, it may not be possible for them to proceed with their chosen business activity with Alcoa.
 
 
 
 
Awards and Recognition
 
Alcoa firmly believes in the value of recognizing outstanding performance at individual, team, and organizational levels. To nurture development and maintenance of best practices, rapid and uninhibited transfer of knowledge among colleagues, and an overall culture of excellence, we maintain a number of major internal award programs. Ranging from technology to manufacturing, business, finance, audit, and EHS, the awards are widely promoted and acknowledged internally and have proven to be effective in elevating the sense of appreciation among recipients and progressing the achievement of business strategy.
 
Alcoa's Good Fortune
 
In 2002, Alcoa was again ranked first in the metals category in Fortune magazine's annual "America's Most Admired Companies" survey  the twentieth time we've received this top ranking in the last 21 years.
 
The survey uses rankings by 10,000 industry executives to score U.S. companies in categories that include innovativeness, talent, management quality, product quality, social responsibility, and others. In addition to the first-in-category ranking, our score placed us in the top 50 overall on Fortune's list.
 
Alcoa Earns 2002 ASM International Engineering Materials Achievement Award
 
ASM International named Alcoa the recipient of its 2002 Engineering Materials Achievement Award, which recognizes outstanding developments in the application of materials in products that benefit industry, the consumer, and society as a whole.
 
ASM International is the global society for materials engineers and scientists. It is a world-renowned network dedicated to advancing the understanding and application of engineered materials and their research, design, reliable manufacture, use, and economic and social benefits.
 
Alcoa was recognized for development and application of new aluminum alloy products for commercial aircraft. These alloys offer airframers enhanced strength, corrosion resistance, and fracture resistance. These properties enhance aircraft safety while saving thousands of pounds of weight, contributing to better fuel economy.
 
 
 
Alcoa Foundation Receives Conservation Award
 
In recognition for its efforts in preserving Tennessee's natural heritage through its many environmental grants, Alcoa Foundation received the Natural Heritage Conservation Award from the Tennessee Department of Environment and Conservation (TDEC) in the United States. The award was part of the department's 2002 Environmental and Conservation Stewardship Awards.
 
Of special recognition was a US$250,000 grant Alcoa Foundation gave to Great Smoky Mountains Institute at Tremont (GSMIT) in 2002. The grant was the largest single monetary corporate foundation gift in the history of the park and the culmination of work by the Alcoa Community Advisory Board, a 14-member community board that identified the grant as its top priority last year. The advisory board has assisted Alcoa by recommending multiple granting opportunities in Blount and Knox counties, resulting in more than US$700,000 in diverse community gifts.
 
Life! at Alcoa
 
Alcoa's Life! program was developed to strengthen the most critical dimension of the Alcoa Business System  people.
 
Under the Life! program, Alcoa promotes and supports participation in a wide range of activities designed to enhance the quality of work life, well-being, and personal development of Alcoa employees and their families.
 
Life!-related activities range from language classes to home safety, health awareness and improvement programs, immunization programs, traffic safety, smoking-cessation support, and cultural activities.
 
One Million Trees
 
Since April 1998, Alcoa employees around the world have been participating in a global initiative to plant a million trees by 2008 to show their personal commitment to enriching the environment in a way that provides tangible, local benefits.
 
Called One Million Trees, the program is integrated with Alcoa's commitment to sustainable development and environmental initiatives. Alcoa provides employees and their families with the trees, and participants are encouraged to plant them at home, in designated parks, at Alcoa plant sites, and at places of special importance to them. One Million Tree celebrations are also held at most locations when the trees are provided.
 
More than 140 locations in 30 countries have embraced the program, with Alcoa employees, contractors, and their families planting 973,425 trees through the end of 2002. The millionth tree is expected to take root sometime in 2003  five years ahead of schedule. Future emphasis of the program will be on planting more trees on Alcoa property to enhance the local environment and reinforce the concept of sustainability at our locations.
 


