FILE:AA/AA-8K-20040109123259.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 8, 2004, Alcoa Inc. issued a press release announcing its earnings for the fourth quarter of 2003. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference. A copy of supplemental financial information that accompanied the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Exhibits:
 
 
 
The information in this report shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: January 9, 2004
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
    
 
 
 
 
Highlights:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Alcoa today reported fourth quarter income from continuing operations of $340 million, or $0.39 per diluted share, up 21 percent from the previous quarter's $282 million, $0.33 per share. The results were a substantial improvement over the loss from continuing operations of $146 million, $0.17 per share, in the fourth quarter of last year.
New York, NYJanuary 8, 2004
 
Net income in the fourth quarter was $291 million, up 4 percent from $280 million in the third quarter of 2003, and significantly improved from a loss of $223 million in the fourth quarter of 2002.
 
The difference between net income and income from continuing operations in the fourth quarter of 2003 is due primarily to an adjustment to the anticipated proceeds from the sale of discontinued operations. Both measures are recognized by Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
 
For the full year, income from continuing operations was $1.034 billion, $1.20 per diluted share, the highest in three years. Net income was $938 million, $1.08 per diluted share, a 123 percent improvement over 2002.
 
"Over the year, we improved productivity, managed capital, and worked every lever in our control to offset cost increases for raw materials, energy, benefits, and the impact of a weakened dollar," said Alain Belda, Chairman and CEO of Alcoa. "The result was consistently improving profitability, a considerably stronger balance sheet, and a company that is well positioned for future growth as world markets continue to strengthen. That is what we promised last year, and our team delivered."
 
Market Overview
 
For the full year, revenues increased 6 percent to $21.5 billion after integration of newly acquired packaging and fastener businesses. "As global demand for alumina and aluminum continues to increase, we expect to realize the benefits of the improved market," said Belda.
 
In the fourth quarter of 2003, sales were $5.5 billion, increasing 9 percent over 2002 and 4 percent over the third quarter. Sequentially, strong alumina shipments and higher aluminum prices overcame slightly lower volumes in markets that typically experience weakness in the fourth quarter: closures, can sheet, and building and construction.
 
Solid Improvement of the Balance Sheet
 
"Aggressive capital controls, management of working capital, and the initial benefits of a well-designed divestiture plan helped us retire more than $1.2 billion in debt over the year," said Belda. The company cut its debt-to-capital ratio in 2003 from 43.1 to 35.1 percent, an improvement of 370 basis points from the third quarter. In 2003, capital expenditures were $867 million, 32 percent below last year's level of $1.27 billion.
 
The balance sheet will improve further in the first half of 2004 as the divestiture program outlined last January is completed. To date, the company has shed its Latin American PET business and an equity interest in Latasa, a South American can producer. In the first quarter, the company expects to close on the sale of its specialty chemicals, automotive fasteners, and packaging equipment businesses. The total proceeds of the divestiture program should be in line with the company's earlier estimates$750 million to $1 billion.
 
In addition, a strong return of 19.75 percent on the company's pension investments essentially offset the impact of a 50 basis point decline in discount rates. As a result, the company did not record a material charge for minimum pension liability to its balance sheet in 2003.
 
Cost Savings and Management Actions
 
In the fourth quarter, the company surpassed its three-year $1 billion cost savings goal, marking the second time in six years that the company has achieved more than $1 billion in sustainable savings. That intense focus on profitability was critical as the company faced considerably higher costs for energy, raw materials, and benefits, as well as the impact of a weaker dollar on manufacturing operations outside the U.S. this year.
 
In the fourth quarter alone, those costs increased by more than $150 million before tax over the last quarter of 2002. Management actions that offset the higher costs included:
 
 
 
 
 
Together with higher metal prices, these management actions more than compensated for higher costs in the quarter.
 
The company will announce a new set of long-term cost challenges at the 4th quarter analyst workshop on January 22, 2004.
 
Positioning the Company for Future Growth
 
Despite tight capital restraint, Alcoa continued to make long-term investments to improve its world-class position in alumina refining and smelting, and expand other high-growth businesses. Through Alcoa World Alumina and Chemicals (AWAC), Alcoa's global alliance with Alumina Ltd., the company moved forward this year on its plan to add 1.1 million metric tons of annual capacity at its alumina refineries in Jamaica, Suriname, and Western Australia.
 
Final approvals were granted for the company's new aluminum smelter in Iceland, and the company signed an MOU for a stake in the low-cost Alba facility in Bahrain. The company scaled
back higher-cost production at its smelters in Massena and Intalco, where higher energy costs had made the plants less competitive.
 
Providing Solutions to Customers
 
Through disciplined deployment of the Alcoa Business System, Alcoa intensified its focus on its customers in 2003. The company's Market Sector Lead Teams developed a more coordinated approach to customers in all of Alcoa's major markets. As a result, Alcoa was awarded significant new aerospace contracts, working with Airbus toward launch of its landmark new A380; and continued its expansion of new products such as Dura-Bright wheels for the commercial transportation market, new customized siding for the home construction market, and Reynolds Wrap Release non-stick foil for the consumer.
 
In the automotive market, Alcoa collaborated with GM on its Cadillac 16 concept car, with Ford on its new F-150 truck and Jaguar XJ, with Toyota on a lightweight engine cradle for the Lexus RX330, with Ferrari on the 612 Scaglietti, and with Audi on its second-generation A8 sedan. The company also announced plans to create a single automotive customer center in Detroit.
 
In the fourth quarter, Alcoa's AFL Automotive group announced that it is working with Pacific Insights on a new contract to design and supply a hi-tech component for new PACCAR and Peterbilt trucks. Alcoa Closure Systems International (CSI) business developed a new closure for the dairy market that is easy to open and offers improved tamper-proof capability.
 
Quarterly Analyst Workshop
 
Alcoa's quarterly analyst workshop will be at 4:00 p.m. EST on Thursday, January 22, 2004. The meeting will be web cast via alcoa.com. Call information and related information will be available at www.alcoa.com under "Invest."
 
About Alcoa
 
Alcoa is the world's leading producer of primary aluminum, fabricated aluminum and alumina, and is active in all major aspects of the industry. Alcoa serves the aerospace, automotive, packaging, building and construction, commercial transportation and industrial markets, bringing design, engineering, production and other capabilities of Alcoa's businesses to customers. In addition to aluminum products and components, Alcoa also markets consumer brands including Reynolds Wrap foils and plastic wraps, Alcoa wheels, and Baco household wraps. Among its other businesses are vinyl siding, closures, fastening systems, precision castings, and electrical distribution systems for cars and trucks. The company has 120,000 employees in 41 countries. More information can be found at www.alcoa.com
 
Alcoa Business System
 
The Alcoa Business System is an integrated set of systems, tools and language organized to encourage unencumbered transfer of knowledge across businesses and borders. It focuses on serving customer demand by emphasizing the elimination of all waste and making what the customer wants, when the customer wants it.
 
Forward Looking Statement
 
Certain statements in this release relate to future events and expectations and as such constitute forward-looking statements involving known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results, performance or achievements of Alcoa to be different from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include (a) the company's inability to complete or to complete in the anticipated timeframe pending divestitures, acquisitions or expansion projects or to realize the projected amount of proceeds from divestitures, (b) the company's inability to achieve the level of cost savings or productivity improvements anticipated by management, (c) unexpected changes in global economic, business, competitive, market and regulatory factors, and (d) the other risk factors summarized in Alcoa's 2002 Form 10-K Report and other SEC reports.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


