FILE:AA/AA-8K-20040708153646.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7. Financial Statements,
Pro Forma
Financial Information and Exhibits.
 
 
99     Alcoa Inc. Press Release dated July 7, 2004 (furnished pursuant to Item 12).
 
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On July 7, 2004, Alcoa Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2004. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
In accordance with General Instruction B.6 of Form 8-K, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: July 8, 2004
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
 
 
 
Highlights:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Alcoa today reported second quarter net income of $404 million, or $0.46 per diluted share, up 14 percent from $355 million, or $0.40, in the previous quarter, and up 87 percent from $216 million, or $0.26, in the second quarter of 2003.
New York, NY  July 7, 2004 
 
Income from continuing operations was $404 million, or $0.46, up 86 percent from $217 million, or $0.26, in the second quarter of 2003, and 15 percent higher than $350 million, or $0.40, in the previous quarter. Results for the current quarter included charges for environmental work at New York's Grasse River, certain restructuring charges, and benefits from the restructuring of debt. The net benefit surrounding these activities was immaterial to the company's results.
 
"By keeping our focus on controlling costs and seizing opportunities for growth, we achieved our most profitable first half performance ever," said Alain Belda, Chairman and CEO of Alcoa. "Looking forward, we see continued favorable fundamentals in upstream businesses and significant potential in downstream aerospace, industrial products, and commercial vehicle markets that are moving off lows in the cycle.
"Through deployment of the Alcoa Business System and our growth plan, we are well positioned for the second half of the year and beyond while we continue to make progress on our Return on Capital goal," said Belda. In the second quarter, the company achieved a Return on Capital of 10.2 percent on a quarterly run-rate basis.
 
Market Overview
 
Revenue in the quarter was $6.1 billion, the highest in more than three years, and an increase of 11 percent year-over-year and 7 percent on a sequential basis. Higher realized prices across all the segments, combined with seasonal improvements in packaging and home building markets, helped drive double-digit gains in sales over the second quarter of 2003.
 
Fabricated aluminum shipments continued to show strength as demand in the commercial vehicle, building and construction, and aerospace markets improved. Growth in North American markets accounted for most of the improvement in sales, while Europe was relatively flat and Asia remained strong.
 
Cost Savings and Management Actions
 
On its long-term savings challenge, the company achieved $13 million in new sustainable savings  or $52 million on an annualized basis in the quarter. Alcoa has now achieved $160 million in annual savings toward the $1.2 billion three-year cost challenge.
 
The company also took action in the quarter to manage environmental matters and the changing interest rate picture. Alcoa increased the environmental reserve by $42 million, principally for the Grasse River project in Massena, New York, to cover the expected cost of a remedial options study, which will include sediment removal and capping, the installation of an ice control structure and significant monitoring. In addition, the company incurred costs of $5 million for continued restructuring, mainly in closure systems, wire harness, and rolled products businesses. Improving cash flows, the company's current leverage position, as well as a tightening interest rate environment allowed the company to restructure its debt in the quarter. The restructuring positions the company to manage its debt portfolio more effectively while lowering interest costs as the economic landscape changes. The company recognized a $58 million pre-tax gain in the quarter on the restructuring, which included the retirement of debt and the settlement of associated interest rate swaps.
 
Sales and general administrative expense dropped to 5.2 percent from 6 percent in the first quarter, largely due to higher revenue, lower expenses for bad debts, and lower spending. The increase to the environmental reserve helped drive cost of goods sold higher to 78.9 percent, along with higher resin ($16 million), energy ($13 million), and transportation ($15 million) costs.
Stronger Balance Sheet
 
The company's debt-to-capital ratio declined to 33.6 percent, putting it well within the company's targeted range of 25 to 35 percent. Through improved cash flows and a targeted divestiture program, the company has reduced its debt by approximately $1.2 billion in the past 12 months.
 
The company continued to manage capital effectively as days of working capital decreased in the quarter by 2.6 days. In the quarter, capital expenditures were $221 million, 73 percent of depreciation. While year-to-date capital spending has been $414 million, the company expects to spend between $1.3 and $1.4 billion in capital in 2004 as growth projects ramp up. Future free cash flow will be used for additional debt reduction and growth projects in the global alumina and aluminum businesses.
 
The company has substantially completed its divestiture program, and announced today that it is forming a global building and construction business including the North American architectural products business that had been slated for sale. As of the second quarter, this business is no longer an asset held for sale.
 
Positioning the Company for Future Growth
 
Alcoa continues to make long-term investments to improve its world-class alumina refining position. Alcoa World Alumina and Chemicals (AWAC), Alcoa's global alliance with Alumina Ltd., began work on the upgrade at its Pinjarra refinery. Work continued on the expansion at the company's refinery in Suriname, and the company is also in varying stages of planning and designing additional alumina expansions in Guinea, Jamaica, Brazil, and Australia.
 
The company is aggressively pursuing low-cost opportunities around the world to expand and improve its leading position in aluminum smelting. The company will break ground on its new smelter in Iceland later this week. That project remains on schedule and is slated to come on-line in 2007. In May, the company signed an agreement on a smelter project in Trinidad that would be based on abundant, low-cost, natural gas reserves. In Brazil, Alcoa signed a 20-year contract for electricity for its low-cost Alumar smelter, and is actively exploring an expansion.
 
Providing Solutions to Customers
 
The company continued to leverage its technology and manufacturing excellence to provide innovative solutions for customers in transportation markets. In aerospace, Alcoa continued work developing solutions for the Airbus A380 which features Alcoa products from nose to tail. In Shanghai, the company opened the Alcoa Aerospace Center (AAC) to supply aerospace material with value-added services to customers in China and the Asia Pacific region. Alcoa's partnership
with Structural Integrity Engineering to engineer, manufacture, certify, install and support Boeing cargo conversions made progress in the quarter as the company signed an agreement that could cover as many as 20 such projects.
 
In the automotive market, Alcoa was recognized with the American Foundry Society's Casting of the Year for its cast control arm, the component that essentially holds the rear wheels on a vehicle, used on the BMW X5 SUV, 5- and 7-Series sedans, 5-Series Touring Wagon. Alcoa supplies 360,000 hollow rear lower control arms a year for BMW. Alcoa's Mill Products business also was named one of Nissan's highest performing suppliers this quarter. Alcoa supplies aluminum sheet for use in hoods, deck lids and various structural applications for Nissan's Altima and Maxima sedans.
 
In packaging, Alcoa's Reynolds Wrap Aluminum Foil brand was named to the top spot in overall brand equity in the 2004 EquiTrend brand study of 1,000 well-known brands. The study provides a comprehensive view of a brand's current position against competitors, helping to identify potential synergies in the marketplace.
Segment and Other Results
(all comparisons on a sequential quarter basis, unless noted)
 
Segment profitability increased $32 million (25 percent) driven by continued strong global demand and higher pricing overcoming divestiture of the specialty chemicals business. Alumina production for the quarter was 3,600 thousand metric tons (kmt), up 25 kmt from the first quarter, largely due to global production creep.
Alumina and Chemicals
 
Segment profitability increased $38 million (20 percent) largely due to higher realized prices, up $0.04 per pound. Primary metal production for the quarter was 863 kmt with approximately 250 kmt of aluminum purchased for internal use as Alcoa continued to execute on its strategy of selling value-added products. Offsetting the higher metal prices were increases in costs for alumina ($13 million after tax) and energy ($11 million after tax).
Primary Metals
 
Continued strong demand for sheet and plate in North America led to higher prices and higher shipments in the region. However, a hot mill interruption at the Kitts Green facility in the UK and temporary throughput issues at the Tennessee can sheet facility hurt profitability of the segment. Kitts Green has resumed operation.
Flat Rolled Products
 
Segment profitability rose to a record high $78 million, up $16 million from the first quarter of 2004. Brisk end-market demand coupled with continued cost savings efforts led to the improved results. Most major businesses within the segment realized increasing revenues based on stronger aerospace and commercial vehicle demand, while the Howmet and North American extrusions businesses contributed the largest increases in profitability.
Engineered Products
 
Seasonal demand in both the Closures and Consumer Products businesses drove the segment to a 54 percent increase in profitability despite unfavorable resin costs. On a year-ago quarter basis, higher volumes and better operating performance, primarily at the Closures and Consumer Products businesses, overcame higher resin costs and the divestiture of the Latin American packaging assets.
Packaging and Consumer
 
Group profitability increased 67 percent driven by seasonally stronger results at Alcoa Home Exteriors and higher equity earnings from Integris Metals (Alcoa owns 50 percent of Integris Metals).
Other
 
ATOI to Net Income Reconciliation
 
The largest variances in reconciling items were in minority interest (higher earnings in the AWAC enterprise), prior period gains on divestitures, and "other", largely the gain associated with the debt restructuring and the charge associated with the Grasse River.
Quarterly Analyst Conference
 
Alcoa's quarterly analyst conference call will be at 4:00 p.m. EDT on July 22, 2004. The call will be available via either traditional dial-in or web cast. Call information and related details will be available at under "Invest."
www.alcoa.com
 
About Alcoa
 
Alcoa is the world's leading producer and manager of primary aluminum, fabricated aluminum and alumina. Alcoa serves the aerospace, automotive, packaging, building and construction, commercial transportation and industrial markets, bringing its expertise in design, engineering, and production to customers. Alcoa also markets consumer brands including Reynolds Wrap foils and plastic wraps, Alcoa wheels, and Baco household wraps. Among its other businesses are vinyl siding, closures, fastening systems, precision castings, and electrical distribution systems for cars and trucks. Alcoa has been a member of the Dow Jones Industrial Average for 45 years and the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices since 2001. The company has 120,000 employees in 41 countries. More information can be found at
www.alcoa.com
 
Alcoa Business System
 
The Alcoa Business System, or ABS, is an integrated set of principles and tools used to manage Alcoa businesses, based on three principles: make to use; eliminate waste; and people linchpin the system. ABS begins with an understanding of customers' requirements, identifies what is needed to meet them, and then empowers employees to eliminate waste and solve problems through continuous improvements in costs, quality and speed.
 
Forward Looking Statement
 
Certain statements in this release relate to future events and expectations and as such constitute forward-looking statements involving known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results, performance or achievements of Alcoa to be different from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include (a) the company's inability to complete or to complete in the anticipated timeframe pending divestitures, acquisitions or expansion projects or to realize the projected amount of proceeds from divestitures, (b) the company's inability to achieve the level of cost savings or productivity improvements anticipated by management, (c) unexpected changes in global economic, business, competitive, market and regulatory factors, and (d) the other risk factors summarized in Alcoa's 2003 Form 10-K Report and other SEC reports.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


