FILE:AA/AA-8K-20041029164029.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
 
On October 26, 2004, Alcoa Inc. ("Alcoa") issued a press release announcing that Alcoa and BHP Billiton signed an agreement to sell their shares of Integris Metals, Inc., a metals distribution joint venture, for $410 million in cash and the assumption of Integris' debt. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: October 29, 2004
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
 
 
 
 
Alcoa Inc. and BHP Billiton today announced they have agreed to sell 100% of their respective equity interests in Integris Metals to Ryerson Tull for $410 million in cash plus assumption of Integris' debt, which was approximately $250 million as of October 1, 2004. Alcoa and BHP Billiton each own 50% of Integris Metals. The transaction is expected to be completed by early 2005.
New York, NY  October 26, 2004 
 
Integris Metals, a metals service center company engaged in the processing and distribution of metals, was formed in November 2001 through the combination of Reynolds Aluminum Supply Company (RASCO) and North America Metals Distribution (NAMD), Inc., the metals distribution businesses of Alcoa and BHP Billiton, respectively. Integris Metals has approximately 2400 employees. The shareholders' stated strategic intent was to create value through the combination of RASCO and NAMD and then exit the business, when appropriate, as the metals distribution business was not core to either shareholder.
In August, Alcoa and BHP Billiton announced that Integris Metals had filed a registration statement with the SEC for an initial public offering (IPO) of its stock. Ryerson Tull approached the companies after the IPO filing, and, as a result, a sale to Ryerson Tull is now agreed.
 
Alcoa and BHP Billiton were advised in the transaction by Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. The sale of Integris to Ryerson Tull will be subject to normal regulatory approvals.


