FILE:AA/AA-8K-20050923114952.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
 
On September 22, 2005, Alcoa Inc. issued a press release providing earnings guidance for the third quarter of 2005. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: September 23, 2005
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
 
 
 
Alcoa announced today that it expects third quarter 2005 income from continuing operations to be in the range of $0.27 to $0.31 per diluted share.
NEW YORK Sept. 22, 2005 
 
Lower aluminum prices and higher input costs, particularly for energy and raw materials, had a negative impact in the quarter. Seasonal weakness in Europe and automotive markets also lowered profitability.
 
"This quarter, we are squeezed between a weaker upstream pricing environment and significantly higher energy and input costs," said Alain Belda, Chairman and CEO of Alcoa. "We continue to face challenges from escalating costs in energy and raw materials."
 
Third Quarter Metal Prices
 
Aluminum prices on the London Metal Exchange, on a 30-day lagging basis*, fell $80 per metric ton, and there was an additional $40 per metric ton decline in the premium for mid-west delivery. While metal prices have strengthened somewhat recently, that impact will be reflected in the fourth quarter.
 
Hurricane Rita
 
The impact of temporary closure of the company's Point Comfort, Texas alumina refinery and the Lake Charles, LA anode plant as a result of Hurricane Rita is still unknown but will be reflected in third quarter results.
Alcoa will report its third quarter earnings on October 10th after the close of trading on the New York Stock Exchange. In addition, the company will hold its quarterly conference call at 5:00 PM Eastern Time on October 10th to present the results. The meeting will be webcast via alcoa.com. Call information and related details will be available at under "Invest."
www.alcoa.com
 
Forward-Looking Statement
 
Certain statements in this release relate to future events and expectations and as such constitute forward-looking statements involving known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results of Alcoa to be different from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include: (a) material adverse changes in economic and aluminum industry conditions generally, including global supply and demand conditions and prices for primary aluminum, alumina and other products; (b) high energy prices and costs of other raw materials, including caustic soda and resins; (c) integration costs associated with recently acquired facilities in Russia; (d) unfavorable changes in laws or governmental policies or effects of currency exchange rates in the countries in which Alcoa operates; (e) significant legal proceedings or investigations adverse to Alcoa, including environmental, product liability, safety and health and other claims; and (f) the other risk factors summarized in Alcoa's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, Forms 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2005 and June 30, 2005, and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


