FILE:AA/AA-8K-20050111104730.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On January 10, 2005, Alcoa Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2004. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
The following is furnished as an exhibit to this report:
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: January 11, 2005
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
[Alcoa logo]
 
 
 
 
 January 10, 2005 Alcoa (NYSE:AA):
New York, NY
 
Highlights:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Alcoa announced today that its full-year 2004 income from continuing operations was $1.402 billion, or $1.60, up 33 percent from $1.055 billion, or $1.22, per diluted share, in the previous year.
 
"This year, we achieved the highest revenue in Alcoa's history and the second highest profitability," said Alcoa Chairman and CEO Alain Belda. "Strong cash flows allowed us to reduce debt by more than $1 billion and invest in the company's future. While we are benefiting from strong aluminum fundamentals and improving end use markets, U.S. dollar weakness and higher input costs continue to pressure margins. We will continue to attack costs, streamline our organization, and take advantage of the strong market environment," said Belda.
 
In the fourth quarter, income from continuing operations was $345 million, or $0.39, up 15 percent from $299 million, or $0.34, in the third quarter and up slightly from $342 million, or $0.39, in the same period last year.
 
Fourth quarter net income of $268 million, or $0.30, was negatively affected by the previously disclosed $77 million after-tax charge reflecting the planned divestiture of certain non-core businesses, principally the company's telecommunications businesses. Net income was $283 million, or $0.32, in the 2004 third quarter, and $291 million, or $0.33, in the fourth quarter of 2003.
 
Results Overview
 
For the full year, revenue increased by 11 percent and profitability increased by 33 percent over 2003. Higher metal prices accounted for 60 percent of the increase in sales with the rest driven by the company's drive for organic growth, its strategy of selling higher value-added products, and the
impact of currency on non-US sales. A substantial part of the increase in revenue was offset by significantly higher energy and other input costs, and the negative impact of a weaker dollar on non-US manufacturing operations.
 
Sales in the fourth quarter rose to $6.041 billion, up 3 percent over the third quarter and 12 percent over last year. On a sequential quarter basis, higher primary prices as well as strength in the consumer products business were partially offset by seasonal declines in can sheet, building products and closures. Higher input costs, particularly for energy, petroleum-based products, and freight, coupled with the impact of the weaker US dollar, negatively affected several businesses in the quarter.
 
In each of the third and fourth quarters, the strike at the Becancour ("ABI") smelter, now resolved, negatively affected earnings by $0.03 per share.
 
As previously announced, Alcoa agreed with Alumina Ltd. to develop its Brazilian Juruti bauxite reserves within their joint venture, resulting in a gain of $37 million, or $0.04. This transaction, combined with a $21 million reversal of a valuation reserve for foreign net operating losses, resulted in an effective tax rate for the quarter of 14 percent. The full year tax rate was 25 percent, in line with the previous year's rate.
 
The company's return on capital for 2004 stood at 8.5 percent, up 150 basis points from the previous year.
 
Update on Primary Metal Restarts
 
To take advantage of historically high aluminum prices, the company made significant progress toward restarting several of its smelters. When complete, restarts will add 220,000 metric tons of production in 2005, leaving the company with idle capacity of 361,000 metric tonnes. Progress was made at:
 
 
 
 
Restart costs for Wenatchee and Massena were minimal in the fourth quarter of 2004.
 
Review of Transactions
 
The company continued its portfolio review to better focus on its core businesses, while making progress on acquisitions that will enhance its competitive position.
 
Alcoa received final approvals from the Government of the Russian Federation to proceed with its purchase of Rusal's controlling interests in two fabricating facilities in Samara and Belaya Kalitva in the Russian Federation. The addition of the two Russian fabricating facilities to Alcoa's leading flat rolled products business will allow the company to serve both the growing Russian market and global customers in Europe, Asia, and the Americas.
 
Alcoa reached an agreement with Fujikura, Ltd. that paves the way for Alcoa to obtain full ownership of the Alcoa Fujikura ("AFL") automotive business. In return, Fujikura will obtain complete ownership of the AFL telecommunications business. The loss on this transaction is included in discontinued operations for the fourth quarter.
 
Earlier this quarter, Alcoa and its partner completed the sale of Integris Metals to Ryerson Tull for $410 million in cash plus the assumption of debt, resulting in no material gain. Alcoa owned 50 percent of Integris Metals.
 
Management Actions
 
To improve profitability and better serve its customers, the company re-organized the business structure to create six global businesses and appointed three new group leaders in the packaging, global extrusions and flat rolled products businesses. The new organization, the completion of the Russian transaction, and the company's continuing cost reduction efforts may provide an opportunity for improved production efficiencies that could result in restructuring charges this year.
Balance Sheet and Growth Projects
 
For the second year in a row, the company reduced its debt by more than $1.1 billion, strengthening its balance sheet while executing its capital-intensive growth plan. Alcoa's debt-to-capital ratio improved to 29.3 percent at the end of the year, down from 35.1 percent at the end of 2003, and within the company's targeted range of 25 to 35 percent.
 
In the quarter, capital expenditures were $475 million, bringing full year capital spending to $1.1 billion, or 95 percent of depreciation. Approximately one-third of the spending in 2004 was growth-oriented. The company expects to spend approximately $2.5 billion on capital projects in 2005, with $1.6 billion dedicated to growth projects.
 
Growth capital is aimed largely at the upstream businesses. In 2004, Alcoa finished a refinery expansion in Jamaica, and will complete brownfield projects this year at refineries in Suriname and Pinjarra, West Australia. In 2004, the company broke ground at its new Iceland smelter and for an expansion at the Alumar smelter in northern Brazil. In 2005, the company will invest in a new anode plant in Norway, modernization of a Spanish smelter, and improvements at the newly acquired fabricating facilities in Russia.
 
Segment and Other Results
 
(all comparisons on a sequential quarter basis, unless noted)
 
Alumina and Chemicals - Segment profitability increased by $8 million (5 percent), with the Juruti transaction contributing $37 million in ATOI. The third quarter benefited from a $25 million profit on the winding down of an alumina tolling contract. On an operational basis, higher alumina volumes were offset by the impact on costs of the strengthening Australian dollar. Alumina production for the quarter was 3,623 thousand metric tons ("kmt"), compared to 3,546 kmt in the third quarter.
 
Primary Metals - Segment profitability increased $10 million (5 percent) largely due to higher metal prices. Costs associated with the strike at ABI had a negative impact in both the third and fourth quarters. In addition, the weaker dollar increased costs at non-US facilities. Primary metal production for the quarter was 824 kmt in line with the third quarter. The company purchased roughly 133 kmt of primary metal for internal use as part of its strategy to sell value-added products.
 
Flat Rolled Products - Segment profitability decreased $3 million to $59 million, down 5 percent from the third quarter. While aerospace and distribution markets continued to be strong, lower can sheet shipments drove the decline in profitability.
 
Engineered Products - Segment profitability fell by $10 million, to $50 million. Howmet, Alcoa Fastening Systems and the Forgings business continued to improve, but a weak environment in the European soft alloy extrusions market drove lower shipments and profitability.
 
Packaging and Consumer  Segment ATOI of $38 million was down slightly from the third quarter as typical seasonal strength in the consumer packaging business was offset by seasonal decline in the closure business. Higher resin costs continued to negatively affect the segment.
 
Other - Profitability decreased $19 million primarily driven by seasonally lower volumes and higher input costs at the Home Exteriors business. The segment has been restated to reflect the reclassification of the telecommunications business to discontinued operations.
 
ATOI to Net Income Reconciliation
 
The largest variances in reconciling items were in the "minority interest," "corporate expense," "discontinued operations," and "other" line items. "Minority Interest" expense declined based on lower earnings in the AWAC and AFL joint ventures. "Corporate expenses" increased, largely because of the regular mark-to-market calculation of deferred compensation liability. "Discontinued Operations" includes a charge associated with reduction of the fair value of the assets moved to discontinued operations. "Other" includes the tax benefit associated with the reversal of a valuation reserve for foreign net operating losses.
 
Quarterly Conference Call
 
Alcoa will hold its quarterly conference call at 5:00 PM Eastern Time on January 10th to present the quarter's results. The meeting will be webcast via alcoa.com. Call information and related details are available at under "Invest."
www.alcoa.com
About Alcoa
 
Alcoa is the world's leading producer and manager of primary aluminum, fabricated aluminum and alumina facilities, and is active in all major aspects of the industry. Alcoa serves the aerospace, automotive, packaging, building and construction, commercial transportation and industrial markets, bringing design, engineering, production and other capabilities of Alcoa's businesses to customers. In addition to aluminum products and components, Alcoa also markets consumer brands including Reynolds Wrap(R) foils and plastic wraps, Alcoa(R) wheels, and Baco(R) household wraps. Among its other businesses are vinyl siding, closures, fastening systems, precision castings, and electrical distribution systems for cars and trucks. The company has 119,000 employees in 43 countries and has been a member of the Dow Jones Industrial Average for 45 years and the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes since 2001. More information can be found at
www.alcoa.com
 
Forward Looking Statement
 
Certain statements in this release relate to future events and expectations and as such constitute forward-looking statements involving known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results, performance or achievements of Alcoa to be different from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include: (a) material adverse changes in economic or aluminum industry conditions generally, including global supply and demand conditions and prices for primary aluminum, alumina and other products; (b) material adverse changes in the markets served by Alcoa, including the transportation, building, construction, distribution, packaging, industrial gas turbine and other markets; (c) Alcoa's inability to achieve the level of cost savings, productivity improvements or earnings growth anticipated by management, whether due to significant increases in energy, raw materials or employee benefits costs, labor disputes or other factors; (d) changes in laws, governmental regulations or policies, currency exchange rates or competitive factors in the countries in which Alcoa operates; (e) a significant downturn in the business or financial condition of a key customer or customers supplied by Alcoa; (f) significant legal proceedings or investigations adverse to Alcoa, including environmental, product liability, safety and health and other claims; and (g) the other risk factors summarized in Alcoa's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003, Forms 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2004, June 30, 2004 and September 30, 2004 and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


