FILE:AA/AA-8K-20050708143600.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On July 7, 2005, Alcoa Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the second quarter of 2005. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99, is being furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
Item 9.01.
 
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
The following is furnished as an exhibit to this report:
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: July 8, 2005
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
[Alcoa logo]
 
 
 
 
:
Second Quarter 2005 Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 Alcoa (NYSE:AA) announced today the highest quarterly income and revenue in the company's history. Second quarter income from continuing operations was $473 million, or $0.54 per diluted share, up from $0.31 in the first quarter of 2005 and $0.46 in the second quarter of 2004.
NEW YORKJuly 7, 2005
 
Net income for the quarter was $460 million, or $0.52, up 77 percent over the first quarter's $260 million, or $0.30, and up 14 percent over the $404 million, or $0.46, of the second quarter of 2004.
 
Both net income and income from continuing operations include the effects of the following previously announced second quarter events:
 
 
 
 
 
In total, these items net to a positive benefit of $0.08 per share in the quarter.
 
"We achieved the highest quarterly income and revenues in Alcoa history," said Alain Belda, Alcoa Chairman and CEO. "We delivered strong results and took necessary steps to restructure, control costs, and lay the framework for solid performance over the long term."
 
Results Overview
 
Revenues for the quarter were $6.8 billion, an increase of 13 percent year-over-year and 8 percent on a sequential quarter basis, and the highest quarterly sales in the company's history. Revenues were driven by higher volumes and the company's acquisition of fabricating facilities in Russia. A record performance by the alumina business, a better mix of value-added fabricated products, coupled with stronger pricing and demand in the aerospace, commercial vehicle and building markets drove revenues higher, offsetting lower realized prices in the primary metals business. All of the company's six major business segments achieved third-party revenue growth versus year ago and sequential quarter comparisons.
 
The company continues to drive its savings program to offset the pressure of higher input prices and energy costs. In the second quarter, the company announced the second stage of its 2005 restructuring plan, which will result in the elimination of approximately 8100 positions and $195 million from its cost base when fully implemented. The restructuring is driven by a new global business structure that is designed to optimize operations and better serve customers globally.
 
"We're working to offset cost increases and deliver solid results," said Belda. "Our restructuring program will help further position the company to eliminate costs and place us in a stronger position to deliver for our customers throughout the world."
The company had approximately $60 million of cost increases in the quarter across items such as energy, resins and other raw materials, which offset cost reduction efforts in the quarter.
 
The company's trailing 12 month return on capital at the end of the second quarter 2005 was 8.3 percent, versus 7.8 percent in the previous quarter.
 
Strategic Acquisitions and Divestitures
 
The integration of the recently acquired Samara and Belaya Kalitva plants in Russia resulted in losses for the quarter of approximately $29 million after taxes due to integration costs, general market softness, especially in Europe, and the costs of initiatives to shift to higher value-added products. The company expects second half losses for the plants to be approximately $40 to $50 million after taxes.
 
Alcoa tendered its 46.5 percent stake in Elkem ASA for $869 million in cash, and recorded a $219 million gain after taxes on the transaction in the quarter. Alcoa continues to hold a 50 percent stake in two Norwegian aluminum smelters in Norway with combined capacity of 282,000 metric tons per year.
 
In the quarter the company purchased the 40 percent interest in the Alcoa (Shanghai) Aluminum Products Ltd. joint venture currently owned by its partner Shanghai Light Industrial Equipment (Group) Company, Ltd. Alcoa (Shanghai) Aluminum Products Ltd. will now be a wholly owned foreign enterprise and will continue to sell foil products to customers throughout Asia.
 
Balance Sheet and Growth Projects
 
In the quarter, capital expenditures were $487 million as the company invested in its growth projects in Western Australia, Iceland, and Brazil. Full year capital spending is estimated to be approximately $2.2 billion, with more than half dedicated to growth projects.
 
Progress continued during the quarter on construction of the new Alcoa Fjardaal aluminum smelter in Iceland set for production in 2007 as well as the expansion of the Alumar smelter in Brazil by 63,000 mtpy, which is expected to start production in the third quarter. The company continues negotiations with the government of the Republic of Ghana to re-start the Valco smelter.
The company also continued work on the efficiency upgrade at its Pinjarra alumina refinery in Australia, which is expected to increase production there by 600,000 mtpy by the end of 2005. The company began an expansion of the Jamalco alumina refinery in Clarendon, Jamaica as the first phase of a possible 1.5 million mtpy capacity expansion there. The first phase of expansion, an additional 150,000 mtpy, is expected to be completed by the end of 2006.
 
The company also began work to expand its global aerospace heat-treated sheet and plate production by approximately 50 percent over the next 18 months in response to orders from its aerospace customers, such as the nearly $2 billion high-performance sheet and plate supply agreement it signed with Airbus.
 
Cash from operations in the quarter was $384 million. Debt to capital stood at 32.2 percent at the end of the second quarter, a 110 basis point improvement from first quarter of 2005.
 
Segment and Other Results
 
Segment Changes
 
All comparisons are on a sequential quarter basis and after tax operating income (ATOI), unless noted.
 
Alumina - ATOI for the segment was at an all-time high of $182 million, up $21 million or 13 percent. Stronger pricing of third party shipments and increased internal demand for smelter restarts drove the increase in profitability. Alumina production for the quarter was 3,637 thousand metric tons ("kmt"), compared to 3,583 kmt in the first quarter of 2005.
 
Primary Metals - Segment profitability decreased $38 million or 17 percent, primarily because of lower realized metal prices and higher energy costs. Primary metal production for the quarter rose 48 kmt to 899 kmt, as re-starts in North America were completed. Realized metal prices declined by $65 a ton or 3% in the quarter to $1,977 a ton. The company purchased roughly 163 kmt of primary metal for internal use as part of its strategy to sell value-added products.
 
Flat Rolled Products  ATOI for the segment was $70 million. Excluding the impact of the new Russian facilities ($21 million loss), segment profitability increased to $91 million. Continued improved performance was driven by favorable pricing and mix in both North America and Europe as shipments of aerospace and other high value products rose.
 
Extruded and End Products  Higher shipments and revenue across many businesses within the segment doubled ATOI in the quarter to $20 million, overcoming a $6 million loss associated with the Russian assets. Seasonal improvements at Alcoa Home Exteriors also contributed to the results.
Engineered Solutions  ATOI for the segment was $60 million, relatively unchanged from the first quarter. Continued strong performance from key businesses serving the aerospace market, Howmet and Alcoa Fastening Systems, helped to partially offset declines at Alcoa Fujikura Automotive caused by weaker pricing and higher input costs.
 
Packaging and Consumer - Segment ATOI increased sharply to $47 million driven by seasonal demand increases in the consumer products and closure businesses. Compared to the year ago quarter, revenue in the segment grew by 9% largely based on raw material pricing pass through. However, all raw material increases could not be passed on to customers, leading to lower segment profitability.
 
ATOI to Net Income Reconciliation
 
The largest variances in reconciling items were in the "restructuring and other charges" and "other" line items. "Restructuring and Other Charges" records the after-tax impact of the previously announced restructuring charges. Included in the "other" line item is the gain on the sale of the Elkem shares and the tax benefit from the finalization of certain tax reviews.
 
Income from Discontinued Operations is comprised of operating losses and anticipated losses upon the sale of the discontinued operations.
 
Quarterly Conference Call
 
Alcoa will hold its quarterly conference call at 5:00 PM Eastern Time on July 7th to present the quarter's results. The meeting will be webcast via alcoa.com. Call information and related details are available at under "Invest."
www.alcoa.com
 
About Alcoa
 
Alcoa is the world's leading producer and manager of primary aluminum, fabricated aluminum and alumina facilities, and is active in all major aspects of the industry. Alcoa serves the aerospace, automotive, packaging, building and construction, commercial transportation and industrial markets, bringing design, engineering, production and other capabilities of Alcoa's businesses to customers. In addition to aluminum products and components, Alcoa also markets consumer brands including Reynolds Wrap(R) foils and plastic wraps, Alcoa(R) wheels, and Baco(R) household wraps. Among its other businesses are vinyl siding, closures, fastening systems, precision castings, and electrical distribution systems for cars and trucks. The company has 131,000 employees in
43 countries and has been a member of the Dow Jones Industrial Average for 45 years and the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes since 2001. More information can be found at
www.alcoa.com
 
Forward Looking Statements
 
Certain statements in this release relate to future events and expectations and as such constitute forward-looking statements involving known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results, performance or achievements of Alcoa to be different from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include: (a) material adverse changes in economic or aluminum industry conditions generally, including global supply and demand conditions and prices for primary aluminum, alumina and other products; (b) material adverse changes in the markets served by Alcoa, including the transportation, building, construction, distribution, packaging, industrial gas turbine and other markets; (c) Alcoa's inability to achieve the level of cost savings, productivity improvements or earnings growth anticipated by management, whether due to significant increases in energy, raw materials or employee benefits costs, labor disputes or other factors; (d) Alcoa's inability to realize the full extent of the expected savings or benefits from its restructuring activities, to complete such activities in accordance with its planned timetable, or to assure that subsequent refinements in its plans or business developments do not result in additional charges; (e) Alcoa's inability to complete its expansion projects and investment activities outside the U.S. as planned and by targeted completion dates, or to assure that the anticipated integration costs at its recently acquired Russian facilities will not exceed its estimates; (f) unfavorable changes in laws, governmental regulations or policies, currency exchange rates or competitive factors in the countries in which Alcoa operates; (g) significant legal proceedings or investigations adverse to Alcoa, including environmental, product liability, safety and health and other claims; and (h) the other risk factors summarized in Alcoa's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2005 and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


