FILE:AA/AA-8K-20050407110725.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On April 6, 2005, Alcoa Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the first quarter of 2005. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99, is being furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
The following is furnished as an exhibit to this report:
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
 
 
 
First Quarter 2005 Highlights:
 
 Income from continuing operations of $273 million, or $0.31 per diluted share;
 
 Solid operational results include $0.09 per share negative impact from restructuring charges, tax on Elkem, and integration and start-up costs of Russian facilities;
 
 Sales increased by 13% over 1
st
quarter of 2004 to $6.3 billion, up 4% from the sequential quarter;
 
 Four of six segments achieved double-digit improvements in profitability over the sequential quarter;
 
 Smelting restarts at Wenatchee, ABI and Massena contributed 43,000 metric tons of production in the quarter.
 
 Alcoa (NYSE:AA) announced today income from continuing operations for the first quarter 2005 of $273 million, or $0.31 per diluted share. Net income for the quarter was $260 million, or $0.30. Income from continuing operations for the first quarter 2004 was $0.41, or $0.39, in the fourth quarter 2004. For the first quarter 2004 net income was $0.41, or $0.30, in the fourth quarter 2004.
NEW YORK April 6, 2005
 
Both first quarter 2005 income measures include negative impacts totaling $0.09 per share for: the tax impact on Alcoa's sale of its Elkem investment ($39 million after tax); restructuring charges ($25 million after tax); and costs of integrating the recently acquired Russian business ($12 million after tax). The fourth quarter of 2004 included a gain of $37 million, or $0.04, on the Juruti transfer, while the first quarter of 2004 include a gain of $58 million, or $0.07, on the sale of specialty chemicals.
 
"Underlying business performance improved in the quarter as we captured the benefits of higher metal prices and a stronger economy in North America," said Alcoa Chairman and CEO Alain Belda. "We were able to regain traction on the cost initiative, overcoming cost inflation increases, to deliver savings to the bottom line.
 
"As we move forward, we will continue to tackle costs, to benefit from strong demand in end markets and the sustained high commodity prices," said Belda. "We are focused on delivering near-term results while we continue to build for the future."
Results Overview
 
Sales in the first quarter rose to $6.289 billion, up 13 percent over the first quarter of 2004, and the highest in four years. On a sequential quarter basis, revenue increased 4 percent, driven by higher primary metal and alumina prices as well as strength in the flat rolled products, extruded products, and engineered solutions segments.
 
Four of the company's six reporting segments achieved double-digit improvements in profitability over the fourth quarter of last year. Primary metals, flat-rolled products, extruded products, and engineered solutions all grew profits sharply with both higher volumes and favorable pricing. Strong end markets kept demand high in both upstream and downstream businesses. On an operational basis, the alumina segment also achieved double-digit profit improvement, excluding the Juruti gain in the fourth quarter 2004, as higher contract prices drove stronger profitability. The packaging segment was slowed by seasonal declines and increased costs.
 
The company's cost-savings initiatives offset cost inflation and achieved an additional $15 million of savings in the quarter, or $60 million annualized, toward the company's cost-savings goal. The company also announced a restructuring plan that will be completed over the next twelve months, resulting in an after-tax charge of $25 million and approximately $45 million in annualized savings when complete. The company is contemplating additional charges in the second quarter as further restructuring initiatives are finalized.
 
The company's trailing twelve month return on capital stood at 7.8 percent.
 
Update on Primary Metal Restarts
 
In order to take advantage of higher metal prices, the company continued to implement re-start initiatives at its North American smelters. Capacity restarts were completed ahead of schedule at the Wenatchee smelter in Washington, USA and the Massena East and West smelters in New York, USA. The restart at the ABI smelter in Quebec will be completed in April. Restarts at the three facilities contributed 43,000 additional metric tons in the first quarter with costs totaling $5 million after taxes. Following the restarts, Alcoa will have 343,000 metric tons idled of its total capacity of approximately 4 million metric tons.
 
Strategic Acquisitions and Divestitures
 
Alcoa completed the acquisition of Rusal's interests in Russian fabricating facilities in Samara and Belaya Kalitva, allowing Alcoa's leading flat-rolled products business to serve the growing Russian market and export to its global customers from a competitive cost base. The integration of these plants had a negative impact of $12 million after tax in the first quarter due to integration expenses and operating losses.
 
Alcoa tendered its 46.5 percent stake in Elkem ASA for $870 million in cash, and will record a $220 million gain after taxes on the transaction in the second quarter. In the first quarter, the company had a charge of $39 million related to the tax impact on previously undistributed equity earnings and related transaction costs. Alcoa continues to hold a 50 percent stake in two Norwegian aluminum smelters in Norway with combined capacity of 282,000 metric tons per year. Alcoa is also developing a new jointly owned anode plant that will serve the Norwegian smelters and Alcoa's greenfield Icelandic smelter.
 
Alcoa completed its agreement with Fujikura, Ltd. to acquire full ownership of the Alcoa Fujikura ("AFL") automotive business. In return, Fujikura has obtained complete ownership of the AFL telecommunications business and a cash balancing contribution of $176 million.
 
Earlier this quarter, Alcoa and its partner completed the sale of Integris Metals to Ryerson Tull for $410 million in cash. Alcoa had owned 50 percent of Integris Metals.
 
Balance Sheet and Growth Projects
 
In the quarter, capital expenditures were $347 million, 108 percent of depreciation. Full year capital spending is estimated to be approximately $2.5 billion, with approximately $1.6 billion dedicated to growth projects.
 
During the quarter, the company continued to invest in the upstream businesses, completing the Suriname alumina refinery expansion, and making significant progress on the expansion of the Pinjarra refinery in Australia. Work on the new smelter in Iceland and the expansion of the Alumar smelter in Brazil continues, and the company also signed an agreement with the Republic of Ghana to re-start the Valco smelter. Details of that restart are still being negotiated.
Debt to capital stood at 33.3% at the end of the first quarter, a 160 basis point improvement from the first quarter of 2004. Debt increased from the end of 2004 to fund acquisitions and working capital. The company has already received payment of $870 million in cash in the second quarter of 2005 for the Elkem transaction.
 
Segment and Other Results
 
Segment Changes
 
In conjunction with the global realignment of its organization structure, the composition of certain of Alcoa's segments has changed. The businesses within the former Engineered Products segment and the Other "group" have been realigned to form the new Extruded and End Products segment and the Engineered Solutions segment.
 
Extruded and End Products - This segment consists of extruded products, some of which are further fabricated into a variety of end products, and includes hard- and soft-alloy extrusions, architectural extrusions, and vinyl siding. These products primarily serve the building and construction, distribution and transportation markets. These products are sold directly to customers and through distributors.
 
Engineered Solutions - This segment includes titanium, aluminum and super-alloy investment castings, forgings and fasteners; electrical distribution systems; aluminum wheels; and integrated aluminum structural systems used in the aerospace, automotive, commercial transportation and power generation markets. These products are sold directly to customers and through distributors
 
Prior period segment amounts have been restated to reflect these changes.
(All comparisons are on a sequential quarter basis, unless noted.)
 
Alumina - Segment profitability was $161 million, down from $177 million. The previous quarter's results included a $37 million gain associated with the Juruti transaction. Excluding that gain, segment profitability increased $21 million or 15% as higher prices offset lower shipments and caustic costs. Alumina production for the quarter was 3,583 thousand metric tons ("kmt"), compared to 3,623 kmt in the fourth quarter of 2004.
 
Primary Metals - Segment profitability increased by $27 million or 14 percent, largely due to higher metal prices and shipments. Restart costs at the three restarted facilities totaled $5 million after tax. Higher energy costs (up $16 million after taxes) partially offset the benefit of higher aluminum prices. Primary metal production for the quarter rose 27 kmt for the quarter to 851 kmt. The company purchased roughly 185 kmt of primary metal for internal use as part of its strategy to sell value-added products.
 
Flat Rolled Products - Segment profitability increased to $75 million, despite an $11 million loss associated with integration costs for the Russian rolling mills. Excluding this loss, improved segment performance was driven by favorable pricing and mix in both North America and Europe.
 
Extruded and End Products - Segment ATOI grew sharply to $15 million, due to stronger demand in Europe extrusions and seasonal strengthening of the home exteriors business.
 
Engineered Solutions  Segment profitability in the Engineered Solutions segment rose sharply to $59 million, due to stronger demand in the aerospace and commercial vehicle markets.
 
Packaging and Consumer - Segment ATOI fell to $22 million due to the seasonal decline in the consumer products business and increased raw material costs, primarily resin. Compared to the year ago quarter, cost inflation, particularly raw materials and freight drove profitability lower.
 
ATOI to Net Income Reconciliation
 
The largest variances in reconciling items were in the "minority interest," "discontinued operations," and "other" line items. "Minority Interest" expense increased due to strong earnings in the AWAC business. "Discontinued Operations" includes a charge associated with reduction of the fair value of the assets held for sale. "Other" includes the tax charge associated with the sale of the Elkem shares, compared to the tax benefits from the Juruti transaction and the reversal of a valuation reserve for foreign net operating losses recorded in the fourth quarter of 2004.
Quarterly Conference Call
 
Alcoa will hold its quarterly conference call at 5:00 PM Eastern Time on April 6th to present the quarter's results. The meeting will be webcast via alcoa.com. Call information and related details are available at under "Invest."
www.alcoa.com
 
About Alcoa
 
Alcoa is the world's leading producer and manager of primary aluminum, fabricated aluminum and alumina facilities, and is active in all major aspects of the industry. Alcoa serves the aerospace, automotive, packaging, building and construction, commercial transportation and industrial markets, bringing design, engineering, production and other capabilities of Alcoa's businesses to customers. In addition to aluminum products and components, Alcoa also markets consumer brands including Reynolds Wrap(R) foils and plastic wraps, Alcoa(R) wheels, and Baco(R) household wraps. Among its other businesses are vinyl siding, closures, fastening systems, precision castings, and electrical distribution systems for cars and trucks. The company has 131,000 employees in 43 countries and has been a member of the Dow Jones Industrial Average for 45 years and the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes since 2001. More information can be found at
www.alcoa.com
 
Forward Looking Statement
 
Certain statements in this release relate to future events and expectations and as such constitute forward-looking statements involving known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results, performance or achievements of Alcoa to be different from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include: (a) material adverse changes in economic or aluminum industry conditions generally, including global supply and demand conditions and prices for primary aluminum, alumina and other products; (b) material adverse changes in the markets served by Alcoa, including the transportation, building, construction, distribution, packaging, industrial gas turbine and other markets; (c) Alcoa's inability to achieve the level of cost savings, productivity improvements or earnings growth anticipated by management, whether due to significant increases in energy, raw materials or employee benefits costs, labor disputes or other factors; (d) changes in laws, governmental regulations or policies, currency exchange rates or competitive factors in the countries in which Alcoa operates; (e) a significant downturn in the business or financial condition of a key customer or customers supplied by Alcoa; (f) significant legal proceedings or investigations adverse to Alcoa, including environmental, product liability, safety and health and other claims; and (g) the other risk factors summarized in Alcoa's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
 
* Segment information for all prior periods has been restated to reflect the change in segments due to a global realignment within the company, effective January 2005.


