FILE:AA/AA-8K-20060920144802.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
Amendment of Incentive Compensation Plan
On September 15, 2006, the Board of Directors of Alcoa Inc. ("Alcoa"), upon recommendation of the Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Board, amended the Incentive Compensation Plan (the "ICP"). The ICP provides annual cash incentive compensation to eligible employees, including executive officers. The amendment to the ICP included updating and clarifying changes, including the following substantive changes:
 
 
 
 
 
The ICP as revised September 15, 2006 replaces and supersedes the ICP as revised January 1, 1993, except as to contingent credits (relating to deferrals) issued prior to or for the year 1990, which will continue to be subject to the ICP provisions in effect as of December 31, 2004.
A copy of the ICP, as revised September 15, 2006, is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Amendment of Fee Continuation Plan for Non-Employee Directors
On September 15, 2006, the Board of Directors of Alcoa approved a Second Amendment to the Fee Continuation Plan for Non-Employee Directors (the "Plan"). Alcoa does not provide retirement benefits to non-employee directors under any current program, except that the Plan still applies to non-employee directors who were serving as directors at December 31, 1995. The Plan provides for annual fee continuation payments payable in cash and stock to the eligible directors upon retirement from the Board or at age 65 (whichever is later). In 1995, the Board amended the Plan to freeze future annual payments to the eligible directors at a maximum of $30,000 and 2,000 shares of Alcoa common stock (or a lesser proportion based on Board service as of December 31, 1995). On September 15, 2006, the Board approved a Second Amendment to the Plan that:
 
 
A copy of the Second Amendment to the Plan is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Form of Special Retention Stock Award Agreement under 2004 Alcoa Stock Incentive Plan
On September 15, 2006, the Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Board of Directors of Alcoa approved a form of special retention stock award agreement (consisting of a form of certificate and terms and conditions) that applies to special retention stock awards granted to Alcoa executive officers and other eligible participants under the 2004 Alcoa Stock Incentive Plan on or after July 14, 2006. Under the special retention stock award agreement, the terms and conditions are substantially identical to those for regular stock awards, including providing for three-year cliff vesting, except that the special retention stock award is forfeited (i) in whole if the recipient is eligible to retire and does retire during the three-year vesting period and (ii) in part on a pro-rata basis (based on the number of days actively employed during the vesting period) if the recipient's employment with Alcoa is involuntarily terminated without cause during the three-year vesting period.
 
The form of special retention stock award agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.3 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On September 15, 2006, the Board of Directors of Alcoa, upon recommendation of the Governance and Nominating Committee of the Board, amended Alcoa's Corporate Governance Guidelines to include a director resignation (majority withhold) policy and a description of the Lead Director's role, as follows:
 
 
A copy of the Corporate Governance Guidelines as amended is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated herein by reference. The Corporate Governance Guidelines are also available on Alcoa's website: under "About Alcoa  Corporate Governance."
http://www.alcoa.com
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
The following are filed as exhibits to this report:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: September 20, 2006
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
Except as provided in Article IV, this Incentive Compensation Plan, revised September 15, 2006, replaces and supersedes the Incentive Compensation Plan revised January 1, 1993.
For the purposes of this Incentive Compensation Plan ("Plan"), unless a different meaning is clearly required by the context:
AWARD YEAR means any calendar year for which awards are made to eligible employees.
BOARD means the Board of Directors of the Company, and includes the Executive Committee or any other duly authorized committee thereof when acting in lieu thereof and/or pursuant to authority delegated thereby.
BOARD COMMITTEE means the Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Board of Directors or such other committee selected by the Board of Directors comprised solely of independent directors.
COMMITTEE means the Incentive Compensation Committee and, with respect to awards for officers of the Company, the Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Board.
COMPANY means Alcoa Inc. and any successor thereto.
DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN means the Company's Deferred Compensation Plans as amended from time to time.
DISABILITY means a mental or physical condition preventing the employee from performing his position satisfactorily, where a qualified physician designated by the Committee certifies that, in his opinion, the employee's state of health is such that he should not be burdened with the responsibilities of his position even though he is not totally or permanently disabled.
ELIGIBLE EMPLOYEE has the meaning set forth in Article II, Section 2.
RETIREMENT means (a) termination of employment in which there is a right to immediate payment of a pension benefit under the provisions of any retirement plan or arrangement of the Company or a Subsidiary; or (b) termination of employment upon or after attaining age 65 regardless of pension eligibility.
SUBSIDIARY means any corporation in which the Company owns, directly or indirectly, stock possessing 50% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of such corporation, and any corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company or other business entity as to which the Company possesses a significant ownership interest, directly or indirectly, as determined by the Company.
SECTION 1. . The purpose of the Plan is to provide annual cash incentive compensation for Eligible Employees if performance metrics for financial and non-financial performance established by the Committee from time to time are achieved. The Committee reserves the right to make adjustments to awards to reflect individual performance.
Purpose
SECTION 2. . Officers and other key employees of the Company and its Subsidiaries who have, in the sole judgment of the Committee, contributed to the management, growth, and success of some part or all of the business of those companies shall be eligible for awards under the Plan (referred to as "Eligible Employees").
Eligibility
 
SECTION 3. . The aggregate amount of awards for any Award Year shall not exceed an amount determined by or in accordance with a procedure specified by the Board Committee. All awards shall be granted in accordance with guidelines approved from time to time by the Board Committee and any exceptions to the guidelines require the approval of the Board Committee.
Limits on awards
SECTION 1. . For each Award Year, the Committee shall make awards to such Eligible Employees in such individual amounts as it deems appropriate under the circumstances, taking into account individual performance and the financial and non-financial performance metrics established by the Committee for the Award Year.
Determination
SECTION 2. . Except as otherwise determined by the Committee and except for awards or portions of awards which may be deferred, each award shall be paid in cash at a time determined by the Board Committee as soon as practicable following the Award Year, but in any event no later than March 15 of the year following the Award Year. Cash payment of awards shall be made from the general funds of the Company. In its discretion, the Company may establish one or more trusts or special funds from which awards may be paid.
Cash awards
SECTION 3. . Eligible Employees who are also eligible to participate in the Deferred Compensation Plan may defer all or part of their awards under this Plan in accordance with the terms of the Deferred Compensation Plan.
Deferred awards
SECTION 1. . Contingent credits were issued under the Incentive Compensation Plan in effect prior to and for the year 1990. Since 1991, no contingent credits have been issued and the Plan with respect to contingent credits was frozen. The provisions of
Contingent credits
 
this Article IV relate solely to contingent credits issued prior to or for the year 1990. Due to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, all remaining contingent credits and earnings thereon shall continue to be subject to the Incentive Compensation Plan provisions in effect as of December 31, 2004, and this Incentive Compensation Plan revised September 15, 2006, shall not supersede or replace the provisions of the Incentive Compensation Plan revised January 1, 1993 as it pertains to contingent credits.
SECTION 1. . The Incentive Compensation Committee for the Plan shall be appointed by the Board and shall have exclusive power and authority to interpret and administer the Plan; provided however, that the Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Board shall have exclusive power and authority to interpret and administer the Plan with respect to and to make awards to Eligible Employees who are officers of the Company. The Incentive Compensation Committee may take all action, including the adoption of rules and regulations as it deems appropriate for the administration of the Plan and all determinations by the Committee shall be final and binding upon the Company, its Subsidiaries, Eligible Employees and their beneficiaries.
Committee
SECTION 2. . The Board may from time to time amend, modify, suspend or terminate the Plan provided, however, that no such amendment, modification, suspension or termination shall affect any right or obligation with respect to any award theretofore made.
Amendments
SECTION 3. . All expenses of administering the Plan shall be paid by the Company, which in turn may seek reimbursement from subsidiaries. The cost of all awards incurred by the Company with respect to employees of any Subsidiary shall be reimbursed by the Subsidiary.
Expenses
 
SECTION 4. . No Eligible Employee or other person shall, by virtue of any award or any unpaid installment thereof, have any interest whatever, either vested or contingent, in any property of the Company or its Subsidiaries.
Unsecured obligation
SECTION 5. . Participation in the Plan shall not give any employee the right to continued employment by the Company or its Subsidiaries. Holding the status of an Eligible Employee shall not give any employee the right to any award.
No rights to employment or awards
SECTION 6. . Each Eligible Employee is solely liable for any taxes due in regards to payments under this Plan, including but not limited to, federal, state, local, social security, foreign and excise taxes under Internal Revenue Code Section 409A if for any reason the Internal Revenue Service determines that amounts payable under this Plan are subject to the provisions of Section 409A.
Taxes
SECTION 7. . The Plan shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, excluding any choice of law provisions which may indicate the application of the laws of another jurisdiction.
Construction
SECTION 1. . If the Board learns of any misconduct by an Eligible Employee that contributed to the Company's having to restate all or a portion of its financial statements, it shall take such action as it deems necessary to remedy the misconduct, prevent its recurrence and, if appropriate, based on all relevant facts and circumstances, take remedial action against the wrongdoer in a manner it deems appropriate. In determining what remedies to pursue, the Board shall take into account all relevant factors,
Forfeiture of Incentive Compensation
 
including whether the restatement was the result of negligent, intentional or gross misconduct. The Board shall, to the full extent permitted by governing law, in all appropriate cases, require reimbursement of any award under the Plan (including any bonus or incentive compensation that has been deferred) if: a) the amount of the award was calculated based upon the achievement of certain financial results that were subsequently the subject of a restatement, b) the Eligible Employee engaged in intentional misconduct that caused or partially caused the need for the restatement, and c) the amount of the award that would have been awarded to the Eligible Employee had the financial results been properly reported would have been lower than the amount actually awarded. In addition, the Board, in its full and complete discretion, may dismiss the Eligible Employee, authorize legal action for breach of fiduciary duty or take such other action to enforce the Eligible Employee's obligations to the Company as the Board determines fit the facts surrounding the particular case. The Board may, in determining appropriate remedial action, take into account penalties or punishments imposed by third parties, such as law enforcement agencies, regulators or other authorities. The Board's power to determine the appropriate punishment for the wrongdoer is in addition to, and not in replacement of, remedies imposed by such entities.
SECTION 2. . In the Committee's discretion, if an Eligible Employee's Retirement or termination of employment due to a Disability occurs during an Award Year, the Eligible Employee may be awarded a pro-rata portion of the award under the Plan that would have been paid for the Award Year had the Eligible Employee remained in active service through the end of the Award Year, based on the number of days of active service during the Award Year.
Pro-rata Distribution upon Retirement
SECTION 3. . In the event of a Change in Control, as defined in the 2004 Alcoa Stock Incentive Plan, as the same may be amended from
Pro-rata Distribution upon a Change in Control
 
time to time, or any successor plan approved by the shareholders of the Company, Eligible Employees, at the discretion of the Committee, may be paid a pro-rata portion of target incentive compensation for the Award Year, based on the days of service during the Award Year from the beginning of the Award Year through the date of the Change in Control.
SECTION 4. . Upon the death of an Eligible Employee a pro-rata portion of the award for the Award Year shall be paid to the Eligible Employee's beneficiary or beneficiaries, based on the number of days the Eligible Employee was actively employed during the Award Year.
Pro-rata distribution upon death
 

Exhibit 10.2
WHEREAS, the Fee Continuation Plan for Non-Employee Directors (the "Plan") of Alcoa Inc. (the "Company") was amended November 10, 1995 (the "First Amendment") to freeze payments to be made under the Plan to directors who were members of the Board at December 31, 1995; and
WHEREAS, under the First Amendment, each non-employee Director having 120 or more months of service as a member of the Board of Directors at December 31, 1995 shall be entitled to receive payments upon retirement from the Board or at age 65 (whichever is later) at 100% of the minimum annual cash retainer fee and annual stock grant amounts, and each non-employee Director having less than 120 months of service as a member of the Board of Directors at December 31, 1995 shall be entitled to receive Fee Continuation Payments upon retirement from the Board or age 65 (whichever is later) at a rate of 10% of such minimum annual cash retainer fee and annual stock grant amounts for each full year of service as a non-employee Director as of December 31, 1995; and
WHEREAS, the maximum annual payment for eligible Directors under the Plan is $30,000 and 2000 shares and the minimum annual payment for eligible Directors under the Plan is $3,000 and 200 shares; and
WHEREAS, it is in the best interest of the Company and the Plan Participants to convert the Plan to an all cash payment plan with equivalent value to the cash and stock payment formula; and
WHEREAS, it is in the best interest of the Company and the future Plan Participants to establish a fixed date for receipt of payments under the Plan on or before December 31, 2006; and
 
WHEREAS, the Plan Participants and the future Plan Participants have consented to these proposed changes; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors have approved such changes;
NOW THEREFORE, the Plan, as amended by the First Amendment, is hereby further amended effective September 15, 2006, as follows:
 
"Beginning in 2007, in lieu of Fee Continuation Payments payable in the form of the Company's common stock, an additional cash payment shall be paid annually as soon as practicable following December 31 of each year, in an amount equal to the closing price of the Company's common stock on December 31 as reported on the New York Stock Exchange  Composite Transactions, multiplied by the number of shares of the Company's common stock to which the Participant otherwise would have been entitled under this Plan but for this amendment."
 
"The first paragraph of Section 5 of the Plan shall not apply to Participants who have not retired from the Board of Directors as of the effective date of the Second Amendment to the Plan. In lieu thereof, such Participants shall make an irrevocable election before December 31, 2006 whether to receive Fee Continuation Payments which are payable in cash upon retirement (A) quarterly on a prorated basis, payable immediately after the end of the calendar quarter for which paid or (B) annually, payable immediately after the end of the calendar year for which paid. In either case, the final payment shall be made for the quarter in which death occurs. Payment of the amounts described in Section 8 of the Plan shall be governed by that section."
 
"Section 8. .
Additional Payments
(a) If the Board of Directors requests a non-employee Director who is entitled to Fee Continuation Payments under the Plan to remain a member of the Board of Directors beyond the Normal Retirement Date (as defined below), and the director
 
agrees and continues as a member of the Board until retirement at a later date (the period from the Normal Retirement Date to the later retirement date, the "Additional Period"), then a lump sum payment in cash shall be made to the director within 2
 1
/
2
months after retirement from the Board equal to the total of the following:
 
 
 
(b) For purposes of this Section 8, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.3
("Participant"), a special retention stock award of units, based upon the following terms:
            
 
 
 
These terms and conditions are authorized by the Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Board of Directors. They are deemed to be incorporated into and form a part of every Stock Award issued under the 2004 Alcoa Stock Incentive Plan, as last amended prior to the grant (the "Plan") on or after July 14, 2006, unless the Award certificate provides otherwise.
Terms that are defined in the Plan have the same meanings in these terms and conditions, except that Alcoa or Company means Alcoa Inc. or any of its controlled subsidiaries or affiliates and Stock Awards means Special Retention Stock Awards.
 
 
 
 
 
(i) An unvested Stock Award held by a Participant who is involuntarily terminated without cause from employment with the Company during the vesting period is not forfeited in whole
 
but only in part upon termination of employment, as described below. The portion of the Stock Award that is not forfeited vests on the original stated vesting date set forth on the face of the Award certificate and is calculated based on a proportionate share of the time during the vesting period that the Participant remained actively employed with Alcoa, with the remaining portion being automatically forfeited. The proportionate share is computed on the basis of the actual number of days actively employed after the date of grant over a total vesting period of three years of 360 days each (or a total vesting period of 1,080 days.) For example, a Participant who is involuntarily terminated without cause from employment with the Company at the end of the first year of the three-year vesting period will receive one-third of the Stock indicated on the Award certificate upon vesting, with the remaining two-thirds of the Stock being automatically forfeited upon termination.
(ii) An unvested Stock Award held by a Participant who dies while an active employee is not forfeited but vests on the original stated vesting date set forth on the face of the Award certificate.
(iii) A Stock Award vests immediately upon certain Change in Control events described in the Plan. The Award is payable and shares of Stock become issuable immediately upon the occurrence of such Change in Control events.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2004 ASIP SPECIAL RETENTION Stock Award Terms and Conditions (JULY 2006)
 

Exhibit 99
Alcoa is a values-based company. Our guide our behavior at every level and apply across the company on a global basis. We expect all directors, officers and other Alcoans to conduct business in compliance with our and we survey compliance with these policies on an annual basis. Alcoa endorses dated May 2002, which is a comprehensive statement of responsible corporate governance principles. These principles provide the foundation on which our and our are based. All of the highlighted documents are publicly available on our web site.
Values
Business Conduct Policies,
The Business Roundtable Principles of Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance Guidelines
board committee charters
Director responsibilities.
The core responsibility of the directors is to exercise their business judgment and act in what they reasonably believe to be the best interests of the company.
Serving on a board requires significant time and attention on the part of directors. Directors must participate in board meetings, review relevant materials, serve on board committees and prepare for meetings and discussions with management.
Directors are expected to notify the Chairman and CEO and the Corporate Secretary before accepting a seat on the board of another business corporation as well as any non-profit or charitable organization, in order to avoid potential conflicts.
Directors are expected to maintain an attitude of constructive involvement and oversight; they are expected to ask incisive, probing questions and require accurate, honest answers; they are expected to act with integrity; and they are expected to demonstrate a commitment to the company, its values and its business plan and to long-term shareholder value.
In performing their oversight responsibilities, directors rely on the competence and integrity of management in carrying out their responsibilities. It is the responsibility of management to operate the Company in an effective and ethical manner in order to produce value for shareholders.
Director qualification standards.
A majority of directors must be "independent" under the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange and Alcoa's Director Independence Standards, as determined by the Board of Directors. Board independence depends not only on directors' individual relationships, but also on the board's overall attitude. Providing objective, independent judgment is at the core of the board's oversight function, and the board's composition should reflect this principle.
Prospective candidates to the Board of Directors will be identified and evaluated pursuant to appropriate criteria, objectives and procedures established from time to time by the Board or by its Governance and Nominating Committee. As a general policy, no director should stand for election or re-election to the board if the director has reached age 72 before the date of election. This policy may be waived by a majority of the Board of Directors. If a director will reach age 72 during a three-year term, the Governance and Nominating Committee should take this fact into account in determining whether to recommend the nomination of the director.
(Rev. September 15, 2006)
Directors who have a substantial change in their principal responsibilities should tender their resignation from the board so that the Governance and Nominating Committee can consider whether to accept the resignation. It is the sense of the board that directors should not necessarily leave the Board upon a change in responsibilities, however the Governance and Nominating Committee should be in a position to consider the change in evaluating the appropriate mix of skills and experience necessary for the board to perform its oversight function effectively.
Directors bring to the company a range of experience, knowledge and judgment. Directors should not represent the interests of particular constituencies.
Director access to management and, as necessary and appropriate, independent advisors.
The board must have accurate, complete information to do its job; the quality of information received by the board directly affects its ability to perform its oversight function effectively. Directors should be provided with, and review, information from a variety of sources, including management, board committees, outside experts, auditor presentations and other reports. The board should be provided with information before board and committee meetings with sufficient time to review and reflect on key issues and to request supplemental information as necessary.
Effective corporate directors are diligent monitors, but not managers, of business operations. Directors should have access to management, as needed, to fulfill their oversight responsibilities. Any meetings outside of regularly scheduled meetings that a director wishes to initiate with management should be coordinated through the Chairman and CEO or the Corporate Secretary.
Director compensation.
Directors are expected to invest more than 50% of their annual cash compensation in Alcoa shares until they satisfy the Director Share Guidelines adopted from time to time by the Board, and they are required to maintain that investment in Alcoa shares until they retire from the board. It is the sense of the board that this policy reinforces a focus on long-term shareholder value.
Compensation paid to directors at similarly situated companies should be considered when establishing the amount paid to directors.
Compensation for service as a director (and related benefits provided to directors) is the only form of remuneration directors should receive from the company.
Director orientation and continuing education.
Materials and briefings are provided to new directors, on an individualized basis, to permit them to become familiar with the company's business, industry and corporate governance practices.
The company also provides additional formal and informal opportunities to directors (including site visits to business operations) on an ongoing basis to enable them to better perform their duties and to recognize and deal appropriately with issues that arise.
Management succession.
The paramount duty of the Board of Directors is to select a Chief Executive Officer and to oversee the CEO and other senior management in the competent and ethical operation of the company.
The board should identify, and periodically update, the qualities and characteristics necessary for an effective CEO of this company. With these principles in mind, the board should periodically
(Rev. September 15, 2006)
 
monitor and review the development and progression of potential internal candidates against these standards. Advance planning for contingencies such as the departure, death or disability of the CEO or other top executives is necessary so that, in the event of an untimely vacancy, the company has in place an emergency succession plan to facilitate the transition to both interim and longer-term leadership.
Communications with third parties.
The board believes that management speaks for the company. It is expected that board members would not speak for the company, absent unusual circumstances (or as required by regulations, listing standards or the board).
Annual performance evaluation of the board.
Meaningful board evaluation requires an assessment of the effectiveness of the full board, the operations of its committees and the contributions of individual directors. The performance of the full board should be evaluated annually, as should the performance of its committees. The board should have a process for evaluating whether the individuals sitting on the board bring the skills and expertise appropriate for the company and how they work as a group. Board positions should not be regarded as permanent. Directors should serve only so long as they add value to the board, and a director's ability to continue to contribute to the board should be considered each time the director is considered for re-nomination.
Majority Vote Policy.
In any uncontested election of directors (an election in which the number of nominees is the same as the number of directors to be elected), any incumbent director nominee who receives a greater number of votes "withheld" from his or her election than votes "for" such election shall tender his or her resignation within 30 days of the final vote tally. The Board of Directors will decide whether to accept the resignation at its next regularly scheduled board meeting, through a process managed by the Governance and Nominating Committee, excluding the director in question. Thereafter, the Board of Directors promptly will disclose its decision whether to accept the director's resignation offer (and the reasons for rejecting the resignation, if applicable) in a document filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In reaching its decision, the board may consider any factors it deems relevant, including the director's qualifications, the director's past and expected future contributions to the company, the overall composition of the board and whether accepting the tendered resignation would cause the company to fail to meet any applicable rule or regulation, including New York Stock Exchange listing requirements and federal securities laws.
Role of the Lead Director.
The Lead Director will (i) preside at all meetings of the board at which the Chairman is not present including executive sessions of the independent directors; (ii) respond directly to shareholder and other stakeholder questions and comments that are directed to the Lead Director or to the independent directors as a group, with such consultation with the Chairman or other directors as the Lead Director may deem appropriate; (iii) review meeting agendas and schedules for the Board; (iv) ensure personal availability for consultation and communication with independent directors and with the Chairman, as appropriate; and (v) call special meetings of the independent directors in accordance with Alcoa's by-laws, as the Lead Director may deem to be appropriate. The General Counsel and the Corporate Secretary's Office will provide support to the Lead Director in fulfilling the Lead Director role.
(Rev. September 15, 2006)
 
Recovery of Incentive Compensation.
If the board learns of any misconduct by an executive officer that contributed to the company having to restate all or a portion of its financial statements, it shall take such action as it deems necessary to remedy the misconduct, prevent its recurrence and, if appropriate, based on all relevant facts and circumstances, take remedial action against the wrongdoer in a manner it deems appropriate. In determining what remedies to pursue, the board shall take into account all relevant factors, including whether the restatement was the result of negligent, intentional or gross misconduct. The board will, to the full extent permitted by governing law, in all appropriate cases, require reimbursement of any bonus or incentive compensation awarded to an executive officer or effect the cancellation of unvested restricted or deferred stock awards previously granted to the executive officer if: a) the amount of the bonus or incentive compensation was calculated based upon the achievement of certain financial results that were subsequently the subject of a restatement, b) the executive engaged in intentional misconduct that caused or partially caused the need for the restatement, and c) the amount of the bonus or incentive compensation that would have been awarded to the executive had the financial results been properly reported would have been lower than the amount actually awarded. In addition, the board may dismiss the executive officer, authorize legal action for breach of fiduciary duty or take such other action to enforce the executive's obligations to Alcoa Inc. as the board determines fit the facts surrounding the particular case. The board may, in determining appropriate remedial action, take into account penalties or punishments imposed by third parties, such as law enforcement agencies, regulators or other authorities. The board's power to determine the appropriate punishment for the wrongdoer is in addition to, and not in replacement of, remedies imposed by such entities.
For the purposes of this Guideline, "executive officer" means any officer who has been designated an executive officer by the board.
(Rev. September 15, 2006)
 


