FILE:AA/AA-8K-20060411161815.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 10, 2006, Alcoa Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the first quarter of 2006. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99, is being furnished in accordance with the provisions of General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
The following is furnished as an exhibit to this report:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: April 11, 2006
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
[Alcoa logo]
 
Highlights:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Alcoa (NYSE: AA) today announced first quarter 2006 income from continuing operations of $615 million, or $0.70 per diluted share, the highest quarterly profit in the company's history.
NEW YORK, NY  April 10, 2006
Income from continuing operations of $615 million, or $0.70, was 190 percent higher than $212 million, or $0.24, in the previous quarter, and 129 percent better than $268 million, or $0.31, in the first quarter of 2005.
Net income for the quarter was a record $608 million, or $0.69, a 171 percent increase from the sequential quarter and 134 percent higher than the first quarter of 2005.
Revenues for the quarter increased 9 percent sequentially to $7.24 billion, the highest quarterly revenues in the Company's history. Compared to the year ago quarter, sales have grown 16 percent, as five of the company's six business segments achieved higher volumes.
"We had excellent top and bottom line results, driven by strong demand, favorable metal prices, and productivity programs implemented through the Alcoa Business System," said Alain Belda, Alcoa Chairman and CEO. "Our upstream alumina and primary metals businesses, as well as our downstream engineered solutions  led by truck wheels, investment castings, forged products, and fasteners  all turned in record performances this quarter.
"While we are still fighting inflationary pressures, cost increases have slowed from last year, and our restructuring and efficiency initiatives have helped strengthen profitability," said Belda.
"Our aerospace and commercial transportation markets are particularly robust this year, and we expect overall market conditions to remain strong," Belda added.
Cost of goods sold as a percent of sales improved 640 basis points this quarter compared to the fourth quarter of 2005.
Included in the quarter's results are costs for stock-based compensation of $20 million, or $0.02 per share. Stock re-purchases offset any dilution related to stock compensation in the quarter.
Balance Sheet and Growth Projects
With global aluminum consumption projected to double by 2020, Alcoa is pursuing growth projects in its upstream and downstream businesses to seize this opportunity. In the quarter, capital expenditures were $592 million, 63 percent of which, or approximately $370 million, was devoted to growth projects. Two capital projects were essentially completed in the quarter  the 657,000 metric ton per year (mtpy) efficiency upgrade to the Pinjarra alumina refinery in Australia and the 63,000 mtpy expansion of the Alumar smelter in Sao Luis, Brazil  and will contribute to the second quarter. Growth capital continued to be deployed at the 341,000 mtpy Alcoa Fjardaal smelter in Iceland and the Mosjoen anode plant in Norway. Those projects are on-schedule and are approximately 50 percent complete.
Days of working capital improved three days in the quarter compared to the first quarter of last year. Working capital dollars increased from the previous quarter due to improved market conditions, higher prices, and the building of targeted, strategic inventories in the event of a work stoppage. The potential work
stoppage relates to the negotiations of the master contract agreement involving approximately 9,000 of the more than 45,000 U.S. employees. The contract expires May 31
st
and the key issue is health care. The debt-to-capital ratio stood at 32.4 percent at the end of the quarter, within the Company's target range.
The Company's annualized first quarter 2006 ROC stood at 14.2 percent when including growth investments. On a trailing four quarters basis return on capital for the first quarter 2006 was 11.2 percent after excluding investments on growth.
As part of its growth strategy, the Company also began first phase feasibility studies for a 341,000 mtpy greenfield smelter in Trinidad, began feasibility studies on a second 250,000 mtpy greenfield smelter in Iceland, and increased its stake in the Estreito hydropower facility in Brazil during the quarter.
Sustainability and Innovation/New Products
During the quarter, Alcoa was cited again as one of the most sustainable companies in the world at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. The Company was also named by CERES, a national coalition of investors, environmental and public interest organizations, as one of the leaders in climate change and governance.
The Alcoa Foundation launched the $8.6 million Alcoa Conservation and Sustainability Fellowship program during the first quarter. The program will fund the study of global conservation and sustainability research by 30 Academic and 60 non-governmental organization fellows from around the world over the next six years.
Alcoa continued its leadership position in applying technologies to generate innovation on behalf of customers. Examples this quarter included: the introduction of four new product concepts to the fast growing commercial transportation market including Alcoa Dura-Bright Fuel Tanks, aluminum landing gear, an aluminum fifth wheel, and Alcoa Aluplate aluminum composite panels for trailers; the use of Alcoa Mill Products' Translite exterior clear-coated, polished aluminum side skin as an option on trailers; the selection by Ferrari to use an Alcoa spaceframe made in Modena, Italy for the new Ferrari 599 GTB Fiorano, introduced at the Geneva Auto Show; the supplying of cast aluminum components using vacuum riser-less technology to Hyundai for the 2007 Santa Fe automobile; and selection of Alcoa Wheel Products for new production model vehicles including the Nissan Altima SE-R, Chrysler 300C SRT8, Dodge Charger SRT8, Dodge Ram 2500, Dodge Magnum SRT8, Dodge Viper and Jeep Grand Cherokee SRT8.
Segment and Other Results
Alumina  After-tax operating income ("ATOI") was $242 million, up 32% over the prior quarter. Higher pricing and improved productivity was partially offset by $16 million of energy cost increases. Alumina production for the quarter was 3,702 thousand metric tons (kmt), on par with the prior quarter despite two less days in the first quarter. On a tons per day basis, both the Atlantic and Australia systems achieved production records for the quarter.
Primary Metals  Segment ATOI increased by $203 million, or 84%, to $445 million. The ATOI increase was driven by higher LME prices, premiums, and productivity gains, partially offset by higher energy costs. Third party realized metal prices increased $357 per ton, or 16 percent, to $2,534 per ton. Primary metal production for the quarter declined 33 kmt to 867 kmt, as production from the Alumar, Brazil expansion was offset by the Eastalco, Maryland smelter's December 2005 curtailment and the Portland, Australia smelter outage. The company purchased roughly 157 kmt of primary metal for internal use as part of its strategy to sell value-added products.
Flat-Rolled Products  ATOI for the segment increased $4 million to $66 million in the quarter. Higher volumes associated with continued strong aerospace and industrial products demand were offset by energy and other input cost inflation.
Extruded and End Products  ATOI improved $3 million in the quarter. Improved volumes and profitability in building and construction and extrusions were partially offset by higher losses in Russia.
Engineered Solutions  ATOI for the segment rose 77 percent from the previous quarter to an all-time high of $83 million. This result follows a robust fourth quarter where ATOI had risen by 38 percent sequentially. Strong productivity gains, market growth, new product introductions and a favorable mix drove results in the quarter. Additionally, the investment in 2005 to restructure the portfolio resulted in significant improvement, particularly in the automotive business.
Packaging and Consumer  Segment ATOI was $8 million, a decline of $12 million as a result of normal seasonally weaker volume and mix. Benefits of higher volumes at Closure Systems and improved performance of our Flexible Packaging business were more than offset by the seasonal declines.
Alcoa will hold its quarterly conference call at 5:00 PM Eastern Time on April 10th to present the quarter's results. The meeting will be webcast via alcoa.com. Call information and related details are available at under "Invest."
www.alcoa.com
About Alcoa
Alcoa is the world's leading producer and manager of primary aluminum, fabricated aluminum and alumina facilities, and is active in all major aspects of the industry. Alcoa serves the aerospace, automotive, packaging, building and construction, commercial transportation and industrial markets, bringing design, engineering, production and other capabilities of Alcoa's businesses to customers. In addition to aluminum products and components, Alcoa also markets consumer brands including Reynolds Wrap foils and plastic wraps, Alcoa wheels, and Baco household wraps. Among its other businesses are vinyl siding, closures, fastening systems, precision castings, and electrical distribution systems for cars and trucks. The company has 129,000 employees in 42 countries and has been named one of the top sustainable corporations in the world at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. More information can be found at
www.alcoa.com
Forward Looking Statement
Certain statements in this release relate to future events and expectations and as such constitute forward-looking statements involving known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results, performance or achievements of Alcoa to be different from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include: (a) material adverse changes in economic or aluminum industry conditions generally, including global supply and demand conditions and prices for primary aluminum, alumina and other products; (b) material adverse changes in the markets served by Alcoa, including the transportation, building, construction, distribution, packaging, industrial gas turbine and other markets; (c) Alcoa's inability to achieve the level of cost savings, productivity improvements or earnings growth anticipated by management, whether due to significant increases in energy, raw materials or employee benefits costs, labor disputes or other factors; (d) Alcoa's inability to realize the full extent of the expected savings or benefits from its restructuring activities or to complete such activities in accordance with its planned timetable; (e) Alcoa's inability to complete its expansion projects and investment activities outside the U.S. as planned and by targeted completion dates, or to assure that the anticipated integration costs at its recently acquired Russian facilities will not exceed its estimates; (f) unfavorable changes in laws, governmental regulations or policies, currency exchange rates or competitive factors in the countries in which Alcoa operates; (g) significant legal proceedings or investigations adverse to Alcoa, including environmental, product liability, safety and health and other claims; and (h) the other risk factors summarized in Alcoa's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
 
Alcoa and subsidiaries
Segment Information (unaudited), continued
 
Prior periods segment information has been reclassified to reflect the movement of the Hawesville, KY automotive casting facility to discontinued operations in 2006.
The difference between total segment third-party sales and consolidated third-party sales is in Corporate.
 
 
Return on capital, excluding growth investments is a non-GAAP financial measure. Management believes that this measure is meaningful to investors because it provides greater insight with respect to the underlying operating performance of the company's productive assets. The company has significant growth investments underway in its upstream and downstream businesses, as previously noted, with expected completion dates over the next several years. As these investments generally require a period of time before they are productive, management believes that a return on capital measure excluding these growth investments is more representative of current operating performance.
 
Alcoa and subsidiaries
Calculation of Financial Measures (unaudited), continued
(in millions)
Days of Working Capital
 
Days of Working Capital = Working Capital divided by (Sales/number of days in the quarter)


