FILE:AA/AA-8K-20060110152523.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On January 9, 2006, Alcoa Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2005. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99, is being furnished in accordance with the provisions of General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
The following is furnished as an exhibit to this report:
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: January 10, 2006
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
[Alcoa logo]
 
 
 
 
Highlights:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Alcoa (NYSE: AA) announced today that its 2005 income from continuing operations was $1.23 billion, or $1.40 per diluted share, as the company took action to partially mitigate $878 million in impacts from raw materials, energy, and other cost inflation.
NEW YORKJanuary 9, 2006 
 
For the fourth quarter, income from continuing operations was $210 million, or $0.24. Profitability was eroded by negative impacts totaling $93 million, or $0.11, including: lowered production at refineries in Jamaica and Texas due to the Gulf Coast hurricanes; an unplanned outage at the Portland, Australia smelter; the impact of strikes on operations at Spanish plants; restructuring costs for plant closings and layoffs; mark-to-market losses on metal and metal-related activities; and integration costs for the newly acquired facilities in Russia; partially offset by a favorable legal settlement for power costs. Income from continuing operations was $0.33 in the third quarter of 2005, and $0.39 in the fourth quarter of 2004.
 
"Entering 2005, we anticipated significant pressures from rising input, energy costs and other cost inflation, but actual increases were even higher, nearly $900 million for the year," said Alain Belda, Alcoa Chairman and CEO.
"To meet that challenge, we took aggressive action, passing through significant price increases to downstream customers, improving our mix of value-added products, continuing productivity gains, and lowering taxes. That management action helped offset cost pressures and drove the top-line to the highest level in Alcoa's 117-year history," said Belda. "In the year ahead, we don't foresee the same sharp spikes on input prices, and our initiatives will gain further momentum to offset inflation and improve the bottom line.
 
"As we enter 2006, the vast majority of our primary metal production will benefit from the highest metal prices in more than 15 years," Belda added. "And we are working to secure future growth in attractive markets with customers around the world."
 
Net income in the quarter was $224 million, or $0.26, compared to $289 million, or $0.33, in the previous quarter, and $268 million, or $0.30, in the fourth quarter of 2004.
 
Annual revenues climbed 13 percent to $26.2 billion, the highest in the company's history. Revenues for the fourth quarter rose approximately 12 percent compared to the fourth quarter of 2004, driven by higher metal prices and strength in the aerospace market.
 
Balance Sheet Overview
 
Cash from operations in the quarter was $1 billion, helping lower the company's debt to capital ratio to 30.8 percent at year's end, down from 31.5 percent in the third quarter. In addition to that, the company completed the sale of Southern Graphic Systems for $408 million in cash in the quarter.
 
For the year, cash from operations was $1.7 billion, including the impact of a discretionary $300 million contribution to the company's pension plans. Annual capital expenditures were $2.1 billion, primarily used to fund growth projects.
 
After excluding spending on growth projects, the company's return on capital for the year was 9.5 percent. Including those investments, the company's return on capital stood at 8.3 percent.
 
Update on Growth Projects
 
"We have the most aggressive growth strategy in the industry and the best growth projects around the world. We continue to achieve the highest returns in the industry, generating the cash we need to fund our growth and maintain a strong balance sheet," said Belda.
 
In addition to negotiations and feasibility studies underway in Trinidad, Ghana and Guinea, the company has a comprehensive array of growth projects that are moving ahead in refining, smelting and downstream, including:
 
Refining
 
Refining growth is focused on capturing Alcoa's unique advantage of multiple options to build low-capital cost brownfield expansions of existing low operating cost facilities:
 
 
 
Smelting
 
Growth development work includes greenfield and brownfield smelting projects utilizing globally competitive energy sources.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fabricating and Downstream Growth
 
Growth work is underway to expand the company's position and lower its costs in fabricating and downstream businesses:
 
 
 
 
Segment and Other Results
 
(all comparisons on a sequential quarter basis, unless noted)
 
- After-tax operating income ("ATOI") was $183 million, up 17 percent from the third quarter. Stronger overall shipments and higher pricing drove the result. Higher maintenance, energy and caustic soda costs negatively affected the segment by $18 million. Alumina production for the quarter was 3,706 thousand metric tons ("kmt"), compared to 3,688 kmt in the third quarter of 2005, with increases coming from the Western Australian operations.
Alumina
 
- Segment ATOI increased by $74 million, or 44 percent, to $242 million largely due to higher metal prices and a favorable legal settlement related to power costs. Total shipments declined as the company purchased less primary metal for internal use. Purchases for the quarter were 164 kmt, down from 189 kmt in the third quarter. Primary metal production for the quarter was 900 kmt, down slightly from third quarter production of 904 kmt. Increased production from the Alumar expansion was offset by the outage at the Portland smelter. Third party realized metal prices increased $214 to $2,177 per ton. The mark-to-market impact on metal and metal-related activity is not recognized in the segment results.
Primary Metals
 
- ATOI for the segment decreased $19 million to $62 million. Strong productivity improvements and favorable aerospace mix were offset by raw material and energy cost increases, seasonally lower can sheet volumes, along with higher Russian losses. Aerospace demand remained strong.
Flat Rolled Products
 
- Seasonal declines in residential and commercial building and construction coupled with overall weak market conditions in soft alloy extrusions drove ATOI down by $26 million.
Extruded and End Products
 
- ATOI for the segment increased to $45 million, up 41 percent, driven by continued strong performance from the Industrial Castings and Forged Products business, Fastening Systems and Wheel Products business. Product launch costs at AFL Automotive began to abate in the quarter.
Engineered Solutions
 Segment ATOI declined $8 million to $20 million in the quarter. The usual seasonal strength in the consumer products business was offset by higher raw material costs, largely hurricane related.
Packaging and Consumer
 
ATOI to Net Income Reconciliation
 
The largest variance in reconciling items was in the "other" line item. The sequential change in the "other" line item is related to higher LIFO cost, the gain on the sale of the railroad business in the third quarter, and the mark-to-market losses on metal and metal-related activity.
 
Alcoa will hold its quarterly conference call at 5:00 PM Eastern Time on January 9th to present the quarter's results. The meeting will be webcast via alcoa.com. Call information and related details are available at under "Invest."
www.alcoa.com
 
About Alcoa
 
Alcoa is the world's leading producer and manager of primary aluminum, fabricated aluminum and alumina facilities, and is active in all major aspects of the industry. Alcoa serves the aerospace, automotive, packaging, building and construction, commercial transportation and industrial markets, bringing design, engineering, production and other capabilities of Alcoa's businesses to customers. In addition to aluminum products and components, Alcoa also markets consumer brands including Reynolds Wrap foils and plastic wraps, Alcoa wheels, and Baco household wraps. Among its other businesses are vinyl siding, closures, fastening systems, precision castings, and electrical distribution systems for cars and trucks. The company has 129,000 employees in 42 countries and has been named one of the top three most sustainable corporations in the world at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. More information can be found at
www.alcoa.com
 
Forward Looking Statement
 
Certain statements in this release relate to future events and expectations and as such constitute forward-looking statements involving known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results, performance or achievements of Alcoa to be different from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include: (a) material adverse changes in economic or aluminum industry conditions generally, including global supply and demand conditions and prices for primary aluminum, alumina and other products; (b) material adverse changes in the markets served by Alcoa, including the transportation, building, construction, distribution, packaging, industrial gas turbine and other markets; (c) Alcoa's inability to achieve the level of cost savings, productivity improvements or earnings growth anticipated by management, whether due to significant increases in energy, raw materials or employee benefits costs, labor disputes or other factors; (d) Alcoa's inability to realize the full extent of the expected savings or benefits from its restructuring activities or to complete such activities in accordance with its planned timetable; (e) Alcoa's inability to complete its expansion projects and investment activities outside the U.S. as planned and by targeted completion dates, or to assure that the anticipated integration costs at its recently acquired Russian facilities will not exceed its estimates; (f) unfavorable changes in laws, governmental regulations or policies, currency exchange rates or competitive factors in the countries in which Alcoa operates; (g) significant legal proceedings or investigations adverse to Alcoa, including environmental, product liability, safety and health and other claims; and (h) the other risk factors summarized in Alcoa's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, Forms 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2005, June 30, 2005, and September 30, 2005 and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Alcoa and subsidiaries
Condensed Statement of Consolidated Income (unaudited)
(in millions, except per-share, share and metric ton amounts)
 
 
 
 
 
Return on Capital (ROC) is presented based on Bloomberg Methodology which calculates ROC based on trailing four quarters.
 
Return on capital, excluding growth investments, is a non-GAAP financial measure. Management believes that this measure is meaningful to investors because it provides greater insight with respect to the underlying operating performance of the company's productive assets. The company has significant growth investments underway in its upstream and downstream businesses, as previously noted, with expected completion dates over the next several years. As these investments generally require a period of time before they are productive, management believes that a return on capital measure excluding these growth investments is more representative of current operating performance.
 
 
 


