FILE:AA/AA-8K-20060711171328.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 10, 2006, Alcoa Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the second quarter of 2006. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99, is being furnished in accordance with the provisions of General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
The following is furnished as an exhibit to this report:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: July 11, 2006
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
[Alcoa logo]
 
Highlights:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Alcoa (NYSE: AA) today announced second quarter 2006 income from continuing operations of $752 million, or $0.86 per diluted share, the highest quarterly profit in the company's more than 115-year history.
NEW YORK, NY  July 10, 2006
Income from continuing operations of $752 million, or $0.86, was 52 percent better than the $496 million, or $0.56, in the second quarter of 2005, and 22 percent higher than the $615 million, or $0.70, in the previous quarter.
Net income for the quarter was a record $744 million, or $0.85, 62 percent higher than the $460 million, or $0.52, in the second quarter of 2005, and 22 percent higher than the $608 million, or $0.69, in the previous quarter.
Included in the second quarter results are previously announced after-tax charges of $35 million, or $0.04 per share, associated with ratification of a U.S. labor contract and costs to prepare for a potential work stoppage.
For the first half of 2006, income from continuing operations was $1.37 billion, up 79 percent from last year's $764 million first-half results. First half 2006 net income of $1.35 billion was higher than the full-year results of all but one year in the company's history.
Revenues for the quarter increased 10 percent sequentially to $7.96 billion, the highest quarterly sales in the company's history, as each of the company's six global business segments achieved higher volumes. Results were driven by higher LME prices and strong market demand in the aerospace, building and construction, commercial vehicle and can sheet markets. Compared to the year-ago quarter, sales have grown 19 percent.
"Alcoans have generated another record quarter  delivering today while we continue building for the future," said Alain Belda, Alcoa Chairman and CEO. "By creating solutions for our customers and continuously improving productivity, we have driven record top and bottom line performances.
"We are consistently delivering returns well in excess of the cost of capital, generating cash to fund strategic growth projects, and keeping our balance sheet strong," added Belda.
Balance Sheet and Growth Projects
In the quarter, capital expenditures were $729 million, 64 percent of which was devoted to growth projects designed to capture opportunities in global aluminum consumption, which is expected to double by 2020. Year to date, the company's capital expenditures stand at $1.32 billion, primarily dedicated to growth projects such as the 341,000 mtpy Alcoa Fjardaal smelter in Iceland, the Mosjoen anode plant in Norway, and the Pinjarra alumina refinery upgrade in Australia.
Cash from operations for the quarter was $699 million, a $912 million improvement from the previous quarter, and $315 million better than the second quarter of 2005.
Days of working capital improved three days in the quarter compared to the second quarter of last year. Working capital dollars increased from the previous quarter due to the building of strategic inventories in the event of a work stoppage, higher prices, and continued strong markets. The debt-to-capital ratio declined slightly to 32.0 percent at the end of the quarter, within the Company's target range and while continuing capital investments in strategic growth projects around the world.
During the quarter, Alcoa took several additional strides in its strategic growth program, including: the acquisition of a 70% stake in a brazing sheet facility in Kunshan, China to serve the automotive market; the signing of an MOU with Vinacomin for a possible bauxite and alumina refinery joint venture in the Dak Nong Province of Vietnam; the opening of the Company's first plant in Bulgaria to produce consumer packaging products; and a sales operation in South Africa to serve the aluminum wheels market. During the quarter, the Company also announced its plan to divest its Home Exteriors business to free up resources to invest in strategic growth opportunities.
The Company's year-to-date annualized return on capital (ROC) stood at 15.4 percent.
Innovation/New Products and Sustainability
Alcoa continued its leadership position in applying technologies to generate innovation on behalf of customers and the company. Examples this quarter included: an agreement with Nike to supply aluminum for two new lines of baseball bats globally; the introduction of Reynobond with Kevlar, a new hurricane-resistant architectural panel system; and a new natural media filtration system as a low-cost environmental control solution that saves the company millions.
During the quarter, Alcoa continued its leadership position in sustainability. The company was recognized for its stewardship of rivers by the U.S. Hydropower organization; and donated 20 Million ISK (US$280,000) to help create national parks in Iceland, including Europe's largest conservation area. The Alcoa Foundation invested in an innovative land conservation program in the Palos Verdes peninsula. And the Company launched a new sustainability report and website detailing the company's commitment to sustainable development.
Segment and Other Results
Alumina  After-tax operating income ("ATOI") was $278 million, up 15% over the previous quarter. Higher pricing was partially offset by the effect of a weaker dollar. Additionally, alumina production for the quarter was a record 3,746 thousand metric tons (kmt), up by 44kmt from the previous quarter.
Primary Metals  Segment ATOI was $489 million, up 10% over the prior quarter. The ATOI increase was driven by higher LME prices and premiums, partially offset by higher energy, a weaker dollar, and strike preparation costs. Third party realized metal prices increased $194 per ton, or 8%, to $2,728 per ton. Primary metal production for the quarter increased 15 kmt to 882 kmt, due to the completion of the Alumar, Brazil expansion and partial return to service in Portland, Australia. The Company purchased roughly 145 kmt of primary metal for internal use as part of its strategy to sell value-added products.
Flat Rolled Products  ATOI for the segment was $79 million, up 20% over the prior quarter. Higher volumes in can sheet, aerospace, commercial transportation and common alloy distribution, coupled with lower natural gas prices, more than offset strike preparation and related costs.
Engineered Solutions  Segment ATOI rose $17 million to an all-time high of $100 million, 64% above the prior year quarter and 20% higher than the record performance delivered in the sequential quarter. Strong demand in the aerospace, commercial vehicle, and industrial markets, continued productivity gains and price increases led to the improved results.
Packaging and Consumer  Segment ATOI was $37 million, an increase of $29 million over the previous quarter. Higher volume due to seasonal strength, improved pricing, and productivity gains led to the improved results.
Extruded and End Products  ATOI improved $20 million from the prior quarter and all businesses achieved higher revenues including the soft alloy business which saw increased demand in Europe and productivity advances. Global building and construction and hard alloy extrusion businesses continued their strong performance and also improved profitability.
Alcoa will hold its quarterly conference call at 5:00 PM Eastern Time on July 10th to present the quarter's results. The meeting will be webcast via alcoa.com. Call information and related details are available at under "Invest."
www.alcoa.com
About Alcoa
Alcoa is the world's leading producer and manager of primary aluminum, fabricated aluminum and alumina facilities, and is active in all major aspects of
the industry. Alcoa serves the aerospace, automotive, packaging, building and construction, commercial transportation and industrial markets, bringing design, engineering, production and other capabilities of Alcoa's businesses to customers. In addition to aluminum products and components, Alcoa also markets consumer brands including Reynolds Wrap foils and plastic wraps, Alcoa wheels, and Baco household wraps. Among its other businesses are closures, fastening systems, precision castings, and electrical distribution systems for cars and trucks. The company has 129,000 employees in 44 countries and has been named one of the top sustainable corporations in the world at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. More information can be found at
www.alcoa.com
Forward Looking Statement
Certain statements in this release relate to future events and expectations and as such constitute forward-looking statements involving known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results, performance or achievements of Alcoa to be different from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include: (a) material adverse changes in economic or aluminum industry conditions generally, including global supply and demand conditions and prices for primary aluminum, alumina and other products; (b) material adverse changes in the markets served by Alcoa, including the transportation, building, construction, distribution, packaging, industrial gas turbine and other markets; (c) Alcoa's inability to mitigate impacts from rising energy and raw materials costs, or other cost inflation; (d) Alcoa's inability to achieve the level of cost savings, productivity improvements or earnings or revenue growth anticipated by management; (e) Alcoa's inability to complete its expansion projects and integration of acquired facilities as planned and by targeted completion dates, including the integration of its recently acquired Russian facilities; (f) unfavorable changes in laws, governmental regulations or policies, currency exchange rates or competitive factors in the countries in which Alcoa operates; (g) significant legal proceedings or investigations adverse to Alcoa, including environmental, product liability, safety and health and other claims; and (h) the other risk factors summarized in Alcoa's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2006 and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prior periods segment information has been reclassified to reflect the movement of the Hawesville, KY automotive casting facility to discontinued operations in 2006.
The difference between total segment third-party sales and consolidated third-party sales is in Corporate.
 
Return on capital, excluding growth investments is a non-GAAP financial measure. Management believes that this measure is meaningful to investors because it provides greater insight with respect to the underlying operating performance of the company's productive assets. The company has significant growth investments underway in its upstream and downstream businesses, as previously noted, with expected completion dates over the next several years. As these investments generally require a period of time before they are productive, management believes that a return on capital measure excluding these growth investments is more representative of current operating performance.
Days of Working Capital
 
Days of Working Capital = Working Capital divided by (Sales/number of days in the quarter)


