FILE:AA/AA-8K-20070709171435.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On July 9, 2007, Alcoa Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the second quarter of 2007. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99, is being furnished in accordance with the provisions of General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K.
 
 
The following is furnished as an exhibit to this report:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: July 9, 2007
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
Highlights:
 Alcoa (NYSE: AA) today announced second quarter 2007 income from continuing operations of $716 million, or $0.81 per diluted share, the second best quarterly performance in the Company's history and completing its best ever first half in revenues, earnings and cash from operations. 2007 second quarter income from continuing operations represented a five percent increase from the $0.77 in the first quarter of 2007. In the second quarter of 2006, income from continuing operations was $0.85.
NEW YORK, NY  July 9, 2007
 
Net income for the quarter was $715 million, or $0.81, an eight percent increase from the first quarter of 2007. Net income for the second quarter 2006 was $744 million, or $0.85.
For the first half of 2007, income from continuing operations grew to an all-time record of $1.39 billion, up from last year's $1.36 billion first-half results. First half 2007 net income also reached a record $1.38 billion compared to $1.35 billion in 2006.
Revenues for the quarter reached an all-time quarterly record of $8.1 billion, up from $7.9 billion in the first quarter of 2007 and $7.8 billion from a year ago. The increase was driven by higher volumes and improved mix.
Second quarter 2007 after-tax operating income (ATOI) increased in five of the Company's six operating segments over the prior quarter. The Company's downstream Flat-Rolled Products, Extruded and End Products, and Engineered Solutions each achieved all-time quarterly ATOI records.
Included in the quarterly results was a favorable after-tax restructuring adjustment of $21 million, or $0.02 per share. This was generated mainly by the completion of the soft alloy extrusion joint venture with Sapa. The quarterly results also included $0.02 per share in after-tax transaction costs stemming from the Company's outstanding offer for Alcan.
The strong quarterly results were achieved despite $36 million after tax, or $0.04 per share, of curtailment costs at the Tennessee and Rockdale, TX smelters.
"We have achieved another strong quarter, with record cash generation, record downstream performance, and our lowest debt-to-capital ratio in nearly eight years, while continuing an ambitious investment program," said Alain Belda, Alcoa Chairman and CEO. "In the quarter, we also made a compelling offer to acquire Alcan, and are proceeding well with the regulatory approvals necessary to complete that transaction," said Belda. "We remain the natural partner for Alcan with the most substantial synergies, and an unparalleled commitment to Canada and Qubec."
Cash from operations in the second quarter rose to a record $1.35 billion, a more than $800 million improvement from the first quarter of 2007. The Company's strong cash generation performance in the quarter helped to fund its growth programs. In the quarter, capital expenditures were $891 million, 67 percent of which was devoted to growth projects.
The Company's debt-to-capital ratio stood at 29.4 percent at the end of the quarter, the lowest so far this decade. The Company's 12-month trailing return
on capital (ROC) stood at 11.8 percent at the end of the second quarter, including ongoing major investments in growth. That is higher than the 11.2 percent trailing ROC in 2006. Excluding investments in growth, the 12-month trailing ROC was 14.7 percent in the second quarter of 2007, compared to 12.8 percent in 2006.
During the quarter, Alcoa also completed the formation of a joint venture with Sapa of its soft alloy extrusion business. The Company also continued to make progress on its strategic review of its packaging and consumer and automotive castings and electrical systems businesses. Alcoa anticipates that process will be completed by the end of 2007.
Update On Offer For Alcan
Alcoa today extended the expiration time for its offer to acquire all of the outstanding common shares of Alcan Inc., (TSX: AL; NYSE: AL) from 5:00 p.m., Eastern Daylight Saving Time, on July 10, 2007, to 5:00 p.m., Eastern Daylight Saving Time, on August 10, 2007, subject to further extension. The offer was announced by Alcoa on May 7, 2007.
All other terms and conditions of Alcoa's offer remain unchanged. Alcoa expects to mail a formal notice of extension to Alcan shareholders shortly. The notice of extension will also be electronically available on the SEDAR website at www.sedar.com and on the EDGAR website at www.sec.gov.
"This extension period will provide Alcan's shareholders with more time to consider our offer while we continue to pursue the various governmental and regulatory approvals necessary to complete the offer," said Belda.
Alcoa last week said it received a request for additional information from the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice regarding its outstanding offer for Alcan. The Company also reiterated its confidence the transaction would be approved in each jurisdiction. Approximately 418,500 Alcan common shares had been deposited and not withdrawn under Alcoa's offer to date.
Segment and Other Results
Alumina
ATOI was $276 million, an increase of $16 million, or 6 percent, over the prior quarter. Higher overall prices and shipments were partially offset by the appreciation of the Australian dollar. Quarterly production increased by 144 kmt or 4 percent.
Primary Metals
ATOI was $462 million, down $42 million, or eight percent, compared to the prior quarter. The ATOI decrease resulted from lower LME prices, Rockdale and Tennessee curtailment costs, unfavorable currency, and Iceland start-up costs. Third-party realized metal prices decreased $23 per metric ton to $2,879 per ton. Primary metal production for the quarter increased 2 kmt to 901 kmt due mainly to the restart of a second potline at the Intalco smelter, net of the Rockdale and Tennessee outages. The Company purchased approximately 46 kmt of primary metal for internal use.
Flat-Rolled Products
The segment established a quarterly ATOI record of $93 million, up $31 million or 50 percent from the prior quarter. These record results were driven by continued strength in aerospace and higher volumes in can sheet. Productivity gains continue to exceed cost inflation. In addition, improved Russia performance contributed to the ATOI increase.
Extruded and End Products
The segment established a quarterly ATOI record of $46 million, up $12 million or 35 percent, from the prior quarter. The improvement was due to strong markets, especially Europe, and improved productivity. Effective June 1, 2007 the soft alloy extrusion joint venture with Sapa was completed. The associated volume and revenue will no longer be recorded in this segment; equity income from the joint venture will be recorded here.
Engineered Solutions
Another segment quarterly ATOI record was established of $105 million, up $12 million or 13 percent from the prior quarter. Strong markets, market share gains and new product offerings throughout our portfolio continue to more than offset the substantial decline in U.S. Class 8 truck market of approximately 50% compared to year ago quarter. In addition, productivity gains continue to outpace cost inflation.
Packaging and Consumer
ATOI was $37 million, an increase of $18 million, or 95 percent, over the prior quarter. This sequential quarter increase was driven by the normal seasonal upturn in the Consumer and Closures businesses as well as continued productivity improvements.
ATOI to Net Income Reconciliation
The largest variances in reconciling items were in the "Corporate Expense," "Restructuring & Other Charges" and "Other" line items. "Corporate Expense" includes the transaction costs stemming from the Company's outstanding offer for Alcan. "Restructuring & Other Charges" includes the favorable after-tax impact from completion of the soft alloy extrusion joint venture with Sapa.
"Other" includes a portion of the Tennessee curtailment cost due to our captive insurance company.
Alcoa will hold its quarterly conference call at 5:00 PM Eastern Time on July 9, 2007 to present the quarter's results. The meeting will be webcast via alcoa.com. Call information and related details are available at under "Invest."
www.alcoa.com
Alcoa is the world's leading producer and manager of primary aluminum, fabricated aluminum and alumina facilities, and is active in all major aspects of the industry. Alcoa serves the aerospace, automotive, packaging, building and construction, commercial transportation and industrial markets, bringing design, engineering, production and other capabilities of Alcoa's businesses to customers. In addition to aluminum products and components including flat-rolled products, hard alloy extrusions, and forgings, Alcoa also markets Alcoa wheels, fastening systems, precision and investment castings, structures and building systems. The Company has 116,000 employees in 44 countries and has been named one of the top most sustainable corporations in the world at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. More information can be found at www.alcoa.com
Forward Looking Statements
Certain statements and assumptions in this communication contain or are based on "forward-looking" information and involve risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements may be identified by their use of words like "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "expects," "hopes," "targets," "should," "will," "will likely result," "forecast," "outlook," "projects" or other words of similar meaning. Such forward-looking information includes, without limitation, the statements as to the impact of the proposed acquisition of Alcan on revenues, costs and earnings. Such forward-looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions, uncertainties and risks, many of which are outside of Alcoa's control. Accordingly, actual results and developments are likely to differ, and may differ materially, from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in this communication. These risks and uncertainties include Alcoa's ability to successfully integrate the operations of Alcan; the outcome of contingencies including litigation, environmental remediation, divestitures of businesses, and anticipated costs of capital investments; general business and economic conditions; interest rates; the supply and demand for, deliveries of, and the prices and price volatility of primary aluminum, fabricated aluminum, and alumina produced by Alcoa and Alcan; the timing of the receipt of regulatory and governmental approvals necessary to complete the acquisition of Alcan and any undertakings agreed to in connection with the receipt of such regulatory and governmental approvals; the timing of receipt of regulatory and governmental approvals for Alcoa's and Alcan's development projects and other operations; the availability of financing to refinance indebtedness incurred in connection with the acquisition of Alcan on reasonable terms; the availability of financing for Alcoa's and Alcan's development projects on reasonable terms; Alcoa's and Alcan's respective costs of production and their respective production and productivity levels, as well as those of their competitors; energy costs; Alcoa's and Alcan's ability to secure adequate transportation for their respective products, to procure mining equipment and operating supplies in sufficient quantities and on a timely basis, and to attract and retain skilled staff; the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on Alcoa's and Alcan's costs and results, particularly the Canadian dollar, Euro, and Australian dollar, may affect profitability as some important raw materials are purchased in other currencies, while products generally are sold in U.S.
dollars; engineering and construction timetables and capital costs for Alcoa's and Alcan's development and expansion projects; market competition; tax benefits and tax rates; the outcome of negotiations with key customers; the resolution of environmental and other proceedings or disputes; and Alcoa's and Alcan's ongoing relations with their respective employees and with their respective business partners and joint venturers.
Additional risks, uncertainties and other factors affecting forward looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
See also the risk factors disclosed in Alcoa's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2007. Readers are cautioned not to put undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Alcoa disclaims any intent or obligation to update these forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required by applicable law.
WHERE TO FIND ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
In connection with the offer by Alcoa to purchase all of the issued and outstanding common shares of Alcan (the "Offer"), Alcoa has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") a registration statement on Form S-4 (the "Registration Statement"), which contains a prospectus relating to the Offer (the "Prospectus"), and a tender offer statement on Schedule TO (the "Schedule TO"), each as amended. This communication is not a substitute for the Prospectus, the Registration Statement and the Schedule TO. ALCAN SHAREHOLDERS AND OTHER INTERESTED PARTIES ARE URGED TO READ THESE DOCUMENTS, ALL OTHER APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS AND ANY AMENDMENTS OR SUPPLEMENTS TO ANY SUCH DOCUMENTS WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE, BECAUSE EACH CONTAINS OR WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT ALCOA, ALCAN AND THE OFFER. Materials filed with the SEC are available electronically without charge at the SEC's website, www.sec.gov. Materials filed with the Canadian securities regulatory authorities ("CSRA") are available electronically without charge at www.sedar.com. Materials filed with the SEC or the CSRA may also be obtained without charge at Alcoa's website, www.alcoa.com, or by directing a request to Alcoa's investor relations department at (212) 836-2674. In addition, Alcan shareholders may obtain free copies of such materials filed with the SEC or the CSRA by directing a written or oral request to the Information Agent for the Offer, MacKenzie Partners, Inc., toll-free at (800) 322-2885 (English) or (888) 405-1217 (French).
While the Offer is being made to all holders of Alcan Common Shares, this communication does not constitute an offer or a solicitation in any jurisdiction in which such offer or solicitation is unlawful. The Offer is not being made in, nor will deposits be accepted in, any jurisdiction in which the making or acceptance thereof would not be in compliance with the laws of such jurisdiction. However, Alcoa may, in its sole discretion, take such action as it may deem necessary to extend the Offer in any such jurisdiction.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Certain amounts for the first and second quarter of 2006 included in the Extruded and End Products segment and the Reconciliation of ATOI have been reclassified to reflect the movement of the home exteriors business to discontinued operations in the third quarter of 2006. Also, the equity income reflected in the Extruded and End Products segment for the second quarter of 2007 represents Alcoa's share of the results of operations for the month of June 2007 of the newly formed joint venture with Orkla ASA's Sapa Group (Sapa) that combined Alcoa's soft alloy extrusions business with Sapa's Profiles extruded aluminum business.
The difference between certain segment financial information totals and consolidated financial information is in Corporate.
 
 
Return on capital, excluding growth investments is a non-GAAP financial measure. Management believes that this measure is meaningful to investors because it provides greater insight with respect to the underlying operating performance of the company's productive assets. The company has significant growth investments underway in its upstream and downstream businesses, as previously noted, with expected completion dates over the next several years. As these investments generally require a period of time before they are productive, management believes that a return on capital measure excluding these growth investments is more representative of current operating performance.
 
Days of Working Capital
 
Days of Working Capital = Working Capital divided by (Sales/number of days in the quarter)
 
Income from continuing operations  excluding restructuring and other charges and transaction costs is a non-GAAP financial measure. Management believes that this measure is meaningful to investors because management reviews the operating results of Alcoa excluding the impacts of restructuring and other charges and transaction costs. There can be no assurances that additional restructuring and other charges and transaction costs will not occur in future periods. To compensate for this limitation, management believes that it is appropriate to consider both income from continuing operations determined under GAAP as well as income from continuing operations  excluding restructuring and other charges and transaction costs.


