FILE:AA/AA-8K-20070110165404.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On January 9, 2007, Alcoa Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2006. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99, is being furnished in accordance with the provisions of General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
The following is furnished as an exhibit to this report:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: January 10, 2007
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
[Alcoa logo]
 
2006 Annual Highlights:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
th
Quarter 2006 Highlights:
 
 
 
 
Alcoa (NYSE: AA) today announced the best full year results in the company's 118-year history. Annual income from continuing operations was $2.2 billion, or $2.47 per diluted share for 2006. After excluding the impact of previously announced restructuring and impairment charges, income from continuing operations was $2.5 billion, or $2.90, a 75 percent increase from 2005. Driven by higher metal prices and strong demand for aluminum in the aerospace, commercial transportation and commercial building markets, revenues for 2006 increased 19 percent to a record $30.4 billion.
NEW YORKJanuary 9, 2007 
"This year, top and bottom-line performance has been the best in our company's history," said Alain Belda, Alcoa Chairman and CEO. "Revenues and income from continuing operations achieved record levels.
"Our management team took full advantage of the opportunities the market offered, driving revenue, mitigating costs, bringing new products and innovation to the market, expanding our global footprint and growing our customer base," said Belda. "We did this while continuing to invest in modernizing our existing plants and building new operations that will enable us to deliver strong results for years to come. We are delivering results now investing in our future.
and
"As we enter 2007, market fundamentals remain strong. We will generate more than enough cash this year to fund our capital investment programs. We will continue to deliver strong results, invest in our future, and keep a strong balance sheet," said Belda. "And, we continue to manage our investment decisions and portfolio actions on the basis of contribution to profitable growth."
Fourth quarter income from continuing operations was $258 million, or $0.29, or $644 million, or $0.74, excluding restructuring and impairment charges. This was a 179 percent increase from the fourth quarter of 2005, and a 20 percent increase from the third quarter of 2006. In the fourth quarter, the company announced charges related to restructuring and the formation of a new joint venture for its soft alloy extrusion business and re-positioning of its downstream operations.
Net income for the fourth quarter 2006 was $359 million, or $0.41, including after-tax charges of $386 million, or $0.44, for the restructuring and impairment. This compares to $224 million, or $0.26, in the year ago quarter, and $537 million, or $0.61, in the third quarter of 2006. The gain on the sale of the Home Exteriors business in discontinued operations is included in the net income results.
Fourth quarter revenues increased 20 percent from a year ago to $7.8 billion. Cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue in the quarter decreased 60 basis points from the sequential quarter to 78.2 percent.
Taxes for the quarter were favorably impacted by the restructuring and impairment charges, one-time tax items totaling $69 million, or $0.08, and a lower annual operational rate as a result of income being earned in lower tax cost jurisdictions.
Cash Generation and Growth
Cash from operations in the fourth quarter 2006 was $1.3 billion, helping lower the company's debt-to-capital ratio to 30.6 percent at year end, down from 32.8 percent in the third quarter. Debt-to-capital includes the impact of recording the unfunded OPEB/Pension liabilities required by FAS 87 and FAS 158 (which took effect at the end of the year) of $787 million. For the year, cash from operations was more than $2.5 billion, which was a 53 percent improvement from 2005 and the second best performance in company history.
As a result of management actions, the company's return on capital at the end of the fourth quarter increased to 13.2 percent, up 490 basis points from the end of 2005. After excluding growth projects, the company's return on capital for the year was 16.2 percent.
During 2006, the company's primary products group completed a growth expansion at its Pinjarra alumina refinery in Australia (approximately 660,000 new tons), and will finish a smaller expansion at its refinery in Jamaica early this year (approximately 150,000 new tons). The expansion of the smelter at Sao Luis, Brazil was completed in March of 2006 (approximately 60,000 new tons), and a refinery expansion at Sao Luis (more than 1.1 million new tons for Alcoa) along with development of the new Juruti bauxite mine will be completed by late 2008. The Alcoa Fjardaal aluminum smelter in Iceland (344,000 new tons) is on-target to produce metal in the second quarter, with full production expected by the end of the year.
The flat-rolled products business is investing in expansion projects at Bohai and Kunshan in China, its Belaya Kalitva and Samara plants in Russia are expanding production, and US and European plants are making improvements to mix, quality and productivity. The engineered solutions business expanded its fastening operations with two new facilities in China, and made investments to ramp up production in aerospace castings. The packaging and consumer business opened a new facility in Bulgaria serving the consumer products market.
Segment and Other Results
(all comparisons on a sequential quarter basis, unless noted)
After-tax operating income ("ATOI") was $259 million, down $12 million from the previous quarter, but up 42% from the year-ago quarter. Production was down 3% sequentially with the continued Pinjarra ramp-up offset by a power outage in Pinjarra and reduction of production at Pt. Comfort. The quarter also experienced a negative impact from a stronger Australian dollar.
Alumina 
ATOI was $480 million, up $134 million or 39% from the prior quarter and up 98% from the year-ago quarter. The ATOI increase resulted from higher LME prices and volumes offset by Iceland smelter start-up costs and higher carbon and pitch costs. Third-party realized prices increased $146 per ton, or 6 percent, to $2,766 per ton. Primary metal production for the quarter was 908 kmt, up 13 kmt sequentially. The company purchased approximately 100 kmt of primary metal for internal use as part of its strategy to sell value-added products.
Primary 
ATOI for the segment was $62 million, up 29 percent from the prior quarter and flat from the year-ago quarter. The increase was primarily due to a favorable aerospace mix, recovery from the third quarter 2006 mill outages and tax benefits, offset by Swansea shutdown costs.
Flat-Rolled Products 
ATOI was $27 million, up 69 percent from the prior quarter. A favorable mix in the hard alloy extrusion business and tax benefits were the main reasons for the improvement. ATOI increased $29 million compared to the year-ago quarter.
Extruded and End Products 
ATOI of $73 million was a slight decline from the prior quarter but a 55 percent increase over the year-ago quarter. The negative impacts of the work stoppage at the Cleveland facility and the declining automotive market were offset by tax benefits.
Engineered Solutions 
ATOI increased $2 million from the prior quarter and $6 million, or 30 percent, over the year-ago quarter. Seasonal strength in the Consumer business was offset by the typical seasonal decline in the Closures business as well as higher metal costs in the packaging businesses.
Packaging & Consumer 
ATOI to Net Income Reconciliation
The largest variances in reconciling items were in the "Restructuring and other charges" and "Discontinued operations" line items. "Restructuring and other charges" records the after-tax impact of the previously announced restructuring charges including the impairment charges related to the formation of a joint venture for the company's soft alloy extrusion business. "Discontinued operations" includes the gain on the sale of the Home Exteriors business.
Alcoa will hold its quarterly conference call at 5:00 PM Eastern Time on January 9th to present the quarter's results. The meeting will be webcast via alcoa.com. Call information and related details are available at
www.alcoa.com
under "Invest."
About Alcoa
Alcoa is the world's leading producer and manager of primary aluminum, fabricated aluminum and alumina facilities, and is active in all major aspects of the industry. Alcoa serves the aerospace, automotive, packaging, building and construction, commercial transportation and industrial markets, bringing design, engineering, production and other capabilities of Alcoa's businesses to customers. In addition to aluminum products and components, Alcoa also markets consumer brands including Reynolds Wrap foils and plastic wraps, Alcoa wheels, and Baco household wraps. Among its other businesses are closures, fastening systems, precision castings, and electrical distribution systems for cars and trucks. The company has 124,000 employees in 44 countries and has been named one of the top three most sustainable corporations in the world at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. More information can be found at
www.alcoa.com
Forward Looking Statement
Certain statements in this release relate to future events and expectations and as such constitute forward-looking statements involving known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results, performance or achievements of Alcoa to be different from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include: (a) material adverse changes in economic or aluminum industry conditions generally, including global supply and demand conditions and prices for primary aluminum, alumina and other products; (b) material adverse changes in the markets served by Alcoa, including the transportation, building, construction, distribution, packaging, industrial gas turbine and other markets; (c) Alcoa's inability to mitigate impacts from increased energy and raw materials costs, or other cost inflation; (d) Alcoa's inability to achieve the level of cash generation, margin improvements, cost savings, or earnings or revenue growth anticipated by management; (e) Alcoa's inability to complete its growth projects and integration of acquired facilities as planned and by targeted completion dates; (f) unfavorable changes in laws, governmental regulations or policies, currency exchange rates or competitive factors in the countries in which Alcoa operates; (g) significant legal proceedings or investigations adverse to Alcoa, including environmental, product liability, safety and health and other claims; and (h) the other risk factors summarized in Alcoa's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, Forms 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2006, June 30, 2006 and September 30, 2006 and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prior periods' segment information has been reclassified to reflect the movement of the Hawesville, KY automotive casting facility and the home exteriors business to discontinued operations in 2006.
The difference between certain segment financial information totals and consolidated financial information is in Corporate.
 
Return on capital, excluding growth investments is a non-GAAP financial measure. Management believes that this measure is meaningful to investors because it provides greater insight with respect to the underlying operating performance of the company's productive assets. The company has significant growth investments underway in its upstream and downstream businesses, as previously noted, with expected completion dates over the next several years. As these investments generally require a period of time before they are productive, management believes that a return on capital measure excluding these growth investments is more representative of current operating performance.
 
 
Return on capital, excluding growth investments is a non-GAAP financial measure. Management believes that this measure is meaningful to investors because it provides greater insight with respect to the underlying operating performance of the company's productive assets. The company has significant growth investments underway in its upstream and downstream businesses, as previously noted, with expected completion dates over the next several years. As these investments generally require a period of time before they are productive, management believes that a return on capital measure excluding these growth investments is more representative of current operating performance.
 
Days of Working Capital = Working Capital divided by (Sales/number of days in the quarter)
 
Income from continuing operations  excluding restructuring and other charges is a non-GAAP financial measure. The following matters should be considered when evaluating this non-GAAP financial measure:
 
 
 
 


