FILE:AA/AA-8K-20070706093656.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2.):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On July 6, 2007, Alcoa Inc. ("Alcoa") issued a press release announcing that it received a request for additional information (commonly referred to as a "second request") from the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice pursuant to the notification requirements of the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, in connection with Alcoa's pending offer to purchase all outstanding common shares of Alcan Inc.
A copy of the press release dated July 6, 2007 is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
The following is filed as an exhibit to this report:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
Filed by Alcoa Inc.
Pursuant to Rule 425
under the Securities Act of 1993
Subject Company: Alcan Inc.
Commission File No:
001-03677
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Alcoa Inc. (NYSE: AA) announced today that it has received a request for additional information from the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice ("DOJ") regarding its outstanding offer for Alcan Inc. (TSX: AL; NYSE: AL). The information request was issued under the notification requirements of the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended.
Montral, Qubec and New York, New York (July 6, 2007) 
The effect of the second request is to extend the waiting period imposed by the HSR act until thirty days after Alcoa has substantially complied with the second request, unless that period is extended voluntarily by Alcoa or terminated sooner by the DOJ. Alcoa will continue cooperating with the DOJ's review, and will comply with the second request as soon as possible.
 
Alain J.P. Belda, Alcoa's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, said, "This request for additional information from the DOJ is a normal and expected part of the regulatory process. As we have said before, we have a well-developed, detailed roadmap to resolve regulatory issues through targeted divestitures in the appropriate industry segments. We remain confident that the transaction will be approved in each relevant jurisdiction."
Belda added, "We continue to believe that a combination of Alcoa and Alcan makes strong strategic sense. Given the changing dynamics of our industry over the past decade and the growth of increasingly formidable competitors around the world, a combination of Alcoa and Alcan will be well-positioned to compete in the global aluminum market."
ABOUT OUR OFFER
On May 7, 2007, Alcoa announced an offer to acquire all of the outstanding common shares of Alcan for US$58.60 in cash and 0.4108 of a share of Alcoa common stock for each outstanding common share of Alcan. When announced, Alcoa's offer represented a 20% premium to Alcan's previous closing price, its all-time high closing price at the time. The complete terms, conditions and other details of the offer are set forth in the offering documents filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and with Canadian securities regulatory authorities on May 7, 2007, as amended.
 
The offer and withdrawal rights are scheduled to expire at 5:00 p.m., Eastern Daylight Saving Time on July 10, 2007, subject to extension. The offer is subject to a number of customary conditions, including there having been tendered in the offer at least 66 2/3% of Alcan's common shares on a fully diluted basis, receipt of all applicable regulatory approvals, and the absence of material adverse effects.
Alcoa is targeting completion of the transaction by the end of 2007.
ABOUT ALCOA
Alcoa is the world's leading producer and manager of primary aluminum, fabricated aluminum and alumina facilities, and is active in all major aspects of the industry. Alcoa serves the aerospace, automotive, packaging, building and construction, commercial transportation and industrial markets, bringing design, engineering, production and other capabilities of Alcoa's businesses to customers. In addition to aluminum products and components, Alcoa also markets consumer brands including Reynolds Wrap foils and plastic wraps, Alcoa wheels, and Baco household wraps. Among its other businesses are closures, fastening systems, precision castings, and electrical distribution systems for cars and trucks. The company has 122,000 employees in 44 countries and has been named one of the top most sustainable corporations in the world at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. More information can be found at www.alcoa.com
 
WHERE TO FIND ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
In connection with the offer by Alcoa to purchase all of the issued and outstanding common shares of Alcan (the "Offer"), Alcoa has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") a registration statement on Form S-4 (the "Registration Statement"), which contains a prospectus relating to the Offer (the "Prospectus"), and a tender offer statement on Schedule TO (the "Schedule TO"). This communication is not a substitute for the Prospectus, the Registration Statement and the Schedule TO. ALCAN SHAREHOLDERS AND OTHER INTERESTED PARTIES ARE URGED TO READ THESE DOCUMENTS, ALL OTHER APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS AND ANY AMENDMENTS OR SUPPLEMENTS TO ANY SUCH DOCUMENTS WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE, BECAUSE EACH CONTAINS OR WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT ALCOA, ALCAN AND THE OFFER. Materials filed with the SEC are available electronically without charge at the SEC's website,
www.sec.gov
. Materials filed with the Canadian securities regulatory authorities ("CSRA") are available electronically without charge at
www.sedar.com
. Materials filed with the SEC or the CSRA may also be obtained without charge at Alcoa's website,
www.alcoa.com
, or by directing a request to Alcoa's investor relations department at (212) 836-2674. In addition, Alcan shareholders may obtain free copies of such materials filed with the SEC or the CSRA by directing a written or oral request to the Information Agent for the Offer, MacKenzie Partners, Inc., toll-free at (800) 322-2885 (English) or (888) 405-1217 (French).
 
While the Offer is being made to all holders of Alcan Common Shares, this communication does not constitute an offer or a solicitation in any jurisdiction in which such offer or solicitation is unlawful. The Offer is not being made in, nor will deposits be accepted in, any jurisdiction in which the making or acceptance thereof would not be in compliance with the laws of such jurisdiction. However, Alcoa may, in its sole discretion, take such action as they may deem necessary to extend the Offer in any such jurisdiction.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Certain statements and assumptions in this communication contain or are based on "forward-looking" information and involve risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements may be identified by their use of words like "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "expects," "hopes," "targets," "should," "will," "will likely result," "forecast," "outlook," "projects" or other words of similar meaning. Such forward-looking information includes, without limitation, the statements as to the impact of the proposed acquisition on revenues, costs and earnings. Such forward- looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions, uncertainties and risks, many of which are outside of Alcoa's control. Accordingly, actual results and developments are likely to differ, and may differ materially, from those expressed or implied by the
 
forward-looking statements contained in this communication. These risks and uncertainties include Alcoa's ability to successfully integrate the operations of Alcan; the outcome of contingencies including litigation, environmental remediation, divestitures of businesses, and anticipated costs of capital investments; general business and economic conditions; interest rates; the supply and demand for, deliveries of, and the prices and price volatility of primary aluminum, fabricated aluminum, and alumina produced by Alcoa and Alcan; the timing of the receipt of regulatory and governmental approvals necessary to complete the acquisition of Alcan and any undertakings agreed to in connection with the receipt of such regulatory and governmental approvals; the timing of receipt of regulatory and governmental approvals for Alcoa's and Alcan's development projects and other operations; the availability of financing to refinance indebtedness incurred in connection with the acquisition of Alcan on reasonable terms; the availability of financing for Alcoa's and Alcan's development projects on reasonable terms; Alcoa's and Alcan's respective costs of production and their respective production and productivity levels, as well as those of their competitors; energy costs; Alcoa's and Alcan's ability to secure adequate transportation for their respective products, to procure mining equipment and operating supplies in sufficient quantities and on a timely basis, and to attract and retain skilled staff; the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on Alcoa's and Alcan's costs and results, particularly the Canadian dollar, Euro, and Australian dollar, may affect profitability as some important raw materials are purchased in other currencies, while products generally are sold in U.S. dollars; engineering and construction timetables and capital costs for
 
Alcoa's and Alcan's development and expansion projects; market competition; tax benefits and tax rates; the outcome of negotiations with key customers; the resolution of environmental and other proceedings or disputes; and Alcoa's and Alcan's ongoing relations with their respective employees and with their respective business partners and joint venturers.
Additional risks, uncertainties and other factors affecting forward looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
See also the risk factors disclosed in Alcoa's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006. Readers are cautioned not to put undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Alcoa disclaims any intent or obligation to update these forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required by applicable law.
CONTACTS
Alcoa:
Tony Thene (Investors), (212) 836-2674
Kevin G. Lowery (Media), (412) 553-1424
Brunswick:
Steve Lipin / Nina Devlin, (212) 333-3810
 


