FILE:AA/AA-8K-20080408170535.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 7, 2008, Alcoa Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the first quarter of 2008. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99, is being furnished in accordance with the provisions of General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K.
 
 
The following is furnished as an exhibit to this report:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
[Alcoa logo]
 
Highlights:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Alcoa (NYSE: AA) today announced first quarter 2008 income from continuing operations of $303 million, or $0.37 per diluted share, versus $624 million, or $0.74 per share in the fourth quarter of 2007. Excluding restructuring and tax impacts, income from continuing operations was $361 million or $0.44 per share, up 20 percent on a comparable basis from the prior quarter, which included a favorable restructuring adjustment and tax benefits totaling $323 million or $0.38 per share. First quarter 2007 income from continuing operations excluding restructuring and tax impacts was $691 million, or $0.79.
NEW YORK, NY  April 7, 2008
Three of four business segments achieved significant after-tax operating income (ATOI) increases from the fourth quarter of 2007, with segment ATOI up 42 percent excluding packaging. Earnings for the first quarter were compressed by higher input and energy costs, and the impact of a weaker U.S. dollar. Currency negatively impacted results by $68 million or $0.08 per share on a sequential basis, as the U.S. dollar deteriorated against most major currencies.
Net income for the quarter was $303 million, or $0.37. Net income was $632 million, or $0.75 in the fourth quarter of 2007 and $662 million, or $0.75 in the first quarter of 2007.
Revenues for the 2008 first quarter were $7.4 billion, flat from the previous quarter, but a six percent increase excluding the revenue of the packaging and consumer business, which was sold in February 2008. Fourth quarter 2007 revenues were $7.4 billion, and revenues were $7.9 billion in the first quarter of 2007.
"We have generated strong returns in the face of challenging economic conditions and three of our segments  primary, flat-rolled and engineered products and solutions  achieved substantial ATOI growth," said Alain Belda, Alcoa Chairman and CEO. "Upstream margins were squeezed by higher energy costs and a weaker U.S. dollar, but the global market remains tight and prices are near historic highs, primarily driven by demand in Asia, especially China.
"Our engineered products and solutions business delivered its strongest quarter ever, driven by robust aerospace and industrial gas turbine sales and productivity improvements," said Belda. "Market fundamentals remain strong and we are well positioned to boost returns when the North American and European economies rebound."
Cost of goods sold as a percent of revenues was 79.9 percent, a 340 basis point improvement versus the fourth quarter of 2007.
The Company funded numerous growth investments in the quarter including the new Juruti bauxite mine and Sao Luis refinery in Brazil; the strategic investment with Chinalco in Rio Tinto plc; and the acquisition of two aerospace fastening companies. In the quarter, capital expenditures were $748 million, 60 percent of which was devoted to growth projects. In addition, the Company repurchased approximately 14 million shares in the first quarter of 2008 under its approved share re-purchase authorization.
The Company's debt-to-capital ratio stood at 31.5 percent at the end of the quarter, within the Company's target range. The Company's 12-month trailing ROC stood at 10.7 percent at the end of the first quarter 2008, following significant growth investments. Excluding investments in growth, the Company's ROC was 13.5 percent.
Segment and Other Results
In the first quarter of 2008, management approved a realignment of Alcoa's reportable segments to better reflect the core businesses in which Alcoa operates and how it is managed. This realignment consisted of eliminating the Extruded and End Products segment, and realigning its component businesses. See the Segment Information schedule for further details. Additionally, the Packaging and Consumer segment was sold in the first quarter of 2008.
Alumina
ATOI was $169 million, a decrease of $36 million, or 18 percent, from the prior quarter. Production was up slightly; however, shipments were down by two percent due to timing. As expected, lower pricing, higher energy cost, and unfavorable currency reduced profitability.
Primary Metals
ATOI was $307 million, up $111 million, or 57 percent, compared to the prior quarter. The majority of the increase resulted from higher LME prices. In addition, production was up four percent driven by the continuing ramp-up of the Iceland smelter offset by unfavorable currency and increased carbon costs. This segment purchased approximately 49 kmt of primary metal for internal use.
Flat-Rolled Products
ATOI was $41 million, up $56 million from the prior quarter. The segment benefited from improved performance in the Russia business as well as slightly higher volumes and an improved mix offset by higher energy and alloy material costs.
Engineered Products and Solutions
ATOI was a record $138 million, up $62 million, or 82 percent, from the prior quarter. Results were driven by continued productivity improvements, the positive impact from the automotive business restructuring, and increased volume as the aerospace and IGT markets continue to demonstrate strength.
Alcoa will hold its quarterly conference call at 5:00 PM Eastern Time on April 7th to present the quarter's results. The meeting will be webcast via alcoa.com. Call information and related details are available at under "Invest."
www.alcoa.com
Alcoa is the world leader in the production and management of primary aluminum, fabricated aluminum, and alumina combined, through its active and growing participation in all major aspects of the industry. Alcoa serves the aerospace, automotive, packaging, building and construction, commercial transportation and industrial markets, bringing design, engineering, production and other capabilities of Alcoa's businesses to customers. In addition to aluminum products and components including flat-rolled products, hard alloy extrusions, and forgings, Alcoa also markets Alcoa wheels, fastening systems, precision and investment castings, and building systems. The Company has 97,000 employees in 34 countries and has been named one of the top most sustainable corporations in the world at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. More information can be found at
www.alcoa.com
Forward Looking Statement
Certain statements in this release relate to future events and expectations and as such constitute forward-looking statements involving known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results, performance or achievements of Alcoa to be different from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Alcoa disclaims any obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether in response to new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by applicable law. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include: (a) material adverse changes in economic or aluminum industry conditions generally, including global supply and demand conditions and fluctuations in London Metal Exchange-based prices for primary aluminum and other products; (b) material adverse changes in the markets served by Alcoa, including the transportation, building and construction, distribution, packaging, industrial gas turbine and other markets; (c) Alcoa's inability to mitigate impacts from unfavorable currency fluctuations or from increased energy, transportation and raw materials costs or other cost inflation; (d) Alcoa's inability to achieve the level of cash generation, return on capital improvement, cost savings, or earnings or revenue growth anticipated by management; (e) Alcoa's inability to complete its growth projects and integration of acquired facilities as planned and by targeted completion dates; (f) unfavorable changes in laws, governmental regulations or policies, foreign currency exchange rates or competitive factors in the countries in which Alcoa operates; (g) significant legal proceedings or investigations adverse to Alcoa, including environmental, product liability, safety and health and other claims; and (h) the other risk factors summarized in Alcoa's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The difference between certain segment totals and consolidated amounts is in Corporate.
 
 
Return on capital, excluding growth investments is a non-GAAP financial measure. Management believes that this measure is meaningful to investors because it provides greater insight with respect to the underlying operating performance of the company's productive assets. The company has significant growth investments underway in its upstream and downstream businesses, as previously noted, with expected completion dates over the next several years. As these investments generally require a period of time before they are productive, management believes that a return on capital measure excluding these growth investments is more representative of current operating performance.
 
 
Income from continuing operations  excluding restructuring and other charges and discrete tax items is a non-GAAP financial measure. Management believes that this measure is meaningful to investors because management reviews the operating results of Alcoa excluding the impacts of restructuring and other charges and discrete tax items. There can be no assurances that additional restructuring and other charges and discrete tax items will not occur in future periods. To compensate for this limitation, management believes that it is appropriate to consider both income from continuing operations determined under GAAP as well as income from continuing operations  excluding restructuring and other charges and discrete tax items.
 
Third-party Sales
 
After-tax Operating Income
 
Third-party sales and segment after-tax operating income excluding the Packaging and Consumer segment are non-GAAP financial measures. Management believes that these measures are meaningful to investors because management reviews the operating results of Alcoa excluding the Packaging and Consumer segment due to the sale of the businesses within this segment in February 2008.


