FILE:AA/AA-8K-20080110170326.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On January 9, 2008, Alcoa Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2007. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99, is being furnished in accordance with the provisions of General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K.
 
 
The following is furnished as an exhibit to this report:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: January 10, 2008
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
[Alcoa logo]
 
Annual Highlights:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
th
Quarter 2007 Highlights:
 
 
 
 
Alcoa (NYSE: AA) today announced it achieved record results in revenues, income from continuing operations and cash from operations for the full year 2007. Revenues for 2007 were $30.7 billion, compared
NEW YORKJanuary 9, 2008 
to $30.4 billion in 2006. Annual income from continuing operations rose to $2.6 billion, or $2.95 per diluted share, for 2007, a 19 percent increase compared to $2.2 billion, or $2.47, in 2006. And, cash from operations for 2007 increased 21 percent to more than $3.1 billion from $2.6 billion in 2006.
"For the second year in a row, Alcoa has achieved company all-time records in revenues, income from continuing operations and cash generation," said Alain Belda, Alcoa Chairman and CEO. "We battled substantially higher material input and energy costs, and currency impacts while simultaneously continuing to execute on the largest capital investment program in our history."
"We have invested in new plants, expanded production at others, modernized operations, renegotiated long-term power agreements, and built new energy facilities to extend our energy access at competitive rates, while also continuing to invest in growth markets such as Brazil, China and Russia," Belda said.
"These actions, combined with portfolio and cash flow management, our share repurchase program, conservative leverage, and our commitment to sustainability delivered results now, and will continue to generate quality profitable growth for decades," added Belda. "In 2007, Alcoans delivered yet again. This is what builds a stronger Company for our stakeholders."
Fourth quarter income from continuing operations was $624 million, or $0.74. Included in the results are a favorable restructuring adjustment and a tax benefit totaling $323 million or $0.38 per share, almost all of which stems from the recent agreement to sell the packaging and consumer businesses. Income from continuing operations in the 2006 fourth quarter was $258 million, or $0.29, and $558 million, or $0.64, in the third quarter 2007.
Net income for the fourth quarter 2007 was $632 million, or $0.75, which includes the restructuring adjustment and the benefit from the agreement to sell the packaging and consumer business. Net income for the fourth quarter 2006 was $359 million, or $0.41, and $555 million, or $0.63, in the 2007 third quarter.
Revenues for the 2007 fourth quarter were $7.4 billion, compared to $7.8 billion a year ago as a result of lower LME prices and the exclusion of results from the soft alloy extrusion business which is now part of a joint venture. The soft alloy extrusion business had revenues of approximately $560 million in the fourth quarter of 2006.
Cash Generation, ROC, and Growth
Cash from operations in the fourth quarter 2007 was $643 million, bringing full-year cash from operations to more than $3.1 billion, compared to $2.6 billion in 2006 and helping to keep the Company's debt-to-capital ratio within its targeted range at 30.2 percent.
The Company's trailing 12-month return on capital (ROC) was 16.1 percent, excluding investments in growth projects. Including investments in growth projects, ROC stands at 12.7 percent, well above the cost of capital.
In 2007, the Company completed major growth projects, including its first greenfield smelter in 20 years in Iceland, a new anode plant in Mosjoen, Norway, and its third flat-rolled products facility in China (Kunshan). In addition, major progress was made on several other growth projects including the Juruti bauxite mine, the expansion of the Bohai rolling mill in China, and expansion of the Sao Luis alumina refinery.
The Company made significant progress to extend the life of existing facilities through renegotiating long-term power agreements including those in Massena, NY and Wenatchee, WA in 2007. The Company also continued investments in Brazil including the Serra do Facao hydroelectric project to further increase its self-sufficiency there.
The Company is now operating primary aluminum production at a run rate of approximately four million metric tons per year.
The Company made major progress in 2007 on its portfolio management plan. During the year, the Company reached agreement to sell its packaging and consumer businesses; divested the automotive castings business; monetized its stake in Chalco to enable redeployment of capital into other value-adding options, including projects in China; and formed a joint venture with Sapa for its soft alloy extrusion business.
In 2007, Alcoa also increased its share repurchase program from 10 percent to 25 percent of outstanding shares and increased its dividend by 13 percent during the year. Through the end of the fourth quarter the Company has repurchased 68 million shares, or approximately eight percent of shares outstanding, as part of its share repurchase program, leaving approximately 150 million shares, or 18 percent of shares outstanding, remaining within the authorization.
Segment and Other Results
(all comparisons on a sequential quarter basis, unless noted)
After-tax operating income (ATOI) was $205 million, a decrease of $10 million, or five percent, from the prior quarter. System production increased by a net of 80 kmt as Suralco, San Ciprian and Pinjarra set quarterly production records and Jamalco continued its recovery from Hurricane Dean. However, higher freight and energy costs and unfavorable currency offset production gains.
Alumina 
ATOI was $196 million, down $87 million, or 31 percent, compared to the prior quarter. The majority of the decrease resulted from lower LME prices and unfavorable currency. These items were partially offset by the
Primary Metals 
recovery at the Rockdale and Tennessee smelters and a three percent production increase. The company purchased approximately 55 kmt of primary metal for internal use.
ATOI was a loss of $16 million for the quarter, down $77 million from the prior quarter. Weak performance in Russia and China accounted for 50 percent of the ATOI decline in the quarter. For Russia specifically, the increased loss was due to higher operational and energy costs and unfavorable currency. The remaining decline in the segment's ATOI is mostly due to general market weakness in the U.S. and Europe flat-rolled businesses, weaker product mix, and de-stocking by aerospace customers. Finally, results for the Australian flat-rolled business declined following restructuring last quarter that is designed to reduce headcount and simplify product mix. In addition, the weakening U.S. dollar has had a negative impact in this business.
Flat-Rolled Products 
ATOI was $16 million, up $3 million, or 23 percent, from the prior quarter. Market and operating conditions were comparable to the prior quarter with margin improvements accounting for the increase.
Extruded and End Products 
ATOI was $58 million or essentially flat to the prior quarter ATOI of $60 million. Improvements from the wire harness business restructuring offset the weaker market conditions in forgings and investment castings. On a year over year basis, the Fastening Systems and Power & Propulsion (Howmet) businesses had outstanding years with ATOI up 36 percent and 47 percent, respectively.
Engineered Solutions 
ATOI was $56 million, up $20 million, or 56 percent, from the prior quarter. The normal seasonal decrease in the closures business was offset by seasonal improvements in the consumer products business. With the pending sale, depreciation was ceased in the segment leading to a positive impact of approximately $20 million.
Packaging & Consumer 
Alcoa will hold its quarterly conference call at 5:00 PM Eastern Time on January 9th to present the quarter's results. The meeting will be webcast via alcoa.com. Call information and related details are available at under "Invest."
www.alcoa.com
About Alcoa
Alcoa is the world's leading producer and manager of primary aluminum, fabricated aluminum and alumina facilities, through its growing position in all major aspects of the industry. Alcoa serves the aerospace, automotive, packaging, building and construction, commercial transportation and industrial
markets, bringing design, engineering, production and other capabilities of Alcoa's businesses to customers. In addition to aluminum products and components including flat-rolled products, hard alloy extrusions, and forgings, Alcoa also markets Alcoa wheels, fastening systems, precision and investment castings, structures and building systems. The Company has 107,000 employees in 44 countries and has been named one of the top most sustainable corporations in the world at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. More information can be found at .
www.alcoa.com
Forward Looking Statement
Certain statements in this release relate to future events and expectations and as such constitute forward-looking statements involving known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results, performance or achievements of Alcoa to be different from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Alcoa disclaims any intention or obligation, other than as required by law, to update or revise any forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include: (a) material adverse changes in economic or aluminum industry conditions generally, including global supply and demand conditions and London Metal Exchange-based prices for primary aluminum, alumina and other products; (b) material adverse changes in the markets served by Alcoa, including the transportation, building, construction, distribution, packaging, industrial gas turbine and other markets; (c) Alcoa's inability to mitigate impacts from unfavorable currency fluctuations or from increased energy, transportation and raw materials costs or other cost inflation; (d) Alcoa's inability to achieve the level of cash generation, return on capital improvement, cost savings, or earnings or revenue growth anticipated by management; (e) Alcoa's inability to complete its growth projects and integration of acquired facilities as planned and by targeted completion dates; (f) unfavorable changes in laws, governmental regulations or policies, currency exchange rates or competitive factors in the countries in which Alcoa operates; (g) significant legal proceedings or investigations adverse to Alcoa, including environmental, product liability, safety and health and other claims; and (h) the other risk factors summarized in Alcoa's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, Forms 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2007, June 30, 2007 and September 30, 2007, and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The difference between certain segment financial information totals and consolidated financial information is in Corporate.
 
Return on capital, excluding growth investments is a non-GAAP financial measure. Management believes that this measure is meaningful to investors because it provides greater insight with respect to the underlying operating performance of the company's productive assets. The company has significant growth investments underway in its upstream and downstream businesses, as previously noted, with expected completion dates over the next several years. As these investments generally require a period of time before they are productive, management believes that a return on capital measure excluding these growth investments is more representative of current operating performance.
 


