FILE:AA/AA-8K-20081008163748.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 7, 2008, Alcoa Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the third quarter of 2008. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99, is being furnished in accordance with the provisions of General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K.
 
 
The following is furnished as an exhibit to this report:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: October 8, 2008
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
[Alcoa logo]
 
Highlights:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Alcoa (NYSE: AA) today reported third quarter net income of $268 million, or $0.33 per diluted share. The results include a previously announced $31 million after-tax charge, or $0.04 per share, for the temporary curtailment of the Rockdale, TX aluminum smelter. The negative impact of currency translation on a sequential basis was $52 million, or $0.06 per share.
NEW YORK, NY  October 7, 2008
Net income in the third quarter of 2007 was $555 million, or $0.63 per share. Included in the third quarter 2007 results was the net benefit of $218 million, or $0.25 per share, for the gain on the sale of the company's stake in Chalco, restructuring, and transaction costs. Net income in the second quarter of 2008 was $546 million, or $0.66 per share.
"Despite rising costs and sluggish end markets, combined profitability in the four business segments was in line with last year's third quarter," said Klaus Kleinfeld, Alcoa President and Chief Executive Officer.
"Recently, aluminum prices have fallen steeply and demand has softened further, while input costs remain high," said Kleinfeld. "The resulting margin squeeze will have a greater impact going forward, but will be somewhat mitigated by the easing of energy prices and a stronger U.S. dollar. We will continue to manage our business to keep it competitive in a turbulent global environment.
"We have taken action to conserve cash and maximize profitability through very adverse economic conditions," said Kleinfeld. "Given the sharp decline in metal prices and increasingly soft demand in our key markets, we are stopping all non-critical capital projects, making targeted reductions to match market conditions, and are adjusting our manufacturing capacity to meet demand in rapidly changing upstream and downstream markets. We are halting production at our smelter in Rockdale, Texas, adjusting alumina capacity accordingly, and are continually reviewing under-performing assets throughout our portfolio. And, we are suspending our share buy-back program.
"While we face volatile and uncertain markets today, longer term trends will drive a rebound in global aluminum demand and the forward market reflects underlying optimism on medium term aluminum pricing," said Kleinfeld. "During difficult times, we will examine opportunities across the industry to improve our competitiveness, use every lever to improve profitability, and position the company to deliver stronger value when demand improves."
Revenues for the quarter were $7.2 billion, down slightly from $7.6 billion in the second quarter of 2008 due to lower metal prices, seasonal downturns in Europe, and weak end markets, particularly the automotive sector. Revenues in the third quarter 2007 were $6.5 billion after excluding the divested businesses.
In the first nine months of 2008, net income was $1.1 billion, or $1.36 per share, and revenues were $22.2 billion. Year-to-date, cash from operations was $626 million, which includes a discretionary $400 million pension contribution in the third quarter.
Capital expenditures for the quarter were $877 million, with 65 percent dedicated to growth projects. The Company's debt-to-capital ratio stood at 36.3 percent at the end of the quarter. The 12-month trailing return on capital (ROC) stood at 11.5 percent at the end of the third quarter, excluding investments in growth.
Segment and Other Results
Alumina
After-tax operating income (ATOI) was $206 million, an increase of $16 million, or 8 percent, from the prior quarter. Overall production declined slightly in the quarter (30 kmt lower) because of the production loss from the Point Comfort refinery (60 kmt), which was closed during Hurricane Ike. Strong operating performance and a stronger U.S. dollar offset the lower production and higher input costs. Net of insurance recovery, the natural gas supply disruption in Western Australia lowered ATOI by $9 million on a sequential basis.
The company is on track to complete its expansion of the Sao Luis refinery and the new Juruti bauxite mine in Brazil. Those expansions are well under way and will begin to deliver positive cash flow to the company in 2009.
Primary Metals
ATOI was $297 million, a decrease of $131 million, or 31 percent, from the prior quarter. Third-party realized ingot price decreased sequentially from $3,058/mt to $2,945/mt due to lower LME pricing coupled with a less favorable product mix and lower regional pricing premiums. Meanwhile, escalating market prices for carbon products and energy continue to negatively impact earnings.
The company's newest smelter (Fjardaal) produced at nameplate capacity for the second consecutive quarter and is currently the highest-quality metal in Alcoa's global system.
Flat-Rolled Products
ATOI was $29 million, a decrease of $26 million, or 47 percent, from the prior quarter. This decline is slightly higher than the typical 35 percent seasonal decline that was forecasted during last quarter's analysts' call. The higher than expected decline is due to weaker than expected market conditions in North America and Europe as well as the impact of the machinists' strike at Boeing. In addition, alloying materials such as manganese, silicon, and magnesium have experienced substantial price increases year-over-year.
Engineered Products and Solutions
ATOI was $101 million, a record third quarter. This was a decrease of $56 million, or 36 percent, from the prior quarter. This decline is slightly higher than the typical 25 to 30 percent seasonal decline that we forecasted during last quarter's analysts' call. The greater decline is primarily a result of weakening market conditions. Due to tighter credit conditions and high gas prices, annual automotive build rates are now projected to decline 14 percent in North America. Commercial transportation markets have also been weaker than expected. North America Class 8 truck builds dropped 13 percent quarter-over-quarter. Also, lower demand for spares in the aerospace after-market has been driven by little or no growth in global airline capacity.
ATOI to Net Income Reconciliation
The largest variance in reconciling items was in the "Other" line item which includes a $90 million unfavorable sequential change due to currency translation.
Alcoa will hold its quarterly conference call at 5:00 PM Eastern Time on Tuesday, October 7, 2008 to present the quarter's results. The meeting will be webcast via alcoa.com. Call information and related details are available at under "Invest."
www.alcoa.com
About Alcoa
Alcoa is the world leader in the production and management of primary aluminum, fabricated aluminum and alumina combined, through its active and growing participation in all major aspects of the industry. Alcoa serves the aerospace, automotive, packaging, building and construction, commercial transportation and industrial markets, bringing design, engineering, production and other capabilities of Alcoa's businesses to customers. In addition to aluminum products and components including flat-rolled products, hard alloy extrusions, and forgings, Alcoa also markets Alcoa wheels, fastening systems, precision and investment castings, and building systems. The Company has 97,000 employees in 34 countries and has been named one of the top most sustainable corporations in the world at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. More information can be found at
www.alcoa.com
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements in this release relate to future events and expectations and as such constitute forward-looking statements involving known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results, performance or achievements of Alcoa to be different from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Alcoa disclaims any obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether in response to new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by applicable law. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include: (a) material adverse changes in economic or aluminum industry conditions generally, including global supply and demand conditions and fluctuations in London Metal Exchange-based prices for primary aluminum and other products; (b) material adverse changes in the markets served by Alcoa, including the transportation, aerospace, building and construction, distribution, packaging, industrial gas turbine and other markets; (c) Alcoa's inability to mitigate impacts from energy supply interruptions or from unfavorable currency fluctuations or from increased energy, transportation and raw materials costs or other cost inflation; (d) continued volatility and further deterioration in the financial markets, including severe disruptions in the commercial paper, capital and credit markets; (e) Alcoa's inability to achieve the level of cash generation or conservation, return on capital improvement, cost reductions, or earnings or revenue growth anticipated by management; (f) Alcoa's inability to complete its growth projects or achieve efficiency improvements at newly constructed or acquired facilities as planned and by targeted completion dates; (g) unfavorable changes in laws, governmental regulations or policies, foreign currency exchange rates or competitive factors in the countries in which Alcoa operates; (h) significant legal proceedings or investigations adverse to Alcoa, including environmental, product liability, safety and health and other claims; and (i) the other risk factors summarized in Alcoa's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, Forms 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2008 and June 30, 2008, and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
 
 
 
The difference between certain segment totals and consolidated amounts is in Corporate.
 
 
Return on capital, excluding growth investments is a non-GAAP financial measure. Management believes that this measure is meaningful to investors because it provides greater insight with respect to the underlying operating performance of the company's productive assets. The company has significant growth investments underway in its upstream and downstream businesses, as previously noted, with expected completion dates over the next several years. As these investments generally require a period of time before they are productive, management believes that a return on capital measure excluding these growth investments is more representative of current operating performance.
 
 
Third-party Sales
Third-party sales excluding divested businesses is a non-GAAP financial measure. Management believes that this measure is meaningful to investors because management reviews the operating results of Alcoa excluding divested businesses since they are no longer reflective of Alcoa's continuing operations.
 


