FILE:AA/AA-8K-20090513143401.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(e)   On May 8, 2009, the shareholders of Alcoa Inc. (the "Company") approved the 2009 Alcoa Stock Incentive Plan (the "2009 Plan") at the Company's annual meeting of shareholders. A summary of the 2009 Plan is set forth under the heading "Item 3  Proposal to Approve 2009 Alcoa Stock Incentive Plan" in the Company's definitive proxy statement for the 2009 annual meeting of shareholders filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 16, 2009 (the "Definitive Proxy Statement") and is incorporated herein by reference. The summary of the 2009 Plan is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the 2009 Plan which was attached as Attachment C to the Definitive Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.
Forms of award agreements to be used in connection with awards of stock options and restricted share units under the 2009 Plan are attached hereto as Exhibit 10.2 and Exhibit 10.3, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
The following are filed as exhibits to this report:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: May 13, 2009
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
 
("Participant"), the option to purchase [NUMBER] shares of common stock of the Company at the option grant price of $[            ] per share, based upon the following terms:
 
 
 
These terms and conditions are authorized by the Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Board of Directors. They are deemed to be incorporated into and form a part of every stock option awarded under the 2009 Alcoa Stock Incentive Plan, as last amended prior to the grant (the "Plan") on or after May 8, 2009, unless the Award certificate provides otherwise.
Terms that are defined in the Plan have the same meanings in these terms and conditions, except that Alcoa or Company means Alcoa Inc. or any of its controlled subsidiaries or affiliates.
1. Stock Option awards are subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Award certificate, the provisions of the Plan and the provisions of these terms and conditions.
2. The grant price of a stock option is 100% of the Fair Market Value per Share on the date of grant, unless the Award certificate specifies a higher grant price.
3. "Fair Market Value" per Share on any given date is the closing price per Share on that date as reported on the New York Stock Exchange or other stock exchange on which the Shares principally trade. If the New York Stock Exchange or such other exchange is not open for business on the date Fair Market Value is being determined, the closing price as reported for the next business day on which that exchange is open for business will be used.
4. The expiration date of a Stock Option is six years after the date of grant, unless the Committee establishes a different expiration date in accordance with the Plan.
5. Stock Options vest as to one-third of the Award on the first anniversary of the grant date, as to one-third of the Award on the second anniversary of the grant date and as to one-third of the Award on the third anniversary of the grant date, unless the Committee establishes another date for vesting with respect to all or a portion of the Award, in accordance with the Plan.
6. Except as provided in paragraph 8, once vested, a Stock Option may be exercised until its expiration date, as long as the Participant remains an active employee of the Company.
7. Except as provided in paragraph 8:
 
 
8. The following are exceptions to the vesting and exercisability rules:
 
 
 
 
 
 
For purposes of this paragraph, employment by "the entity acquiring the business" includes employment by a subsidiary or affiliate of the entity acquiring the business; and "divestiture of a business" means the sale of assets or stock resulting in the sale of a going concern. "Divestiture of a business" does not include a plant shut down or other termination of a business.
 
9. A vested, exercisable option is exercised when a signed notification of exercise is received by the Plan administrator.
10. Payment in full of the purchase price of a Stock Option is due on the exercise date. Payment of the option purchase price may be made:
 
 
11. A Participant may elect to pay the cash purchase price of the option through a "broker-assisted cashless exercise," using a broker reasonably acceptable to the Company. On or prior to the exercise date, the Participant must deliver to the Company the Participant's instruction directing and obligating the broker to (a) sell Shares (or a sufficient portion of the Shares) acquired upon exercise of the option and (b) remit to the Company a sufficient portion of the sale proceeds to pay the entire purchase price and any tax withholding resulting from the exercise. Such proceeds are due not later than the third trading day after the exercise date.
12. Shares owned by a Participant include (a) those registered in the Participant's name (or registered jointly with another person), (b) those held in a brokerage account owned by the
 
Participant individually or jointly with another person, and (c) those held in a trust, partnership, limited partnership or other entity for the benefit of the Participant individually (or for the benefit of the Participant jointly with another person). Notwithstanding the foregoing, Shares owned by a Participant do not include Shares held in any qualified plan, IRA or similar tax deferred arrangement or Shares that are otherwise subject to potential accounting limitations regarding their use in stock swap transactions. The Company may require verification or proof of ownership or length of ownership of any shares delivered in payment of the purchase price of an option.
13. The term "Minimum Holding Period" means 6 months or such other period, if any, as qualifies as the measurement period for "mature shares" under applicable generally accepted accounting principles. In calculating the number of shares available for delivery to pay the purchase price of an option, shares acquired upon exercise of a stock option (including any shares delivered or exchanged to pay the purchase price thereof or withholding taxes thereon) shall be disregarded until expiration of the Minimum Holding Period after exercise.
14. All taxes required to be withheld under applicable tax laws in connection with a Participant's receipt of Shares upon exercise of a Stock Option must be paid over by the Participant, in cash, immediately upon advice, unless the Participant complies with the following paragraphs regarding payment using Shares.
15. A Participant may satisfy his or her obligation to pay required withholding taxes due upon such exercise by having Alcoa withhold from the Shares to be issued upon the exercise that number of Shares with a Fair Market Value on the exercise date equal to the withholding amount to be paid. Withholding taxes in the United States include applicable income taxes, federal and state unemployment compensation taxes and FICA/FUTA taxes.
16. The amount of taxes that may be paid by a Participant using Shares retained from the Stock Option exercise will be determined by applying the minimum rates required by applicable tax regulations.
17. The election to use Shares to satisfy a Participant's withholding obligation must be made, in writing, not later than at the time of exercise of the stock option.
18. Participants will be entitled to designate one or more beneficiaries to receive all Stock Options that are unexercised at the time of the Participant's death. All beneficiary designations will be on a beneficiary designation form approved for the Plan. Copies of the form are available from the Communications Center on Merrill Lynch's Benefits OnLine website.
 
19. Beneficiary designations on an approved form will be effective at the time received by the Alcoa Manager, Stock Administration. A Participant may revoke a beneficiary designation at any time by written notice to the Alcoa Manager, Stock Administration or by filing a new designation form. Any designation form previously filed by a Participant will be automatically revoked and superseded by a later-filed form.
20. A Participant will be entitled to designate any number of beneficiaries on the form, and the beneficiaries may be natural or corporate persons.
21. The failure of any Participant to obtain any recommended signature on the form will not invalidate the beneficiary designation or prohibit Alcoa from treating such designation as valid and effective. No beneficiary will acquire any beneficial or other interest in any Stock Option prior to the death of the Participant who designated such beneficiary.
22. Unless the Participant indicates on the form that a named beneficiary is to receive unexercised options only upon the prior death of another named beneficiary, all beneficiaries designated on the form will be entitled and required to join in the exercise of the option. Unless otherwise indicated, all such beneficiaries will have an equal, undivided interest in all such Stock Options.
23. Should a beneficiary die after the Participant but before the option is exercised, such beneficiary's rights and interest in the option award will be transferable by last will and testament of the beneficiary or the laws of descent and distribution. A named beneficiary who predeceases the Participant will obtain no rights or interest in a stock option award, nor will any person claiming on behalf of such individual. Unless otherwise specifically indicated by the Participant on the form, beneficiaries designated by class (such as "children," "grandchildren" etc.) will be deemed to refer to the members of the class living at the time of the Participant's death, and all members of the class will be deemed to take " ."
per
capita
24. Vested Stock Options may be transferred to one or more immediate family members, individually or jointly. A trust, each of whose beneficiaries is the Participant or an immediate family member, will be deemed to be a family member for purposes of these rules.
25. A transfer shall be effective on the date written notice thereof, on a form approved for this purpose, is received by the Alcoa Manager, Stock Administration. Copies of the form are available from the Communications Center on Merrill Lynch's Benefits OnLine website. As a condition to transfer, the Participant shall agree to remain responsible to pay in cash the applicable taxes due upon exercise of the option by the transferee. The Participant or the Participant's estate will be required to provide sufficient evidence of ability to pay such taxes upon the Company's request.
 
26. A transfer shall be irrevocable; no subsequent transfer by the transferee shall be effective. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transferee shall be entitled to designate a beneficiary in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 18 through 23 above. Except where a beneficiary has been designated, in the event of death of the transferee prior to option exercise, the transferee's option will be transferable by last will and testament of the beneficiary or the laws of descent and distribution.
27. Except as modified by the provisions of paragraphs 24 through 26, all terms applicable to option exercises by Participants are applicable to exercises by transferees. The Plan administrator may make and publish additional rules applicable to exercises by transferees not inconsistent with these provisions.
28. If a Stock Option is issued with a performance feature, the following additional terms and conditions will apply to that Award:
 
 
 
2009 Alcoa Stock Incentive Plan Stock Option Terms and Conditions (May 2009)
 

Exhibit 10.3
 
("Participant"), an Award of [NUMBER] Restricted Share Units, based upon the following terms:
 
 
 
These terms and conditions are authorized by the Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Board of Directors. They are deemed to be incorporated into and form a part of every Award of Restricted Share Units issued under the 2009 Alcoa Stock Incentive Plan, as last amended prior to the grant (the "Plan") on or after May 8, 2009.
Terms that are defined in the Plan have the same meanings in these terms and conditions, except that Alcoa or Company means Alcoa Inc. or any of its controlled subsidiaries or affiliates.
1. Restricted Share Units are subject to the provisions of the Plan, the provisions of these terms and conditions and the provisions of the Award certificate. A Restricted Share Unit is an undertaking by the Company to issue the number of Shares indicated in the Award certificate on the date the Award vests, except to the extent otherwise provided herein. A Participant has no voting rights or rights to receive dividends on Restricted Share Units, but the Board of Directors may authorize that dividend equivalents be payable on Restricted Share Units, subject to limitations provided in the Plan.
2. A Restricted Share Unit vests on the third anniversary date of the date of grant, unless the Committee establishes another date for vesting with respect to all or a portion of the shares subject to the Award at the time of the grant of the Award.
3. Except as provided in paragraph 4, if a Participant's employment with the Company is terminated before the Restricted Share Unit vests, the Award is forfeited and is automatically canceled.
4. The following are exceptions to the vesting rules:
 
 
 
 
5. All taxes required to be withheld under applicable tax laws in connection with a Restricted Share Unit must be paid by the Participant at the appropriate time under applicable tax laws. Alcoa will withhold from the Shares to be issued upon payment of the Restricted Share Unit that number of Shares with a Fair Market Value on the vesting date equal to the taxes required to be withheld at the minimum required rates, which include, for Participants subject to taxation in the United States, applicable income taxes, federal and state unemployment compensation taxes and FICA/FUTA taxes.
6. "Fair Market Value" per Share on any given date is the closing price per Share on that date as reported on the New York Stock Exchange or other stock exchange on which the Shares principally trade. If the New York Stock Exchange or such other exchange is not open for business on the date Fair Market Value is being determined, the closing price as reported for the next business day on which that exchange is open for business will be used.
7. Participants will be entitled to designate one or more beneficiaries to receive all Restricted Share Units that have not yet vested at the time of death of the Participant. All beneficiary designations will be on beneficiary designation forms approved for the Plan. Copies of the form are available from the Communications Center on Merrill Lynch's OnLine website.
 
8. Beneficiary designations on an approved form will be effective at the time received by the Alcoa Manager, Stock Administration. A Participant may revoke a beneficiary designation at any time by written notice to the Alcoa Manager, Stock Administration or by filing a new designation form. Any designation form previously filed by a Participant will be automatically revoked and superseded by a later-filed form.
9. A Participant will be entitled to designate any number of beneficiaries on the form, and the beneficiaries may be natural or corporate persons.
10. The failure of any Participant to obtain any recommended signature on the form will not invalidate the beneficiary designation or prohibit Alcoa from treating such designation as valid and effective. No beneficiary will acquire any beneficial or other interest in any Restricted Share Unit prior to the death of the Participant who designated such beneficiary.
11. Unless the Participant indicates on the form that a named beneficiary is to receive Restricted Share Units only upon the prior death of another named beneficiary, all beneficiaries designated on the form will be entitled to share equally in the Restricted Share Unit upon vesting. Unless otherwise indicated, all such beneficiaries will have an equal, undivided interest in all such Restricted Share Units.
12. Should a beneficiary die after the Participant but before the Restricted Share Unit is paid, such beneficiary's rights and interest in the Award will be transferable by the beneficiary's last will and testament or by the laws of descent and distribution. A named beneficiary who predeceases the Participant will obtain no rights or interest in a Restricted Share Unit, nor will any person claiming on behalf of such individual. Unless otherwise specifically indicated by the Participant on the form, beneficiaries designated by class (such as "children," "grandchildren" etc.) will be deemed to refer to the members of the class living at the time of the Participant's death, and all members of the class will be deemed to take " ."
per
capita
13. If a Restricted Share Unit is issued with a performance feature, the following additional terms and conditions will apply to that Award:
 
 
 
2009 ALCOA STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN R S U T C (MAY 2009)
ESTRICTED
HARE
NIT
ERMS
AND
ONDITIONS
 


