FILE:AA/AA-8K-20100427171132.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) Alain J. P. Belda, Henry B. Schacht and Franklin A. Thomas retired from the Board of Directors of Alcoa Inc. ("Alcoa") when their terms expired on April 23, 2010. As previously disclosed in Alcoa's proxy statement dated March 5, 2010, Messrs. Schacht and Thomas will serve as senior advisors to the Board following their retirement as directors.
(e) On April 22, 2010, the Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Board of Directors of Alcoa approved a special retention award of 144,410 time-vested restricted stock units to Charles D. McLane, Jr., Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. The award was granted under the 2009 Alcoa Stock Incentive Plan (the "2009 Plan") and vests on April 22, 2013. If Mr. McLane retires or his employment otherwise terminates before the vesting date, the award will be forfeited, subject to exceptions for death, involuntary termination without cause, or termination upon certain change in control events described in the 2009 Plan. The award is subject to the Terms and Conditions for Special Retention Awards under the 2009 Plan, effective January 1, 2010, filed as Exhibit
10(e) to Alcoa's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2010, which are incorporated herein by reference.
 
Amendment to Articles of Incorporation
On April 23, 2010, the shareholders of Alcoa at the 2010 annual meeting of shareholders approved an amendment to Alcoa's Articles of Incorporation adopting a majority voting standard for uncontested director elections, as more fully described in Alcoa's proxy statement dated March 5, 2010. The amendment to the Articles of Incorporation was filed with the Department of State of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and became effective on April 26, 2010. A copy of the Articles of Incorporation as amended April 2010 is attached hereto as Exhibit 3(a) and is incorporated herein by reference.
Amendment to By-Laws
Concurrently with the shareholder approval of the above-described amendment to Alcoa's Articles of Incorporation adopting a majority voting standard for uncontested director elections, the following new Section 5 of Article II of the By-Laws, which had been approved by a unanimous vote of the Board of Directors, became effective:
"Section 5. . In any non-contested election of directors, any incumbent director nominee who receives a greater number of votes cast against his or her election than in favor of his or her election (excluding abstentions) by holders of shares entitled to vote in the election shall immediately tender his or her resignation, and the Board of Directors shall decide, through a process managed by the Governance and Nominating Committee and excluding the nominee in question, whether to accept the resignation at its next regularly scheduled Board meeting. The Board's explanation of its decision shall be promptly disclosed in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission. An election of directors shall be considered to be contested if there are more nominees for election than positions on the board of directors to be filled by election at the meeting of shareholders."
Election of Directors
A copy of the By-Laws as amended April 2010 is attached hereto as Exhibit 3(b) and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The voting results for each matter are set forth below. As more fully described in Alcoa's proxy statement, the vote required for approval or election was as follows: director nominees receiving the highest number of votes cast were elected (Item 1); approval of Items 2, 3 and 7 required the favorable vote of a majority of the votes cast; and approval of Items 4, 5 and 6 required the favorable vote of the holders of 80% of the shares of common stock outstanding and entitled to vote as provided in Articles SEVENTH and EIGHTH of Alcoa's Articles of Incorporation.
 
 
 
On April 23, 2010, Alcoa issued a press release announcing changes in its Board of Directors. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
The following are filed as exhibits to this report:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: April 27, 2010
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 3(a)
The name of the corporation is Alcoa Inc.
FIRST.
The location and post office address of the corporation's current registered office is c/o CT Corporation System, Dauphin County, Pennsylvania.
SECOND.
The purpose or purposes of the corporation are: to acquire and dispose of deposits of and rights to bauxite, clay, ores and minerals of any sort or description, and to acquire, extract, treat and dispose of any materials recovered or recoverable therefrom; to reduce ores of aluminum and any and all other ores to their basic metals; to manufacture, alloy and fabricate any and all metals into articles of commerce; to acquire, produce, transport, trade in and dispose of goods, wares and merchandise of every class and description; to purchase, lease, or otherwise acquire improved or unimproved real property, leaseholds, easements and franchises, to manage, use, deal with and improve the same or any part thereof, and to sell, exchange, lease, sublease, or otherwise dispose of any of said property or the improvements thereon or any part thereof; to acquire, use and dispose of all land, minerals, materials, apparatus, machinery and other agencies, means and facilities, to perform all operations, and to do all things, necessary, convenient or incident to the foregoing; and to carry on any business directly or indirectly related thereto; and the corporation shall have unlimited power to engage in and to do any lawful act concerning any or all lawful business for which corporations may be incorporated under the Pennsylvania Business Corporation Law.
THIRD.
The term for which the corporation is to exist is perpetual.
FOURTH.
The authorized capital of the corporation shall be 660,000 shares of Serial Preferred Stock of the par value of $100 per share, 10,000,000 shares of Class B Serial Preferred Stock of the par value of $1.00 per share and 1,800,000,000 shares of Common Stock of the par value of $1.00 per share.
FIFTH.
Hereinafter in this Article Fifth, the term "Preferred Stock" shall mean each of the Serial Preferred Stock and the Class B Serial Preferred Stock.
A description of each class of shares which the corporation shall have authority to issue and a statement of the rights, voting powers, preferences, qualifications, limitations, restrictions and the special or relative rights granted to or imposed upon the shares of each class and of the authority vested in the Board of Directors of the corporation to establish series of the Preferred Stock and to fix and determine the variations in the relative rights and preferences as between the series thereof are as follows:
1. Establishment of Series of Preferred Stock. Preferred Stock shall be issued in one or more series. Each series shall be designated by the Board of Directors so as to distinguish the shares thereof from the shares of all other series and classes. The Board of Directors may, by resolution, from time to time divide shares of Preferred Stock into series and fix and determine the number of shares and, subject to the provisions of this Article Fifth, the relative rights and preferences of any series so established, provided that all shares of Preferred Stock shall be identical except as to the following relative rights and preferences, in respect of any or all of which there may be variations between
 
 
different series, namely: the rate of dividend (including the date from which dividends shall be cumulative and, with respect to Class B Serial Preferred Stock, whether such dividend rate shall be fixed or variable and the methods, procedures and formulas for the recalculation or periodic resetting of any variable dividend rate); the price at, and the terms and conditions on, which shares may be redeemed; the amounts payable on shares in the event of voluntary or involuntary liquidation; sinking fund provisions for the redemption or purchase of shares in the event shares of any series are issued with sinking fund provisions; and the terms and conditions on which the shares of any series may be converted in the event the shares of any series are issued with the privilege of conversion. Each share of any series of Preferred Stock shall be identical with all other shares of such series, except as to date from which dividends shall be cumulative.
2. Dividends.
 
 
 
 
 
3. Liquidation. In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, then before any payment or distribution shall be made to the holders of Common Stock or Class B Serial Preferred Stock the holders of Serial Preferred Stock shall be entitled to be paid such amount as shall have been fixed by the Board of Directors as hereinbefore provided, plus all dividends which have accrued on the Serial Preferred Stock and have not been paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set apart. Thereafter, the holders of Class B Serial Preferred Stock of each series shall be entitled to be paid such amount as shall have been fixed by the Board of Directors as hereinbefore provided, plus all dividends which have accrued on the Class B Serial Preferred Stock and have not been paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set apart. Thereafter, the remaining assets shall belong to and be divided among the holders of the Common Stock. The consolidation or merger of the corporation with or into any other corporation or corporations or share exchange or division involving the corporation in pursuance of applicable statutes providing for the consolidation, merger, share exchange or division shall not be deemed a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the corporation within the meaning of any of the provisions of this subdivision.
4. Voting Rights. The holders of Preferred Stock shall have no voting rights except as otherwise required by law or hereinafter provided:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing:
 
 
The holders of Common Stock of the corporation shall have one vote per share.
5. Redemption.
 
 
 
All shares of Serial Preferred Stock so redeemed shall be cancelled and shall not be reissued.
 
6. Preemptive Rights. Neither the holders of the Preferred Stock nor the holders of the Common Stock shall be entitled to participate in any right of subscription to any increased or additional capital stock of the corporation of any kind whatsoever.
In each election of directors every shareholder entitled to vote shall have the right to cast one vote for each share of stock standing in his name on the books of the company for each of such number of candidates as there are directors to be elected, but no shareholder shall have any right to cumulate his votes and cast them for one candidate or distribute them among two or more candidates.
SIXTH.
A. In addition to any affirmative vote required by law, the Articles or the By-Laws of the corporation (the "company"), and except as otherwise expressly provided in Section B of this Article Seventh, the Company shall not knowingly engage, directly or indirectly, in any Stock Repurchase (as hereinafter defined) from an Interested Shareholder (as hereinafter defined) without the affirmative vote of not less than a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of all then outstanding shares of Voting Stock (as hereinafter defined) which are beneficially owned by persons other than such Interested Shareholder, voting together as a single class. Such affirmative vote shall be required notwithstanding the fact that no vote may be required, or that a lesser percentage or separate class vote may be specified, by law or in any agreement with any national securities exchange or otherwise.
SEVENTH.
 
 
B. The provisions of Section A of this Article Seventh shall not be applicable to any particular Stock Repurchase from an Interested Shareholder, and such Stock Repurchase shall require only such affirmative vote, if any, as is required by law or by any other provision of the Articles or the By-Laws of the company, or any agreement with any national securities exchange or otherwise, if the conditions specified in either of the following Paragraphs (1) or (2) are met:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. The business and affairs of the corporation (the "company") shall be managed by a Board of Directors comprised as follows:
EIGHTH.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To the fullest extent that the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, as in effect on May 15, 1987 or as thereafter amended, permit elimination or limitation of the liability of directors, no director of the corporation shall be personally liable for monetary damages for any action taken, or any failure to take any action. This Article Ninth shall not apply to any action filed prior to May 15, 1987, nor to any breach of performance of duty or any failure of performance of duty occurring prior to May 15, 1987. The provisions of this Article shall be deemed to be a contract with each director of the corporation who serves as such at any time while such provisions are in effect, and each such director shall be deemed to be serving as such in reliance on the provisions of this Article. Any amendment or repeal of this Article or adoption of any other provision of the Articles or By-laws of the corporation which has the effect of increasing director liability shall operate prospectively only and shall not affect any action taken, or any failure to act, prior to such amendment, repeal or adoption.
NINTH.
Except as prohibited by law, the corporation may indemnify any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the corporation or is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise (including, without limitation, any employee benefit plan) and may take such steps as may be deemed appropriate by the Board of Directors, including purchasing and maintaining insurance, entering into contracts (including, without limitation, contracts of indemnification between the corporation and its directors and officers), creating a trust fund, granting security interests or using other means (including, without limitation, a letter of credit) to ensure the payment of such amounts as may be necessary to effect such indemnification. This Article shall be effective May 15, 1987.
TENTH.
A nominee for director shall be elected to the Board of Directors at a meeting of shareholders if the votes cast for such nominee by holders of shares entitled to vote in the election, exceed the votes cast against such nominee's election (excluding abstentions), except in a contested
ELEVENTH.
 
 
election (as such term shall be defined in the By-Laws of the company). Any nominee for director in a non-contested election who is not an incumbent director and is not so elected shall not take office. Any incumbent director nominated for re-election in a non-contested election but not so elected shall, in the event the director's successor shall not be duly elected and qualified, take such actions (which may include the tender of the director's resignation for consideration by the Board of Directors) as shall be consistent with applicable law and the company's By-Laws. The Board of Directors shall have the authority to adopt and amend appropriate By-Laws to implement this Article Eleventh.
 

 
Exhibit 3(b)
Section 1. . The principal office of the Company shall be in the City of New York, New York.
Principal Office
Section 2. . The Company shall have a corporate seal in such form as the board of directors shall by resolution from time to time prescribe.
Seal
Section 3. . The fiscal year of the Company shall end on the 31st day of December.
Fiscal Year
Section 1. . Meetings of the shareholders of the Company shall be held at such place within or without the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania as may be fixed by the board of directors pursuant to authority hereby granted.
Place of Meetings
Section 2. . The annual meeting of the shareholders shall be held on the Friday next following the first Monday in May of each year at nine thirty o'clock A.M., local time in effect at the place of the meeting, or on such other day or at such other time as may be fixed by the board of directors pursuant to authority hereby granted.
Annual Meeting
Section 3. . All meetings of the shareholders shall be called to order and presided over by the chairman of the board, or in the absence of the chairman of the board, by a vice chairman of the board, the president or another director, in the order designated by the chairman of the board, or if none of these be present, by a chairman elected by a majority of the votes which all shareholders present are entitled to cast on any matter coming before the meeting.
Chairman of the Meeting
Section 4. .
Notice of Shareholder Business
(A) .
Annual Meetings of Shareholders
(1) The proposal of business (other than director nominations) to be considered by the shareholders may be made at an annual meeting of shareholders (a) pursuant to the Company's notice of meeting, (b) by or at the direction of the board of directors or (c) by any shareholder of the Company who was a shareholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in these By-laws, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in these By-laws.
(2) For business (other than director nominations, which are subject to the requirements of Section A(3) of Article EIGHTH of the Company's Articles, as the same may be amended from time to time) to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a shareholder pursuant to Section 4(A)(1)(c) of these By-laws, the shareholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary and such business must otherwise be a proper matter for shareholder action. To be timely, a shareholder's notice shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Company not later than ninety days prior to the anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting; provided, however, that in no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment of an annual meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a shareholder's notice as described above. Such shareholder's notice shall set forth (i) as to any business (other than director nominations) that the shareholder proposes to bring before the meeting, a brief
 
 
description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest in such business of such shareholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made; and (ii) as to the shareholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made (w) the name and address of such shareholder, as they appear on the Company's books, and of such beneficial owner, (x) the class and number of shares of the Company which are owned beneficially and of record by such shareholder and such beneficial owner, and (y) any agreements, arrangements or understandings entered into by the shareholder or its affiliates with respect to equity securities of the Company, including any put or call arrangements, derivative securities, short positions, borrowed shares or swap or similar arrangements, specifying in each case the effect of such agreements, arrangements or understandings on any voting or economic rights of equity securities of the Company, in each case as of the date of the notice and in each case describing any changes in voting or economic rights which may arise pursuant to the terms of such agreements, arrangements or understandings, and (z) to the extent not covered by clauses (x) and (y), any disclosures that would be required pursuant to Item 5 or Item 6 of Schedule 13D if the requirements therein were applicable to the shareholder.
(B) . Except as otherwise required by law or the Articles, only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of shareholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Company's notice of meeting or otherwise brought by or at the direction of the board of directors. Nominations of persons for election to the board of directors may be made at a special meeting of shareholders at which directors are to be elected pursuant to the Company's notice of meeting (a) by or at the direction of the board of directors or (b) provided that the board of directors has determined that directors shall be elected at such meeting, by any shareholder of the Company who is a shareholder of record at the time of giving notice provided for in these By-laws, who shall be entitled to vote at the meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in these By-laws. In the event the Company calls a special meeting of shareholders for the purpose of electing one or more directors to the board of directors, any such shareholder may nominate a person or persons (as the case may be), for election to such position(s) as specified in the Company's notice of meeting, if a shareholder's notice satisfying the requirements set forth in Section A(3) of Article EIGHTH of the Company's Articles is delivered to the Secretary of the Company not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such special meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the board of directors to be elected at such meeting. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment of a special meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a shareholder's notice as described above.
Special Meetings of Shareholders
(C) .
General
(1) Only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Articles and in these By-laws shall be eligible to serve as directors and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of shareholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in these By-laws or in the Articles of the Company. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Articles or these By-laws, the presiding officer of the meeting shall have the power and duty to determine whether any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was proposed in accordance with the procedures set forth in these By-laws or the Articles and, if any proposed business is not in compliance with these By-laws or the Articles, to declare that such defective proposal shall be disregarded.
(2) For purposes of these By-laws, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act").
(3) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of these By-laws, a shareholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect
 
 
to the matters set forth in these By-laws. Nothing in these By-laws shall be deemed to affect any rights (i) of shareholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Company's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act, including without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the time limits for notice of such proposals as provided under Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act or (ii) of the holders of any series of preferred stock to elect directors under specified circumstances.
(D) . To be eligible to be a nominee for election or reelection as a director of the Company, a person must deliver (in accordance with the time periods prescribed for delivery of notice under Section A(3) of Article EIGHTH of the Articles or Section 4(B) of these By-laws, as applicable) to the Secretary of the Company a written questionnaire with respect to the background and qualification of such person and any other person or entity that such person may represent (which questionnaire shall be provided by the Secretary) and a written representation and agreement (in the form provided by the Secretary) that such person (A) has no agreement or understanding with any person or entity as to how such person will act or vote on any issue or question as a director, (B) is not a party to any agreement or understanding with any person or entity other than the Company with respect to compensation, reimbursement or indemnification in connection with service or action as a director, (C) will comply with the director stock ownership guidelines of the Company and (D) in such person's individual capacity and on behalf of any person or entity for whom such person may be a representative, has complied and will comply with all applicable corporate governance, conflicts, confidentiality and stock ownership and trading policies of the Company. In addition, a person shall not be eligible to be a nominee for election as a director unless that person meets the requirements for service as a director prescribed in the Company's Corporate Governance Guidelines.
Submission of Questionnaire, Representation and Agreement
Section 5. . In any non-contested election of directors, any incumbent director nominee who receives a greater number of votes cast against his or her election than in favor of his or her election (excluding abstentions) by holders of shares entitled to vote in the election shall immediately tender his or her resignation, and the Board of Directors shall decide, through a process managed by the Governance and Nominating Committee and excluding the nominee in question, whether to accept the resignation at its next regularly scheduled Board meeting. The Board's explanation of its decision shall be promptly disclosed in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission. An election of directors shall be considered to be contested if there are more nominees for election than positions on the board of directors to be filled by election at the meeting of shareholders.
Election of Directors
Section 1. . Until the board of directors has increased or decreased the number of the directors as hereinafter provided, the number of the directors shall be eleven. The board is hereby authorized to increase or decrease the number of the directors from time to time without a vote of the shareholders, provided, however, that such number shall not be less than seven nor more than fifteen.
Number
Section 2. . The board of directors shall have power in general to manage the business and affairs of the Company consistent with the law, the Articles of the Company and these By-laws, and may from time to time adopt such regulations regarding the powers and duties of the respective officers, assistant officers and agents and the conduct of the Company's business as the board may deem proper and expedient.
General Powers
Section 3. . Candidates for election as directors at any annual meeting of shareholders shall be nominated and elected for terms to expire not later than the third annual
Election and Nomination of Directors
 
 
meeting following their election, in accordance with the By-laws and Articles of the Company and applicable law.
Section 4. . The board of directors shall without notice meet each year upon adjournment of the annual meeting of the shareholders at the principal office of the Company, or at such other time or place as shall be designated in a notice given to all nominees for director, for the purposes of organization, election of officers and consideration of any other business that may properly be brought before the meeting.
Annual Meeting
Section 5. Regular meetings of the board of directors shall be held at such times and places as shall be fixed by the board at any time in advance of the meeting date or designated in a notice of the meeting.
Regular Meetings.
Section 6. . Special meetings of the board of directors may be called by the chairman of the board, a vice chairman of the board, the president or any two directors.
Special Meetings
Section 7. No notice of a regular meeting of the board of directors shall be necessary if the meeting is held at the time and place fixed by the board in advance of the meeting date. Notice of any regular meeting to be held at another time or place and of all special meetings of the board, setting forth the time and place of the meeting, shall be given by letter or other writing deposited in the United States mail or with an express mail or private courier service not later than during the second day immediately preceding the day for such meeting, or by word of mouth, telephone, facsimile or other oral or written means received not later than during the day immediately preceding the day for such meeting.
Notice of Regular and Special Meetings.
Section 8. . A majority of the directors in office shall be necessary to constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at a meeting of the board of directors, but if at any meeting a quorum shall not be present the meeting may adjourn from time to time until a quorum shall be present.
Quorum
Section 9. . The board of directors may, by resolution adopted by a majority of the whole board, designate three or more of the directors to constitute an executive committee which to the extent provided in a resolution adopted by a majority of the whole board shall have and exercise the authority of the board in the management of the business and affairs of the Company except as otherwise limited by law.
Executive Committee
Section 10. The board of directors shall, by resolution adopted by a majority of the whole board, designate three or more of the directors to constitute an audit committee. Audit committee members shall not be officers or full time employees of the Company or its subsidiaries. The audit committee shall have such authority and shall perform such duties as shall be provided from time to time in accordance with resolutions of the board.
Audit Committee.
Section 11. The board of directors may, by resolution adopted by a majority of the whole board, designate three or more of the directors to constitute a compensation committee which to the extent provided in such resolution or other action by the board shall have and exercise the authority (a) to fix and determine, and change from time to time, the compensation of all officers of the Company elected by the board, including, but not restricted to, monthly or other periodic compensation and incentive or other additional compensation, (b) to authorize or approve all contracts of the Company with any officer for remuneration (whether in the form of a pension, deferred compensation or otherwise) to be paid from the general funds of the Company after the termination of regular employment of such officer, and (c) to administer or perform specified functions under any one or
Compensation and Benefits Committee.
 
 
more of the stock option or other incentive, pension or benefit plans of the Company; provided that the said committee shall not exercise any of its said authority with respect to any of its members.
Section 12. . Unless otherwise determined by the board of directors, the chief executive officer of the Company shall have the authority to fix and determine, and change from time to time, the compensation of all assistant officers and agents of the Company elected or appointed by the board or by the chief executive officer, including, but not restricted to, monthly or other periodic compensation and incentive or other additional compensation.
Compensation of Assistant Officers and Agents
Section 13. . Nothing contained in the foregoing two sections of this Article III shall be construed to vest, or to authorize vesting, in the chief executive officer of the Company any authority with respect to stock options or other incentives under plans which provide for administration by the board of directors or a committee thereof.
Limitation Regarding Incentive Plans
Section 14. . In addition to the committees described in this Article III, the board of directors may, by resolution adopted by a majority of the whole board, designate one or more other committees of the board, each of which shall consist of one or more of the directors. Each such other committee shall have such authority and shall perform such other duties as may be provided from time to time in resolutions of the board.
Other Committees
Section 15. . In the absence or disqualification of any member of any committee of the board of directors, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not such member or members constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another director to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member.
Substitute Committee Members
Section 16. . One or more directors may participate in a meeting of the board of directors or of a committee thereof by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other.
Participation by Conference Telephone
Section 17. . To the fullest extent that the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, as in effect on May 15, 1987 or as thereafter amended, permit elimination or limitation of the liability of directors, no director of the Company shall be personally liable for monetary damages for any action taken, or any failure to take any action. This Section 17 shall not apply to any action filed prior to May 15, 1987, nor to any breach of performance of duty or any failure of performance of duty occurring prior to May 15, 1987. The provisions of this Section shall be deemed to be a contract with each director of the Company who serves as such at any time while such provisions are in effect, and each such director shall be deemed to be serving as such in reliance on the provisions of this Section. Any amendment or repeal of this Section or adoption of any other By-law or provision of the Articles of the Company which has the effect of increasing director liability shall operate prospectively only and shall not affect any action taken, or any failure to act, prior to such amendment, repeal or adoption. This Section 17 may be amended or repealed only with the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of common stock of the Company.
Personal Liability of Directors
Section 1. The board of directors at its annual meeting shall elect a president, a secretary and a treasurer, or persons who act as such, and may elect a chairman of the board, one or more vice presidents, a controller, a general counsel and such other officers and assistant officers as
Number and Election.
 
 
the board may deem appropriate. The board shall from time to time designate the chief executive officer who shall be either the chairman of the board or the president. The board may also from time to time elect such other officers and assistant officers and appoint such agents as it may deem appropriate. Assistant officers and agents also may be appointed by the chief executive officer.
Section 2. . The chairman of the board shall be a member of the board of directors but the other officers need not be directors.
Qualifications
Section 3. . Each officer and assistant officer shall hold office until the annual meeting of the board of directors next following the meeting of the board at which such officer or assistant officer is elected, except in the case of earlier death, resignation or removal.
Term of Office
Section 4. . The chairman of the board shall preside at all meetings of the board of directors at which such chairman is present. In the absence of the chairman of the board, a vice chairman of the board, the president or another director, in the order designated by the chairman of the board, shall preside at meetings of the board of directors. If the chairman of the board is not the chief executive officer, the chairman of the board shall have such powers and perform such other duties as the president may from time to time delegate to such chairman, except as otherwise determined by the board.
Chairman of the Board
Section 5. . If the president is not the chief executive officer, the president shall have such powers and perform such other duties as the chairman of the board may from time to time delegate to the president, except as otherwise determined by the board.
President
Section 6. . Each vice president, including any vice president designated as executive, senior or otherwise, shall have such powers and perform such duties as the chairman of the board or the president may from time to time delegate to such vice president, except as otherwise determined by the board of directors.
Vice Presidents
Section 7. . The secretary shall attend meetings of the shareholders, the board of directors and the executive committee, shall keep minutes thereof in suitable books, and shall send out all notices of meetings as required by law or these By-laws. The secretary shall be ex officio an assistant treasurer. The secretary shall, in general, perform all duties incident to the office of secretary.
Secretary
Section 8. . The treasurer shall receive all money paid to the Company and keep or cause to be kept accurate accounts of all money received or payments made in books kept for that purpose. The treasurer shall deposit all money received by the treasurer in the name and to the credit of the Company in banks or other places of deposit. The treasurer shall disburse the money of the Company by checks or vouchers. The treasurer shall be ex officio an assistant secretary. The treasurer shall, in general, perform all duties incident to the office of treasurer.
Treasurer
Section 9. . The controller shall be responsible for the implementation of accounting policies and procedures, the installation and supervision of all accounting records, including the preparation and interpretation of financial statements, the compilation of production costs and cost distributions and the taking and valuation of physical inventories. The controller shall also be responsible for the maintenance of adequate records of authorized appropriations and the approval for payment of all checks and vouchers. The controller shall, in general, perform all duties incident to the office of controller.
Controller
Section 10. . The general counsel shall advise the Company on legal matters affecting the Company and its activities and shall supervise and direct the handling of all such legal matters. The general counsel shall, in general, perform all duties incident to the office of general counsel.
General Counsel
 
 
Section 11. . Each assistant officer shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be delegated to such assistant officer by the officer to whom such assistant officer is an assistant or, in the absence or inability to act of such officer, by the officer to whom such officer reports or by the chief executive officer.
Assistant Officers
Section 1. . Every person who is or was a director, officer or employee of the Company or of any other corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise which such person serves or served as such at the request of the Company (hereinafter referred to as an "eligible person") shall in accordance with this Article V, but not if prohibited by law, be indemnified by the Company as hereinafter provided against reasonable expense and any liability paid or incurred by such person in connection with or resulting from any claim in which such person may be involved, as a party or otherwise, by reason of such person's being or having been a director, officer or employee of the Company or such other enterprise, whether or not such person continues to be such at the time such liability or expense shall have been paid or incurred.
Indemnification Granted
Section 2. . As used in this Article V, the term "claim" shall mean any threatened or actual claim, action, suit or proceeding (whether brought by or in the right of the Company or such other enterprise or otherwise), whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative; the term "expense" shall mean counsel fees and disbursements and all other expenses (except any liability) incurred in connection with any claim; and the term "liability" shall mean amounts of judgments, fines or penalties against, and amounts paid in settlement by, an eligible person with respect to any claim.
Certain Definitions
Section 3. . Any eligible person who has been wholly successful, on the merits or otherwise, with respect to any claim shall be reimbursed by the Company for such person's reasonable expense. Any eligible person who has been partially successful shall be proportionately reimbursed by the Company for such person's reasonable expense.
Expense Reimbursement to the Extent Successful
Section 4. . Any eligible person who has been partially unsuccessful and any other eligible person not described in Section 3 of this Article V shall be reimbursed by the Company for such person's reasonable expense and for any liability if a Referee shall deliver to the Company the written finding of such Referee that such person acted in good faith and in a manner such person reasonably believed to be in, or not opposed to, the best interests of the Company, and in addition with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe the conduct of such person was unlawful. Where such person is found by the Referee to have met the foregoing standards of conduct with respect to one or more but not all the claims made against such person, such person shall be entitled to indemnification for such expense and liability in such proportion as the Referee shall determine. The termination of any claim by judgment, order, settlement (whether with or without court approval), adverse decision, or conviction after trial or upon a plea of guilty or of nolo contendere or its equivalent, shall not of itself create a presumption that an eligible person did not meet the foregoing standards of conduct. The person claiming indemnification shall, at the request of the Referee, appear before the Referee and answer questions which the Referee deems relevant and shall be given ample opportunity to present to the Referee evidence upon which such person relies for indemnification; and the Company shall at the request of the Referee, make available to the Referee facts, opinions or other evidence in any way relevant for the Referee's finding which are within the possession or control of the Company. As used in this Article V, the term "Referee" shall mean independent legal counsel (who may be regular independent legal counsel of the Company), or other disinterested person or persons, selected to act as such hereunder by the board of directors of the Company, whether or not a disinterested quorum exists.
Indemnification Where Not Wholly Successful
 
 
Section 5. . Any expense incurred with respect to any claim may be advanced by the Company prior to the final disposition thereof upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of the recipient to repay such amount if it is ultimately determined that such recipient is not to be indemnified under this Article V.
Advancement of Expenses
Section 6. . The rights of indemnification provided in this Article V shall be in addition to any rights to which any eligible person may otherwise be entitled by contract or as a matter of law; and in the event of such person's death, such rights shall extend to the heirs and legal representatives of such person.
Article V Not Exclusive; Survival of Rights
Section 1. . Share certificates shall be in such form as the board of directors may from time to time determine. Each certificate shall be signed by the chairman of the board, the president, the treasurer or the secretary of the Company, by manual or facsimile signature.
Share Certificates
Section 2. . The board of directors may from time to time appoint one or more transfer agents and may appoint one or more registrars of transfer, each to act with respect to such preferred and common shares of the Company as the board of directors may designate. No share certificate of the Company shall be valid or binding unless countersigned, manually or by facsimile signature, by a transfer agent if one has been appointed to act with respect to the shares evidenced by such certificate, and registered before issue by a registrar if one has been appointed to act with respect to the shares evidenced by such certificate.
Transfer Agent and Registrar
Section 3. . In case any officer of the Company, or any authorized signatory of any transfer agent or registrar, who has signed, or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon, any share certificate shall have ceased to be such officer or authorized signatory because of death, resignation or otherwise, before the certificate is issued, it may be issued with the same effect as if the officer or authorized signatory had not ceased to be such at the date of its issue.
Signatures by Former Corporate Officers or Agents
These By-laws may be altered, amended, added to or repealed by the board of directors at any meeting of the board duly convened with or without notice of that purpose, subject to the power of the shareholders to change such action.
Section 1. . Except as prohibited by law, every director of the Company shall be entitled as of right to be indemnified by the Company against expenses and any liability paid or incurred by such person in connection with any actual or threatened claim, action, suit or proceeding, civil, criminal, administrative, investigative or other, whether brought by or in the right of the Company or otherwise, in which he or she may be involved, as a party or otherwise, by reason of such person being or having been a director of the Company or by reason of the fact that such person is or was serving at the request of the
Right to Indemnification
 
 
Company as a director, officer, employee, fiduciary or other representative of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other entity (such claim, action, suit or proceeding hereinafter being referred to as a "claim"); provided, that no such right of indemnification shall exist with respect to a claim brought by a director against the Company except as provided in the last sentence of this Section 1. Indemnification hereunder shall include the right to have expenses incurred by such person in connection with a claim paid in advance by the Company prior to final disposition of such claim, subject to any obligation which may be imposed by law, By-law, agreement or otherwise to reimburse the Company in certain events. As used herein, "expenses" shall include fees and expenses of counsel selected by any such director and "liability" shall include amounts of judgments, excise taxes, fines, penalties and amounts paid in settlement. With respect to any claim brought by a director or other person against the Company, the director or other person shall be entitled to be indemnified for expenses incurred in connection with such claim pursuant to this Section 1 only (i) if the claim is a suit brought as a claim for indemnity under Section 2 of this Article VIII or otherwise, (ii) if the director or other person is successful in whole or in part in the claim for which expenses are claimed or (iii) if the indemnification for expenses is included in a settlement of the claim or is awarded by a court.
Section 2. . If a claim under Section 1 of this Article VIII is not paid in full by the Company within thirty days after a written claim has been received by the Company, the claimant may at any time thereafter bring suit against the Company to recover the unpaid amount of the claim and, if successful in whole or in part, the claimant shall also be entitled to be paid the expense of prosecuting such claim. It shall be a defense to any such suit to recover indemnification that the claimant's conduct was such that under Pennsylvania law the Company is prohibited from indemnifying the claimant for the amount claimed, but the burden of proving such defense shall be on the Company. Neither the failure of the Company (including its board of directors, legal counsel and its shareholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such suit that indemnification of the claimant is proper in the circumstances, nor an actual determination by the Company (including its board of directors, legal counsel or its shareholders) that the claimant's conduct was such that indemnification is prohibited by law, shall be a defense to the suit to recover indemnification or create a presumption that the claimant's conduct was such that indemnification is prohibited by law. The only defense to any such suit to receive payment of expenses in advance shall be failure to make an undertaking to reimburse if such an undertaking is required by law, By-law, agreement or otherwise.
Right of Claimant to Bring Suit
Section 3. . The Company may purchase and maintain insurance to protect itself and any person eligible to be indemnified hereunder against any liability or expense asserted or incurred by such person in connection with any claim, whether or not the Company would have the power to indemnify such person against such liability or expense by law or under the provisions of this Article. The Company may create a trust fund, grant a security interest, cause a letter of credit to be issued or use other means (whether or not similar to the foregoing) to ensure the payment of such sums as may become necessary to effect indemnification as provided herein.
Insurance and Funding
Section 4. . The right of indemnification provided for in this Article VIII (i) shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights, whether now existing or hereafter created, to which those seeking indemnification hereunder may be entitled under any provision of the Articles or By-laws, or any agreement, vote of shareholders or directors or otherwise, (ii) shall be deemed to create contractual rights in favor of persons entitled to indemnification hereunder, (iii) shall continue as to persons who have ceased to have the status pursuant to which they were entitled or were denominated as entitled to indemnification hereunder and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs and legal representatives of persons entitled to indemnification hereunder and (iv) shall be applicable to claims commenced after the adoption hereof, whether arising from acts or omissions occurring before or after the adoption hereof. The right of indemnification provided for herein may not be amended or repealed so as to limit in any way the
Non-Exclusivity; Nature and Extent of Rights
 
 
indemnification provided for herein with respect to any acts or omissions occurring prior to any such amendment or repeal.
 
 
(Amended April 2010)
 

Exhibit 99
April 23, 2010
Alcoa Board of Directors Elects Klaus Kleinfeld Chairman, CEO
Alain Belda Retires After 40+ Years with Company
Judith Gueron named Lead Director
Arthur Collins elected to Board
Jim Owens named Chairman of Audit Committee
Frank Thomas and Henry Schacht retire
PITTSBURGH()Alcoa (NYSE:AA) today announced that its Board of Directors has elected Klaus Kleinfeld, 52, as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company. Kleinfeld succeeds Alain Belda, 66, who previously announced his plans to retire from the Company after more than 40 years of service. The leadership change took place at Alcoa's annual meeting of shareholders today.
BUSINESS WIRE
Kleinfeld has been a member of the Alcoa Board of Directors since 2003. He joined Alcoa as an executive in October 2007 as President and Chief Operating Officer and was named President and CEO in May 2008. Previously he served as CEO of Siemens AG.
Mr. Belda said, "As I retire from Alcoa, I leave confident that our company is in the able hands of an experienced CEO, strategic thinker and passionate advocate of Alcoa's Values. In his seven years serving Alcoa as a board member and later as COO and CEO, he has demonstrated the leadership, strategic vision and operational insight to guide the Company into the future as Chairman of Alcoa."
"Alain Belda has worked most of his life for, and applied his many talents to Alcoa," said Kleinfeld. "Alain was the driving force behind one of the most important strategic changes in Alcoa's history  the internationalization of the Company. His personal values and commitment to environmental stewardship have inspired Alcoans and made Alcoa a model of sustainable citizenship," added Kleinfeld.
Frank Thomas and Henry Schacht also are retiring as directors of the Company. Mr. Thomas has served as Lead Director and Mr. Schacht as Chairman of the Audit Committee. Both will serve as senior advisors to the Board of Directors to provide for an orderly transition in board leadership. Kleinfeld said, "Alcoa has benefitted greatly from the counsel and commitment of Frank Thomas and Henry Schacht; their wisdom and experience has been invaluable to the Company's success."
Judith Gueron, who has been an Alcoa director since 1988, has been elected Lead Director, succeeding Thomas. Dr. Gueron has chaired Alcoa's Public Issues Committee, which oversees environmental and social responsibility performance, since the board committee was formed in 2002. A nationally recognized expert on employment and training, with a Ph.D. in economics from Harvard University, Dr. Gueron has the ideal background to guide the directors at a time when the Company faces a wide array of workplace and sustainability issues and opportunities. Jim Owens, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Caterpillar Inc., will succeed Schacht as Chairman of the Audit Committee. "Jim's recent success as CEO and his previous role as Chief Financial Officer of Caterpillar prepare him well for the important financial oversight and governance responsibilities of the Audit Committee," Kleinfeld said.
Alcoa's shareholders also elected Arthur D. Collins, Jr., retired Chairman and CEO of Medtronic, Inc., as a new member of the board at the annual meeting. "Art brings a proven track record of corporate leadership and, just as important, unique insights into technology trends," Kleinfeld said. With these changes, Alcoa now has 12 members serving on its Board of Directors.
"Looking to the future, Alcoa and our investors can be confident of prudent counsel and stewardship from a Board of Directors with broad global experience and diverse achievements in business, politics and society," Kleinfeld said.
Other business at the annual meeting included re-election by shareholders of Carlos Ghosn, Michael Morris and Stanley O'Neal to three-year terms on the Board; ratification of independent auditors; approval by shareholders of a majority voting standard; and elimination of the supermajority voting provision was not approved. A shareholder proposal asking the Board of Directors to take the steps necessary to eliminate the supermajority voting provisions received support of a majority of votes cast.
Following is biographical information on Arthur D. Collins, Jr.
Arthur D. Collins, Jr.
Art Collins is the retired Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Medtronic, Inc., a leading medical device and technology company. He held a succession of executive leadership positions with the company starting in 1992 until his retirement in 2008. He served as Chairman of the Board of Medtronic, Inc. from April 2002 through August 2008 and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer from May 2002 to August 2007. In addition, Mr. Collins served as President and Chief Executive Officer, President and Chief Operating Officer, and Chief Operating Officer at the company. He was Executive Vice President of Medtronic and President of Medtronic International from June 1992 to January 1994.
Prior to joining Medtronic, he was Corporate Vice President of Abbott Laboratories, a global health care company, a position he held from 1989 to 1992, and Divisional Vice President of that company from May 1984 to October 1989. He joined Abbott in 1978 after spending four years with Booz, Allen & Hamilton, a major management consulting firm.
Mr. Collins currently serves on the boards of The Boeing Company, U.S. Bancorp and privately held Cargill Incorporated. He has served on the Audit, Finance, Compensation, Governance and Executive committees of various boards. Currently, he chairs the Governance Committee at U.S. Bancorp, the Finance Committee at Boeing and the Human Resources and Compensation Committee at Cargill.
Mr. Collins is a member of the Board of Overseers of The Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania and the Board of Visitors at Miami University of Ohio. He also serves as a senior advisor to Oak Hill Capital Partners, L.P., a private equity firm.
About Alcoa
Alcoa is the world's leading producer of primary aluminum, fabricated aluminum and alumina. In addition to inventing the modern-day aluminum industry, Alcoa innovation has been behind major milestones in the aerospace, automotive, packaging, building and construction, commercial transportation, consumer electronics and industrial markets over the past 120 years. Among the solutions Alcoa markets are flat-rolled products, hard alloy extrusions, and forgings, as well as Alcoa wheels, fastening systems, precision and investment castings, and building systems in addition to its expertise in other light metals such as titanium and nickel-based super alloys. Sustainability is an integral part of Alcoa's operating practices and the product design and engineering it provides to customers. Alcoa has been a member of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for eight consecutive years and approximately 75 percent of all of the aluminum ever produced since 1888 is still in active use today. Alcoa employs approximately 59,000 people in 31 countries across the world. More information can be found at .
www.alcoa.com


