FILE:AA/AA-8K-20100713160655.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 12, 2010, Alcoa Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the second quarter of 2010. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99, is being furnished in accordance with the provisions of General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K.
 
 
The following is furnished as an exhibit to this report:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: July 13, 2010
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
[Alcoa logo]
 
Highlights:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Alcoa (NYSE: AA) today announced second quarter 2010 income from continuing operations of $137 million or $0.13 per share compared with a first quarter 2010 loss from continuing operations of $194 million, or a loss of $0.19 per share. First quarter 2010 results included restructuring and special charges of $295 million, or $0.29 per share. The second quarter of 2009 showed a loss from continuing operations of $312 million, or $0.32 per share including restructuring charges.
NEW YORK, NY  July 12, 2010
Earnings for the second quarter improved $331 million sequentially as stronger volumes, productivity improvements, favorable currency and lower energy costs more than offset slightly lower average realized metal prices which declined $22 a metric ton, to an average of $2,309 a ton in the quarter.
The second quarter 2010 results reflect the impact of restructuring including job reductions and special items such as costs associated with the recently completed United Steelworkers contract negotiations, offset by non-cash, mark-to-market benefits on derivatives in several power contracts as well as a net discrete tax benefit. Taken
together these items had a net unfavorable impact of $2 million in the quarter. First quarter 2010 results included restructuring and special charges of $295 million or $0.29 per share.
Revenues for the quarter were $5.2 billion, a six percent increase from the first quarter of 2010 driven by a four percent increase in aluminum shipments and a one percent increase in third-party prices for alumina, partially offset by a one percent decrease in realized prices for aluminum. In many markets we saw strong revenue growth from the previous quarter with packaging (+17%), commercial transportation (+10%), building and construction (+9%), distribution (+5%), industrial gas turbines (+5%) and aerospace (+5%) realizing gains. Revenues increased 22 percent from $4.2 billion in the second quarter of 2009.
"We improved profits and revenues and maintained our solid cash position," said Klaus Kleinfeld, Alcoa Chairman and CEO. "The top and bottom line growth was driven by higher volumes from stronger end markets and continued gains from our productivity programs. Based on this improved end-market demand, we are raising our projection for aluminum consumption from 10 percent to 12 percent this year.
"Prospects for Alcoa and aluminum continue to be excellent," Kleinfeld said. "Aluminum is traditionally a backbone of growing economies and is penetrating new applications every day. Alcoa has enviable positions in bauxite, alumina and aluminum and our investments will move us further down the cost curve. Meanwhile, our mid- and downstream businesses continue to improve margins."
Alcoa continued to produce strong results in its cash sustainability program. After the first six months of 2010, the Company is tracking toward its expanded goals for 2010, including: $1.4 billion of the targeted $2.5 billion in procurement savings; $311 million of the targeted $500 million in annual overhead reduction savings; days of working capital at 42, a six-day improvement from the same period last year; and $514 million toward the targeted $1.25 billion in capital spending. The capital spending includes the Company's investment in the Ma'aden/Alcoa joint venture in Saudi Arabia, which will create the world's lowest-cost aluminum complex, including a mine, refinery, smelter and rolling mill.
Cash sustainability efforts helped improve the cost of goods sold as a percentage of sales by 90 basis points to 81.2 percent from 82.1 percent in the first quarter of 2010. EBITDA for the second quarter 2010 was $724 million. The Company's second quarter 2010 EBITDA margin of 14.0 percent was the highest since third quarter 2008.
Net income for the second quarter 2010 was $136 million or $0.13 per share compared with a net loss of $201 million, or a loss of $0.20 per share in the first quarter of 2010, which includes the previously mentioned restructuring and special items. The second quarter of 2009 showed a net loss of $454 million, or $0.47 per share, including restructuring charges.
Free cash flow in the second quarter of 2010 totaled $87 million. In the quarter, the Company ended several accounts receivable sales programs, which resulted in an unfavorable working capital impact of approximately $260 million and held free cash flow back from even stronger performance.
Debt-to-capital at the end of the second quarter 2010 stands at 38.4 percent, 130 basis points lower than the second quarter of 2009. Overall debt decreased $465 million from the second quarter of 2009. Cash on hand at the end of the second quarter of 2010 was $1.34 billion.
Revenues for the first half of 2010 were $10.1 billion, and results from continuing operations showed a loss of $57 million, or $0.06 per share. The first half of 2010 showed a net loss of $65 million, or $0.06 per share.
Segment Results
Alumina
After-tax operating income (ATOI) in the second quarter was $94 million, an increase of $22 million compared with first quarter ATOI of $72 million. Higher production and a one percent increase in realized price, along with favorable currency and productivity benefits, were partially offset by commissioning issues at the Sao Luis refinery. Alumina production in the second quarter increased 24 thousand metric tons (kmt) to 3,890 kmt as increases across our global system more than offset declines at Sao Luis.
Primary Metals
ATOI in the second quarter was $109 million, a decrease of $14 million from the first quarter. Lower LME prices and higher LME-linked costs, primarily energy, were partially offset by favorable currency, non-LME-linked energy benefits and continued productivity gains. Litigation related to a power contract at the Rockdale smelter and the associated legal costs negatively impacted results by $10 million. Also in the quarter, the Fusina smelter was fully curtailed and the Aviles smelter was forced to halt operations due to flooding. Primary metal production for the quarter increased 4 kmt to 893 kmt and buy/resell activity totaled 68 kmt.
Flat-Rolled Products
ATOI in the second quarter was $71 million, a sequential increase of $41 million. Higher volumes in Russia, China and North America, and continued productivity gains were partially offset by lower prices. In the quarter, the Russia operations benefited from improving market conditions and a lower cost structure to generate positive ATOI.
Engineered Products and Solutions
ATOI in the second quarter was $107 million, up 32 percent while sales rose four percent. Higher volumes in the aerospace, building & construction and commercial vehicle markets along with strong productivity gains.
Alcoa will hold its quarterly conference call at 5:00 PM Eastern Time on July 12, 2010 to present the quarter's results. The meeting will be webcast via alcoa.com. Call information and related details are available at under "Invest."
www.alcoa.com
About Alcoa
Alcoa is the world's leading producer of primary aluminum, fabricated aluminum and alumina. In addition to inventing the modern-day aluminum industry, Alcoa innovation has been behind major milestones in the aerospace, automotive, packaging, building and construction, commercial transportation, consumer electronics and industrial markets over the past 120 years. Among the solutions Alcoa markets are flat-rolled products, hard alloy extrusions, and forgings, as well as Alcoa wheels, fastening systems, precision and investment castings, and building systems in addition to its expertise in other light metals such as titanium and nickel-based super alloys. Sustainability is an integral part of Alcoa's operating practices and the product design and engineering it provides to customers. Alcoa has been a member of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for eight consecutive years and approximately 75 percent of all of the aluminum ever produced since 1888 is still in active use today. Alcoa employs approximately 59,000 people in 31 countries across the world. More information can be found at .
www.alcoa.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains statements that relate to future events and expectations and, as such, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include those containing such words as "anticipates," "estimates," "expects," "forecasts," "outlook," "plans," "projects," "should," "targets," "will," or other words of similar meaning. All statements that reflect Alcoa's expectations, assumptions, or projections about the future other than statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, forecasts concerning aluminum industry growth, aluminum end-market demand or other trend projections, anticipated financial results or operating performance, anticipated achievement of 2010 cash sustainability targets, and statements about Alcoa's strategies, objectives, goals, targets, outlook, and business and financial prospects. Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors and are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results, performance, or outcomes may differ materially from those expressed in or implied by those forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include: (a) material adverse changes in aluminum industry conditions, including global supply and demand conditions and fluctuations in London Metal Exchange-based prices for primary aluminum, alumina and other products; (b) unfavorable changes in general business and economic conditions, in the global financial markets, or in the markets served by Alcoa, including automotive and commercial transportation, aerospace, building and construction, distribution, packaging, and industrial gas turbine; (c) the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on costs and results, particularly the Australian dollar, Brazilian real, Canadian dollar and Euro; (d) increases in energy costs, including electricity, natural gas and fuel oil, or the unavailability or interruption of energy supplies; (e) increases in the costs of other raw materials, including caustic soda or carbon products; (f) Alcoa's
inability to achieve the level of cash generation, cost savings, improvement in profitability and margins, or strengthening of operations anticipated from its cash sustainability, productivity improvement and other initiatives; (g) Alcoa's inability to realize expected benefits from newly constructed, expanded or acquired facilities or from international joint ventures as planned and by targeted completion dates, including the joint venture in Saudi Arabia or the upstream operations in Brazil; (h) political, economic and regulatory risks in the countries in which Alcoa operates or sells products, including unfavorable changes in laws and governmental policies; (i) the outcome of contingencies, including legal proceedings, government investigations and environmental remediation; (j) the outcome of negotiations with, and the business or financial condition of, key customers, suppliers and business partners; (k) changes in tax rates or benefits; and (l) the other risk factors summarized in Alcoa's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2010, and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Alcoa disclaims any obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether in response to new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by applicable law.
 
 
 
 
 
 
The difference between certain segment totals and consolidated amounts is in Corporate.
 
Alcoa's definition of EBITDA is net margin plus an add-back for depreciation, depletion, and amortization. Net margin is equivalent to Sales minus the following items: Cost of goods sold; Selling, general administrative, and other expenses; Research and development expenses; and Provision for depreciation, depletion, and amortization. EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure. Management believes that this measure is meaningful to investors because EBITDA provides additional information with respect to Alcoa's operating performance and the Company's ability to meet its financial obligations. The EBITDA presented may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies.
 
Free Cash Flow is a non-GAAP financial measure. Management believes that this measure is meaningful to investors because management reviews cash flows generated from operations after taking into consideration capital expenditures due to the fact that these expenditures are considered necessary to maintain and expand Alcoa's asset base and are expected to generate future cash flows from operations. It is important to note that Free Cash Flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures since other non-discretionary expenditures, such as mandatory debt service requirements, are not deducted from the measure.


