FILE:AA/AA-8K-20101008154122.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 7, 2010, Alcoa Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the third quarter of 2010. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99, is being furnished in accordance with the provisions of General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K.
 
 
The following is furnished as an exhibit to this report:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: October 8, 2010
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
[Alcoa logo]
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Alcoa (NYSE: AA) today announced third quarter 2010 income from continuing operations of $61 million, or $0.06 per share, compared with second quarter 2010 income from continuing operations of $137 million, or $0.13 per share, and third quarter 2009 income from continuing operations of $73 million, or $0.07 per share. Third quarter 2010 results included a negative impact for special items of $35 million, or $0.03 per share, compared to a $2 million net charge for special items in the sequential quarter and a positive impact of $34 million, or $0.03 per share, in the year ago quarter.
New York, NY, Oct. 7, 2010
Quarterly results were impacted by lower London Metal Exchange (LME) prices and negative currency impacts. These were partially offset by higher volumes in Alumina, Flat-Rolled Products, and Engineered Products and Solutions and the continued benefits from Alcoa's Cash Sustainability Program.
The third quarter 2010 results also reflect the impact of special items such as previously announced recovery costs associated with the So Lus alumina refinery; a negative impact from the second quarter flood at the Avils smelter in Spain; costs associated with the recent debt tender offer; non-cash, mark-to-market impacts of derivatives in several power contracts; and restructuring activities. These items were partially offset by a discrete income tax benefit.
"We enhanced our liquidity, improved our balance sheet, and saw strong performance in our mid and downstream businesses," said Klaus Kleinfeld, Alcoa Chairman and CEO. "And despite unfavorable currency shifts and slightly lower metal prices, our upstream businesses continue to make progress.
"We see markets strengthening and have increased our 2010 global aluminum consumption forecast to 13 percent from 12 percent. In countries such as China, Brazil, India, and Russia, more and more people are moving into the middle class, driving demand in building and construction, transportation, and packaging. This trend favors aluminum as it is light, strong, and infinitely recyclable."
Net income for the quarter was $61 million, or $0.06 per share, compared to $136 million, or $0.13 per share, for the second quarter of 2010. Net income for the third quarter of 2009 was $77 million or $0.08 per share.
Revenues for the quarter were $5.3 billion, a 2 percent increase from $5.2 billion in the second quarter of 2010 and a 15 percent increase from $4.6 billion in the third quarter of 2009. The sequential increase was the result of a 3 percent increase in aluminum shipment volumes and a 7 percent increase in alumina shipments, offset by lower realized third-party prices for alumina (-5 percent) and aluminum (-2 percent). Strong end-market revenue performance in the quarter was achieved in Packaging (+11 percent), Commercial Transportation (+10 percent), Building & Construction (+10 percent), and Aerospace (+3 percent).
Alcoa continued to produce strong results in its Cash Sustainability Program and is on track to reach its goals for the year. Results year-to-date include procurement savings of $2.2 billion of the $2.5 billion target, overhead savings of $431 million toward the $500 million reduction target, capital spending at $785 million toward the $1.25 billion target, and working capital at 42 days, five days better than the same period last year.
Cash from Operations was $392 million, up $92 million from the second quarter of 2010, and an improvement of $208 million from the year ago quarter. Free cash flow was positive at $176 million in the quarter, an increase of $89 million compared to the previous quarter. Adjusted EBITDA was $602 million, a 33 percent increase over the third quarter of 2009.
Capital expenditures for the third quarter were $216 million, flat with the second quarter of 2010 and on target with the Cash Sustainability Program.
Debt-to-Capital at the end of the third quarter stands at 35.7 percent, 270 basis points lower than the previous quarter and a 260 basis point improvement over the prior-year quarter. The decrease was the result of a reduction in debt of $491 million from the sequential quarter and $764 million over the third quarter of 2009.
Segment Results
Alumina
After-tax operating income (ATOI) in the third quarter was $70 million, a decrease of $24 million compared with second quarter ATOI of $94 million. A 5 percent decline in realized alumina price, negative currency impacts, and So Lus production recovery efforts were partially offset by higher production, continued productivity benefits, and a favorable tax rate change. Alumina production in the third quarter increased to 4,047 thousand metric tons (kmt).
Primary Metals
ATOI in the third quarter was $78 million, a decrease of $31 million compared with second quarter ATOI of $109 million. Lower LME prices, unfavorable currency, the Avils smelter ramp up, and increases in energy and carbon product prices were partially offset by continued productivity gains. Primary production for the quarter decreased slightly by 2 kmt to 891 kmt, with buy/resell activity totaling 48 kmt. The Avils smelter is on track to return to full capacity by the end of the year.
Flat-Rolled Products
ATOI in the third quarter was $66 million, a decrease of $5 million compared with second quarter ATOI of $71 million. Revenue growth across many end-markets and increased volumes in China, North America, and Russia helped to partially offset higher costs related to the Tennessee hot mill fire, lower production levels in North America, and also the summer shutdown of our European plants. A rapid response to the Tennessee outage minimized the negative financial impact. The Russian operations achieved their second consecutive quarter of profitability and the Bohai, China, facility continued its ramp-up.
Engineered Products and Solutions
ATOI in the third quarter was $114 million, an increase of $7 million compared with second quarter ATOI of $107 million. Continued strong Cash Sustainability initiative performance helped to generate a record adjusted EBITDA margin of 18.2 percent, 4.9 percentage points better than the third quarter of 2009. Revenues increased sequentially on higher volumes in aerospace and increased market share in the building and construction market.
Alcoa will hold its quarterly conference call at 5:00 PM Eastern Time on October 7, 2010 to present the quarter's results. The meeting will be webcast via alcoa.com. Call information and related details are available at .com under "Invest."
www.alcoa
About Alcoa
Alcoa is the world's leading producer of primary aluminum, fabricated aluminum, and alumina. In addition to inventing the modern-day aluminum industry, Alcoa innovation has been behind major milestones in the aerospace, automotive, packaging, building and construction, commercial transportation, consumer electronics, and industrial markets over the past 120 years. Among the solutions Alcoa markets are flat-rolled products, hard alloy extrusions, and forgings, as well as Alcoa wheels, fastening systems, precision and investment castings, and building systems in addition to its expertise in other light metals such as titanium and nickel-based super alloys. Sustainability is an integral part of Alcoa's operating practices and the product design and engineering it provides to customers. Alcoa has been a member of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for nine consecutive years and approximately 75 percent of all of the aluminum ever produced since 1888 is still in active use today. Alcoa employs approximately 59,000 people in 31 countries across the world. More information can be found at .
www.alcoa.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains statements that relate to future events and expectations and, as such, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include those containing such words as "anticipates," "estimates," "expects," "forecasts," "outlook," "plans," "projects," "should," "targets," "will," or other words of similar meaning. All statements that reflect Alcoa's expectations, assumptions, or projections about the future other than statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, forecasts concerning aluminum industry growth, aluminum end-market demand or other trend projections, anticipated financial results or operating performance, anticipated achievement of 2010 cash sustainability targets, and statements about Alcoa's strategies, objectives, goals, targets, outlook, and business and financial prospects. Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors and are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results, performance, or outcomes may differ materially from those expressed in or implied by those forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include: (a) material adverse changes in aluminum industry conditions, including global supply and demand conditions and fluctuations in London Metal Exchange-based
prices for primary aluminum, alumina, and other products; (b) unfavorable changes in general business and economic conditions, in the global financial markets, or in the markets served by Alcoa, including automotive and commercial transportation, aerospace, building and construction, distribution, packaging, and industrial gas turbine; (c) the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on costs and results, particularly the Australian dollar, Brazilian real, Canadian dollar, and Euro; (d) increases in energy costs, including electricity, natural gas, and fuel oil, or the unavailability or interruption of energy supplies; (e) increases in the costs of other raw materials, including caustic soda or carbon products; (f) Alcoa's inability to achieve the level of cash generation, cost savings, improvement in profitability and days working capital, or strengthening of operations anticipated from its cash sustainability, productivity improvement, and other initiatives; (g) Alcoa's inability to realize expected benefits from newly constructed, expanded or acquired facilities or from international joint ventures as planned and by targeted completion dates, including the joint venture in Saudi Arabia or the upstream operations in Brazil; (h) political, economic, and regulatory risks in the countries in which Alcoa operates or sells products, including unfavorable changes in laws and governmental policies; (i) the outcome of contingencies, including legal proceedings, government investigations, and environmental remediation; (j) the outcome of negotiations with, and the business or financial condition of, key customers, suppliers, and business partners; (k) changes in tax rates or benefits; and (l) the other risk factors summarized in Alcoa's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, Forms 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2010 and June 30, 2010, and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Alcoa disclaims any obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether in response to new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by applicable law.
 
 
 
 
 
 
The difference between certain segment totals and consolidated amounts is in Corporate.
 
Alcoa's definition of Adjusted EBITDA is net margin plus an add-back for depreciation, depletion, and amortization. Net margin is equivalent to Sales minus the following items: Cost of goods sold; Selling, general administrative, and other expenses; Research and development expenses; and Provision for depreciation, depletion, and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure. Management believes that this measure is meaningful to investors because Adjusted EBITDA provides additional information with respect to Alcoa's operating performance and the Company's ability to meet its financial obligations. The Adjusted EBITDA presented may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies.
 
Free Cash Flow is a non-GAAP financial measure. Management believes that this measure is meaningful to investors because management reviews cash flows generated from operations after taking into consideration capital expenditures due to the fact that these expenditures are considered necessary to maintain and expand Alcoa's asset base and are expected to generate future cash flows from operations. It is important to note that Free Cash Flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures since other non-discretionary expenditures, such as mandatory debt service requirements, are not deducted from the measure.
 
Engineered Products and Solutions
 
Alcoa's definition of Adjusted EBITDA is net margin plus an add-back for depreciation, depletion, and amortization. Net margin is equivalent to Sales minus the following items: Cost of goods sold; Selling, general administrative, and other expenses; Research and development expenses; and Provision for depreciation, depletion, and amortization. The Other line in the table above includes gains/losses on asset sales and other nonoperating items. Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure. Management believes that this measure is meaningful to investors because Adjusted EBITDA provides additional information with respect to Alcoa's operating performance and the Company's ability to meet its financial obligations. The Adjusted EBITDA presented may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies.


