FILE:AA/AA-8K-20101130165425.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) J. Michael Schell, Executive Vice President  Business Development, will be leaving Alcoa Inc. ("Alcoa") effective December 31, 2010.
 
On November 30, 2010, Alcoa issued a press release announcing that Julia Steyn and George King have been named Vice Presidents and co-Managing Directors of the company's Business Development Group, succeeding J. Michael Schell, Executive Vice President  Business Development. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
The following is filed as an exhibit to this report:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: November 30, 2010
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
[Alcoa logo]
 
 Alcoa announced today that Julia Steyn and George King have been named Vice Presidents and co-Managing Directors of the company's Business Development Group, succeeding J. Michael Schell, Executive Vice President  Business Development. Ms. Steyn and Mr. King will report to Charles McLane, Alcoa Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
New York, NY, November 30, 2010
In their new roles, Ms. Steyn and Mr. King will lead the team responsible for preparation and conclusion of M&A transactions. They will also work closely with Alcoa's corporate strategy group, which handles the scanning of the competitive environment and screening of potential business targets, and with the company's business units to support post-merger integration activities.
Joining Alcoa in 2008 to expand the Business Development team's transaction evaluation and execution expertise, Mr. Schell recruited Ms. Steyn and Mr. King to Alcoa. He said, "This is a good time for a transition at Alcoa and for me to move to my next professional challenge."
Ms. Steyn joined Alcoa in 2008 as a director in the company's Business Development organization after six successful years at Goldman Sachs, working in London, Moscow and New York. She is a graduate of Oberlin College in Oberlin, OH, and holds an MBA from the University of Chicago.
Mr. King, also a director in Business Development, joined Alcoa in March 2009 after working for more than 10 years in the investment banking industry, most notably at Credit Suisse First Boston and Lazard, where he advised Alcoa as a client. He is a graduate of Washington & Lee University.
Mr. Schell will leave the company at the end of the year.
About Alcoa
Alcoa is the world's leading producer of primary aluminum, fabricated aluminum and alumina. In addition to inventing the modern-day aluminum industry, Alcoa innovation has been behind major milestones in the aerospace, automotive, packaging, building and construction, commercial transportation, consumer electronics and industrial markets over the past 120 years. Among the solutions Alcoa markets are flat-rolled products, hard alloy extrusions, and forgings, as well as Alcoa wheels, fastening systems, precision and investment castings, and building systems in addition to its expertise in other light metals such as titanium and nickel-based super alloys. Sustainability is an integral part of Alcoa's operating practices and the product design and engineering it provides to customers. Alcoa has been a member of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for nine consecutive years and approximately 75 percent of all of the aluminum ever produced since 1888 is still in active use today. Alcoa employs approximately 59,000 people in 31 countries across the world. More information can be found at .
www.alcoa.com


