FILE:AA/AA-8K-20110111154455.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 10, 2011, Alcoa Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fourth quarter and year ended 2010. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99, is being furnished in accordance with the provisions of General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K.
 
 
The following is furnished as an exhibit to this report:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: January 11, 2011
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
Alcoa Ends 2010 with Strong Fourth Quarter Results
Earnings Rise on Growing Revenue, Record Cash Performance
4Q 2010 Highlights
 
2010 Full-Year Highlights
 
Alcoa (NYSE: AA) today announced fourth quarter 2010 income from continuing operations of $258 million, or $0.24 per share, the company's highest quarterly income since the economic downturn and $197 million higher than the third quarter of 2010. Fourth quarter income from continuing operations includes a $35 million, or $0.03 per share, positive impact from special items, compared to a negative impact of $35 million, or $0.03 per share, in the third quarter of 2010 and a negative impact of $275 million, or $0.28 per share, in the fourth quarter of 2009. The company also set an all-time record for cash from operations and a fourth-quarter record for free cash flow.
New York, NY, Jan. 10, 2011 
Improved earnings were driven by higher pricing, continued strengthening in most end markets and improved productivity as a result of the company's Cash Sustainability Program. Results were offset somewhat by a weaker U.S. dollar and higher energy and raw material costs.
Results for the fourth quarter of 2010 include a favorable impact of $35 million, or $0.03 per share, for special items. Special items included a net benefit for restructuring-related actions, discrete income tax benefits and non-cash, mark-to-market impacts of derivatives in several power contracts.
"We exceeded all of our targets and continued to build momentum," said Klaus Kleinfeld, Alcoa Chairman and CEO. "We delivered all-time record cash from operations, record fourth-quarter free cash flow, improved earnings, grew revenue and paid down debt.
"In 2011, we see aluminum growing another 12 percent on top of last year's 13-percent improvement. We are well positioned to outpace the recovery in the markets we serve and grow shareholder value."
Alcoa projects global demand for aluminum to double by 2020. For 2011, the company projects growth in all end markets on a global basis.
4Q 2010
Revenue for the fourth quarter was $5.7 billion, up 7 percent compared to the third quarter. The increase was driven by an improvement in realized pricing for both alumina (9 percent) and aluminum (11 percent) as well as continued strengthening in most end markets.
Income from continuing operations in the quarter was $258 million, or $0.24 per share, compared to $61 million, or $0.06 per share, in the previous quarter and a loss of $266 million, or $0.27 per share, in the fourth quarter of 2009. Fourth-quarter income from continuing operations includes a $35 million, or $0.03 per share, positive impact from special items, compared to a negative impact of $35 million, or $0.03 per share, in the third quarter of 2010 and a negative impact of $275 million, or $0.28 per share, in the fourth quarter of 2009.
Net income was $258 million in the fourth quarter, an increase of $197 million from sequential quarter income of $61 million, and an increase of $535 million from the prior year quarter loss of $277 million.
Adjusted EBITDA margin in the fourth quarter of 2010 improved to 13.8 percent, up from 11.4 percent in the third quarter of 2010 and 3.4 percent in the fourth quarter of 2009.
Cash from operations was an all-time record $1.4 billion, an increase of $978 million from the previous quarter and a $246 million improvement from the fourth quarter of 2009. The sequential increase in cash from operations was driven by higher earnings, favorable changes in working capital and lower interest and tax payments. Alcoa generated $1 billion in free cash flow in the quarter, an increase of $829 million over the third quarter. Free cash flow was $244 million higher than the fourth quarter of 2009.
Third-party shipments of aluminum were essentially flat compared to the third quarter of 2010. End-market revenue performance improved over the third quarter in Aerospace (+4 percent), Building and Construction (+2 percent), Distribution (+13 percent) and Industrial Gas Turbines (+16 percent).
Alcoa's debt-to-capital ratio stands at 34.8 percent at the end of the fourth quarter, 90 basis points better than the third quarter of 2010, and 390 basis points lower than the fourth quarter of 2009. Liquidity improved, with $1.5 billion in cash on hand at the end of the fourth quarter compared to $843 million at the end of the third quarter of 2010.
2010 Full Year
Alcoa exceeded all targets in its Cash Sustainability Program in 2010. Results for the year include procurement savings of $2.64 billion, overhead savings of $509 million, capital spending reduced to $1.21 billion and working capital at 34 days.
For the year 2010, revenue was $21.0 billion, compared to $18.4 billion in 2009. Income from continuing operations was $262 million, or $0.25 per share, compared with a loss of $985 million, or $1.06 per share, in 2009. In both periods, income from continuing operations includes special items resulting in a negative impact of $297 million, or $0.29 per share, in 2010 and $300 million, or $0.32 per share, in 2009.
Full-year 2010 net income was $254 million, or $0.24 per share, compared to a net loss of $1.15 billion, or $1.23 per share, in 2009. Cash from operations in 2010 was $2.3 billion, compared to $1.4 billion in 2009. Alcoa generated $1.2 billion in free cash flow in 2010, up $1.5 billion over 2009.
The company's debt to capital ratio was reduced 390 basis points in 2010 compared to year-end 2009, driven by a $654 million net reduction in debt and a $1.6 billion increase in equity.
Segment Information
Alumina
After-tax operating income (ATOI) in the fourth quarter was $65 million, a decrease of $5 million compared with third-quarter ATOI of $70 million. A discrete tax item in the third quarter of $42 million obscured the improving performance of this business, with adjusted EBITDA rising to $180 million compared with third-quarter adjusted EBITDA of $146 million. A 9 percent improvement in realized alumina price was partially offset by negative currency impacts, higher raw material costs and continuing So Luis production recovery efforts. Alumina production in the fourth quarter increased to 4.12 million metric tons, record quarterly production.
Primary Metals
ATOI in the fourth quarter was $178 million, an increase of $100 million compared with third-quarter ATOI of $78 million. Improved LME prices, volume and productivity were partially offset by unfavorable currency and cost increases in energy and carbon product prices. Primary production for the quarter increased to 913,000 metric tons, with buy/resell activity totaling 70,000 metric tons. The Avils smelter returned to full production this quarter. Adjusted EBITDA per ton improved to $436 in the quarter, better than the ten-year historical average.
Flat-Rolled Products
ATOI in the fourth quarter was $53 million, a decrease of $13 million compared with third-quarter ATOI of $66 million. Seasonal volume declines in North America and Europe as well as scrap and alloying cost pressures accounted for the decline, although improving prices helped to offset these effects. Russia remained profitable for the third consecutive quarter, with $130 million of improved ATOI over 2009.
Engineered Products and Solutions
ATOI in the fourth quarter was $113 million, essentially flat with third-quarter ATOI of $114 million. Adjusted EBITDA margin remained at 17 percent, 6 percent better than the fourth quarter of 2009. Seasonal shutdowns and weather delays impacted this quarter's results, although the segment achieved
improved sequential revenues due to volume improvements in aerospace and commercial transportation.
Alcoa will hold its quarterly conference call at 5:00 PM Eastern Time on January 10, 2011 to present the quarter's results. The meeting will be webcast via alcoa.com. Call information and related details are available at under "Invest."
www.alcoa.com
About Alcoa
Alcoa is the world's leading producer of primary and fabricated aluminum, as well as the world's largest miner of bauxite and refiner of alumina. In addition to inventing the modern-day aluminum industry, Alcoa innovation has been behind major milestones in the aerospace, automotive, packaging, building and construction, commercial transportation, consumer electronics and industrial markets over the past 120 years. Among the solutions Alcoa markets are flat-rolled products, hard alloy extrusions, and forgings, as well as Alcoa wheels, fastening systems, precision and investment castings, and building systems in addition to its expertise in other light metals such as titanium and nickel-based super alloys. Sustainability is an integral part of Alcoa's operating practices and the product design and engineering it provides to customers. Alcoa has been a member of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for nine consecutive years and approximately 75 percent of all of the aluminum ever produced since 1888 is still in active use today. Alcoa employs approximately 59,000 people in 31 countries across the world. More information can be found at .
www.alcoa.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains statements that relate to future events and expectations and, as such, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include those containing such words as "anticipates," "estimates," "expects," "forecasts," "intends," "outlook," "plans," "projects," "should," "targets," "will," or other words of similar meaning. All statements that reflect Alcoa's expectations, assumptions, or projections about the future other than statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, forecasts concerning global demand for aluminum, aluminum end-market growth, aluminum consumption rates, or other trend projections, targeted financial results or operating performance, and statements about Alcoa's strategies, objectives, goals, targets, outlook, and business and financial prospects. Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors and are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results, performance, or outcomes may differ materially from those expressed in or implied by those forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include: (a) material adverse changes in aluminum industry conditions, including global supply and demand conditions and fluctuations in London Metal Exchange-based prices for primary aluminum, alumina, and other products; (b) unfavorable changes in general business and economic conditions, in the global financial markets, or in the markets served by Alcoa, including automotive and commercial transportation, aerospace, building and construction, distribution, packaging, oil and gas, defense, and industrial gas turbines; (c) the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on costs and results, particularly the Australian dollar, Brazilian real, Canadian dollar, and Euro; (d) increases in energy costs, including electricity, natural gas, and fuel oil, or the unavailability or interruption of energy supplies; (e) increases in the costs of other raw materials, including caustic soda or carbon products; (f) Alcoa's inability to achieve the level of revenue growth, cash generation, cost savings, improvement in profitability and margins, fiscal discipline, or strengthening of operations (including lowering of its refining and
smelter system on the world cost curve), anticipated from its productivity improvement, cash sustainability and other initiatives; (g) Alcoa's inability to realize expected benefits from newly constructed, expanded or acquired facilities or from international joint ventures as planned and by targeted completion dates, including the joint venture in Saudi Arabia or the upstream operations in Brazil; (h) political, economic, and regulatory risks in the countries in which Alcoa operates or sells products, including unfavorable changes in laws and governmental policies; (i) the outcome of contingencies, including legal proceedings, government investigations, and environmental remediation; (j) the outcome of negotiations with, and the business or financial condition of, key customers, suppliers, and business partners; (k) changes in tax rates or benefits; and (l) the other risk factors summarized in Alcoa's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, Forms 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2010, June 30, 2010, and September 30, 2010, and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Alcoa disclaims any obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether in response to new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by applicable law.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The difference between certain segment totals and consolidated amounts is in Corporate.
 
Alcoa's definition of Adjusted EBITDA is net margin plus an add-back for depreciation, depletion, and amortization. Net margin is equivalent to Sales minus the following items: Cost of goods sold; Selling, general administrative, and other expenses; Research and development expenses; and Provision for depreciation, depletion, and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure. Management believes that this measure is meaningful to investors because Adjusted EBITDA provides additional information with respect to Alcoa's operating performance and the Company's ability to meet its financial obligations. The Adjusted EBITDA presented may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies.
 
Free Cash Flow is a non-GAAP financial measure. Management believes that this measure is meaningful to investors because management reviews cash flows generated from operations after taking into consideration capital expenditures due to the fact that these expenditures are considered necessary to maintain and expand Alcoa's asset base and are expected to generate future cash flows from operations. It is important to note that Free Cash Flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures since other non-discretionary expenditures, such as mandatory debt service requirements, are not deducted from the measure.
 
Alcoa's definition of Adjusted EBITDA is net margin plus an add-back for depreciation, depletion, and amortization. Net margin is equivalent to Sales minus the following items: Cost of goods sold; Selling, general administrative, and other expenses; Research and development expenses; and Provision for depreciation, depletion, and amortization. The Other line in the table above includes gains/losses on asset sales and other nonoperating items. Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure. Management believes that this measure is meaningful to investors because Adjusted EBITDA provides additional information with respect to Alcoa's operating performance and the Company's ability to meet its financial obligations. The Adjusted EBITDA presented may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies.


