FILE:AA/AA-8K-20110511114506.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) Joseph T. Gorman retired from the Board of Directors of Alcoa Inc. ("Alcoa") when his term expired on May 6, 2011.
(e) On May 6, 2011, Alcoa shareholders approved the Alcoa Internal Revenue Code Section 162(m) Compliant Annual Cash Incentive Compensation Plan (the "Plan"). A summary of the Plan was set forth under the heading "Item 5  Proposal to Adopt Internal Revenue Code Section 162(m) Compliant Annual Cash Incentive Compensation Plan" in Alcoa's definitive proxy statement for the 2011 annual meeting of shareholders filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 7, 2011 (the "2011 Proxy Statement") and is incorporated herein by reference. The summary of the Plan is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Plan which was attached as Attachment D to the 2011 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(a) The 2011 annual meeting of Alcoa shareholders was held on May 6, 2011.
(b) Set forth below are the voting results for each of the matters submitted to a vote of the shareholders. As of the record date for the annual meeting, there were 1,061,578,724 shares of common stock outstanding and entitled to vote. 783,929,650 shares of common stock were represented in person or by proxy at the annual meeting.
Item 1. The three nominees for election to the Board of Directors named in the 2011 Proxy Statement were elected, each for a three-year term, based upon the following votes:
 
Item 2. The proposal to ratify the selection of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP to serve as the independent auditor of Alcoa for 2011 was approved based upon the following votes:
 
Item 3. The proposal to approve, on an advisory basis, executive compensation was approved based upon the following votes:
 
Item 4. The proposal on the frequency of future advisory votes on executive compensation received the following votes:
 
See Item 5.07(d) below.
 
Item 5. The proposal to adopt an Internal Revenue Code Section 162(m) Compliant Annual Cash Incentive Compensation Plan was approved based upon the following votes:
 
Item 6. The proposal to eliminate the super-majority voting requirement in the Articles of Incorporation regarding amending Article SEVENTH (fair price protection), which required the affirmative vote of the holders of not less than 80% of the shares outstanding, was not approved based upon the following votes:
 
Item 7. The proposal to eliminate the super-majority voting requirement in the Articles of Incorporation regarding amending Article EIGHTH (director elections), which required the affirmative vote of the holders of not less than 80% of the shares outstanding, was not approved based upon the following votes:
 
Item 8. The proposal to eliminate the super-majority voting requirement in Article EIGHTH of the Articles of Incorporation relating to the removal of directors, which required the affirmative vote of the holders of not less than 80% of the shares outstanding, was not approved based upon the following votes:
 
Item 9. The shareholder proposal to take action by written consent was approved, as an advisory vote, based upon the following votes:
 
Item 10. The shareholder proposal to declassify the Board was approved, as an advisory vote, based upon the following votes:
 
(d) Based upon the voting results on Item 4, the Board of Directors has determined that advisory votes on executive compensation will be submitted to shareholders on an annual basis until the next required advisory vote on the frequency of shareholder votes on executive compensation.
 
 
The following is filed as an exhibit to this report:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: May 11, 2011
 
 
 


