FILE:AA/AA-8K-20110121165037.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 23, 2004, St. Croix Renaissance Group, L.L.L.P., Brownfield Recovery Corp., and Energy Answers Corporation of Puerto Rico (collectively referred to as "SCRG") filed a suit against St. Croix Alumina L.L.C. and Alcoa World Alumina, L.L.C. (collectively referred to as "SCA") in the Territorial Court of the Virgin Islands, Division of St. Croix for claims related to the sale of SCA's former St. Croix alumina refinery to plaintiffs. SCA thereafter removed the case to federal court and after a several year period of discovery and motion practice, a jury trial on the matter took place in St. Croix from January 11, 2011 to January 20, 2011. The jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiffs and awarded damages as described: on a claim of breaches of warranty, the jury awarded $12,617,867; on the same claim, the jury awarded punitive damages in the amount of $6,142,856; and on a negligence claim for property damage, the jury awarded $10,000,000. SCA believes the verdict is, in whole or in part, not supported by the evidence or otherwise results from errors of law committed during the trial. As a result, SCA will file motions, including for judgment notwithstanding the verdict and, to the extent such post-trial motions are not successful, it intends to pursue its rights of appeal
.
On January 21, 2011, Alcoa Inc. issued a press release entitled "Alcoa Announces Dividend and Stock Contribution to Pension Plans." A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
The following is filed as an exhibit to this report:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: January 21, 2011
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
[Alcoa logo]
 
The Board of Directors of Alcoa declared (a) a quarterly common stock dividend of 3 cents per share payable February 25, 2011 to shareholders of record at the close of business on February 4, 2011 and (b) a quarterly dividend of 93.75 cents per share on Alcoa's $3.75 cumulative preferred stock payable April 1, 2011 to shareholders of record at the close of business on March 11, 2011.
NEW YORK, January 21, 2011
In addition, a contribution was authorized of up to $600 million in Alcoa common stock to the company's defined benefit pension plans. The company expects to complete the contribution in the first quarter of 2011. The stock contribution will improve the funded status of Alcoa's pension plans and provide financial flexibility. The company will make additional cash contributions of approximately $300 million in 2011 to improve the funded status of its plans.
The shares of common stock to be contributed to the pension plans will not be registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or any state securities laws at the time of contribution and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from registration requirements. This press release does not constitute an offer of any securities for sale or a solicitation of an offer to purchase or sell any securities.
About Alcoa
Alcoa is the world's leading producer of primary and fabricated aluminum, as well as the world's largest miner of bauxite and refiner of alumina. In addition to inventing the modern-day aluminum industry, Alcoa innovation has been behind major milestones in the aerospace, automotive, packaging, building and construction, commercial transportation, consumer electronics and industrial markets over the past 120 years. Among the solutions Alcoa markets are flat-rolled products, hard alloy extrusions, and forgings, as well as Alcoa wheels, fastening systems, precision and investment castings, and building systems in addition to its expertise in other light metals such as titanium and nickel-based super alloys. Sustainability is an integral part of Alcoa's operating practices and the
product design and engineering it provides to customers. Alcoa has been a member of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for nine consecutive years and approximately 75 percent of all of the aluminum ever produced since 1888 is still in active use today. Alcoa employs approximately 59,000 people in 31 countries across the world. More information can be found at .
www.alcoa.com
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements in this release relate to future events and expectations and, as such, constitute forward-looking statements involving known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results, performance or achievements of Alcoa to be different from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. These statements can be identified by the use of predictive, future-tense or forward-looking terminology, such as "expects," "intends," "may," "should," "will" or other similar words. Alcoa disclaims any intention or obligation (other than as required by law) to update or revise any forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include: (a) material adverse changes in economic or aluminum industry conditions generally, including global supply and demand conditions and fluctuations in London Metal Exchange-based prices for primary aluminum, alumina and other products; (b) risks related to the assumptions used by Alcoa in its estimates of liabilities and expenses for pension benefits, including the rate of return on plan assets, the rate used to discount the future estimated liability, and assumptions relating to the employee workforce; (c) the inability to realize expected benefits from the stock contribution as planned or to complete the transaction within the targeted timeframe; and (d) the other risk factors summarized in Alcoa's Form10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, Forms 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2010, June 30, 2010 and September 30, 2010, and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


