FILE:AA/AA-8K-20121003130127.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) On September 27, 2012, the Board of Directors of Alcoa Inc. ("Alcoa") approved amendments to Alcoa's By-Laws, effective as of that date. The amendments amend and update certain sections of Article III of the By-Laws relating to board meetings. The amendments:
 
 
 
 
The foregoing summary of the amendments to Alcoa's By-Laws is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the amended By-Laws attached hereto as Exhibit 3 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
On October 1, 2012, Alcoa issued a press release confirming that the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") has released the Proposed Remedial Action Plan ("PRAP") for the Grasse River. As a result of the EPA's issuance of the PRAP, Alcoa expects to record an associated after-tax charge of approximately $85 million, or $0.08 per share, in its results for the third quarter of 2012. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
The following are filed as exhibits to this report:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: October 3, 2012
 
 
 

Exhibit 3
Section 1. . The principal office of the Company shall be in the City of New York, New York.
Principal Office
Section 2. . The Company shall have a corporate seal in such form as the board of directors shall by resolution from time to time prescribe.
Seal
Section 3. . The fiscal year of the Company shall end on the 31st day of December.
Fiscal Year
Section 1. . Meetings of the shareholders of the Company shall be held at such place within or without the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania as may be fixed by the board of directors pursuant to authority hereby granted.
Place of Meetings
Section 2. . The annual meeting of the shareholders shall be held on the Friday next following the first Monday in May of each year at nine thirty o'clock A.M., local time in effect at the place of the meeting, or on such other day or at such other time as may be fixed by the board of directors pursuant to authority hereby granted.
Annual Meeting
Section 3. . All meetings of the shareholders shall be called to order and presided over by the chairman of the board, or in the absence of the chairman of the board, by a vice chairman of the board, the president or another director, in the order designated by the chairman of the board, or if none of these be present, by a chairman elected by a majority of the votes which all shareholders present are entitled to cast on any matter coming before the meeting.
Chairman of the Meeting
Section 4. .
Notice of Shareholder Business
(A) .
Annual Meetings of Shareholders
(1) The proposal of business (other than director nominations) to be considered by the shareholders may be made at an annual meeting of shareholders (a) pursuant to the Company's notice of meeting, (b) by or at the direction of the board of directors or (c) by any shareholder of the Company who was a shareholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in these By-laws, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in these By-laws.
(2) For business (other than director nominations, which are subject to the requirements of Section A(3) of Article EIGHTH of the Company's Articles, as the same may be amended from time to time) to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a shareholder pursuant to Section 4(A)(1)(c) of this Article II, the shareholder must have given timely notice thereof in proper form in writing to the Secretary and such business must otherwise be a proper matter for shareholder action. To be timely, a shareholder's notice shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Company not later than ninety days prior to the anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting and shall be updated and supplemented as set forth below; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual
 
meeting is more than thirty days before or more than sixty days after such anniversary date, notice by the shareholder must be so delivered not later than ninety days prior to the date of such annual meeting or, if the first public announcement of the date of such annual meeting is less than one hundred days prior to the date of such annual meeting, the tenth day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made by the Company. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment of an annual meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a shareholder's notice as described above. To be in proper form, a shareholder's notice shall set forth and disclose:
(i) as to any business (other than director nominations) that the shareholder proposes to bring before the meeting, a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest in such business of (x) the shareholder making the proposal, (y) the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made and (z) their respective affiliates and associates or others acting in concert therewith (each person or entity specified by the foregoing clauses (x), (y) and (z), a "Proposing Shareholder");
(ii) a description of all agreements, arrangements and understandings between a Proposing Shareholder and any other person or persons (including their names) in connection with the proposal of such business by the shareholder;
(iii) the text of the proposal or business (including the text of any resolutions proposed for consideration and, in the event that such proposal or business includes a proposal to amend the By-laws or Articles of Incorporation of the Company, the text of the proposed amendment);
(iv) the name and address, as they appear on the Company's books, of each Proposing Shareholder;
(v) the class or series and number of shares of the Company which are, directly or indirectly, owned beneficially and of record by each Proposing Shareholder;
(vi) any option, warrant, convertible security, stock appreciation right, or similar right with an exercise or conversion privilege or a settlement payment or mechanism at a price related to any class or series of shares of the Company or with a value derived in whole or in part from the value of any class or series of shares of the Company, or any derivative or synthetic arrangement having the characteristics of a long position in any class or series of shares of the Company, or any contract, derivative, swap or other transaction or series of transactions designed to produce economic benefits and risks that correspond substantially to the ownership of any class or series of shares of the Company, including due to the fact that the value of such contract, derivative, swap or other transaction or series of transactions is determined by reference to the price, value or volatility of any class or series of shares of the Company, whether or not such instrument, contract or right shall be subject to settlement in the underlying class or series of shares of the Company, through the delivery of cash or other property, or otherwise, and without regard to whether the shareholder of record, the beneficial owner, if any, or any affiliates or associates or others acting in concert therewith, may have entered into transactions that hedge or mitigate the economic effect of such instrument, contract or right, or any other direct or indirect opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the Company (any of the foregoing, a "Derivative Instrument") directly or indirectly owned beneficially by each Proposing Shareholder;
(vii) any proxy, contract, arrangement, understanding, or relationship pursuant to which any Proposing Shareholder has a right to vote any class or series of shares of the Company;
(viii) any agreement, arrangement, understanding, relationship or otherwise, including any repurchase or similar so-called "stock borrowing" agreement or arrangement, involving a Proposing Shareholder, directly or indirectly, the purpose or effect of which is to mitigate loss to, reduce the economic risk (of ownership or otherwise) of any class or series of the shares of the Company by, manage the risk of share price changes for, or increase or decrease the voting power of, such shareholder with respect to any class or series of the shares of the Company, or which provides, directly or indirectly, the opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from any decrease in the price or value of any class or series of the shares of the Company (any of the foregoing, a "Short Interest");
 
(ix) any rights to dividends on the shares of the Company owned beneficially by any Proposing Shareholder that are separated or separable from the underlying shares of the Company;
(x) any proportionate interest in shares of the Company or Derivative Instruments held, directly or indirectly, by a general or limited partnership in which any Proposing Shareholder is a general partner or, directly or indirectly, beneficially owns an interest in a general partner of such general or limited partnership;
(xi) any performance-related fees (other than an asset-based fee) that a Proposing Shareholder is entitled to based on any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the Company or Derivative Instruments, if any, including without limitation any such interests held by members of such Proposing Shareholder's immediate family sharing the same household;
(xii) any significant equity interests or any Derivative Instruments or Short Interests in any principal competitor of the Company held by a Proposing Shareholder;
(xiii) any direct or indirect interest of a Proposing Shareholder in any contract with the Company, any affiliate of the Company or any principal competitor of the Company (including, in any such case, any employment agreement, collective bargaining agreement or consulting agreement);
(xiv) to the extent not covered by the foregoing clauses (i) through (xiii), any disclosures that would be required pursuant to Item 5 or Item 6 of Schedule 13D if the requirements therein were applicable to each Proposing Shareholder; and
(xv) any other information relating to each Proposing Shareholder that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement and form of proxy or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for, as applicable, the proposal and/or for the election of directors in a contested election pursuant to Section 14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, as amended (the "Exchange Act").
To be considered timely, a shareholder's notice shall be updated and supplemented, if necessary, so that the information provided or required to be provided in such notice shall be true and correct as of the record date for the meeting and as of the date that is ten business days prior to the meeting or any adjournment or postponement thereof, and such update and supplement shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Company not later than five business days after the record date for the meeting in the case of the update and supplement required to be made as of the record date, and not later than eight business days prior to the date for the meeting or any adjournment or postponement thereof in the case of the update and supplement required to be made as of ten business days prior to the meeting or any adjournment or postponement thereof.
(B) . Except as otherwise required by law or the Articles, only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of shareholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Company's notice of meeting or otherwise brought by or at the direction of the board of directors. Nominations of persons for election to the board of directors may be made at a special meeting of shareholders at which directors are to be elected pursuant to the Company's notice of meeting (a) by or at the direction of the board of directors or (b) provided that the board of directors has determined that directors shall be elected at such meeting, by any shareholder of the Company who is a shareholder of record at the time of giving notice provided for in these By-laws, who shall be entitled to vote at the meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in these By-laws. In the event the Company calls a special meeting of shareholders for the purpose of electing one or more directors to the board of directors, any such shareholder may nominate a person or persons (as the case may be), for election to such position(s) as specified in the Company's notice of meeting, if a shareholder's notice satisfying the
Special Meetings of Shareholders
 
requirements set forth in Section A(3) of Article EIGHTH of the Company's Articles is delivered to the Secretary of the Company not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such special meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the board of directors to be elected at such meeting. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment of a special meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a shareholder's notice as described above.
(C) .
General
(1) Only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Articles and in these By-laws shall be eligible to serve as directors and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of shareholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in these By-laws or in the Articles of the Company. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Articles or these By-laws, the presiding officer of the meeting shall have the power and duty to determine whether any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was proposed in accordance with the procedures set forth in these By-laws or the Articles and, if any proposed business is not in compliance with these By-laws or the Articles, to declare that such defective proposal shall be disregarded.
(2) For purposes of these By-laws, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
(3) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of these By-laws, a shareholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act with respect to the matters set forth in these By-laws; provided, however, that any references in these By-laws to the Exchange Act are not intended to and shall not limit the separate and additional requirements set forth in these By-laws with respect to nominations or proposals as to any other business to be considered pursuant to this Section 4 of this Article II. Nothing in these By-laws shall be deemed to affect any rights (i) of shareholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Company's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act, including without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the time limits for notice of such proposals as provided under Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act or (ii) of the holders of any series of preferred stock to elect directors under specified circumstances. Subject to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act, nothing in these By-laws shall be construed to permit any shareholder, or give any shareholder the right, to include or have disseminated or described in the Company's proxy statement any nomination of a director or directors or any other business proposal.
(D) . To be eligible to be a nominee for election or reelection as a director of the Company, a person must deliver (in accordance with the time periods prescribed for delivery of notice under Section A(3) of Article EIGHTH of the Articles or Section 4(B) of this Article II, as applicable) to the Secretary of the Company a written questionnaire with respect to the background and qualification of such person and any other person or entity that such person may represent or on whose behalf the nomination is being made (which questionnaire shall be provided by the Secretary) and a written representation and agreement (in the form provided by the Secretary) that such person (A) has no agreement or understanding with any person or entity as to how such person will act or vote on any issue or question as a director, (B) is not and will not become a party to any agreement or understanding with any person or entity other than the Company with respect to compensation, reimbursement or indemnification in connection with service or action as a director, (C) will comply with the director stock ownership guidelines of the Company and (D) in such person's individual capacity and on behalf of any person or entity for whom such person may be a representative or on whose behalf the nomination is being made, has complied and will comply with all applicable corporate governance, conflicts, confidentiality and stock ownership and trading policies of the Company, including, for the avoidance of doubt, Section 5 of this Article II. In addition, a director nominee must comply with all applicable laws regarding service as a director of the Company,
Submission of Questionnaire, Representation and Agreement
 
including, without limitation, the requirements as amended of: the Clayton Antitrust Act of 1914, 15 U.S.C. 19; the Company's Department of State export license; the Department of Defense rules and regulations applicable to the Company; the New York Stock Exchange and other exchanges on which the Company's securities are listed; and the minimum standards for service as a director prescribed in the Company's Corporate Governance Guidelines.
Section 5. . In any non-contested election of directors, any incumbent director nominee who receives a greater number of votes cast against his or her election than in favor of his or her election (excluding abstentions) by holders of shares entitled to vote in the election shall immediately tender his or her resignation, and the Board of Directors shall decide, through a process managed by the Governance and Nominating Committee and excluding the nominee in question, whether to accept the resignation at its next regularly scheduled Board meeting. The Board's explanation of its decision shall be promptly disclosed in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission. An election of directors shall be considered to be contested if there are more nominees for election than positions on the board of directors to be filled by election at the meeting of shareholders.
Election of Directors
Section 6.
Shareholder Action by Written Consent.
(A) .
Shareholder Action by Written Consent
(1) Any action required or permitted to be taken at a meeting of the shareholders or of a class of shareholders of the Company may be taken without a meeting, provided that a consent or consents in writing to such action, setting forth the action so taken, shall be (1) signed by the shareholders who would have been entitled to cast the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to authorize the action at a meeting at which all shareholders entitled to vote thereon were present and voting and (2) filed with the Secretary of the Company. Delivery made to the Secretary shall be by hand or by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, at the Company's principal executive offices.
(2) Every written consent shall bear the date of signature of each shareholder who signs the consent and no written consent shall be effective to take the corporate action referred to therein unless, within 45 days of the earliest dated written consent received in accordance with this Section 6 of this Article II, a written consent or consents signed by a sufficient number of holders to take such action are delivered to the Company in the manner prescribed in this Section 6. The Company shall provide prompt notice of such action to those shareholders entitled to vote on the action who have not consented.
(B) .
Record Date for Action by Written Consent
(1) In order that the Company may determine the shareholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, the board of directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the earlier of (x) the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the board of directors and, if any, (y) the date upon which the Company received a request from a shareholder to set a record date for such action, and which date shall not be more than twenty days after the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the board of directors. Any shareholder of record seeking to have the shareholders authorize or take corporate action by written consent shall request the board of directors to fix a record date, which request shall be in proper form and delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Company. To be in proper form, such request must be in writing and shall set forth and disclose:
(i) a brief description of the action or actions proposed to be taken by written consent, and reasons for such action(s) and any material interest in such action of each Proposing Shareholder (which, for purposes of this Section 6(B)(1), shall mean the shareholder requesting the record date, any beneficial shareholder on whose behalf the request is made and their respective affiliates and associates and others acting in concert therewith);
(ii) a description of all agreements, arrangements and understandings between a Proposing Shareholder and any other person or persons (including their names) in connection with the action proposed to be taken by written consent;
(iii) the information specified in Section 4(A)(2)(iii) through (xiv) of this Article II;
 
(iv) any other information relating to any Proposing Shareholder that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement and form of proxy or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for the action proposed to be taken by written consent pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act;
(v) in the case of any director election proposed to be made by written consent, (X) the information required by Section A(3) of Article EIGHTH (but excluding clause (b) thereof) of the Company's Articles to be included in a shareholder's notice of director nominations and (Y) a description of all direct and indirect compensation and other material monetary agreements, arrangements and understandings during the past three years, and any other material relationships, between or among each Proposing Shareholder, on the one hand, and each proposed nominee and his or her respective affiliates and associates, or others acting in concert therewith, on the other hand, including, without limitation all information that would be required to be disclosed pursuant to Rule 404 promulgated under Regulation S-K if the Proposing Shareholder were the "registrant".
Section 1. . Until the board of directors has increased or decreased the number of the directors as hereinafter provided, the number of the directors shall be eleven. The board is hereby authorized to increase or decrease the number of the directors from time to time without a vote of the shareholders, provided, however, that such number shall not be less than seven nor more than fifteen.
Number
Section 2. . The board of directors shall have power in general to manage the business and affairs of the Company consistent with the law, the Articles of the Company and these By-laws, and may from time to time adopt such regulations regarding the powers and duties of the respective officers, assistant officers and agents and the conduct of the Company's business as the board may deem proper and expedient.
General Powers
Section 3. . Candidates for election as directors at any annual meeting of shareholders shall be nominated and elected for terms to expire not later than the third annual meeting following their election, in accordance with the By-laws and Articles of the Company and applicable law.
Election and Nomination of Directors
Section 4. . The board of directors shall without notice meet each year upon adjournment of the annual meeting of the shareholders at the principal office of the Company, or on such other day or at such other time or place as shall be fixed by the board at any time in advance of the meeting date or designated in a notice of the meeting, for the purposes of organization, election of officers and consideration of any other business that may properly be brought before the meeting.
Annual Meeting
Section 5. Regular meetings of the board of directors shall be held at such times and places as shall be fixed by the board at any time in advance of the meeting date or designated in a notice of the meeting.
Regular Meetings.
Section 6. . Special meetings of the board of directors may be called by the chairman of the board, a vice chairman of the board, the president or any two directors.
Special Meetings
Section 7.
Notice of Annual, Regular and Special Meetings.
(A) . No notice of the annual or a regular meeting of the board of directors shall be necessary if the meeting is held at the time and place fixed by the board in advance of the meeting date.
No Notice For Meetings Held at Time and Place Fixed in Advance
 
(B) . Notice of the annual or any regular meeting to be held at another time or place and of all special meetings of the board, setting forth the time and place of the meeting, shall be given by letter or other writing deposited in the United States mail or with an express mail or private courier service not later than during the second day immediately preceding the day for such meeting, or by word of mouth, telephone, facsimile, e-mail or other oral, written or electronic communication means received not later than during the day immediately preceding the day for such meeting.
Notice
Section 8. .
Quorum and Action by Unanimous Consent
(A) . A majority of the directors in office shall be necessary to constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at a meeting of the board of directors, but if at any meeting a quorum shall not be present the meeting may adjourn from time to time until a quorum shall be present.
Quorum
(B) Any action required or permitted to be taken at a meeting of the board of directors or any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting if a consent or consents thereto by all of the directors in office, or, in the case of any action by a committee of the board of directors, by all of the directors of such committee, is filed with the Secretary of the Company. For the purposes of this Section 8(B), consent may be given by means of a physical written copy or transmitted by facsimile transmission, e-mail or similar electronic communications technology, provided that the means of giving consent shall enable the Company to keep a record of the consents in a manner satisfying the requirements of Section 107 of the Pennsylvania Associations Code.
Action by Unanimous Consent.
Section 9. . The board of directors may, by resolution adopted by a majority of the whole board, designate three or more of the directors to constitute an executive committee which to the extent provided in a resolution adopted by a majority of the whole board shall have and exercise the authority of the board in the management of the business and affairs of the Company except as otherwise limited by law.
Executive Committee
Section 10. The board of directors shall, by resolution adopted by a majority of the whole board, designate three or more of the directors to constitute an audit committee. Audit committee members shall not be officers or full time employees of the Company or its subsidiaries. The audit committee shall have such authority and shall perform such duties as shall be provided from time to time in accordance with resolutions of the board.
Audit Committee.
Section 11. The board of directors may, by resolution adopted by a majority of the whole board, designate three or more of the directors to constitute a compensation committee which to the extent provided in such resolution or other action by the board shall have and exercise the authority (a) to fix and determine, and change from time to time, the compensation of all officers of the Company elected by the board, including, but not restricted to, monthly or other periodic compensation and incentive or other additional compensation, (b) to authorize or approve all contracts of the Company with any officer for remuneration (whether in the form of a pension, deferred compensation or otherwise) to be paid from the general funds of the Company after the termination of regular employment of such officer, and (c) to administer or perform specified functions under any one or more of the stock option or other incentive, pension or benefit plans of the Company; provided that the said committee shall not exercise any of its said authority with respect to any of its members.
Compensation and Benefits Committee.
Section 12. . Unless otherwise determined by the board of directors, the chief executive officer of the Company shall have the authority to fix and determine, and change from time to time, the compensation of all assistant officers and agents of the Company elected or appointed by the board or by the chief executive officer, including, but not restricted to, monthly or other periodic compensation and incentive or other additional compensation.
Compensation of Assistant Officers and Agents
 
Section 13. . Nothing contained in the foregoing two sections of this Article III shall be construed to vest, or to authorize vesting, in the chief executive officer of the Company any authority with respect to stock options or other incentives under plans which provide for administration by the board of directors or a committee thereof.
Limitation Regarding Incentive Plans
Section 14. . In addition to the committees described in this Article III, the board of directors may, by resolution adopted by a majority of the whole board, designate one or more other committees of the board, each of which shall consist of one or more of the directors. Each such other committee shall have such authority and shall perform such other duties as may be provided from time to time in resolutions of the board.
Other Committees
Section 15. . In the absence or disqualification of any member of any committee of the board of directors, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not such member or members constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another director to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member.
Substitute Committee Members
Section 16. . One or more directors may participate in a meeting of the board of directors or of a committee thereof by means of conference telephone or other electronic technology by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other.
Participation by Conference Telephone or Other Electronic Technology
Section 17. . To the fullest extent that the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, as in effect on May 15, 1987 or as thereafter amended, permit elimination or limitation of the liability of directors, no director of the Company shall be personally liable for monetary damages for any action taken, or any failure to take any action. This Section 17 shall not apply to any action filed prior to May 15, 1987, nor to any breach of performance of duty or any failure of performance of duty occurring prior to May 15, 1987. The provisions of this Section shall be deemed to be a contract with each director of the Company who serves as such at any time while such provisions are in effect, and each such director shall be deemed to be serving as such in reliance on the provisions of this Section. Any amendment or repeal of this Section or adoption of any other By-law or provision of the Articles of the Company which has the effect of increasing director liability shall operate prospectively only and shall not affect any action taken, or any failure to act, prior to such amendment, repeal or adoption. This Section 17 may be amended or repealed only with the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of common stock of the Company.
Personal Liability of Directors
Section 1. The board of directors at its annual meeting shall elect a president, a secretary and a treasurer, or persons who act as such, and may elect a chairman of the board, one or more vice presidents, a controller, a general counsel and such other officers and assistant officers as the board may deem appropriate. The board shall from time to time designate the chief executive officer who shall be either the chairman of the board or the president. The board may also from time to time elect such other officers and assistant officers and appoint such agents as it may deem appropriate. Assistant officers and agents also may be appointed by the chief executive officer.
Number and Election.
 
Section 2. . The chairman of the board shall be a member of the board of directors but the other officers need not be directors.
Qualifications
Section 3. . Each officer and assistant officer shall hold office until the annual meeting of the board of directors next following the meeting of the board at which such officer or assistant officer is elected, except in the case of earlier death, resignation or removal.
Term of Office
Section 4. . The chairman of the board shall preside at all meetings of the board of directors at which such chairman is present. In the absence of the chairman of the board, a vice chairman of the board, the president or another director, in the order designated by the chairman of the board, shall preside at meetings of the board of directors. If the chairman of the board is not the chief executive officer, the chairman of the board shall have such powers and perform such other duties as the president may from time to time delegate to such chairman, except as otherwise determined by the board.
Chairman of the Board
Section 5. . If the president is not the chief executive officer, the president shall have such powers and perform such other duties as the chairman of the board may from time to time delegate to the president, except as otherwise determined by the board.
President
Section 6. . Each vice president, including any vice president designated as executive, senior or otherwise, shall have such powers and perform such duties as the chairman of the board or the president may from time to time delegate to such vice president, except as otherwise determined by the board of directors.
Vice Presidents
Section 7. . The secretary shall attend meetings of the shareholders, the board of directors and the executive committee, shall keep minutes thereof in suitable books, and shall send out all notices of meetings as required by law or these By-laws. The secretary shall be ex officio an assistant treasurer. The secretary shall, in general, perform all duties incident to the office of secretary.
Secretary
Section 8. . The treasurer shall receive all money paid to the Company and keep or cause to be kept accurate accounts of all money received or payments made in books kept for that purpose. The treasurer shall deposit all money received by the treasurer in the name and to the credit of the Company in banks or other places of deposit. The treasurer shall disburse the money of the Company by checks or vouchers. The treasurer shall be ex officio an assistant secretary. The treasurer shall, in general, perform all duties incident to the office of treasurer.
Treasurer
Section 9. . The controller shall be responsible for the implementation of accounting policies and procedures, the installation and supervision of all accounting records, including the preparation and interpretation of financial statements, the compilation of production costs and cost distributions and the taking and valuation of physical inventories. The controller shall also be responsible for the maintenance of adequate records of authorized appropriations and the approval for payment of all checks and vouchers. The controller shall, in general, perform all duties incident to the office of controller.
Controller
Section 10. . The general counsel shall advise the Company on legal matters affecting the Company and its activities and shall supervise and direct the handling of all such legal matters. The general counsel shall, in general, perform all duties incident to the office of general counsel.
General Counsel
Section 11. . Each assistant officer shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be delegated to such assistant officer by the officer to whom such assistant officer is an assistant or, in the absence or inability to act of such officer, by the officer to whom such officer reports or by the chief executive officer.
Assistant Officers
 
Section 1. . Every person who is or was a director, officer or employee of the Company or of any other corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise which such person serves or served as such at the request of the Company (hereinafter referred to as an "eligible person") shall in accordance with this Article V, but not if prohibited by law, be indemnified by the Company as hereinafter provided against reasonable expense and any liability paid or incurred by such person in connection with or resulting from any claim in which such person may be involved, as a party or otherwise, by reason of such person's being or having been a director, officer or employee of the Company or such other enterprise, whether or not such person continues to be such at the time such liability or expense shall have been paid or incurred.
Indemnification Granted
Section 2. . As used in this Article V, the term "claim" shall mean any threatened or actual claim, action, suit or proceeding (whether brought by or in the right of the Company or such other enterprise or otherwise), whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative; the term "expense" shall mean counsel fees and disbursements and all other expenses (except any liability) incurred in connection with any claim; and the term "liability" shall mean amounts of judgments, fines or penalties against, and amounts paid in settlement by, an eligible person with respect to any claim.
Certain Definitions
Section 3. . Any eligible person who has been wholly successful, on the merits or otherwise, with respect to any claim shall be reimbursed by the Company for such person's reasonable expense. Any eligible person who has been partially successful shall be proportionately reimbursed by the Company for such person's reasonable expense.
Expense Reimbursement to the Extent Successful
Section 4. . Any eligible person who has been partially unsuccessful and any other eligible person not described in Section 3 of this Article V shall be reimbursed by the Company for such person's reasonable expense and for any liability if a Referee shall deliver to the Company the written finding of such Referee that such person acted in good faith and in a manner such person reasonably believed to be in, or not opposed to, the best interests of the Company, and in addition with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe the conduct of such person was unlawful. Where such person is found by the Referee to have met the foregoing standards of conduct with respect to one or more but not all the claims made against such person, such person shall be entitled to indemnification for such expense and liability in such proportion as the Referee shall determine. The termination of any claim by judgment, order, settlement (whether with or without court approval), adverse decision, or conviction after trial or upon a plea of guilty or of nolo contendere or its equivalent, shall not of itself create a presumption that an eligible person did not meet the foregoing standards of conduct. The person claiming indemnification shall, at the request of the Referee, appear before the Referee and answer questions which the Referee deems relevant and shall be given ample opportunity to present to the Referee evidence upon which such person relies for indemnification; and the Company shall at the request of the Referee, make available to the Referee facts, opinions or other evidence in any way relevant for the Referee's finding which are within the possession or control of the Company. As used in this Article V, the term "Referee" shall mean independent legal counsel (who may be regular independent legal counsel of the Company), or other disinterested person or persons, selected to act as such hereunder by the board of directors of the Company, whether or not a disinterested quorum exists.
Indemnification Where Not Wholly Successful
 
Section 5. . Any expense incurred with respect to any claim may be advanced by the Company prior to the final disposition thereof upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of the recipient to repay such amount if it is ultimately determined that such recipient is not to be indemnified under this Article V.
Advancement of Expenses
Section 6. . The rights of indemnification provided in this Article V shall be in addition to any rights to which any eligible person may otherwise be entitled by contract or as a matter of law; and in the event of such person's death, such rights shall extend to the heirs and legal representatives of such person.
Article V Not Exclusive; Survival of Rights
Section 1. . Share certificates shall be in such form as the board of directors may from time to time determine. Each certificate shall be signed by the chairman of the board, the president, the treasurer or the secretary of the Company, by manual or facsimile signature.
Share Certificates
Section 2. . The board of directors may from time to time appoint one or more transfer agents and may appoint one or more registrars of transfer, each to act with respect to such preferred and common shares of the Company as the board of directors may designate. No share certificate of the Company shall be valid or binding unless countersigned, manually or by facsimile signature, by a transfer agent if one has been appointed to act with respect to the shares evidenced by such certificate, and registered before issue by a registrar if one has been appointed to act with respect to the shares evidenced by such certificate.
Transfer Agent and Registrar
Section 3. . In case any officer of the Company, or any authorized signatory of any transfer agent or registrar, who has signed, or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon, any share certificate shall have ceased to be such officer or authorized signatory because of death, resignation or otherwise, before the certificate is issued, it may be issued with the same effect as if the officer or authorized signatory had not ceased to be such at the date of its issue.
Signatures by Former Corporate Officers or Agents
These By-laws may be altered, amended, added to or repealed by the board of directors at any meeting of the board duly convened with or without notice of that purpose, subject to the power of the shareholders to change such action.
Section 1. . Except as prohibited by law, every director of the Company shall be entitled as of right to be indemnified by the Company against expenses and any liability paid or incurred by such person in connection with any actual or threatened claim, action, suit or proceeding, civil, criminal, administrative, investigative or other, whether brought by or in the right of the Company or otherwise, in which he or she may be involved, as a party or otherwise, by reason of such person being or having been a director of the Company or by reason of the fact that such person is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee, fiduciary or other representative of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other entity (such claim, action, suit or
Right to Indemnification
 
proceeding hereinafter being referred to as a "claim"); provided, that no such right of indemnification shall exist with respect to a claim brought by a director against the Company except as provided in the last sentence of this Section 1. Indemnification hereunder shall include the right to have expenses incurred by such person in connection with a claim paid in advance by the Company prior to final disposition of such claim, subject to any obligation which may be imposed by law, By-law, agreement or otherwise to reimburse the Company in certain events. As used herein, "expenses" shall include fees and expenses of counsel selected by any such director and "liability" shall include amounts of judgments, excise taxes, fines, penalties and amounts paid in settlement. With respect to any claim brought by a director or other person against the Company, the director or other person shall be entitled to be indemnified for expenses incurred in connection with such claim pursuant to this Section 1 only (i) if the claim is a suit brought as a claim for indemnity under Section 2 of this Article VIII or otherwise, (ii) if the director or other person is successful in whole or in part in the claim for which expenses are claimed or (iii) if the indemnification for expenses is included in a settlement of the claim or is awarded by a court.
Section 2. . If a claim under Section 1 of this Article VIII is not paid in full by the Company within thirty days after a written claim has been received by the Company, the claimant may at any time thereafter bring suit against the Company to recover the unpaid amount of the claim and, if successful in whole or in part, the claimant shall also be entitled to be paid the expense of prosecuting such claim. It shall be a defense to any such suit to recover indemnification that the claimant's conduct was such that under Pennsylvania law the Company is prohibited from indemnifying the claimant for the amount claimed, but the burden of proving such defense shall be on the Company. Neither the failure of the Company (including its board of directors, legal counsel and its shareholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such suit that indemnification of the claimant is proper in the circumstances, nor an actual determination by the Company (including its board of directors, legal counsel or its shareholders) that the claimant's conduct was such that indemnification is prohibited by law, shall be a defense to the suit to recover indemnification or create a presumption that the claimant's conduct was such that indemnification is prohibited by law. The only defense to any such suit to receive payment of expenses in advance shall be failure to make an undertaking to reimburse if such an undertaking is required by law, By-law, agreement or otherwise.
Right of Claimant to Bring Suit
Section 3. . The Company may purchase and maintain insurance to protect itself and any person eligible to be indemnified hereunder against any liability or expense asserted or incurred by such person in connection with any claim, whether or not the Company would have the power to indemnify such person against such liability or expense by law or under the provisions of this Article. The Company may create a trust fund, grant a security interest, cause a letter of credit to be issued or use other means (whether or not similar to the foregoing) to ensure the payment of such sums as may become necessary to effect indemnification as provided herein.
Insurance and Funding
Section 4. . The right of indemnification provided for in this Article VIII (i) shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights, whether now existing or hereafter created, to which those seeking indemnification hereunder may be entitled under any provision of the Articles or By-laws, or any agreement, vote of shareholders or directors or otherwise, (ii) shall be deemed to create contractual rights in favor of persons entitled to indemnification hereunder, (iii) shall continue as to persons who have ceased to have the status pursuant to which they were entitled or were denominated as entitled to indemnification hereunder and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs and legal representatives of persons entitled to indemnification hereunder and (iv) shall be applicable to claims commenced after the adoption hereof, whether arising from acts or omissions occurring before or after the adoption hereof. The right of indemnification provided for herein may not be amended or repealed so as to limit in any way the indemnification provided for herein with respect to any acts or omissions occurring prior to any such amendment or repeal.
Non-Exclusivity; Nature and Extent of Rights
 
 
(Amended September 27, 2012)
 

Exhibit 99
October 1, 2012
Alcoa Confirms EPA Announcement of Remedial Action Plan for Grasse River
NEW YORK()Alcoa (NYSE:AA) confirmed today that the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has released the Proposed Remedial Action Plan (PRAP) for the Grasse River. Alcoa has worked with the EPA and other agencies to evaluate remedial alternatives to address elevated levels of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) in fish in the lower Grasse River.
BUSINESS WIRE
The alternative proposed by the EPA in the PRAP is one of the 10 clean-up options evaluated in the Analysis of Alternatives (A of A) report that Alcoa submitted. The A of A is a science-based document, generated by Alcoa under the direction of the EPA and with input from other stakeholders.
The PRAP is now open for public comment until November 15.
"Alcoa has worked cooperatively with EPA to address the PCB sediments in the Grasse River, and we are pleased to see this important step in the remediation process move forward," said Kevin Anton, Alcoa Vice President and Chief Sustainability Officer. "While Alcoa believes that a capping remedy is both protective of human health and the environment and complements the natural recovery that is already occurring in the river, we look forward to working with EPA and the other agencies on the proposed remedy during the design and implementation phases of the project."
Following the public comment period, EPA will review comments and issue a final Record of Decision (ROD). Once a ROD is received, the planning and design phase is expected to take approximately two to three years, followed by the actual remediation field work that is expected to take about four years. The majority of funding for the project will be spent between 2016 and 2020.
The estimated cost in the A of A for the proposed alternative is within the range Alcoa has previously disclosed. As a result of the EPA's issuance of the PRAP, Alcoa expects to record an associated after-tax charge of approximately $85 million, or $0.08 per share, in its third quarter 2012 results.
About Alcoa
Alcoa is the world's leading producer of primary and fabricated aluminum, as well as the world's largest miner of bauxite and refiner of alumina. In addition to inventing the modern-day aluminum industry, Alcoa innovation has been behind major milestones in the aerospace, automotive, packaging, building and construction, commercial transportation, consumer electronics and industrial markets over the past 120 years. Among the solutions Alcoa markets are flat-rolled products, hard alloy extrusions, and forgings, as well as Alcoa wheels, fastening systems, precision and investment castings, and building systems in addition to its expertise in other light metals such as titanium and nickel-based super alloys. Sustainability is an integral part of Alcoa's operating practices and the product design and engineering it provides to customers. Alcoa has been a member of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for 11 consecutive years and approximately 75 percent of all of the aluminum ever produced since 1888 is still in active use today. Alcoa employs approximately 61,000 people in 31 countries across the world. More information can be found at .
www.alcoa.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains statements that relate to future events and expectations and as such constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include those containing such words as "anticipate," "expect," "plan," "should," "will," or other words of similar meaning. All statements that reflect Alcoa's expectations, assumptions or
projections about the future other than statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors and are not guarantees of future performance. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements include: (a) material adverse changes in aluminum industry conditions, including global supply and demand conditions and fluctuations in London Metal Exchange-based prices for primary aluminum, alumina, and other products; (b) deterioration in global economic and financial market conditions generally, or unfavorable changes in the markets served by Alcoa; (c) the outcome of contingencies, including legal proceedings, government investigations, and environmental remediation; (d) the inability to complete the remediation of the Grasse River as planned, within cost estimates, and by scheduled completion dates, whether due to unexpected events beyond Alcoa's control, regulatory requirements, or other reasons; and (e) the other risk factors summarized in Alcoa's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Alcoa disclaims any obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether in response to new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by applicable law.
 


