FILE:EXPD/EXPD-8K-20080625141737.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
This Form 8-K is being amended to attach the press release relating to Mr. Liu's resignation.
 
 
Item 5.02 
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On June 24, 2008, Expeditors International of Washington, Inc. (Expeditors) announced that Sandy K.Y. Liu, Expeditors Chief Operating Officer-Asia, has tendered his resignation to the Company effective August 17, 2008.  No replacement has been named.  A copy of the press release announcing the resignation of Mr. Liu is filed with this report as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d)     The following items are filed as exhibits to this report:
 
 
 
 
                Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
    

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
1015 Third Avenue, Suite 1200
Seattle, Washington 98104
 
 
Sandy K.Y. Liu Resigns as Asia C.O.O.
 
SEATTLE, WASHINGTON  June 24, 2008 Expeditors International of Washington, Inc. (NASDAQ: EXPD), a global logistics company today announced that Sandy K.Y. Liu, the Companys Chief Operating Officer-Asia has tendered his resignation effective August 17, 2008. Mr. Liu is one of the Companys executive officers, having served in this capacity for the last seven and one-half years. Prior to accepting the Chief Operating Officer position, Mr. Liu had a distinguished 31-year career with Taiwan-based China Airlines, culminating with his appointment as President of China Airlines in 1998.
 
Peter J. Rose, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer commented Its been great to have Sandy with us for the time he was here. He has always been a positive force, both internally to our employees and externally to our customers and service providers. Expeditors has benefited greatly from his professionalism, his experience and, of course, from his commitment to customer service. Sandy was an original member of our Global Customer Service Team, and while his influence will be greatly missed, his contributions will not be forgotten, concluded Mr. Rose.
 
We are obviously very saddened by Sandys decision, said James L.K. Wang, President-Asia and a member of the Companys Board of Directors. Weve enjoyed a long association with Sandy, both as a service provider, during his long tenure at China Airlines, and especially during the past several years while he has served as a key member of our executive management team. Having worked together to grow our market share and increase our customer service capabilities in the Asian market and to expand our Asia-to-Europe trade lane, we all share a special bond with Sandy. He will always be remembered here as a smart guy with good, creative ideas and excellent professional experience. We will miss his positive attitude and his commitment to both our culture and our customers, added Mr. Wang.
 
I treasure every moment that I have worked at Expeditors, Mr. Liu said. Ive learned a great deal about the Companys unique culture and its professionalism. I have particularly enjoyed the relationships that I have developed with my colleagues, with our customers and with our service providers. I have pledged to both Peter and James my active involvement in facilitating a smooth transition. Ill be here right up until my last day, doing the same things, in the same way that Ive done them at Expeditors for that past seven and one-half yearsassisting our employees in their efforts to deliver the best customer service in the industry, concluded Mr. Liu.
 
Expeditors is a global logistics company headquartered in Seattle, Washington. The company employs trained professionals in 179 full-service offices and 69 satellite locations and 4 international service centers located on six continents linked into a seamless worldwide network through an integrated information management system. Services include air and ocean freight forwarding, vendor consolidation, customs clearance, marine insurance, distribution and other value added international logistics services.
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This document contains a forward-looking statement which is based on certain assumptions and expectations of future events that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual future results and trends may differ materially from historical results or those projected in the forward looking statement depending on a variety of factors including but not limited to changes in customer demand for Expeditors services caused by a general economic slow-down, inventory build-up, decreased consumer confidence, volatility in equity markets, or the unpredictable acts of competitors.
 
 


