FILE:EXPD/EXPD-8K-20090508193939.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 6, 2009, at the Annual Meeting (the "Annual Meeting") of Shareholders of Expeditors International of Washington, Inc. (the "Company"), the shareholders of the Company approved and ratified adoption of the 2009 Stock Option Plan (the "Plan"). A summary of the Plan's terms was provided in the Company's proxy statement (the "Proxy Statement") on Schedule 14A filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") on March 20, 2009. This summary is incorporated herein by reference to the Proxy Statement and qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the 2009 Stock Option Plan and related form of agreement, copies of which are attached as exhibits to this report.
 
The shareholders of the Company also approved the following items at the Annual Meeting:
 
 
 
(d) .
Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
This 2009 Stock Option Plan (the "2009 Option Plan") provides for the grant of options to acquire shares of common stock, $.01 par value (the "Common Stock"), of EXPEDITORS INTERNATIONAL OF WASHINGTON, INC., a Washington corporation (the "Company"). Stock options granted under this 2009 Option Plan that qualify under Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), are referred to in this 2009 Option Plan as "Incentive Stock Options." Incentive Stock Options and stock options that do not qualify under Section 422 of the Code ("Non-Qualified Stock Options") granted under this 2009 Option Plan are referred to as "Options."
 
The purposes of this 2009 Option Plan are to retain the services of valued key employees of the Company, its subsidiaries and such other affiliates as the Plan Administrator shall select in accordance with Section 3 below; to encourage such persons to acquire a greater proprietary interest in the Company, thereby strengthening their incentive to achieve the objectives of the shareholders of the Company; and to serve as an aid and inducement in the hiring of new employees.
 
This 2009 Option Plan shall be administered by the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board") if each director is an "outside director" (as defined below). If all directors are not outside directors, the 2009 Option Plan shall be administered by a committee designated by the Board and composed of two (2) or more members of the Board that are "non-employee directors" and "outside directors" (as defined below), which committee (the "Committee") may be the compensation committee or a separate committee especially created for this purpose. The term "non-employee director" shall have the meaning assigned to it under Rule 16b-3 (as amended from time to time) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or any successor rule or regulatory requirement. The term "outside director" shall have the meaning assigned under Section 162(m) of the Code (as amended from time to time) and the regulations (or any successor regulations) promulgated thereunder ("Section 162(m) of the Code"). The Committee shall have the powers and authority vested in the Board hereunder (including the power and authority to interpret any provision of this 2009 Option Plan or of any Option). The members of any such Committee shall serve at the pleasure of the Board. A majority of the members of the Committee shall constitute a quorum, and all actions of the Committee shall be taken by a majority of the members present. Any action may be taken by a written instrument signed by all of the members of the Committee and any action so taken shall be fully effective as if it had been taken at a meeting. The Board, or any committee thereof appointed to administer the 2009 Option Plan, is referred to herein as the "Plan Administrator."
Subject to the provisions of this 2009 Option Plan, and with a view to effecting its purpose, the Plan Administrator shall have sole authority, in its absolute discretion, to (a) construe and interpret this 2009 Option Plan; (b) define the terms used in this 2009 Option Plan; (c) prescribe, amend and rescind rules and regulations relating to this 2009 Option Plan; (d) correct any defect, supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in this 2009 Option Plan; (e) grant Options under this 2009 Option Plan; (f) determine the individuals to whom Options shall be granted under this 2009 Option Plan and whether the Option is an Incentive Stock Option or a Non-Qualified Stock Option; (g) determine the time or times
at which Options shall be granted under this 2009 Option Plan; (h) determine the number of shares of Common Stock subject to each Option, the exercise price of each Option, the duration of each Option and the times at which each Option shall become exercisable; (i) determine all other terms and conditions of Options; and (j) make all other determinations necessary or advisable for the administration of this 2009 Option Plan. All decisions, determinations and interpretations made by the Plan Administrator shall be binding and conclusive on all participants in this 2009 Option Plan and on their legal representatives, heirs and beneficiaries.
The Board or the Committee may delegate to one or more executive officers of the Company the authority to grant Options under this 2009 Option Plan to employees of the Company who, on the Date of Grant, are not subject to Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act with respect to the Common Stock ("Non-Insiders"), and are not "covered employees" as such term is defined for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Code ("Non-Covered Employees"), and in connection therewith the authority to determine: (a) the number of shares of Common Stock subject to such Option; (b) the duration of the Option; (c) the vesting schedule for determining the times at which such Option shall become exercisable; and (d) all other terms and conditions of such Options. The exercise price for any Option granted by action of an executive officer or officers pursuant to such delegation of authority shall not be less than the fair market value per share of the Common Stock on the Date of Grant. Such delegation of authority shall not include the authority to accelerate the vesting, extend the period for exercise or otherwise alter the terms of outstanding Options. The term "Plan Administrator" when used in any provision of this 2009 Option Plan other than Sections 2, 5(m), 5(n) and 12 shall be deemed to refer to the Board or the Committee, as the case may be, and an executive officer who has been authorized to grant Options pursuant thereto, insofar as such provisions may be applied to persons that are Non-Insiders and Non-Covered Employees and Options granted to such persons.
 
Incentive Stock Options may be granted to any individual who, at the time the Option is granted, is an employee of the Company or any Related Corporation (as defined below), including employees who are directors of the Company ("Employees"). Non-Qualified Stock Options may be granted to Employees and to such other persons who are employed by affiliated companies, other than directors who are not Employees, as the Plan Administrator shall select. Options may be granted in substitution for outstanding Options of another corporation in connection with the merger, share exchange, acquisition of property or stock or other reorganization between such other corporation and the Company or any subsidiary of the Company. Any person to whom an Option is granted under this 2009 Option Plan is referred to as an "Optionee." Any person who is the owner of an Option is referred to as a "Holder."
As used in this 2009 Option Plan, the term "Related Corporation" shall mean any corporation (other than the Company) that is a "Parent Corporation" of the Company or "Subsidiary Corporation" of the Company, as those terms are defined in Sections 424(e) and 424(f) respectively, of the Code (or any successor provisions), and the regulations thereunder (as amended from time to time).
 
The Plan Administrator is authorized to grant Options to acquire up to a total of 3,000,000 shares of the Company's authorized but unissued Common Stock during the period beginning with the Effective Date as provided for in Section 7 and ending on April 30, 2010 ("Option Grant Period"). The number of shares with respect to which Options may be granted hereunder is subject to adjustment as set forth in Subsection 5(m) hereof. In the event that any outstanding Option expires or is terminated for any reason,
the shares of Common Stock allocable to the unexercised portion of such Option may again be subject to an Option to the same Optionee or to a different person eligible under Section 3 of this 2009 Option Plan so long as the grant is made within the Option Grant Period; that any canceled Options will be counted against the maximum number of shares with respect to which Options may be granted to any particular person as set forth in Section 6 hereof.
provided however,
 
Each Option granted under this 2009 Option Plan shall be evidenced by a written or online agreement approved by the Plan Administrator (the "Agreement"). Agreements may contain such provisions, not inconsistent with this 2009 Option Plan, as the Plan Administrator in its discretion may deem advisable. All Options also shall comply with the following requirements:
 
Each Agreement, in itself or by reference to a service provider's stock option website, shall state the number of shares of Common Stock to which it pertains and whether the Option is intended to be an Incentive Stock Option or a Non-Qualified Stock Option. In the absence of action to the contrary by the Plan Administrator in connection with the grant of an Option, all Options shall be Non-Qualified Stock Options. The aggregate fair market value (determined at the Date of Grant, as defined below) of the stock with respect to which Incentive Stock Options are exercisable for the first time by the Optionee during any calendar year shall not exceed $100,000, or such other limit as may be prescribed by the Code as it may be amended from time to time. Any portion of an Option which exceeds the annual limit shall not be void, but rather shall be a Non-Qualified Stock Option.
 
Each Agreement, in itself or by reference to a service provider's stock option website, shall state the date within the Option Grant Period that the Plan Administrator has deemed to be the effective date of the Option for purposes of this 2009 Option Plan (the "Date of Grant").
 
Each Agreement, in itself or by reference to a service provider's stock option website, shall state the price per share of Common Stock at which it is exercisable. The exercise price shall be fixed by the Plan Administrator at whatever price the Plan Administrator may determine in the exercise of its sole discretion; that the per share exercise price for any Option granted shall not be less than the fair market value per share of the Common Stock at the Date of Grant as determined by the Plan Administrator in good faith; , that with respect to Incentive Stock Options granted to greater-than-10 percent (> 10%) shareholders of the Company (as determined with reference to Section 424(d) of the Code), the exercise price per share shall not be less than 110 percent (110%) of the fair market value per share of the Common Stock at the Date of Grant as determined by the Plan Administrator in good faith; and, , that Options granted in substitution for outstanding options of another corporation in connection with the merger, share exchange, acquisition of property or stock or other reorganization involving such other corporation and the Company or any subsidiary of the Company may be granted with an exercise price equal to the exercise price for the substituted option of the other corporation, subject to any adjustment consistent with the terms of the transaction pursuant to which the substitution is to occur.
provided
provided further
provided further
At the time of the grant of the Option, the Plan Administrator shall designate, subject to Subsection 5(g) below, the expiration date of the Option, which date shall not be later than ten (10) years from the Date of Grant; , that the expiration date of any Incentive Stock Option granted to a greater-than-10 percent (>10%) shareholder of the Company (as determined with reference to Section 424(d) of the Code) shall not be later than five (5) years from the Date of Grant. In the absence of action to the contrary by the Plan Administrator in connection with the grant of a particular Option, and except in the case of Incentive Stock Options as described above, all Options granted under this Section 5 shall expire ten (10) years from the Date of Grant.
provided
 
No Option shall be exercisable until it has vested. The vesting schedule for each Option shall be fifty percent (50%) vested three (3) years from the Date of Grant, seventy-five percent (75%) vested four (4) years from the Date of Grant and one hundred percent (100%) vested five (5) years from the Date of Grant.
 
The vesting of one or more outstanding Options may be accelerated by the Plan Administrator at such times and in such amounts as it shall determine in its sole discretion. The vesting of Options also shall be accelerated under the circumstances described in Subsection 5(n) below.
 
Vested Options shall terminate, to the extent not previously exercised, upon the occurrence of the first of the following events: (i) the expiration of the Option, as designated by the Plan Administrator in accordance with Subsection 5(d) above; (ii) the expiration of three (3) months following the date of an Optionee's termination of employment with the Company, any Related Corporation or any affiliated company, as the case may be, other than as a result of death or Disability; or (iii) the expiration of six (6) months following (A) the date of death of the Optionee or (B) cessation of an Optionee's employment by reason of Disability (as defined below). If an Optionee's employment or contractual relationship is terminated by death, any Option held by the Optionee shall be exercisable only by the person or persons to whom such Optionee's rights under such Option shall pass by the Optionee's will or by the laws of descent and distribution of the state or country of the Optionee's domicile at the time of death. For purposes of the 2009 Option Plan, "Disability" shall mean that the Optionee is unable engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in death or that has lasted, or can be expected to last, for a continuous period of not less than twelve (12) months. This definition of "Disability" is intended to comply with, and will be interpreted consistently with, sections 22(e)(3) and 422(c)(6) of the Code. Upon making a determination of Disability, the Plan Administrator shall, for purposes of the 2009 Option Plan, determine the date of an Optionee's termination of employment.
Unless accelerated in accordance with Subsection 5(f) above, unvested Options shall terminate immediately upon termination of employment of the Optionee by the Company or by the Optionee for any reason whatsoever, including death or Disability. For purposes of this 2009 Option Plan, transfer of employment between or among the Company and/or any Related Corporation or affiliated company shall not be deemed to constitute a termination of employment with the Company or any Related Corporation or affiliated company. For purposes of this Subsection with respect to Incentive Stock Options, employment shall be deemed to continue
while the Optionee is on military leave, sick leave or other bona fide leave of absence (as determined by the Plan Administrator). The foregoing notwithstanding, employment shall not be deemed to continue beyond the first ninety (90) days of such leave, unless the Optionee's re-employment rights are guaranteed by statute or by contract.
 
Options shall be exercisable, in full or in part, at any time after vesting, until their termination. If less than all of the shares included in the vested portion of any Option are purchased, the remainder may be purchased at any subsequent time prior to the expiration of the Option term. No portion of any Option for less than ten (10) shares (as adjusted pursuant to Subsection 5(m) below) may be exercised; , that if the vested portion of any Option is less than ten (10) shares, it may be exercised with respect to all shares for which it is vested. Only whole shares may be issued pursuant to an Option, and to the extent that an Option covers less than one (1) share, it is unexercisable.
provided
Options or portions thereof may be exercised by giving written notice to the Company, which notice shall specify the number of shares to be purchased, and be accompanied by payment in the amount of the aggregate exercise price for the Common Stock so purchased, which payment shall be in the form specified in Subsection 5(i) below. The Company shall not be obligated to issue, transfer or deliver a certificate of Common Stock to the Holder of any Option, until provision has been made by the Holder, to the satisfaction of the Company, for the payment of the aggregate exercise price for all shares for which the Option shall have been exercised and for satisfaction of any tax withholding obligations associated with such exercise. During the lifetime of an Optionee, Options are exercisable only by the Optionee or a transferee who takes title to the Option in the manner permitted by Subsection 5(k) hereof.
 
Upon the exercise of any Option, the aggregate exercise price shall be paid to the Company by wire transfer, or, if permitted by the Plan Administrator, in cash, by cashier's check, or any other method approved by the Plan Administrator. In addition, the Holder may pay for all or any portion of the aggregate exercise price by delivering to the Company shares of Common Stock previously held by such Holder which shall be valued at fair market value as of the date of exercise (as determined by the Plan Administrator).
 
A Holder shall have no rights as a shareholder with respect to any shares covered by an Option until such Holder becomes a record holder of such shares, irrespective of whether such Holder has given notice of exercise. Subject to the provisions of Subsections 5(m) and 5(n) hereof, no rights shall accrue to a Holder and no adjustments shall be made on account of dividends (ordinary or extraordinary, whether in cash, securities or other property) or distributions or other rights declared on, or created in, the Common Stock for which the record date is prior to the date the Holder becomes a record holder of the shares of Common Stock covered by the Option, irrespective of whether such Holder has given notice of exercise.
Options granted under this 2009 Option Plan and the rights and privileges conferred by this 2009 Option Plan may not be transferred, assigned, pledged or hypothecated in any manner (whether by operation of law or otherwise) other than by will, by applicable laws of descent and distribution, and shall not be subject to execution, attachment or similar process. Upon any attempt to transfer, assign, pledge, hypothecate or otherwise dispose of any Option or of any right or privilege conferred by this 2009 Option Plan contrary to the provisions hereof, or upon the sale, levy or any attachment or similar process upon the rights and privileges conferred by this 2009 Option Plan, such Option shall thereupon terminate and become null and void.
 
(1) Shares shall not be issued with respect to an Option unless the exercise of such Option and the issuance and delivery of such shares shall comply with all relevant provisions of law, including, without limitation, Section 162(m) of the Code, any applicable state securities laws, the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, the Exchange Act, the rules and regulations thereunder and the requirements of any stock exchange or automated inter-dealer quotation system of a registered national securities association upon which such shares may then be listed, and such issuance shall be further subject to the approval of counsel for the Company with respect to such compliance, including the availability of an exemption from registration for the issuance and sale of such shares. The inability of the Company to obtain from any regulatory body the authority deemed by the Company to be necessary for the lawful issuance and sale of any shares under this 2009 Option Plan, or the unavailability of an exemption from registration for the issuance and sale of any shares under this 2009 Option Plan, shall relieve the Company of any liability with respect to the non-issuance or sale of such shares.
As a condition to the exercise of an Option, the Plan Administrator may require the Holder to represent and warrant in writing at the time of such exercise that the shares are being purchased only for investment and without any then-present intention to sell or distribute such shares. At the option of the Plan Administrator, a stop-transfer order against such shares may be placed on the stock books and records of the Company, and a legend indicating that the stock may not be pledged, sold or otherwise transferred unless an opinion of counsel is provided stating that such transfer is not in violation of any applicable law or regulation, may be stamped on the certificates representing such shares in order to assure an exemption from registration. The Plan Administrator also may require such other documentation as may from time to time be necessary to comply with Federal and state securities laws.
(2) The Holder shall pay to the Company by certified or cashier's check, unless another method is permitted by the Plan Administrator, promptly upon exercise of an Option or, if later, the date that the amount of such obligations becomes determinable, all applicable Federal, state, local and foreign withholding taxes that the Plan Administrator, in its discretion, determines to result upon exercise of an Option or from a transfer or other disposition of shares of Common Stock acquired upon exercise of an Option or otherwise related to an Option or shares of Common Stock acquired in connection with an Option.
(3) The issuance, transfer or delivery of certificates of Common Stock pursuant to the exercise of Options may be delayed, at the discretion of the Plan Administrator, until the Plan Administrator is satisfied that the applicable requirements of the Federal and state securities laws and the withholding provisions of the Code have been met.
(1) If (i) the Company shall at any time be involved in a transaction described in Section 424(a) of the Code (or any successor provision) or any "corporate transaction" described in the regulations thereunder; (ii) the Company shall declare a dividend payable in, or shall subdivide or combine, its Common Stock or (iii) any other event with substantially the same effect shall occur, the Plan Administrator shall, subject to applicable law, with respect to each outstanding Option, proportionately adjust the number of shares of Common Stock subject to such Option and/or the exercise price per share so as to preserve the rights of the Holder substantially proportionate to the rights of the Holder prior to such event, and to the extent that such action shall include an increase or decrease in the number of shares of Common Stock subject to outstanding Options, the number of shares available under Section 4 of this 2009 Option Plan shall automatically be increased or decreased, as the case may be, proportionately, without further action on the part of the Plan Administrator, the Company, the Company's shareholders, or any Holder.
(2) In the event that the presently authorized capital stock of the Company is changed into the same number of shares with a different par value, or without par value, the stock resulting from any such change shall be deemed to be Common Stock within the meaning of the 2009 Option Plan, and each Option shall apply to the same number of shares of such new stock as it applied to old shares immediately prior to such change.
(3) The foregoing adjustments in the shares subject to Options shall be made by the Plan Administrator, or by any successor administrator of this 2009 Option Plan, or by the applicable terms of any assumption or substitution document.
(4) The grant of an Option shall not affect in any way the right or power of the Company to make adjustments, reclassifications, reorganizations or changes of its capital or business structure, to merge, consolidate or dissolve, to liquidate or to sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets.
 
(1) If at any time there is a Change in Control (as defined below) of the Company, all Options outstanding at the date thereof shall accelerate and become fully vested and exercisable in full for the duration of the Option term as of the later of the date of the Change in Control or six months after the Date of Grant of the Option. For purposes of this Subsection, "Change in Control" shall mean either one of the following: (i) when any "person," as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act as amended (other than the Company, a subsidiary thereof or a Company employee benefit plan, including any trustee of such plan acting as trustee) becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing fifty percent (50%) or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities; or (ii) the occurrence of a transaction requiring shareholder approval, and involving the sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company or the merger of the Company with or into another corporation.
(2) Except as provided in this Section 5, no Optionee or Holder shall have rights by reason of any subdivision or consolidation of shares of stock of any class including Common Stock or the payment of any stock dividend on shares of Common Stock, or any other increase or decrease in the number of shares of Common Stock, or by reason of any liquidation, dissolution, corporate combination or division; and any issuance by the Company of shares of stock of any class including Common Stock, or securities convertible into shares of stock of any class including Common Stock, shall not affect, and no adjustment by reason thereof shall be made with respect to, the number or price of shares of Common Stock subject to any Option.
 
Except as otherwise provided in this Section 6, no person shall be eligible to receive Options to purchase more than 100,000 shares of Common Stock.
 
The date on which this 2009 Option Plan is adopted (the "Effective Date") shall be the date of ratification by the shareholders. No Option shall be granted by the Plan Administrator prior to the approval of this 2009 Option Plan by a vote of the shareholders of the Company. For purposes of granting Options, the 2009 Option Plan shall terminate at midnight on April 30, 2010, unless terminated before then by the Plan Administrator and for other purposes the 2009 Option Plan shall remain in effect as long as any Options are outstanding. In any event, the 2009 Option Plan shall finally terminate no later than May 7, 2019.
 
The grant of an Option shall impose no obligation upon the Optionee to exercise such Option.
 
Whether or not any Options are to be granted under this 2009 Option Plan shall be exclusively within the discretion of the Plan Administrator, and nothing contained in this 2009 Option Plan shall be construed as giving any person any right to participate under this 2009 Option Plan. The grant of an Option shall in no way constitute any form of agreement or understanding binding on the Company, any Related Company or any affiliate, express or implied, that the Company, any Related Company or any affiliate will employ or contract with an Optionee for any length of time, nor shall it interfere in any way with the Company's or, where applicable, a Related Company's or affiliate's right to terminate Optionee's employment at any time, which right is hereby reserved.
 
The proceeds received by the Company from the sale of Common Stock issued upon the exercise of Options shall be used to purchase and retire Common Stock pursuant to Rule 10b-18 to the extent such transactions have been authorized by the Board and in other cases for general corporate purposes, unless otherwise directed by the Board.
In addition to all other rights of indemnification they may have as members of the Board, members of the Plan Administrator shall be indemnified by the Company for all reasonable expenses and liabilities of any type or nature, including attorneys' fees, incurred in connection with any action, suit or proceeding to which they or any of them are a party by reason of, or in connection with, this 2009 Option Plan or any Option granted under this 2009 Option Plan, and against all amounts paid by them in settlement thereof ( that such settlement is approved by independent legal counsel selected by the Company), except to the extent that such expenses relate to matters for which it is adjudged that such Plan Administrator member is liable for willful misconduct; that within fifteen (15) days after the institution of any such action, suit or proceeding, the Plan Administrator member involved therein shall, in writing, notify the Company of such action, suit or proceeding, so that the Company may have the opportunity to make appropriate arrangements to prosecute or defend the same.
provided
provided,
 
The Plan Administrator may, at any time, modify, amend or terminate this 2009 Option Plan or modify or amend Options granted under this 2009 Option Plan, including, without limitation, such modifications or amendments as are necessary to maintain compliance with applicable statutes, rules or regulations; , no amendment with respect to an outstanding Option which has the effect of reducing the benefits afforded to the Holder thereof shall be made over the objection of such Holder, , that the Plan Administrator is prohibited from any downward modification of the Option Price established under Section 5(c) not specifically authorized in the 2009 Option Plan. The Plan Administrator may condition the effectiveness of any such amendment on the receipt of shareholder approval at such time and in such manner as the Plan Administrator may consider necessary for the Company to comply with or to avail the Company and/or the Optionees of the benefits of any securities, tax, market listing or other administrative or regulatory requirement.
provided however
provided further
The Effective Date of this 2009 Option Plan was established by vote of the shareholders of the Company held on May 6, 2009.

Exhibit 10.2
THIS AGREEMENT is entered into as of , 2009 (the "Date of Grant") between Expeditors International of Washington, Inc., a Washington corporation (the "Company"), and the option grant recipient (the "Optionee").
WHEREAS, the Company has approved and adopted the 2009 Stock Option Plan (the "Plan"), pursuant to which the Board of Directors is authorized to grant to employees of the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates stock options to purchase common stock, $.01 par value, of the Company (the "Common Stock");
WHEREAS, the Plan provides for the granting of stock options that either (i) are intended to qualify as "Incentive Stock Options" within the meaning of Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), or (ii) do not qualify under Section 422 of the Code ("Non-Qualified Stock Options");
WHEREAS, on , 2009 (the "Date of Grant"), the Company authorized the grant to the Optionee of an [an Incentive Stock Option][a Non-Qualified Stock Option] to purchase shares of Common Stock (the "Option");
NOW, THEREFORE, the Company hereby grants to Optionee the option to purchase, upon the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Plan, shares of Common Stock, as stated in the initial grant notice and/or Optionee's account at a service provider's stock option website. (At the time of this grant, Optionee views and accepts the Option at the self-service website of Transcentive, a Computershare company: https://admin01.transcentive.com.)
1. . This option is intended to be [an Incentive Stock Option][a Non-Qualified Stock Option].
Type of Option
2. . This option was granted on , 2009.
Date of Grant
3. . The exercise price for the Option shall be $ per share.
Exercise Price
4. . The tax treatment set forth in Section 422 of the Code is subject to certain limitations. These limitations, which are described in Section 5(a) of the Plan and are based upon the Code, generally limit the number of shares that will qualify under Section 422 in any given calendar year. Under Section 5(a) any portion of an Option that exceeds the annual limit shall be a "Non-Qualified Stock Option." The Company can make no representation that any of this Option will actually qualify under Section 422 when exercised.
Limitation on the Number of Shares
5. .
Vesting Schedule
 
Upon any Change in Control of the Company, as defined in the Plan, the Option shall accelerate and become fully vested and exercisable in accordance with Section 5(n) of the Plan.
6. . This Option may not be transferred, assigned, pledged or hypothecated in any manner (whether by operation of law or otherwise) other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, and shall not be subject to execution, attachment or similar process. Should any of the foregoing occur, Section 5(k) of the Plan provides that this Option shall terminate and become null and void.
Option Not Transferable
7. . By accepting this Option, Optionee represents and agrees for himself, and all persons who acquire rights in this Option in accordance with the Plan through Optionee, that none of the shares of Common Stock purchased upon exercise of this Option will be distributed in violation of applicable federal and state laws and regulations, and Optionee shall furnish evidence satisfactory to the Company (including a written and signed representation letter and a consent to be bound by all transfer restrictions imposed by applicable law, legend condition, or otherwise) to that effect, prior to delivery of the purchased shares of Common Stock.
Investment Intent
8. . A vested Option shall terminate, to the extent not previously exercised, upon the occurrence of the first of the following events:
Termination of Option
 
 
 
In the event of death of the Optionee, the Option shall be exercisable only by the person or persons to whom the Optionee's rights under the Option shall pass by the Optionee's will or by the laws of descent and distribution of the state or county of the Optionee's domicile at the time of death. Each unvested Option granted pursuant hereto shall terminate upon the Optionee's termination of employment for any reason whatsoever, including death or Disability. For Incentive Stock Option purposes, "Disability" shall mean that the Optionee is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in death or that has lasted, or can be expected to last, for a continuous period of not less than twelve (12) months. This definition of "Disability" is intended to comply with, and will be interpreted consistently with, Sections 22(e)(3) and 422(c)(6) of the Code.
9. . In the case of any stock split, stock dividend or like change in the nature of shares granted by this Agreement, the number of shares and option price shall be proportionately adjusted as set forth in Section 5(m) of the Plan.
Stock
10. . Each exercise of this Option shall be by means of written notice delivered to the Company at its principal executive office in Seattle, Washington, specifying the number of shares of Common Stock to be purchased. Upon each exercise of this Option, the full exercise price for the Common Stock to be purchased together with the amount necessary for the Company to satisfy its withholding obligation imposed by the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, if any, shall be paid to the Company by wire transfer, except to the extent another method of payment is permitted by the Plan Administrator. Alternatively, the Optionee may pay for all or any portion of the exercise price by delivery of previously acquired shares of Common Stock with a fair market value equal to or greater than the full exercise price or by complying with any other payment mechanism which the Plan Administrator may approve at the time of exercise. The exercise date of this Option shall be the date of the Company's receipt of the full exercise price for the Common Stock to be purchased.
Exercise of Option
11. . In order to obtain the favorable tax treatment currently provided by Section 422 of the Code, the shares of Common Stock must be sold, if at all, after a date which is the later of two (2) years from the date of grant of the Incentive Stock Option or one (1) year from the date upon which the Option is exercised. The Optionee agrees to report sales of such shares prior to the above determined date within one (1) business day after such sale is concluded.
Holding Period for Incentive Stock Options
12. . Optionee acknowledges that he has read and understands the terms of this Agreement and that:
Optionee Acknowledgments
(a) The issuance of shares of Common Stock pursuant to the exercise of this Option, the issuance of any securities with respect to such Common Stock by way of a stock dividend or stock split or in connection with a combination of shares, recapitalization, merger, consolidation or reorganization, and any resale of any such shares of Common Stock, may only be effected in compliance with applicable state and federal laws and regulations, including the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act");
(b) By acceptance of the Option, he agrees to defend, indemnify and hold the Company harmless from and against loss or liability arising from the transfer of the Option or any Common Stock issued pursuant thereto or any interest therein in violation of the provisions of the Securities Act or of this Option Agreement;
(c) He agrees that prior to any exercise of the Option, he will seek access to all information relating to the merits and risks of acquiring Common Stock necessary to make an informed decision;
(d) He is not entitled to any rights as a shareholder with respect to any shares of Common Stock issuable hereunder until he becomes a shareholder of record;
(e) The shares of Common Stock subject hereto may be adjusted in the event of certain organic changes in the capital structure of the Company or for any other reason permitted by the Plan; and
(f) This Agreement does not constitute an employment agreement nor does it entitle Optionee to any specific employment or to employment for a period of time, and Optionee's continued employment, if any, with the Company shall be at will and is subject to termination in accordance with the Company's prevailing policies and any other agreement between Optionee and the Company.
13. . The acceptance and exercise of the Option and the sale of Common Stock issued pursuant to exercise of the Option may have consequences under federal and state tax and securities laws which may vary depending on the individual circumstances of the Optionee. Accordingly, the Optionee acknowledges that he has been advised to consult his personal legal and tax advisor in connection with this Agreement and his dealings with respect to the Option or the Common Stock.
Professional Advice
14. . Any notice required or permitted to be made or given hereunder shall be hand delivered or mailed by certified or registered mail to the Company's address set forth below, or to the Optionee's address on file at the Company's Stock Administration department or as changed from time to time by written notice to the other.
Notices
Notices shall be deemed received and effective upon the earlier of (i) hand delivery to the recipient, (ii) five days after the date of postmark by the United States Postal Service or its successor or (iii) posting on the service provider's stock option website.
15. . This Option and this Agreement evidencing and confirming the same are subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and in any amendments to the Plan existing now or in the future, which terms and conditions are incorporated herein by reference. A copy will be made available upon request. Should any conflict exist between the provisions of the Plan and those of this Agreement, those of the Plan shall govern and control. This Agreement and the Plan set forth the entire understanding between the Company and the Optionee with respect to the Option and shall be construed and enforced under the laws of the State of Washington.
Agreement Subject to Plan
Dated as of the day of , 2009.
 


