FILE:IR/IR-8K-20090811113847.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
The unaudited pro forma financial information of Ingersoll-Rand Company Limited and Trane Inc. with respect to the year ended December 31, 2008 is filed as Exhibit 99.1.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
At the close of business on June 5, 2008, Ingersoll-Rand Company Limited, a Bermuda Company ("IR Limited") and the predecessor company to Ingersoll-Rand plc, completed its acquisition of Trane Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Trane"), for approximately $9.6 billion. The unaudited pro forma combined condensed financial data herein are based upon the historical consolidated financial statements and notes thereto of IR Limited and have been prepared to illustrate the effects of the merger pursuant to which Trane became a wholly-owned subsidiary of IR Limited.
The Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Income Statement Information set forth below has been presented after giving effect to the merger as if it had occurred on January 1, 2008. The historical financial information of IR Limited included in the Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Income Statement for the year ended December 31, 2008 includes the effect of the merger for the period from June 6, 2008 through and including December 31, 2008.
The unaudited pro forma combined condensed financial data herein give effect to IR Limited's acquisition of all of the outstanding shares of Trane common stock (197.3 million), restricted stock units (0.3 million) and stock options (12.2 million) in exchange for:
 
 
 
 
The unaudited pro forma combined condensed financial data also give effect to the issuance of approximately $4.4 billion in additional debt which was used to fund (a) part of the cash portion of the purchase price and (b) certain of the out-of-pocket transaction costs associated with the merger.
The acquisition has been accounted for using the purchase method of accounting in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 141, Business Combinations. Under the purchase method of accounting, management allocated the total estimated purchase price to the net tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed of Trane based on their estimated fair values.
The unaudited pro forma combined condensed financial data do not include non-recurring expenses related to the merger. Consequently, the unaudited pro forma combined condensed financial data excludes $132.4 million and $26 million in cost of goods sold and selling and administrative expenses, respectively, related to the fair value adjustments of inventory, in-process research and development and backlog. The unaudited pro forma combined condensed consolidated financial data also excludes $18.1 million and $25.6 million in selling and administrative expenses and other, net, respectively, related to the accelerated vesting of stock options and restricted stock units upon the change in control and legal fees, merger advisory fees and other costs directly related to the acquisition of Trane.
The unaudited pro forma combined condensed financial data do not reflect events that have occurred after December 31, 2008 or may occur in the future, including the repayment of the amount outstanding under the senior unsecured bridge loan facility in April 2009 or the potential realization of operating cost savings, revenue synergies,
restructuring or other costs related to the integration of the two companies. The unaudited pro forma combined condensed financial data was prepared in accordance with the regulations of the SEC under Article 11 of Regulation S-X and are not reflective of the actual results that are expected in future periods once the integration of Trane is complete.
The unaudited pro forma combined condensed financial data is provided for informational purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of the financial position or results of operations that would have occurred if the merger had been completed on the dates indicated, nor is it necessarily indicative of the future operating results or financial position of the combined company. In addition, the unaudited pro forma combined condensed financial data does not purport to indicate results of operations data as of any future date or any future period. The pro forma adjustments are based upon available information and certain assumptions that we believe are reasonable.
The accompanying unaudited pro forma combined condensed financial data should be read in conjunction with the historical financial statements and the accompanying disclosures of IR Limited for the year ended December 31, 2008 and the historical financial statements and the accompanying disclosures of Trane for the year ended December 31, 2007 and the quarter ended March 30, 2008, incorporated herein by reference to the Current Report on Form 8-K/A filed with the SEC on August 11, 2008 (Item 9.01(a) only).
Unless otherwise specified or the context otherwise requires, as used herein, "we," "us" and "our" and refer to Ingersoll-Rand plc or IR Limited, as the case may be, and their respective subsidiaries.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


