FILE:IR/IR-8K-20090701082159.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Changes in Control of Registrant	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Changes in Control of Registrant
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
Table of Contents
Supplemental Indentures
On June 29, 2009, we entered into the Supplemental Indentures described below as part of the Reorganization (as defined in Item 8.01). Each of the Supplemental Indentures became effective at the Transaction Time (as defined in Item 8.01).
: Ingersoll-Rand Global Holding Company Limited, a Bermuda company ("IR-Global"), Ingersoll-Rand Company Limited, a Bermuda company ("IR-Bermuda"), Ingersoll-Rand International Holding Limited, a Bermuda company ("IR-International"), Ingersoll-Rand plc, an Irish public limited company ("IR-Ireland") and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as Trustee, entered into the Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 29, 2009 (the "Supplemental Indenture to the 2008 Indenture"), to the Indenture dated as of August 12, 2008 (as supplemented to date, the "2008 Indenture"). Pursuant to the Supplemental Indenture to the 2008 Indenture, IR-International assumed the obligation of IR-Bermuda as the guarantor under the 2008 Indenture. In addition, IR-Ireland and IR-Bermuda fully and unconditionally guaranteed the payment obligations under the 2008 Indenture.
Supplemental Indenture to the 2008 Indenture
: IR-Bermuda, Ingersoll-Rand Company, a New Jersey corporation ("IR-New Jersey"), IR-International, IR-Ireland and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as Trustee, entered into the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 29, 2009 (the "Supplemental Indenture to the 2005 Indenture"), to the Indenture dated as of May 24, 2005 (the "2005 Indenture"). Pursuant to the Supplemental Indenture to the 2005 Indenture, IR-International assumed the obligations of IR-Bermuda as the issuer under the 2005 Indenture. In addition, IR-Ireland and IR-Bermuda fully and unconditionally guaranteed the payment obligations under the 2005 Indenture.
Supplemental Indenture to the 2005 Indenture
: IR-New Jersey, IR-Ireland, IR-International and the Bank of New York Mellon, as Trustee, entered into the Fifth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 29, 2009 (the "Supplemental Indenture to the 1986 Indenture"), to the Indenture dated as of August 1, 1986 (as supplemented to date, the "1986 Indenture"). Pursuant to the Supplemental Indenture to the 1986 Indenture, IR-Ireland and IR-Bermuda fully and unconditionally guaranteed the payment obligations under the 1986 Indenture.
Supplemental Indenture to the 1986 Indenture
The Supplemental Indenture to the 2008 Indenture, Supplemental Indenture to the 2005 Indenture and Supplemental Indenture to the 1986 Indenture (collectively, the "Supplemental Indentures") are filed as Exhibits 4.1, 4.2 and 4.3, respectively, to this Current Report on Form 8-K and are incorporated herein by reference, and the forgoing summary of the Supplemental Indentures is qualified in its entirety by reference to such Exhibits to this Form 8-K.
Credit Facilities
Pursuant to the terms of the Credit Facilities (as defined below), at the Transaction Time, IR-Ireland and IR-International became guarantors to (i) our Credit Agreement dated as of June 27, 2008 among IR-Bermuda, IR-Global, J.P. Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Citibank, N.A., as Syndication Agent, Bank of America, N.A., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., The Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi, Ltd., New York Branch, BNP Paribas and William Street LLC, as Documentation Agents, and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., as joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners, and certain lending institutions from time to time parties thereto (the "2008 Credit Facility") and (ii) our Credit Agreement dated as of August 12, 2005, among IR-New Jersey and IR-Bermuda, the banks listed therein, and Citicorp USA, Inc., as Syndication Agent, and Bank of America, N.A., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi, Ltd., New York Branch and UBS Securities LLC, as Documentation Agents, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., as Lead Arrangers and Bookrunners (the "2005 Credit Facility" and, together with the 2008 Credit Facility, the "Credit Facilities"). In connection therewith, IR-Ireland and IR-International entered into Addenda on July 1, 2009 to become parties to the Credit Facilities. In addition, pursuant to the Addenda, IR-Ireland assumed all obligations of IR-Bermuda under the Credit Facilities as the new parent company of the Ingersoll Rand group.
The Addenda of each of IR-Ireland and IR-International to each Credit Facility are filed herein as Exhibits 10.1, 10.2, 10.3 and 10.4, and are incorporated into this Item 1.01 by reference, and the forgoing summary of such Addenda is qualified in its entirety by reference to such Exhibits to this Form 8-K.
 
Table of Contents
Deed Poll Indemnities
On July 1, 2009, each of IR-Ireland and IR-Bermuda entered into a deed poll indemnity (each, a "Deed Poll Indemnity"), each of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.5 and Exhibit 10.6, respectively, as to each of the directors, secretary and officers and senior executives (as may be determined by the board of directors of IR-Ireland from time to time) of IR-Ireland, as well as with individuals serving as a director, officer or some other function of IR-Ireland's subsidiaries (the "Indemnitees"), providing for the indemnification of, and advancement of expenses to, such persons, to the fullest extent permitted by law. Each Deed Poll Indemnity became effective at the Transaction Time.
Each Deed Poll Indemnity is incorporated into this Item 1.01 by reference, and the foregoing summary of each Deed Poll Indemnity is qualified in its entirety by reference to Exhibit 10.5 and 10.6, respectively.
Assumption and Amendment of Equity Incentive Plans
In connection with the Transaction, effective as of the Transaction Time, IR-Ireland assumed the existing obligations of IR-Bermuda under certain equity incentive plans and other similar employee award plans of the Ingersoll Rand group (collectively, the "Plans"), including all awards issued thereunder. Furthermore, the Plans have been or will be amended by IR-Bermuda to provide (1) that shares of IR-Ireland will be issued, held available or used to measure benefits as appropriate under the Plans, in lieu of shares of IR-Bermuda, including upon exercise of any options or share appreciation rights or upon the vesting of restricted stock units or performance units issued under those Plans; and (2) for the appropriate substitution of IR-Ireland for IR-Bermuda in those Plans.
 
Table of Contents
Copies of each Plan (or amendments thereto), which have been amended to reflect the Transaction, are filed herewith as Exhibits 10.7 through 10.26 (inclusive), respectively, and incorporated into this Item 1.01 by reference, and the foregoing summary of the amended Plans is qualified in its entirety by reference to such Exhibits to this Form 8-K.
 
The descriptions of the Supplemental Indentures and the Addenda to our Credit Facilities under Item 1.01 are incorporated herein by reference.
 
At the Transaction Time, pursuant to the Transaction (as defined in Item 8.01), each holder of IR-Bermuda Class A common shares immediately before the Transaction was effected received ordinary shares of IR-Ireland on a one-for-one basis in exchange for their IR-Bermuda Class A common shares (or, in the case of fractional shares of IR-Bermuda Class A common shares, if any, cash for such fractional shares in lieu of fractional ordinary shares of IR-Ireland).
At the Transaction Time, IR-Ireland issued approximately 319,166,000 IR-Ireland ordinary shares to the holders of IR-Bermuda Class A common shares immediately prior to the Transaction Time. The terms and conditions of the issuance and exchange of the securities were approved by the Supreme Court of Bermuda, after a hearing upon the fairness of such terms and conditions at which all IR-Bermuda shareholders had a right to appear and of which adequate notice had been given. The issuance was exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), by virtue of Section 3(a)(10) of the Securities Act.
The description of the Transaction under Item 8.01 is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information included under Item 5.03 and Item 8.01 is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The description of the Transaction under Item 8.01 is incorporated herein by reference.
 
At the Transaction Time, the directors, the secretary and executive officers of IR-Bermuda immediately prior to such time became the directors, the secretary and officers and senior executives of IR-Ireland. IR-Ireland's memorandum and articles of association provide for a single class of directors and IR-Ireland's directors will be subject to reelection at the 2010 annual general meeting of IR-Ireland.
 
At the Transaction Time, the Class A common shareholders of IR-Bermuda became ordinary shareholders of IR-Ireland and IR-Ireland became the parent company of the Ingersoll Rand group. As a result, at the Transaction Time, the memorandum and articles of association of IR-Ireland as in effect at that time became the documents governing the parent company of the Ingersoll Rand group and the rights of the shareholders of Ingersoll-Rand. The description of IR-Ireland's memorandum and articles of association under Item 8.01 is incorporated herein by reference. The complete text of the memorandum and articles of association of IR-Ireland are filed as Exhibits 3.1 and 3.2, respectively, to this Current Report on Form 8-K and are incorporated herein by reference. The summary of IR-Ireland's memorandum and articles of association is qualified in its entirety by reference to Exhibits 3.1 and 3.2, respectively.
 
Table of Contents
At 12:01 a.m. on July 1, 2009 (the "Transaction Time"), the scheme of arrangement under Bermuda law (the "Scheme of Arrangement") to effect the transaction (the "Transaction") pursuant to which the jurisdiction of incorporation of our parent company was changed from Bermuda to Ireland became effective. The Transaction involved several steps. On April 1, 2009, IR-Bermuda formed IR-Ireland as a direct subsidiary. On April 20, 2009, IR-Bermuda petitioned the Supreme Court of Bermuda to order the calling of a meeting of IR-Bermuda Class A common shareholders to approve the Scheme of Arrangement. On April 23, 2009, the Supreme Court of Bermuda ordered IR-Bermuda to seek shareholder approval of the Scheme of Arrangement. IR-Bermuda held the special court-ordered meeting to approve the Scheme of Arrangement on June 3, 2009 and received the requisite shareholder approvals and, on June 11, 2009, the Supreme Court of Bermuda approved the Scheme of Arrangement. On June 30, 2009, IR-Bermuda filed the court approval with the Bermuda Registrar of Companies.
At the Transaction Time, the following steps effectively occurred simultaneously:
 
 
 
 
 
As a result of the Transaction, the Class A common shareholders of IR-Bermuda became ordinary shareholders of IR-Ireland and IR-Bermuda became a wholly-owned subsidiary of IR-Ireland.
On July 1, 2009, IR-Ireland issued a press release announcing the completion of the Transaction. The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Prior to the Transaction, the IR-Bermuda Class A common shares were registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and listed on the NYSE under the symbol "IR." In connection with the Transaction, IR-Bermuda requested that the NYSE file with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("Commission") a Form 25 to remove the IR-Bermuda Class A common shares from listing on the NYSE. IR-Bermuda expects to file a Form 15 with the Commission to terminate the registration of the IR-Bermuda Class A common shares and suspend its reporting obligations under Sections 13 and 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
Pursuant to Rule 12g-3(a) promulgated under the Exchange Act, the IR-Ireland ordinary shares are deemed registered under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act. The IR-Ireland ordinary shares were approved for listing on the NYSE and will begin trading under the symbol "IR," the same symbol under which the IR-Ireland Class A common shares previously traded, on July 1, 2009. The CUSIP number of the ordinary shares of IR-Ireland is G47791 101.
Set forth below is a description of the share capital of IR-Ireland.
 
Table of Contents
The following description of IR-Ireland's share capital is a summary. This summary is not complete and is subject to the complete text of IR-Ireland's memorandum and articles of association attached as Exhibits 3.1 and 3.2, respectively, and to the Irish Companies Acts 1963-2006 (the "Irish Companies Acts"). We encourage you to read those laws and documents carefully.
Capital Structure
. The authorized share capital of IR-Ireland is 40,000 and US$1,175,010,000 divided into 40,000 ordinary shares with a nominal value of 1 per share, 1,175,000,000 ordinary shares with a nominal value of US$1.00 per share and 10,000,000 preferred shares with a nominal value of US$0.001 per share.
Authorized Share Capital
IR-Ireland may issue shares subject to the maximum prescribed by its authorized share capital contained in its memorandum of association.
As a matter of Irish company law, the directors of a company may issue new ordinary or preferred shares without shareholder approval once authorized to do so by the articles of association of the company or by an ordinary resolution adopted by the shareholders at a general meeting. An ordinary resolution requires over 50% of the votes of a company's shareholders cast at a general meeting. The authority conferred can be granted for a maximum period of five years, at which point it must be renewed by the shareholders of the company by an ordinary resolution. Because of this requirement of Irish law, the articles of association of IR-Ireland authorize the board of directors of IR-Ireland to issue new ordinary or preferred shares without shareholder approval for a period of five years from the date of IR-Ireland's incorporation.
The authorized share capital may be increased or reduced by way of an ordinary resolution of IR-Ireland's shareholders. The shares comprising the authorized share capital of IR-Ireland may be divided into shares of such par value as the resolution shall prescribe.
The rights and restrictions to which the ordinary shares will be subject will be prescribed in IR-Ireland's articles of association. IR-Ireland's articles of association entitle the board of directors, without shareholder approval, to determine the terms of the preferred shares issued by IR-Ireland. The IR-Ireland board of directors is authorized, without obtaining any vote or consent of the holders of any class or series of shares unless expressly provided by the terms of that class or series or shares, to provide from time to time for the issuance of other classes or series of preferred shares and to establish the characteristics of each class or series, including the number of shares, designations, relative voting rights, dividend rights, liquidation and other rights, redemption, repurchase or exchange rights and any other preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights and limitations not inconsistent with applicable law.
Irish law does not recognize fractional shares held of record; accordingly, IR-Ireland's articles of association do not provide for the issuance of fractional shares of IR-Ireland, and the official Irish register of IR-Ireland will not reflect any fractional shares.
. Immediately prior to the Transaction, the issued share capital of IR-Ireland was 40,000, comprised of 40,000 ordinary shares with a par value of 1 per share (the "Euro Share Capital"). In connection with the consummation of the Transaction, the Euro Share Capital was acquired by IR-Ireland and was then cancelled by IR-Ireland. At the Transaction Time, IR-Ireland then issued approximately 319,166,000 ordinary shares with a par value of $1.00 each to the holders of IR-Bermuda Class A common shares immediately prior to the Transaction Time. All shares issued on completion of the Transaction were issued as fully paid up.
Issued Share Capital
Pre-emption Rights, Share Warrants and Share Options
Certain statutory pre-emption rights apply automatically in favor of IR-Ireland's shareholders where shares in IR-Ireland are to be issued for cash. However, IR-Ireland has opted out of these pre-emption rights in its articles of association as permitted under Irish company law. Because Irish law requires this opt-out to be renewed every five years by a special resolution of the shareholders, IR-Ireland's articles of association provide that this opt-out must be so renewed. A special resolution requires not less than 75% of the votes of IR-Ireland's shareholders cast at
 
Table of Contents
a general meeting. If the opt-out is not renewed, shares issued for cash must be offered to pre-existing shareholders of IR-Ireland pro rata to their existing shareholding before the shares can be issued to any new shareholders. The statutory pre-emption rights do not apply where shares are issued for non-cash consideration and do not apply to the issue of non-equity shares (that is, shares that have the right to participate only up to a specified amount in any income or capital distribution).
The articles of association of IR-Ireland provide that, subject to any shareholder approval requirement under any laws, regulations or the rules of any stock exchange to which IR-Ireland is subject, the board is authorized, from time to time, in its discretion, to grant such persons, for such periods and upon such terms as the board deems advisable, options to purchase such number of shares of any class or classes or of any series of any class as the board may deem advisable, and to cause warrants or other appropriate instruments evidencing such options to be issued. The Irish Companies Acts provide that directors may issue share warrants or options without shareholder approval once authorized to do so by the articles of association or an ordinary resolution of shareholders. The board may issue shares upon exercise of warrants or options without shareholder approval or authorization.
IR-Ireland is subject to the rules of the NYSE that require shareholder approval of certain share issuances.
Dividends
Under Irish law, dividends and distributions may only be made from distributable reserves. Distributable reserves, broadly, means the accumulated realized profits of IR-Ireland less accumulated realized losses of IR-Ireland. In addition, no distribution or dividend may be made unless the net assets of IR-Ireland are equal to, or in excess of, the aggregate of IR-Ireland's called up share capital plus undistributable reserves and the distribution does not reduce IR-Ireland's net assets below such aggregate. Undistributable reserves include the share premium account, the capital redemption reserve fund and the amount by which IR-Ireland's accumulated unrealized profits, so far as not previously utilized by any capitalization, exceed IR-Ireland's accumulated unrealized losses, so far as not previously written off in a reduction or reorganization of capital.
The determination as to whether or not IR-Ireland has sufficient distributable reserves to fund a dividend must be made by reference to "relevant accounts" of IR-Ireland. The "relevant accounts" will be either the last set of unconsolidated annual audited financial statements or unaudited financial statements prepared in accordance with the Irish Companies Acts, which give a "true and fair view" of IR-Ireland's unconsolidated financial position and accord with accepted accounting practice. The relevant accounts must be filed in the Companies Registration Office (the official public registry for companies in Ireland).
Although our shareholders have approved the creation of distributable reserves, IR-Ireland will not have any distributable reserves until the creation of such distributable reserves is approved by the Irish High Court. We are currently taking steps to receive the approval from the Irish High Court. Although we are not aware of any reason why the Irish High Court would not approve the creation of distributable reserves, the issuance of the required order is a matter for the discretion of the Irish High Court and there is no guarantee that such approval will be forthcoming. Even if the Irish High Court does approve the creation of distributable reserves, it may take substantially longer than we anticipate.
The mechanism as to who declares a dividend and when a dividend shall become payable is governed by the articles of association of IR-Ireland. IR-Ireland's articles of association authorize the directors to declare such dividends as appear justified from the profits of IR-Ireland without the approval of the shareholders at a general meeting. The board of directors may also recommend a dividend to be approved and declared by the shareholders at a general meeting. Although the shareholders may direct that the payment be made by distribution of assets, shares or cash, no dividend issued may exceed the amount recommended by the directors. The dividends can be declared and paid in the form of cash or non-cash assets.
The directors of IR-Ireland may deduct from any dividend payable to any member all sums of money (if any) payable by such member to IR-Ireland in relation to the shares of IR-Ireland.
 
Table of Contents
The directors of IR-Ireland are also entitled to issue shares with preferred rights to participate in dividends declared by IR-Ireland. The holders of such preferred shares may, depending on their terms, be entitled to claim arrears of a declared dividend out of subsequently declared dividends in priority to ordinary shareholders.
Share Repurchases, Redemptions and Conversions
Overview
Article 3(d) of IR-Ireland's articles of association provides that any ordinary share which IR-Ireland has acquired or agreed to acquire shall be deemed to be a redeemable share. Accordingly, for Irish company law purposes, the repurchase of ordinary shares by IR-Ireland will technically be effected as a redemption of those shares as described below under "Repurchases and Redemptions by IR-Ireland" If the articles of association of IR-Ireland did not contain Article 3(d), repurchases by IR-Ireland would be subject to many of the same rules that apply to purchases of IR-Ireland shares by subsidiaries described below under "Purchases by Subsidiaries of IR-Ireland," including the shareholder approval requirements described below and the requirement that any on-market purchases be effected on a "recognized stock exchange." Except where otherwise noted, when we refer elsewhere in this Form 8-K to repurchasing or buying back ordinary shares of IR-Ireland, we are referring to the redemption of ordinary shares by IR-Ireland pursuant to Article 3(d) of the articles of association or the purchase of ordinary shares of IR-Ireland by a subsidiary of IR-Ireland, in each case in accordance with the IR-Ireland articles of association and Irish company law as described below.
Repurchases and Redemptions by IR-Ireland
Under Irish law, a company can issue redeemable shares and redeem them out of distributable reserves (which are described above under "Dividends") or the proceeds of a new issue of shares for that purpose. Although IR-Ireland currently does not have any distributable reserves, we are taking steps to create such distributable reserves. Please see "Dividends." The issue of redeemable shares may only be made by IR-Ireland where the nominal value of the issued share capital that is not redeemable is not less than 10% of the nominal value of the total issued share capital of IR-Ireland. All redeemable shares must also be fully paid and the terms of redemption of the shares must provide for payment on redemption. Redeemable shares may, upon redemption, be cancelled or held in treasury. Shareholder approval will not be required to redeem IR-Ireland shares.
The board of directors of IR-Ireland will also be entitled to issue preferred shares which may be redeemed at the option of either IR-Ireland or the shareholder, depending on the terms of such preferred shares. Please see "Capital StructureAuthorized Share Capital" above for additional information on redeemable shares.
Repurchased and redeemed shares may be cancelled or held as treasury shares. The nominal value of treasury shares held by IR-Ireland at any time must not exceed 10% of the nominal value of the issued share capital of IR-Ireland. While IR-Ireland holds shares as treasury shares, it cannot exercise any voting rights in respect of those shares. Treasury shares may be cancelled by IR-Ireland or re-issued subject to certain conditions.
Purchases by Subsidiaries of IR-Ireland
Under Irish law, it may be permissible for an Irish or non-Irish subsidiary to purchase shares of IR-Ireland either on-market or off-market. A general authority of the shareholders of IR-Ireland is required to allow a subsidiary of IR-Ireland to make on-market purchases of IR-Ireland shares; however, as long as this general authority has been granted, no specific shareholder authority for a particular on-market purchase by a subsidiary of IR-Ireland shares is required. We expect that IR-Ireland will seek such general authority, which must expire no later than 18 months after the date on which it was granted, at the first annual general meeting of IR-Ireland in 2010 and at subsequent annual general meetings. In order for a subsidiary of IR-Ireland to make an on-market purchase of IR-Ireland's shares, such shares must be purchased on a "recognized stock exchange." The NYSE, on which the shares of IR-Ireland are listed, is not currently specified as a recognized stock exchange for this purpose by Irish company law. We understand, however, that it is likely that the Irish authorities will take appropriate steps in the near future to add the NYSE to the list of recognized stock exchanges. For an off-market purchase by a subsidiary of IR-Ireland, the proposed purchase contract must be authorized by special resolution of the shareholders of IR-Ireland before the
 
Table of Contents
contract is entered into. The person whose shares are to be bought back cannot vote in favor of the special resolution and, for at least 21 days prior to the special resolution, the purchase contract must be on display or must be available for inspection by shareholders at the registered office of IR-Ireland.
The number of shares held by the subsidiaries of IR-Ireland at any time will count as treasury shares and will be included in any calculation of the permitted treasury share threshold of 10% of the nominal value of the issued share capital of IR-Ireland. While a subsidiary holds shares of IR-Ireland, it cannot exercise any voting rights in respect of those shares. The acquisition of the shares IR-Ireland by a subsidiary must be funded out of distributable reserves of the subsidiary.
Existing Share Repurchase Program
The board of directors of IR-Bermuda has previously authorized a program to repurchase up to $4 billion of its Class A common shares. The board of directors of IR-Ireland elected to continue IR-Bermuda's share repurchase program. As a result, IR-Ireland and its subsidiaries are authorized to purchase shares up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2 billion.
As noted above, because repurchases of IR-Ireland shares by IR-Ireland will technically be effected as a redemption of those shares pursuant to Article 3(d) of the articles of association, such repurchases may be made whether or not the NYSE is a "recognized stock exchange" and shareholder approval for such repurchases will not be required.
However, because purchases of IR-Ireland shares by subsidiaries of IR-Ireland may be made only on a "recognized stock exchange" and only if the required shareholder approval has been obtained, we expect that the shareholder authorization for purchases by subsidiaries of IR-Ireland described above will be effective as of the date on which the NYSE becomes a recognized stock exchange for this purpose. This authorization will lapse on the date of the 2010 annual general meeting of IR-Ireland, at which time we expect that we would seek shareholder approval to renew this authorization.
Bonus Shares
Under IR-Ireland's articles of association, the board may resolve to capitalize any amount credited to any reserve or fund available for distribution or the share premium account of IR-Ireland for issuance and distribution to shareholders as fully paid up bonus shares on the same basis of entitlement as would apply in respect of a dividend distribution.
Consolidation and Division; Subdivision
Under its articles of association, IR-Ireland may by ordinary resolution consolidate and divide all or any of its share capital into shares of larger par value than its existing shares or subdivide its shares into smaller amounts than is fixed by its articles of association.
Reduction of Share Capital
IR-Ireland may, by ordinary resolution, reduce its authorized share capital in any way. IR-Ireland also may, by special resolution and subject to confirmation by the Irish High Court, reduce or cancel its issued share capital in any way. The distributable reserves proposal discussed above in "Dividends" involves a reduction of share capital, namely the share premium account of IR-Ireland, for purposes of Irish law.
General Meetings of Shareholders
IR-Ireland will be required to hold an annual general meeting within eighteen months of incorporation and at intervals of no more than fifteen months thereafter, provided that an annual general meeting is held in each calendar year following the first annual general meeting, no more than nine months after IR-Ireland's fiscal year-end. The first annual general meeting of IR-Ireland may be held outside Ireland. Thereafter, any annual general
 
Table of Contents
meeting may be held outside Ireland if a resolution so authorizing has been passed at the preceding annual general meeting. Because of the fifteen-month requirement described in this paragraph, IR-Ireland's articles of association include a provision reflecting this requirement of Irish law. At any annual general meeting, only such business shall be conducted as shall have been brought before the meeting (a) by or at the direction of the board or (b) by any member entitled to vote at such meeting who complies with the procedures set forth in the articles of association.
Extraordinary general meetings of IR-Ireland may be convened by (i) the chairman of the board of directors, (ii) the board of directors, (iii) on requisition of the shareholders holding not less than 10% of the paid up share capital of IR-Ireland carrying voting rights or (iv) on requisition of IR-Ireland's auditors. Extraordinary general meetings are generally held for the purposes of approving shareholder resolutions of IR-Ireland as may be required from time to time. At any extraordinary general meeting only such business shall be conducted as is set forth in the notice thereof.
Notice of a general meeting must be given to all shareholders of IR-Ireland and to the auditors of IR-Ireland. The articles of association of IR-Ireland provide that the maximum notice period is 60 days. The minimum notice periods are 21 days' notice in writing for an annual general meeting or an extraordinary general meeting to approve a special resolution and 14 days' notice in writing for any other extraordinary general meeting. Because of the 21-day and 14-day requirements described in this paragraph, IR-Ireland's articles of association include provisions reflecting these requirements of Irish law.
In the case of an extraordinary general meeting convened by shareholders of IR-Ireland, the proposed purpose of the meeting must be set out in the requisition notice. The requisition notice can contain any resolution. Upon receipt of this requisition notice, the board of directors has 21 days to convene a meeting of IR-Ireland's shareholders to vote on the matters set out in the requisition notice. This meeting must be held within two months of the receipt of the requisition notice. If the board of directors does not convene the meeting within such 21-day period, the requisitioning shareholders, or any of them representing more than one half of the total voting rights of all of them, may themselves convene a meeting, which meeting must be held within three months of the receipt of the requisition notice.
The only matters which must, as a matter of Irish company law, be transacted at an annual general meeting are the presentation of the annual accounts, balance sheet and reports of the directors and auditors, the appointment of auditors and the fixing of the auditor's remuneration (or delegation of same). If no resolution is made in respect of the reappointment of an auditor at an annual general meeting, the previous auditor will be deemed to have continued in office.
Directors are elected by the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes cast by shareholders at an annual general meeting and serve for one year terms. Any nominee for director who does not receive a majority of the votes cast is not elected to the board. However, because Irish law requires a minimum of two directors at all times, in the event that an election results in no director being elected, each of the two nominees receiving the greatest number of votes in favor of his or her election shall hold office until his or her successor shall be elected. In the event that an election results in only one director being elected, that director shall be elected and shall serve for a one year term, and the nominee receiving the greatest number of votes in favor of their election shall hold office until his or her successor shall be elected.
If the directors become aware that the net assets of IR-Ireland are half or less of the amount of IR-Ireland's called-up share capital, the directors of IR-Ireland must convene an extraordinary general meeting of IR-Ireland's shareholders not later than 28 days from the date that they learn of this fact. This meeting must be convened for the purposes of considering whether any, and if so what, measures should be taken to address the situation.
Voting
Where a poll is demanded at a general meeting, every shareholder shall have one vote for each ordinary share that he or she holds as of the record date for the meeting. Voting rights on a poll may be exercised by shareholders registered in IR-Ireland's share register as of the record date for the meeting or by a duly appointed proxy of such a registered shareholder, which proxy need not be a shareholder. Where interests in shares are held by a nominee trust company, this company may exercise the rights of the beneficial holders on their behalf as their proxy. All proxies must be appointed in the manner prescribed by IR-Ireland's articles of association. The articles of association of IR-Ireland permit the appointment of proxies by the shareholders to be notified to IR-Ireland electronically.
 
Table of Contents
IR-Ireland's articles of association provide that all resolutions shall be decided by a show of hands unless a poll is demanded by the Chairman, by at least three shareholders as of the record date for the meeting or by any shareholder or shareholders holding not less than 10% of the total voting rights of IR-Ireland as of the record date for the meeting. Each IR-Ireland ordinary shareholder of record as of the record date for the meeting has one vote at a general meeting on a show of hands.
In accordance with the articles of association of IR-Ireland, the directors of IR-Ireland may from time to time cause IR-Ireland to issue preferred shares. These preferred shares may have such voting rights as may be specified in the terms of such preferred shares (e.g., they may carry more votes per share than ordinary shares or may entitle their holders to a class vote on such matters as may be specified in the terms of the preferred shares).
Treasury shares will not be entitled to vote at general meetings of shareholders.
Irish company law requires "special resolutions" of the shareholders at a general meeting to approve certain matters. A special resolution requires not less than 75% of the votes cast of IR-Ireland's shareholders at a general meeting. This may be contrasted with "ordinary resolutions," which require a simple majority of the votes of IR-Ireland's shareholders cast at a general meeting. Examples of matters requiring special resolutions include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A scheme of arrangement with shareholders requires a court order from the Irish High Court and the approval of: (1) 75% of the voting shareholders by value; and (2) 50% in number of the voting shareholders, at a meeting called to approve the scheme.
 
Table of Contents
Variation of Rights Attaching to a Class or Series of Shares
Variation of all or any special rights attached to any class or series of shares of IR-Ireland is addressed in the articles of association of IR-Ireland as well as the Irish Companies Acts. Any variation of class rights attaching to the issued shares of IR-Ireland must be approved by a special resolution of the shareholders of the class or series affected.
Quorum for General Meetings
The presence, in person or by proxy, of the holders of a majority of the IR-Ireland ordinary shares outstanding constitutes a quorum for the conduct of business. No business may take place at a general meeting of IR-Ireland if a quorum is not present in person or by proxy. The board of directors has no authority to waive quorum requirements stipulated in the articles of association of IR-Ireland. Abstentions and broker non-votes will be counted as present for purposes of determining whether there is a quorum in respect of the proposals.
Inspection of Books and Records
Under Irish law, shareholders have the right to: (i) receive a copy of the memorandum and articles of association of IR-Ireland and any act of the Irish government which alters the memorandum of association of IR-Ireland; (ii) inspect and obtain copies of the minutes of general meetings and resolutions of IR-Ireland; (iii) inspect and receive a copy of the register of shareholders, register of directors and secretaries, register of directors' interests and other statutory registers maintained by IR-Ireland; (iv) receive copies of balance sheets and directors' and auditors' reports which have previously been sent to shareholders prior to an annual general meeting; and (v) receive balance sheets of a subsidiary company of IR-Ireland which have previously been sent to shareholders prior to an annual general meeting for the preceding ten years. The auditors of IR-Ireland will also have the right to inspect all books, records and vouchers of IR-Ireland. The auditors' report must be circulated to the shareholders with audited consolidated annual financial statements of IR-Ireland prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 21 days before the annual general meeting and must be read to the shareholders at IR-Ireland's annual general meeting.
Acquisitions
There are a number of mechanisms for acquiring an Irish public limited company, including:
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Under Irish law, there is no requirement for a company's shareholders to approve a sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of a company's property and assets. However, IR-Ireland's articles of association provide that the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding voting shares on the relevant record date is required to approve a sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of its property or assets.
Appraisal Rights
Generally, under Irish law, shareholders of an Irish company do not have appraisal rights. Under the EC (Cross-Border Mergers) Regulations 2008 governing the merger of an Irish public limited company and a company incorporated in the European Economic Area, a shareholder (a) who voted against the special resolution approving the merger or (b) of a company in which 90% of the shares is held by the other company the party to the merger of the transferor company has the right to request that the company acquire its shares for cash.
Disclosure of Interests in Shares
Under the Irish Companies Acts, there is a notification requirement for shareholders who acquire or cease to be interested in 5% of the shares of an Irish public limited company. A shareholder of IR-Ireland must therefore make such a notification to IR-Ireland if as a result of a transaction the shareholder will be interested in 5% or more of the shares of IR-Ireland; or if as a result of a transaction a shareholder who was interested in more than 5% of the shares of IR-Ireland ceases to be so interested. Where a shareholder is interested in more than 5% of the shares of IR-Ireland, any alteration of his or her interest that brings his or her total holding through the nearest whole percentage number, whether an increase or a reduction, must be notified to IR-Ireland. The relevant percentage figure is calculated by reference to the aggregate par value of the shares in which the shareholder is interested as a proportion of the entire par value of IR-Ireland's share capital. Where the percentage level of the shareholder's interest does not amount to a whole percentage, this figure may be rounded down to the next whole number. All such disclosures should be notified to IR-Ireland within 5 business days of the transaction or alteration of the shareholder's interests that gave rise to the requirement to notify. Where a person fails to comply with the notification requirements described above no right or interest of any kind whatsoever in respect of any shares in IR-Ireland concerned, held by such person, shall be enforceable by such person, whether directly or indirectly, by action or legal proceeding. However, such person may apply to the court to have the rights attaching to the shares concerned reinstated.
In addition to the above disclosure requirement, IR-Ireland, under the Irish Companies Acts, may by notice in writing require a person whom IR-Ireland knows or has reasonable cause to believe to be, or at any time during the three years immediately preceding the date on which such notice is issued, to have been interested in shares comprised in IR-Ireland's relevant share capital to: (a) indicate whether or not it is the case, and (b) where such person holds or has during that time held an interest in the shares of IR-Ireland, to give such further information as may be required by IR-Ireland including particulars of such person's own past or present interests in shares of IR-Ireland. Any information given in response to the notice is required to be given in writing within such reasonable time as may be specified in the notice.
Where such a notice is served by IR-Ireland on a person who is or was interested in shares of IR-Ireland and that person fails to give IR-Ireland any information required within the reasonable time specified, IR-Ireland may apply to court for an order directing that the affected shares be subject to certain restrictions. Under the Irish Companies Acts, the restrictions that may be placed on the shares by the court are as follows:
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Where the shares in IR-Ireland are subject to these restrictions, the court may order the shares to be sold and may also direct that the shares shall cease to be subject to these restrictions.
Anti-Takeover Provisions
Business Combinations with Interested Shareholders
As provided in IR-Ireland's articles of association, the affirmative vote of the holders of 80% of the shares then in issue of all classes of shares entitled to vote considered for purposes of this provision as one class, is required for IR-Ireland to engage in any "business combination" with any interested shareholder (generally, a 10% or greater shareholder), provided that the above vote requirement does not apply to:
 
 
IR-Ireland's articles of association provide that "business combination" means:
 
 
 
Irish Takeover Rules and Substantial Acquisition Rules
A transaction by virtue of which a third party is seeking to acquire 30% or more of the voting rights of IR-Ireland will be governed by the Irish Takeover Panel Act 1997 and the Irish Takeover Rules made thereunder and will be regulated by the Irish Takeover Panel. The "General Principles" of the Irish Takeover Rules and certain important aspects of the Irish Takeover Rules are described below.
General Principles
The Irish Takeover Rules are built on the following General Principles which will apply to any transaction regulated by the Irish Takeover Panel:
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
Mandatory Bid
If an acquisition of shares were to increase the aggregate holding of an acquirer and its concert parties to shares carrying 30% or more of the voting rights in IR-Ireland, the acquirer and, depending on the circumstances, its concert parties would be required (except with the consent of the Irish Takeover Panel) to make a cash offer for the outstanding shares at a price not less than the highest price paid for the shares by the acquirer or its concert parties during the previous 12 months. This requirement would also be triggered by an acquisition of shares by a person holding (together with its concert parties) shares carrying between 30% and 50% of the voting rights in IR-Ireland if the effect of such acquisition were to increase the percentage of the voting rights held by that person (together with its concert parties) by 0.05% within a twelve-month period. A single holder (that is, a holder excluding any parties acting in concert with the holder) holding more than 50% of the voting rights of a company is not subject to this rule.
Voluntary Bid; Requirements to Make a Cash Offer and Minimum Price Requirements
A voluntary offer is an offer that is not a mandatory offer. If a bidder or any of its concert parties acquire ordinary shares of IR-Ireland within the period of three months prior to the commencement of the offer period, the offer price must be not less than the highest price paid for IR-Ireland ordinary shares by the bidder or its concert parties during that period. The Irish Takeover Panel has the power to extend the "look back" period to 12 months if the Irish Takeover Panel, having regard to the General Principles, believes it is appropriate to do so.
If the bidder or any of its concert parties has acquired ordinary shares of IR-Ireland (i) during the period of 12 months prior to the commencement of the offer period which represent more than 10% of the total ordinary shares of IR-Ireland or (ii) at any time after the commencement of the offer period, the offer shall be in cash (or accompanied by a full cash alternative) and the price per IR-Ireland ordinary share shall be not less than the highest price paid by the bidder or its concert parties during, in the case of (i), the period of 12 months prior to the commencement of the offer period and, in the case of (ii), the offer period. The Irish Takeover Panel may apply this rule to a bidder who, together with its concert parties, has acquired less than 10% of the total ordinary shares of IR-Ireland in the 12 month period prior to the commencement of the offer period if the Panel, having regard to the General Principles, considers it just and proper to do so.
An offer period will generally commence from the date of the first announcement of the offer or proposed offer.
 
Table of Contents
Substantial Acquisition Rules
The Irish Takeover Rules also contain rules governing substantial acquisitions of shares which restrict the speed at which a person may increase his or her holding of shares and rights over shares to an aggregate of between 15% and 30% of the voting rights of IR-Ireland. Except in certain circumstances, an acquisition or series of acquisitions of shares or rights over shares representing 10% or more of the voting rights of IR-Ireland is prohibited, if such acquisition(s), when aggregated with shares or rights already held, would result in the acquirer holding 15% or more but less than 30% of the voting rights of IR-Ireland and such acquisitions are made within a period of seven days. These rules also require accelerated disclosure of acquisitions of shares or rights over shares relating to such holdings.
Frustrating Action
Under the Irish Takeover Rules, the board of directors of IR-Ireland is not permitted to take any action which might frustrate an offer for the shares of IR-Ireland once the board of directors has received an approach which may lead to an offer or has reason to believe an offer is imminent except as noted below. Potentially frustrating actions such as (i) the issue of shares, options or convertible securities, (ii) material disposals, (iii) entering into contracts other than in the ordinary course of business or (iv) any action, other than seeking alternative offers, which may result in frustration of an offer, are prohibited during the course of an offer or at any time during which the board has reason to believe an offer is imminent. Exceptions to this prohibition are available where:
 
 
 
 
 
 
For other provisions that could be considered to have an anti-takeover effect, please see above at "Pre-emption Rights, Share Warrants and Share Options" and "Disclosure of Interests in Shares," in addition to "Corporate Governance" below.
Corporate Governance
The articles of association of IR-Ireland allocate authority over the management of IR-Ireland to the board of directors. The board of directors may then delegate management of IR-Ireland to committees of the board, executives or to a management team, but regardless, the directors will remain responsible, as a matter of Irish law, for the proper management of the affairs of IR-Ireland. IR-Ireland currently has an Audit Committee, a Compensation Committee, a Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee and a Finance Committee. IR-Ireland has also adopted the Corporate Governance Guidelines of IR-Bermuda.
Legal Name; Formation; Fiscal Year; Registered Office
The legal and commercial name of the newly formed Irish company is Ingersoll-Rand public limited company. IR-Ireland was incorporated in Ireland, as a public limited company on April 1, 2009 with company registration number 469272. IR-Ireland's fiscal year ends on December 31 and IR-Ireland's registered address is 170/175 Lakeview Dr., Airside Business Park, Swords, Co. Dublin, Ireland.
 
Table of Contents
Duration; Dissolution; Rights upon Liquidation
IR-Ireland's duration will be unlimited. IR-Ireland may be dissolved at any time by way of either a shareholders' voluntary winding up or a creditors' voluntary winding up. In the case of a shareholders' voluntary winding up, the consent of not less than 75% of the shareholders of IR-Ireland is required. IR-Ireland may also be dissolved by way of court order on the application of a creditor, or by the Companies Registration Office as an enforcement measure where IR-Ireland has failed to file certain returns.
The rights of the shareholders to a return of IR-Ireland's assets on dissolution or winding up, following the settlement of all claims of creditors, may be prescribed in IR-Ireland's articles of association or the terms of any preferred shares issued by the directors of IR-Ireland from time to time. The holders of preferred shares in particular may have the right to priority in a dissolution or winding up of IR-Ireland. If the articles of association contain no specific provisions in respect of a dissolution or winding up then, subject to the priorities or any creditors, the assets will be distributed to shareholders in proportion to the paid-up par value of the shares held. IR-Ireland's articles of association provide that the ordinary shareholders of IR-Ireland are entitled to participate pro rata in a winding up, but their right to do so may be subject to the rights of any preferred shareholders to participate under the terms of any series or class of preferred shares.
Uncertificated Shares
Holders of ordinary shares of IR-Ireland will not have the right to require IR-Ireland to issue certificates for their shares. IR-Ireland will only issue uncertificated ordinary shares.
Stock Exchange Listing
The IR-Ireland ordinary shares are listed on the NYSE under the symbol "IR." We do not plan for IR-Ireland's ordinary shares to be listed on the Irish Stock Exchange at the present time.
No Sinking Fund
The ordinary shares have no sinking fund provisions.
No Liability for Further Calls or Assessments
All of our issued ordinary shares are duly and validly issued and fully paid.
Transfer and Registration of Shares
IR-Ireland's share register will be maintained by its transfer agent. Registration in this share register will be determinative of membership in IR-Ireland. A shareholder of IR-Ireland who holds shares beneficially will not be the holder of record of such shares. Instead, the depository (for example, Cede & Co., as nominee for DTC) or other nominee will be the holder of record of such shares. Accordingly, a transfer of shares from a person who holds such shares beneficially to a person who also holds such shares beneficially through a depository or other nominee will not be registered in IR-Ireland's official share register, as the depository or other nominee will remain the record holder of such shares.
A written instrument of transfer is required under Irish law in order to register on IR-Ireland's official share register any transfer of shares (i) from a person who holds such shares directly to any other person, (ii) from a person who holds such shares beneficially to a person who holds such shares directly, or (iii) from a person who holds such shares beneficially to another person who holds such shares beneficially where the transfer involves a change in the depository or other nominee that is the record owner of the transferred shares. An instrument of transfer also is required for a shareholder who directly holds shares to transfer those shares into his or her own broker account (or vice versa). Such instruments of transfer may give rise to Irish stamp duty, which must be paid prior to registration of the transfer on IR-Ireland's official Irish share register.
 
Table of Contents
We currently intend to pay (or cause one of our affiliates to pay) stamp duty in connection with share transfers made in the ordinary course of trading by a seller who holds shares directly to a buyer who holds the acquired shares beneficially. In other cases IR-Ireland may, in its absolute discretion, pay (or cause one of its affiliates to pay) any stamp duty. IR-Ireland's articles of association provide that, in the event of any such payment, IR-Ireland (i) may seek reimbursement from the transferor or transferee (at our discretion), (ii) may set-off the amount of the stamp duty against future dividends payable to the transferor or transferee (at our discretion), and (iii) will have a lien against the IR-Ireland shares on which we have paid stamp duty. Parties to a share transfer may assume that any stamp duty arising in respect of a transaction in IR-Ireland shares has been paid unless one or both of such parties is otherwise notified by us.
IR-Ireland's articles of association delegate to IR-Ireland's secretary the authority to execute an instrument of transfer on behalf of a transferring party. In order to help ensure that the official share register is regularly updated to reflect trading of IR-Ireland shares occurring through normal electronic systems, we intend to regularly produce any required instruments of transfer in connection with any transactions for which we pay stamp duty (subject to the reimbursement and set-off rights described above). In the event that we notify one or both of the parties to a share transfer that we believe stamp duty is required to be paid in connection with such transfer and that we will not pay such stamp duty, such parties may either themselves arrange for the execution of the required instrument of transfer (and may request a form of instrument of transfer from IR-Ireland for this purpose) or request that IR-Ireland execute an instrument of transfer on behalf of the transferring party in a form determined by IR-Ireland. In either event, if the parties to the share transfer have the instrument of transfer duly stamped (to the extent required) and then provide it to IR-Ireland's transfer agent, the transferee will be registered as the legal owner of the relevant shares on IR-Ireland's official Irish share register (subject to the matters described below).
The directors of IR-Ireland have general discretion to decline to register an instrument of transfer unless the transfer is in respect of one class of share only.
The registration of transfers may be suspended by the directors at such times and for such period, not exceeding in the whole 30 days in each year, as the directors may from time to time determine.
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
Cert. No.: 469272
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The objects set forth in any sub-clause of this clause shall be regarded as independent objects and shall not, except, where the context expressly so requires, be in any way limited or restricted by reference to or inference from the terms of any other sub-clause, or by the name of the Company. None of such sub-clauses or the objects therein specified or the powers thereby conferred shall be deemed subsidiary or auxiliary merely to the objects mentioned in the first sub-clause of this clause, but the Company shall have full power to exercise all or any of the powers conferred by any part of this clause in any part of the world notwithstanding that the business, property or acts proposed to be transacted, acquired or performed do not fall within the objects of the first sub-clause of this clause.
 
 
 
 
We, the several persons whose names and addresses are subscribed, wish to be formed into a company in pursuance of this memorandum of association and we agree to take the number of shares in the capital of the company set opposite our respective names.
 

Exhibit 3.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The rights attaching to the ordinary shares may be subject to the terms of issue of any series or class of preferred shares allotted by the Directors from time to time in accordance with article 3(c).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Board is authorised to change the designations, rights, preferences and limitations of any series of preferred shares theretofore established, no shares of which have been issued.
The rights conferred upon the Holder of any pre-existing shares in the share capital of the Company shall be deemed not to be varied by the creation, issue and allotment of preferred shares in accordance with this article 3.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Unless a poll is so demanded, a declaration by the Chairman that a resolution has, on a show of hands, been carried or carried unanimously, or by a particular majority, or lost, and an entry to that effect in the book containing the minutes of the proceedings of the Company, shall be conclusive evidence of the fact without proof of the number or proportion of the votes recorded in favour of or against such resolution.
The demand for a poll may be withdrawn.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Books of account shall be kept on a continuous and consistent basis and entries therein shall be made in a timely manner and be consistent from year to year. Proper books of account shall not be deemed to be kept if there are not kept such books of account as are necessary to give a true and fair view of the state of the Company's affairs and to explain its transactions.
The Company may send by post, electronic mail or any other means of electronic communication a summary financial statement to its members or persons nominated by any member. The Company may meet, but shall be under no obligation to meet, any request from any of its members to be sent additional copies of its full report and accounts or summary financial statement or other communications with its members.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
or
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and it shall be presumed conclusively in favour of the Company that every share certificate (if any) so destroyed was a valid certificate duly and properly sealed and that every instrument of transfer so destroyed was a valid and effective instrument duly and properly registered and that every other document destroyed hereunder was a valid and effective document in accordance with the recorded particulars thereof in the books or records of the Company provided always that:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Names, addresses and descriptions of subscribers
For and on behalf of
Ingersoll-Rand Company Limited
Clarendon House
2 Church Street
Hamilton, HM 11
Bermuda
For and on behalf of
Ingersoll-Rand (Gibraltar) International Holding Limited
57/63 Line Wall Road
Gibraltar
For and on behalf of
Ingersoll-Rand (Gibraltar) International United Limited
57/63 Line Wall Road
Gibraltar
For and on behalf of
Ingersoll Rand International Holding Limited
Clarendon House
2 Church Street
Hamilton, HM 11
Bermuda
For and on behalf of
Ingersoll-Rand Holdings & Finance International S.a.r.l
16, Avenue Pasteur
Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, L2311
 
For and on behalf of
Ingersoll-Rand Treasury Limited
Clarendon House
2 Church Street
Hamilton, HM 11
Bermuda
For and on behalf of
Ingersoll-Rand Global Holding Company Limited
Clarendon House
2 Church Street
Hamilton, HM 11
Bermuda
Dated
 

Exhibit 3.3
 
 
 

Exhibit 4.1
EXECUTION VERSION
THIS FOURTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, dated as of June 29, 2009 (the "Fourth Supplemental Indenture"), among INGERSOLL-RAND GLOBAL HOLDING COMPANY LIMITED, a company duly organized and existing under the laws of Bermuda (the "Company"), INGERSOLL-RAND COMPANY LIMITED, a company duly organized and existing under the laws of Bermuda ("IR Limited"), INGERSOLL-RAND INTERNATIONAL HOLDING LIMITED, a company duly organized and existing under the laws of Bermuda (the "Successor Guarantor"), INGERSOLL-RAND PLC, a company duly organized and existing under the laws of Ireland (the "New Parent"), and WELLS FARGO BANK, N.A., a national banking association, acting as Trustee under the Indenture, as defined herein (the "Trustee")
WHEREAS, the Company, IR Limited and the Trustee have heretofore executed and delivered a certain Indenture, dated as of August 12, 2008 (as supplemented, the "Indenture"), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture dated as of August 15, 2008, the Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of April 3, 2009 and the Third Supplemental Indenture dated as of April 6, 2009;
WHEREAS, IR Limited and the Successor Guarantor have entered into a share purchase agreement pursuant to which IR Limited has agreed to sell substantially all of its property to the Successor Guarantor, which sale of property is to be completed at the Effective Time (defined below);
WHEREAS, Section 801 of the Indenture provides, among other things, that IR Limited shall not sell, convey or lease all or substantially all of its property to any other corporation unless the acquiring corporation (i) expressly assumes all of the covenants and conditions of the Indenture by supplemental indenture and (ii) is a solvent corporation organized under the laws of the United States of America or a State thereof or the District of Columbia or Bermuda or of a Member State of the European Union;
WHEREAS, at the time that the proposed scheme of arrangement between IR Limited and its Class A common shareholders becomes effective (the "Effective Time"), IR Limited, the Successor Guarantor and the Company will become direct and indirect wholly owned subsidiaries of the New Parent;
WHEREAS, the New Parent desires to guarantee the due and punctual payment of principal of (and premium, if any, on) and interest on the Securities and IR Limited desires to guarantee the due and punctual payment of principal of (and premium, if any, on) and interest on the Outstanding Securities (as defined below), in each case, when and as the same shall become due and payable;
WHEREAS, Section 901 of the Indenture provides, among other things, that, the Company, IR Limited and the Trustee may amend or supplement the Indenture, without the consent of any Holder, to (i) evidence the succession of another corporation to IR Limited and
the assumption by any such successor of the covenants of IR Limited in the Indenture and in the Guarantee; and (ii) make any other provisions with respect to matters or questions arising under the Indenture that do not adversely affect the interests of Holders under the Indenture, in any material respect;
WHEREAS, the Company, IR Limited and the Trustee have determined that this Fourth Supplemental Indenture complies with Section 901 of the Indenture and does not require the consent of any Holders and, on the basis of the foregoing, the Trustee has determined that this Fourth Supplemental Indenture is in form satisfactory to it;
WHEREAS, each of the Company, IR Limited, the Successor Guarantor and the New Parent have been authorized by resolutions of their respective Boards of Directors to enter into this Fourth Supplemental Indenture; and
WHEREAS, all acts, conditions, proceedings and requirements necessary to make this Fourth Supplemental Indenture a valid, binding and legal agreement enforceable in accordance with its terms for the purposes expressed herein, in accordance with its terms, have been duly done and performed.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the covenants and agreements contained herein, and for other good and valuable consideration the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the Company, IR Limited, the Successor Guarantor, the New Parent and the Trustee hereby agree as follows:
Section 101. Capitalized terms in this Fourth Supplemental Indenture that are not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Indenture.
Section 102. "Additional Guarantees" shall mean the guarantees by the New Parent and IR Limited, as authenticated and delivered pursuant to this Fourth Supplemental Indenture, which guarantees are set forth in Articles Three and Four, respectively, of this Fourth Supplemental Indenture.
Section 103. "Supplemented Indenture" shall mean the Indenture as supplemented by this Fourth Supplemental Indenture.
Section 201. IR Limited represents and warrants to the Trustee as follows:
(a) IR Limited is an exempted company duly incorporated, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the Islands of Bermuda.
(b) The execution, delivery and performance by it of this Fourth Supplemental Indenture have been authorized and approved by all necessary corporate action on its part.
Section 202. The Successor Guarantor represents and warrants to the Trustee as follows:
(a) The Successor Guarantor is an exempted company duly incorporated, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the Islands of Bermuda.
(b) The execution, delivery and performance by it of this Fourth Supplemental Indenture have been authorized and approved by all necessary corporate action on its part.
Section 203. In accordance with Section 801 of the Indenture, the Successor Guarantor hereby expressly assumes the performance of the obligations under the Guarantee, and the due and punctual performance and observance of all of the covenants and conditions of the Indenture to be performed by IR Limited.
Section 204. Pursuant to Section 803 of the Indenture, the Successor Guarantor shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, IR Limited as the Guarantor under the Indenture, the Securities and the Guarantee with the same effect as if the Successor Guarantor had been named as "the Guarantor" in the Indenture, the Securities and the Guarantee; and thereafter IR Limited shall be relieved of all obligations and covenants under the Indenture and the Guarantee.
Section 301. .
Additional Guarantees of the New Parent
(a) The New Parent hereby fully and unconditionally guarantees to each Holder of a Security of each series authenticated and delivered by the Trustee for such Securities under the Indenture and to such Trustee for itself and on behalf of each such Holder, the due and punctual payment of principal of (and premium, if any, on) and interest on the Securities when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the Stated Maturity, by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption or otherwise, and all other amounts owed under the Indenture, according to the terms thereof and of the Indenture. In case of the failure of the Company promptly to make any such payment of principal (and premium, if any, on) or interest, the New Parent hereby agrees to make any such payment to be made promptly when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the Stated Maturity or by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption or otherwise, and as if such payment were made by the Company.
(b) The New Parent hereby agrees that its obligations hereunder shall be as if it were principal debtor and not merely surety, and shall be absolute and unconditional, joint and several, irrespective of, and shall be unaffected by any failure to enforce the provisions of such Security or the Indenture, or any waiver, modification or indulgence granted to the Company with respect thereto, by the Holder of such Security or the Trustee for the Securities of such series or any other circumstance which may otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge of a surety or guarantor; , , that, notwithstanding the foregoing, no such waiver, modification or indulgence shall, without the consent of the New Parent increase the principal
provided
however
amount of such Security, or increase the interest rate thereon, or increase any premium payable upon redemption thereof, or alter the Stated Maturity thereof, or increase the principal amount of any Original Issue Discount Security that would be due and payable upon a declaration of acceleration or the maturity thereof pursuant to Article Five of the Indenture. The New Parent hereby waives diligence, presentment, demand of payment, filing of claims with a court in the event of merger or bankruptcy of the Company, any right to require a proceeding first against the Company, protest or notice with respect to such Security or the indebtedness evidenced thereby or with respect to any sinking fund or analogous payment required under such Security and all demands whatsoever, and covenants that the Additional Guarantee of the New Parent will not be discharged except by payment in full of the principal of (and premium, if any, on) and interest on such Security or as otherwise set forth in the Indenture; , that if any Holder or the Trustee is required by any court or otherwise to return to the Company, the New Parent or any custodian, trustee, liquidator or other similar official acting in relation to either the Company or the New Parent any amount paid either to the Trustee or such Holder, the Additional Guarantee of the New Parent, to the extent theretofore discharged, shall be reinstated in full force and effect.
provided
(c) The New Parent shall be subrogated to all rights of the Holder of such Security and the Trustee for the Securities of such series against the Company in respect of any amounts paid to such Holder by the New Parent pursuant to the provisions of its Additional Guarantee; , , that the New Parent shall not be entitled to enforce or to receive any payments arising out of or based upon such right of subrogation until the principal of (and premium, if any, on) and interest on all Securities of the same series issued under the Indenture shall have been paid in full.
provided
however
Section 302. .
Execution and Delivery of the Additional Guarantees of the New Parent
To evidence its Additional Guarantee set forth in Section 301 of this Fourth Supplemental Indenture, the New Parent hereby agrees that this Fourth Supplemental Indenture shall be executed, manually or by facsimile, on behalf of the New Parent by its Chairman of the Board of Directors, its President, one of its Vice Presidents or its Treasurer.
The New Parent hereby agrees that its Additional Guarantee set forth in Section 301 of this Fourth Supplemental Indenture shall remain in full force and effect notwithstanding the absence of the endorsement of any notation of such Additional Guarantee on the Securities.
If an Officer of the New Parent whose signature is on this Fourth Supplemental Indenture no longer holds that office at the time the Trustee authenticates the Securities, the Additional Guarantee of the New Parent shall be valid nevertheless.
The delivery of any Securities by the Trustee, after the authentication thereof hereunder, shall constitute due delivery of the Additional Guarantee of the New Parent set forth in this Fourth Supplemental Indenture on behalf of the New Parent.
Section 303. .
Notice to Trustee
The New Parent shall give prompt written notice to the Trustee for the Securities of such series of any fact known to the New Parent which prohibits the making of any payment to or by such Trustee in respect of the Additional Guarantee of the New Parent pursuant to the provisions of this Article Three of this Fourth Supplemental Indenture other than any agreement in effect on the date hereof.
Section 304. .
This Article Not to Prevent Events of Default
The failure to make a payment on account of principal of (and premium, if any, on) or interest on the Securities by reason of any provision of this Article Three of this Fourth Supplemental Indenture will not be construed as preventing the occurrence of an Event of Default.
Section 305. .
Amendment, Etc
No amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of the Indenture relating to the New Parent or consent to any departure by the New Parent or any other Person from any such provision will in any event be effective unless it is signed by the New Parent and the Trustee for the Securities of such series.
Section 306. .
Limitation on Liability
The obligations of the New Parent hereunder will be limited to the maximum amount as will not result in the obligations of the New Parent under its Additional Guarantee constituting a fraudulent conveyance or fraudulent transfer, after giving effect to all other relevant liabilities of the New Parent.
Section 401. .
Additional Guarantees of IR Limited
(a) IR Limited hereby fully and unconditionally guarantees to each Holder of a Security that has been, as of the date of this Fourth Supplemental Indenture, authenticated and delivered by the Trustee for such Securities under the Indenture (each such Security, an "Outstanding Security") and to such Trustee for itself and on behalf of each such Holder, the due and punctual payment of principal of (and premium, if any, on) and interest on the Outstanding Securities when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the Stated Maturity, by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption or otherwise, and all other amounts owed under the Indenture, according to the terms thereof and of the Indenture. In case of the failure of the Company promptly to make any such payment of principal (and premium, if any, on) or interest, IR Limited hereby agrees to make any such payment to be made promptly when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the Stated Maturity or by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption or otherwise, and as if such payment were made by the Company.
(b) IR Limited hereby agrees that its obligations hereunder shall be as if it were principal debtor and not merely surety, and shall be absolute and unconditional, joint and several, irrespective of, and shall be unaffected by any failure to enforce the provisions of such Outstanding Security or the Indenture, or any waiver, modification or indulgence granted to the Company with respect thereto, by the Holder of such Outstanding Security or the Trustee for the Outstanding Securities of such series or any other circumstance which may otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge of a surety or guarantor; , , that, notwithstanding the foregoing, no such waiver, modification or indulgence shall, without the consent of IR Limited increase the principal amount of such Outstanding Security, or increase the interest rate
provided
however
thereon, or increase any premium payable upon redemption thereof, or alter the Stated Maturity thereof, or increase the principal amount of any Outstanding Security that is an Original Issue Discount Security that would be due and payable upon a declaration of acceleration or the maturity thereof pursuant to Article Five of the Indenture. IR Limited hereby waives diligence, presentment, demand of payment, filing of claims with a court in the event of merger or bankruptcy of the Company, any right to require a proceeding first against the Company, protest or notice with respect to such Outstanding Security or the indebtedness evidenced thereby or with respect to any sinking fund or analogous payment required under such Outstanding Security and all demands whatsoever, and covenants that the Additional Guarantee of IR Limited will not be discharged except by payment in full of the principal of (and premium, if any, on) and interest on such Outstanding Security or as otherwise set forth in the Indenture; , that if any Holder or the Trustee is required by any court or otherwise to return to the Company, IR Limited or any custodian, trustee, liquidator or other similar official acting in relation to either the Company or IR Limited any amount paid either to the Trustee or such Holder, the Additional Guarantee of IR Limited, to the extent theretofore discharged, shall be reinstated in full force and effect.
provided
(c) IR Limited shall be subrogated to all rights of the Holder of such Outstanding Security and the Trustee for the Outstanding Securities of such series against the Company in respect of any amounts paid to such Holder by IR Limited pursuant to the provisions of its Additional Guarantee; , , that IR Limited shall not be entitled to enforce or to receive any payments arising out of or based upon such right of subrogation until the principal of (and premium, if any, on) and interest on all Outstanding Securities of the same series issued under the Indenture shall have been paid in full.
provided
however
Section 402. .
Execution and Delivery of the Additional Guarantees of IR Limited
To evidence its Additional Guarantee set forth in Section 401 of this Fourth Supplemental Indenture, IR Limited hereby agrees that this Fourth Supplemental Indenture shall be executed, manually or by facsimile, on behalf of IR Limited by its Chairman of the Board of Directors, its President, one of its Vice Presidents or its Treasurer.
IR Limited hereby agrees that its Additional Guarantee set forth in Section 401 of this Fourth Supplemental Indenture shall remain in full force and effect notwithstanding the absence of the endorsement of any notation of such Additional Guarantee on the Outstanding Securities.
Section 403. .
Notice to Trustee
IR Limited shall give prompt written notice to the Trustee for the Outstanding Securities of such series of any fact known to IR Limited which prohibits the making of any payment to or by such Trustee in respect of the Additional Guarantee of IR Limited pursuant to the provisions of this Article Four of this Fourth Supplemental Indenture other than any agreement in effect on the date hereof.
Section 404. .
This Article Not to Prevent Events of Default
The failure to make a payment on account of principal of (and premium, if any, on) or interest on the Outstanding Securities by reason of any provision of this Article Four of this Fourth Supplemental Indenture will not be construed as preventing the occurrence of an Event of Default.
Section 405. .
Amendment, Etc
No amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of the Indenture relating to IR Limited or consent to any departure by IR Limited or any other Person from any such provision will in any event be effective unless it is signed by IR Limited and the Trustee for the Outstanding Securities of such series.
Section 406. .
Limitation on Liability
The obligations of IR Limited hereunder will be limited to the maximum amount as will not result in the obligations of IR Limited under its Additional Guarantee constituting a fraudulent conveyance or fraudulent transfer, after giving effect to all other relevant liabilities of IR Limited.
Section 501. . Clause (b) of Section 704 of the Indenture is hereby amended by deleting all references to "the Guarantor" therein and substituting in place thereof "the New Parent."
Reports by the New Parent
Section 601. This Fourth Supplemental Indenture shall become effective as of the Effective Time.
Section 602. This Fourth Supplemental Indenture is hereby executed and shall be construed as an indenture supplemental to the Indenture and, as provided in the Indenture, this Fourth Supplemental Indenture forms a part thereof.
Section 603. This Fourth Supplemental Indenture shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
Section 604. This Fourth Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Section 605. The Article headings herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Section 606. If any provision of this Fourth Supplemental Indenture limits, qualifies or conflicts with any provision of the Supplemented Indenture which is required to be included in the Supplemented Indenture by any of the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act, such required provision shall control.
Section 607. In case any provision in this Fourth Supplemental Indenture shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Section 608. Nothing in this Fourth Supplemental Indenture, the Indenture or the Securities, express or implied, shall give to any person, other than the parties hereto and thereto and their successors hereunder and thereunder and the Holders of Securities, any benefit of any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under the Indenture, this Fourth Supplemental Indenture or the Securities.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Fourth Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed, all as of the date first above written.
 

Exhibit 4.2
EXECUTION VERSION
THIS FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, dated as of June 29, 2009 (the "Supplemental Indenture"), among INGERSOLL-RAND COMPANY LIMITED, a company duly organized and existing under the laws of Bermuda ("IR Limited"), INGERSOLL-RAND COMPANY, a company duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of New Jersey (the "Guarantor"), INGERSOLL-RAND INTERNATIONAL HOLDING LIMITED, a company duly organized and existing under the laws of Bermuda (the "Successor Company"), INGERSOLL-RAND PLC, a company duly organized and existing under the laws of Ireland (the "New Parent"), and WELLS FARGO BANK, N.A., a national banking association, acting as Trustee under the Indenture, as defined herein (the "Trustee")
WHEREAS, IR Limited, the Guarantor and the Trustee have heretofore executed and delivered a certain Indenture, dated as of May 24, 2005 (the "Indenture");
WHEREAS, IR Limited and the Successor Company have entered into a share purchase agreement pursuant to which IR Limited has agreed to sell substantially all of its property to the Successor Company, which sale of property is to be completed at the Effective Time (defined below);
WHEREAS, Section 801 of the Indenture provides, among other things, that IR Limited shall not sell, convey or lease all or substantially all of its property to any other corporation unless the acquiring corporation (i) expressly assumes all of the covenants and conditions of the Indenture by supplemental indenture and (ii) is a solvent corporation organized under the laws of the United States of America or a State thereof or the District of Columbia or Bermuda;
WHEREAS, at the time that the proposed scheme of arrangement between IR Limited and its Class A common shareholders becomes effective (the "Effective Time"), IR Limited, the Successor Company and the Guarantor will become direct and indirect wholly owned subsidiaries of the New Parent;
WHEREAS, the New Parent desires to guarantee the due and punctual payment of principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Guaranteed Securities and IR Limited desires to guarantee the due and punctual payment of principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Outstanding Guaranteed Securities (as defined below), in each case, when and as the same shall become due and payable;
WHEREAS, Section 901 of the Indenture provides, among other things, that, IR Limited, the Guarantor and the Trustee may amend or supplement the Indenture, without the consent of any Holder, to (i) evidence the succession of another corporation to IR Limited and
the assumption by any such successor of the covenants of IR Limited in the Indenture and in the Securities; and (ii) make any other provisions with respect to matters or questions arising under the Indenture that do not adversely affect the interests of Holders under the Indenture in any material respect;
WHEREAS, IR Limited, the Guarantor and the Trustee have determined that this Supplemental Indenture complies with Section 901 of the Indenture and does not require the consent of any Holders and, on the basis of the foregoing, the Trustee has determined that this Supplemental Indenture is in form satisfactory to it;
WHEREAS, each of IR Limited, the Guarantor, the Successor Company and the New Parent have been authorized by resolutions of their respective Boards of Directors to enter into this Supplemental Indenture; and
WHEREAS, all acts, conditions, proceedings and requirements necessary to make this Supplemental Indenture a valid, binding and legal agreement enforceable in accordance with its terms for the purposes expressed herein, in accordance with its terms, have been duly done and performed.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the covenants and agreements contained herein, and for other good and valuable consideration the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, IR Limited, the Guarantor, the Successor Company, the New Parent and the Trustee hereby agree as follows:
Section 101. Capitalized terms in this Supplemental Indenture that are not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Indenture.
Section 102. "Additional Guarantees" shall mean the guarantees by the New Parent and IR Limited, as authenticated and delivered pursuant to this Supplemental Indenture, which guarantees are set forth in Articles Three and Four, respectively, of this Supplemental Indenture.
Section 103. "Supplemented Indenture" shall mean the Indenture as supplemented by this Supplemental Indenture.
Section 201. IR Limited represents and warrants to the Trustee as follows:
(a) IR Limited is an exempted company duly incorporated, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the Islands of Bermuda.
(b) The execution, delivery and performance by it of this Supplemental Indenture have been authorized and approved by all necessary corporate action on its part.
Section 202. The Successor Company represents and warrants to the Trustee as follows:
(a) The Successor Company is an exempted company duly incorporated, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the Islands of Bermuda.
(b) The execution, delivery and performance by it of this Supplemental Indenture have been authorized and approved by all necessary corporate action on its part.
Section 203. In accordance with Section 801 of the Indenture, the Successor Company hereby expressly assumes the due and punctual payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on all of the Securities, according to their tenor, and the due and punctual performance and observance of all of the covenants and conditions of the Indenture to be performed by IR Limited.
Section 204. Pursuant to Section 803 of the Indenture, the Successor Company shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, IR Limited as the issuer under the Indenture and the Securities with the same effect as if the Successor Company had been named as "the Company" in the Indenture and the Securities; and thereafter IR Limited shall be relieved of all obligations and covenants under the Indenture and the Securities.
Section 301. .
Additional Guarantees of the New Parent
(a) The New Parent hereby fully and unconditionally guarantees to each Holder of a Guaranteed Security of each series authenticated and delivered by the Trustee for such Guaranteed Securities under the Indenture and to the Trustee for itself and on behalf of each such Holder, the due and punctual payment of principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Guaranteed Securities when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the Stated Maturity, by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption or otherwise, and all other amounts owed under the Indenture, according to the terms thereof and of the Indenture. In case of the failure of the Company promptly to make any such payment of principal, premium, if any, or interest, the New Parent hereby agrees to make any such payment to be made promptly when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the Stated Maturity or by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption or otherwise, and as if such payment were made by the Company.
(b) The New Parent hereby agrees that its obligations hereunder shall be as if it were principal debtor and not merely surety, and shall be absolute and unconditional, joint and several, irrespective of, and shall be unaffected by any failure to enforce the provisions of such Guaranteed Security or the Indenture, or any waiver, modification or indulgence granted to the Company with respect thereto, by the Holder of such Guaranteed Security or the Trustee for the Securities of such series or any other circumstance which may otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge of a surety or guarantor; , , that, notwithstanding the
provided
however
foregoing, no such waiver, modification or indulgence shall, without the consent of the New Parent, increase the principal amount of such Guaranteed Security, or increase the interest rate thereon, or increase any premium payable upon redemption thereof, or alter the Stated Maturity thereof, or increase the principal amount of any Original Issue Discount Security that would be due and payable upon a declaration of acceleration or the maturity thereof pursuant to Article Five of the Indenture. The New Parent hereby waives diligence, presentment, demand of payment, filing of claims with a court in the event of merger or bankruptcy of the Company, any right to require a proceeding first against the Company, protest or notice with respect to such Guaranteed Security or the indebtedness evidenced thereby or with respect to any sinking fund or analogous payment required under such Guaranteed Security and all demands whatsoever, and covenants that the Additional Guarantee of the New Parent will not be discharged except by payment in full of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on such Guaranteed Security or as otherwise set forth in the Indenture.
(c) The New Parent shall be subrogated to all rights of the Holder of such Guaranteed Security and the Trustee for the Securities of such series against the Company in respect of any amounts paid to such Holder by the New Parent pursuant to the provisions of its Additional Guarantee; , , that the New Parent shall not be entitled to enforce or to receive any payments arising out of or based upon such right of subrogation until the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on all Securities of the same series issued under the Indenture shall have been paid in full.
provided
however
Section 302. .
Execution and Delivery of the Additional Guarantees of the New Parent
To evidence its Additional Guarantee set forth in Section 301 of this Supplemental Indenture, the New Parent hereby agrees that this Supplemental Indenture shall be executed, manually or by facsimile, on behalf of the New Parent by its Chairman of the Board of Directors, its President, one of its Vice Presidents or its Treasurer.
The New Parent hereby agrees that its Additional Guarantee set forth in Section 301 of this Supplemental Indenture shall remain in full force and effect notwithstanding the absence of the endorsement of any notation of such Additional Guarantee on the Guaranteed Securities.
If an Officer of the New Parent whose signature is on this Supplemental Indenture no longer holds that office at the time the Trustee authenticates the Guaranteed Securities, the Additional Guarantee of the New Parent shall be valid nevertheless.
The delivery of any Guaranteed Securities by the Trustee, after the authentication thereof hereunder, shall constitute due delivery of the Additional Guarantee of the New Parent set forth in this Supplemental Indenture on behalf of the New Parent.
Section 303. .
Notice to Trustee
The New Parent shall give prompt written notice to the Trustee for the Securities of such series of any fact known to the New Parent which prohibits the making of any payment to or by the Trustee in respect of the Additional Guarantee of the New Parent pursuant to the provisions of this Article Three of this Supplemental Indenture other than any agreement in effect on the date hereof.
Section 304. .
This Article Not to Prevent Events of Default
The failure to make a payment on account of principal of, premium, if any, or interest on the Guaranteed Securities by reason of any provision of this Article Three of this Supplemental Indenture will not be construed as preventing the occurrence of an Event of Default.
Section 305. .
Amendment, Etc
No amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of the Indenture relating to the New Parent or consent to any departure by the New Parent or any other Person from any such provision will in any event be effective unless it is signed by the New Parent and the Trustee for the Securities of such series.
Section 306. .
Limitation on Liability
The obligations of the New Parent hereunder will be limited to the maximum amount, as will not result in the obligations of the New Parent under its Additional Guarantee constituting a fraudulent conveyance or fraudulent transfer, after giving effect to all other relevant liabilities of the New Parent.
Section 401. .
Additional Guarantees of IR Limited
(a) IR Limited hereby fully and unconditionally guarantees to each Holder of a Guaranteed Security that has been, as of the date of this Supplemental Indenture, authenticated and delivered by the Trustee for such Guaranteed Securities under the Indenture (each such Guaranteed Security, an "Outstanding Guaranteed Security") and to the Trustee for itself and on behalf of each such Holder, the due and punctual payment of principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Outstanding Guaranteed Securities when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the Stated Maturity, by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption or otherwise, and all other amounts owed under the Indenture, according to the terms thereof and of the Indenture. In case of the failure of the Company promptly to make any such payment of principal, premium, if any, or interest, IR Limited hereby agrees to make any such payment to be made promptly when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the Stated Maturity or by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption or otherwise, and as if such payment were made by the Company.
(b) IR Limited hereby agrees that its obligations hereunder shall be as if it were principal debtor and not merely surety, and shall be absolute and unconditional, joint and several, irrespective of, and shall be unaffected by any failure to enforce the provisions of such Outstanding Guaranteed Security or the Indenture, or any waiver, modification or indulgence granted to the Company with respect thereto, by the Holder of such Outstanding Guaranteed Security or the Trustee for the Securities of such series or any other circumstance which may otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge of a surety or guarantor; , , that, notwithstanding the foregoing, no such waiver, modification or indulgence shall, without the consent of IR Limited, increase the principal amount of such Outstanding Guaranteed Security, or increase the interest rate thereon, or increase any premium payable upon redemption
provided
however
thereof, or alter the Stated Maturity thereof, or increase the principal amount of any Original Issue Discount Security that would be due and payable upon a declaration of acceleration or the maturity thereof pursuant to Article Five of the Indenture. IR Limited hereby waives diligence, presentment, demand of payment, filing of claims with a court in the event of merger or bankruptcy of the Company, any right to require a proceeding first against the Company, protest or notice with respect to such Outstanding Guaranteed Security or the indebtedness evidenced thereby or with respect to any sinking fund or analogous payment required under such Outstanding Guaranteed Security and all demands whatsoever, and covenants that the Additional Guarantee of IR Limited will not be discharged except by payment in full of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on such Outstanding Guaranteed Security or as otherwise set forth in the Indenture.
(c) IR Limited shall be subrogated to all rights of the Holder of such Outstanding Guaranteed Security and the Trustee for the Securities of such series against the Company in respect of any amounts paid to such Holder by IR Limited pursuant to the provisions of its Additional Guarantee; , , that IR Limited shall not be entitled to enforce or to receive any payments arising out of or based upon such right of subrogation until the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on all Securities of the same series issued under the Indenture shall have been paid in full.
provided
however
Section 402. .
Execution and Delivery of the Additional Guarantees of IR Limited
To evidence its Additional Guarantee set forth in Section 401 of this Supplemental Indenture, IR Limited hereby agrees that this Supplemental Indenture shall be executed, manually or by facsimile, on behalf of IR Limited by its Chairman of the Board of Directors, its President, one of its Vice Presidents or its Treasurer.
IR Limited hereby agrees that its Additional Guarantee set forth in Section 401 of this Supplemental Indenture shall remain in full force and effect notwithstanding the absence of the endorsement of any notation of such Additional Guarantee on the Outstanding Guaranteed Securities.
Section 403. .
Notice to Trustee
IR Limited shall give prompt written notice to the Trustee for the Securities of such series of any fact known to IR Limited which prohibits the making of any payment to or by the Trustee in respect of the Additional Guarantee of IR Limited pursuant to the provisions of this Article Four of this Supplemental Indenture other than any agreement in effect on the date hereof.
Section 404. .
This Article Not to Prevent Events of Default
The failure to make a payment on account of principal of, premium, if any, or interest on the Outstanding Guaranteed Securities by reason of any provision of this Article Four of this Supplemental Indenture will not be construed as preventing the occurrence of an Event of Default.
Section 405. .
Amendment, Etc
No amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of the Indenture relating to IR Limited or consent to any departure by IR Limited or any other Person from any such provision will in any event be effective unless it is signed by IR Limited and the Trustee for the Securities of such series.
Section 406. .
Limitation on Liability
The obligations of IR Limited hereunder will be limited to the maximum amount, as will not result in the obligations of IR Limited under its Additional Guarantee constituting a fraudulent conveyance or fraudulent transfer, after giving effect to all other relevant liabilities of IR Limited.
Section 501. . The first paragraph of Section 704 of the Indenture is hereby amended by deleting all references to "the Company" therein and substituting in place thereof "the New Parent."
Reports by the New Parent
Section 601. This Supplemental Indenture shall become effective as of the Effective Time.
Section 602. This Supplemental Indenture is hereby executed and shall be construed as an indenture supplemental to the Indenture and, as provided in the Indenture, this Supplemental Indenture forms a part thereof.
Section 603. This Supplemental Indenture shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
Section 604. This Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Section 605. The Article headings herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Section 606. If any provision of this Supplemental Indenture limits, qualifies or conflicts with any provision of the Supplemented Indenture which is required to be included in the Supplemented Indenture by any of the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act, such required provision shall control.
Section 607. In case any provision in this Supplemental Indenture shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Section 608. Nothing in this Supplemental Indenture, the Indenture or the Securities, express or implied, shall give to any person, other than the parties hereto and thereto and their successors hereunder and thereunder and the Holders of Securities, any benefit of any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under the Indenture, this Supplemental Indenture or the Securities.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed, all as of the date first above written.
 

Exhibit 4.3
EXECUTION VERSION
THIS FIFTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, dated as of June 29, 2009 (the "Fifth Supplemental Indenture"), among INGERSOLL-RAND COMPANY, a New Jersey corporation (the "Company"), INGERSOLL-RAND PLC, a company duly organized and existing under the laws of Ireland (the "New Parent"), INGERSOLL-RAND INTERNATIONAL HOLDING LIMITED, a company duly organized and existing under the laws of Bermuda ("IR International" and, together with the New Parent, the "Additional Guarantors"), and THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON, as Trustee (the "Trustee")
WHEREAS, the Company and the Trustee are parties to an Indenture, dated as of August 1, 1986, (as supplemented, the "Indenture"), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of August 15, 1986, the Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 1, 1986, the Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 14, 2000, and the Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 31, 2001;
WHEREAS, at the time that the proposed scheme of arrangement between Ingersoll-Rand Company Limited, a company duly organized and existing under the laws of Bermuda ("IR Limited"), and its Class A common shareholders becomes effective (the "Effective Time"), IR International and the Company will become direct and indirect wholly owned subsidiaries of the New Parent;
WHEREAS, the New Parent desires to guarantee the punctual payment when due, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Securities and IR International desires to guarantee the punctual payment when due, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Outstanding Securities (as defined below);
WHEREAS, Section 901(2) of the Indenture provides, among other things, that, the Company and the Trustee may amend or supplement the Indenture, without the consent of any Holder, to make any other provisions with respect to matters or questions arising under the Indenture that do not adversely affect the interests of Holders under the Indenture in any material respect;
WHEREAS, the Company has determined that this Fifth Supplemental Indenture complies with Section 901(2) of the Indenture and does not require the consent of any Holders and, on the basis of the foregoing, the Trustee has determined that this Fifth Supplemental Indenture is in form satisfactory to it;
WHEREAS, each of the Company, IR International and the New Parent have been authorized by resolutions of their respective Boards of Directors to enter into this Fifth Supplemental Indenture; and
WHEREAS, all acts, conditions, proceedings and requirements necessary to make this Fifth Supplemental Indenture a valid, binding and legal agreement enforceable in accordance with its terms for the purposes expressed herein, in accordance with its terms, have been duly done and performed.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the covenants and agreements contained herein, and for other good and valuable consideration the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the Company, IR International, the New Parent and the Trustee hereby agree as follows:
Section 101. Capitalized terms in this Fifth Supplemental Indenture that are not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Indenture.
Section 102. "Additional Guarantees" shall mean the guarantees by the New Parent and IR International as authenticated and delivered pursuant to this Fifth Supplemental Indenture, which guarantees are set forth in Article Two of this Fifth Supplemental Indenture.
Section 103. "Supplemented Indenture" shall mean the Indenture as supplemented by this Fifth Supplemental Indenture.
Section 201. .
Additional Guarantees of the New Parent
The New Parent hereby irrevocably and unconditionally guarantees to the Trustee and the Holders the punctual payment when due, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Securities according to the terms of the Securities and as more fully described in the Indenture. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company shall remain obligated under the Indenture and the Securities, in accordance with the terms of the Indenture.
Section 202. .
Additional Guarantees of IR International
IR International hereby irrevocably and unconditionally guarantees to the Trustee and the Holders the punctual payment when due, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Securities that have been, as of the date of this Fifth Supplemental Indenture, authenticated and delivered to the Trustee (such Securities, the "Outstanding Securities"), according to the terms of such Outstanding Securities and as more fully described in the Indenture. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company shall remain obligated under the Indenture and the Outstanding Securities, in accordance with the terms of the Indenture.
Section 301. . The first paragraph of Section 704 of the Indenture is hereby amended by deleting all references to "IR Limited" therein and substituting in place thereof "the New Parent."
Reports by the New Parent
Section 401. This Fifth Supplemental Indenture shall become effective as of the Effective Time.
Section 402. This Fifth Supplemental Indenture is hereby executed and shall be construed as an indenture supplemental to the Indenture and, as provided in the Indenture, this Fifth Supplemental Indenture forms a part thereof.
Section 403. This Fifth Supplemental Indenture shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
Section 404. This Fifth Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Section 405. The Article headings herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Section 406. If any provision of this Fifth Supplemental Indenture limits, qualifies or conflicts with any provision of the Supplemented Indenture which is required to be included in the Supplemented Indenture by any of the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act, such required provision shall control.
Section 407. In case any provision in this Fifth Supplemental Indenture shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Section 408. Nothing in this Fifth Supplemental Indenture, the Indenture or the Securities, express or implied, shall give to any person, other than the parties hereto and thereto and their successors hereunder and thereunder and the Holders of Securities, any benefit of any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under the Indenture, this Fifth Supplemental Indenture or the Securities.
Section 409. The recitals and statements herein are deemed to be those of each Additional Guarantor and the Company and not of the Trustee. The Trustee makes no representation as to the validity or sufficiency of this Fifth Supplemental Indenture.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Fifth Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed, all as of the date first above written.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
ADDENDUM dated as of July 1, 2009 (this ""), to the Credit Agreement dated as of June 27, 2008 (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified, the ""), among INGERSOLL-RAND COMPANY, INGERSOLL-RAND COMPANY LIMITED, the several banks and other financial institutions from time to time parties thereto, JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as Administrative Agent, CITIBANK, N.A., as Syndication Agent, BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC., THE BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI, LTD., NEW YORK BRANCH, BNP PARIBAS and WILLIAM STREET LLC, as Documentation Agents, and J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES INC. and CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS INC., as Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Bookrunners.
Addendum
Credit Agreement
A. Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Credit Agreement.
B. The definition of the term "IR Parent" in Section 1.1 of the Credit Agreement provides that a Person will become the Subsequent Parent Company (and, in accordance with such definition, IR Parent) for purposes of the Credit Agreement so long as, among other things, such Person (x) executes and delivers a copy of the Credit Agreement and (y) becomes a Guarantor pursuant to the terms of Section 9.16(j) of the Credit Agreement. The undersigned Person (the "") is executing this Addendum in accordance with the requirements of the Credit Agreement to become the Subsequent Parent Company and a Guarantor under the Credit Agreement.
New Subsequent Parent Company
Accordingly, the Administrative Agent and the New Subsequent Parent Company agree as follows:
SECTION 1. In accordance with and pursuant to (a) the definition of the term "IR Parent" in Section 1.1 of the Credit Agreement and (b) Section 9.16(j) of the Credit Agreement, the New Subsequent Parent Company by its signature below becomes the Subsequent Parent Company (and, accordingly, is designated as "IR Parent" and becomes a Guarantor) under the Credit Agreement with the same force and effect as if the New Subsequent Parent Company had executed the Credit Agreement as "IR Parent" on the Effective Date, and the New Subsequent Parent Company hereby (i) agrees to all the terms and provisions of the Credit Agreement applicable to it as IR Parent and as a Guarantor thereunder and (ii) represents and warrants that the representations and warranties made by it as IR Parent and a Guarantor thereunder are true and correct in all material respects on and as of the date hereof (except to the extent that any such representation or warranty expressly relates only to an earlier date, in which case such representation or warranty shall be true and correct as of such earlier date). Each reference to "IR Parent" in the Credit Agreement shall be deemed to refer to the New Subsequent Parent Company and each reference to a "Guarantor" in the Credit Agreement shall be deemed to include the New Subsequent Parent Company. The Credit Agreement is hereby incorporated herein by reference.
SECTION 2. The New Subsequent Parent Company represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and each Bank that this Addendum has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by it and constitutes its legal, valid and binding obligation, enforceable against it in accordance with its terms.
SECTION 3. This Addendum may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto on different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract. This Addendum shall become effective when the Administrative Agent shall have received a counterpart of this Addendum that bears the signature of the New Subsequent Parent Company and the Administrative Agent has executed a counterpart hereof. Delivery of an executed signature page to this Addendum by facsimile or Adobe .pdf transmission shall be as effective as delivery of a manually signed counterpart of this Addendum.
SECTION 4. The New Subsequent Parent Company hereby represents and warrants that set forth under its signature hereto is its jurisdiction of formation.
SECTION 5. Except as expressly supplemented hereby, the Credit Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
SECTION 6. THIS ADDENDUM SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
SECTION 7. In case any one or more of the provisions contained in this Addendum should be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions contained herein and in the Credit Agreement shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby (it being understood that the invalidity of a particular provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not in and of itself affect the validity of such provision in any other jurisdiction). The parties hereto shall endeavor in good-faith negotiations to replace the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions.
SECTION 8. The New Subsequent Parent Company agrees to reimburse the Administrative Agent for its fees and expenses pursuant to Section 9.3 of the Credit Agreement.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the New Subsequent Parent Company and the Administrative Agent have duly executed this Addendum as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
ADDENDUM dated as of July 1, 2009 (this ""), to the Credit Agreement dated as of August 12, 2005 (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified, the ""), among INGERSOLL-RAND COMPANY, INGERSOLL-RAND COMPANY LIMITED, the several banks and other financial institutions from time to time parties thereto, JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as Administrative Agent, CITICORP USA, INC., as Syndication Agent, and BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC., THE BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI, LTD., NEW YORK BRANCH and UBS SECURITIES LLC, as Documentation Agents.
Addendum
Credit Agreement
A. Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Credit Agreement.
B. The definition of the term "IR Parent" in Section 1.1 of the Credit Agreement provides that a Person will become the Subsequent Parent Company (and, in accordance with such definition, IR Parent) for purposes of the Credit Agreement so long as, among other things, such Person (x) executes and delivers a copy of the Credit Agreement and (y) becomes a Guarantor pursuant to the terms of Section 9.16(b) of the Credit Agreement. The undersigned Person (the "") is executing this Addendum in accordance with the requirements of the Credit Agreement to become the Subsequent Parent Company and a Guarantor under the Credit Agreement.
New Subsequent Parent Company
Accordingly, the Administrative Agent and the New Subsequent Parent Company agree as follows:
SECTION 1. In accordance with and pursuant to (a) the definition of the term "IR Parent" in Section 1.1 of the Credit Agreement and (b) Section 9.16(b) of the Credit Agreement, the New Subsequent Parent Company by its signature below becomes the Subsequent Parent Company (and, accordingly, is designated as "IR Parent" and becomes a Guarantor) under the Credit Agreement with the same force and effect as if the New Subsequent Parent Company had executed the Credit Agreement as "IR Parent" on the Effective Date, and the New Subsequent Parent Company hereby (i) agrees to all the terms and provisions of the Credit Agreement applicable to it as IR Parent and as a Guarantor thereunder, (ii) represents and warrants that the representations and warranties made by it as IR Parent and a Guarantor thereunder (other than the representations and warranties set forth in Sections 4.4(c) and 4.5 of thereunder) are true and correct in all material respects on and as of the date hereof (except to the extent that any such representation or warranty expressly relates only to an earlier date, in which case such representation or warranty shall be true and correct as of such earlier date), (iii) represents and warrants that, since March 31, 2008, there has been no material adverse change in the business, financial position or results of operations of IR Parent and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, considered as a whole, and (iv) represents and warrants that, except for the litigation disclosed under the headings "The European Commission
Investigation" and "Bath and Kitchen Fixtures Antitrust Litigation and U.S. Department of Justice Competition Investigation" in Trane Inc.'s report filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, there is no action, suit or proceeding pending against, or to the knowledge of IR Parent threatened against or affecting, IR Parent or any of its Subsidiaries before any court or arbitrator or any governmental body, agency or official in which there is a reasonable possibility of an adverse decision which would materially adversely affect the businesses, consolidated financial position or consolidated results of operations of IR Parent and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, or which in any manner draws into question the validity of the Credit Agreement or the Notes. Each reference to "IR Parent" in the Credit Agreement shall be deemed to refer to the New Subsequent Parent Company and each reference to a "Guarantor" in the Credit Agreement shall be deemed to include the New Subsequent Parent Company. The Credit Agreement is hereby incorporated herein by reference.
SECTION 2. The New Subsequent Parent Company represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and each Bank that this Addendum has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by it and constitutes its legal, valid and binding obligation, enforceable against it in accordance with its terms.
SECTION 3. This Addendum may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto on different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract. This Addendum shall become effective when the Administrative Agent shall have received a counterpart of this Addendum that bears the signature of the New Subsequent Parent Company and the Administrative Agent has executed a counterpart hereof. Delivery of an executed signature page to this Addendum by facsimile or Adobe .pdf transmission shall be as effective as delivery of a manually signed counterpart of this Addendum.
SECTION 4. The New Subsequent Parent Company hereby represents and warrants that set forth under its signature hereto is its jurisdiction of formation.
SECTION 5. Except as expressly supplemented hereby, the Credit Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
SECTION 6. THIS ADDENDUM SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
SECTION 7. In case any one or more of the provisions contained in this Addendum should be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions contained herein and in the Credit Agreement shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby (it being understood that the invalidity of a particular provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not in and of itself affect the validity of such provision in any other jurisdiction). The parties hereto shall endeavor in good-faith negotiations to replace the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions.
 
SECTION 8. The New Subsequent Parent Company agrees to reimburse the Administrative Agent for its fees and expenses pursuant to Section 9.3 of the Credit Agreement.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the New Subsequent Parent Company and the Administrative Agent have duly executed this Addendum as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.3
ADDENDUM dated as of July 1, 2009 (this ""), to the Credit Agreement dated as of June 27, 2008 (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified, the ""), among INGERSOLL-RAND COMPANY, INGERSOLL-RAND COMPANY LIMITED, the several banks and other financial institutions from time to time parties thereto, JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as Administrative Agent, CITIBANK, N.A., as Syndication Agent, BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC., THE BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI, LTD., NEW YORK BRANCH, BNP PARIBAS and WILLIAM STREET LLC, as Documentation Agents, and J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES INC. and CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS INC., as Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Bookrunners.
Addendum
Credit Agreement
A. Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Credit Agreement.
B. The definition of the term "Guarantors" in Section 1.1 of the Credit Agreement requires that certain Persons that guarantee Public Debt become Guarantors for purposes of the Credit Agreement. The undersigned Person (the "") is executing this Addendum in accordance with the requirements of Section 9.16(j) of the Credit Agreement to become a Guarantor under the Credit Agreement.
New Guarantor
Accordingly, the Administrative Agent and the New Guarantor agree as follows:
SECTION 1. In accordance with and pursuant to Section 9.16(j) of the Credit Agreement, the New Guarantor by its signature below becomes a Guarantor under the Credit Agreement with the same force and effect as if the New Guarantor had executed the Credit Agreement as a Guarantor on the Effective Date, and the New Guarantor hereby agrees to all the terms and provisions of the Credit Agreement applicable to it as a Guarantor thereunder. Each reference to a "Guarantor" in the Credit Agreement shall be deemed to include the New Guarantor. The Credit Agreement is hereby incorporated herein by reference. In addition, in accordance with Section 5.7 of the Credit Agreement, the New Guarantor hereby agrees to be bound by the terms of Sections 5.6 and 5.7 of the Credit Agreement as if it were a Borrower.
SECTION 2. The New Guarantor represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and each Bank that this Addendum has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by it and constitutes its legal, valid and binding obligation, enforceable against it in accordance with its terms.
SECTION 3. This Addendum may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto on different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an
original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract. This Addendum shall become effective when the Administrative Agent shall have received a counterpart of this Addendum that bears the signature of the New Guarantor and the Administrative Agent has executed a counterpart hereof. Delivery of an executed signature page to this Addendum by facsimile or Adobe .pdf transmission shall be as effective as delivery of a manually signed counterpart of this Addendum.
SECTION 4. Except as expressly supplemented hereby, the Credit Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
SECTION 5. THIS ADDENDUM SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
SECTION 6. In case any one or more of the provisions contained in this Addendum should be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions contained herein and in the Credit Agreement shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby (it being understood that the invalidity of a particular provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not in and of itself affect the validity of such provision in any other jurisdiction). The parties hereto shall endeavor in good-faith negotiations to replace the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions.
SECTION 7. The New Guarantor agrees to reimburse the Administrative Agent for its fees and expenses pursuant to Section 9.3 of the Credit Agreement.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the New Guarantor and the Administrative Agent have duly executed this Addendum as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.4
ADDENDUM dated as of July 1, 2009 (this ""), to the Credit Agreement dated as of August 12, 2005 (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified, the ""), among INGERSOLL-RAND COMPANY, INGERSOLL-RAND COMPANY LIMITED, the several banks and other financial institutions from time to time parties thereto, JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as Administrative Agent, CITICORP USA, INC., as Syndication Agent, and BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC., THE BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI, LTD., NEW YORK BRANCH and UBS SECURITIES LLC, as Documentation Agents.
Addendum
Credit Agreement
A. Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Credit Agreement.
B. The definition of the term "Guarantors" in Section 1.1 of the Credit Agreement requires that certain Persons that guarantee Public Debt become Guarantors for purposes of the Credit Agreement. The undersigned Person (the "") is executing this Addendum in accordance with the requirements of Section 9.16(b) of the Credit Agreement to become a Guarantor under the Credit Agreement.
New Guarantor
Accordingly, the Administrative Agent and the New Guarantor agree as follows:
SECTION 1. In accordance with and pursuant to Section 9.16(b) of the Credit Agreement, the New Guarantor by its signature below becomes a Guarantor under the Credit Agreement with the same force and effect as if the New Guarantor had executed the Credit Agreement as a Guarantor on the Effective Date, and the New Guarantor hereby agrees to all the terms and provisions of the Credit Agreement applicable to it as a Guarantor thereunder. Each reference to a "Guarantor" in the Credit Agreement shall be deemed to include the New Guarantor. The Credit Agreement is hereby incorporated herein by reference. In addition, in accordance with Section 5.7 of the Credit Agreement, the New Guarantor hereby agrees to be bound by the terms of Sections 5.6 and 5.7 of the Credit Agreement as if it were a Borrower.
SECTION 2. The New Guarantor represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and each Bank that this Addendum has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by it and constitutes its legal, valid and binding obligation, enforceable against it in accordance with its terms.
SECTION 3. This Addendum may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto on different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract. This Addendum shall become effective when the Administrative Agent shall have received a counterpart of this Addendum that bears the signature of the New Guarantor and the
Administrative Agent has executed a counterpart hereof. Delivery of an executed signature page to this Addendum by facsimile or Adobe .pdf transmission shall be as effective as delivery of a manually signed counterpart of this Addendum.
SECTION 4. Except as expressly supplemented hereby, the Credit Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
SECTION 5. THIS ADDENDUM SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
SECTION 6. In case any one or more of the provisions contained in this Addendum should be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions contained herein and in the Credit Agreement shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby (it being understood that the invalidity of a particular provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not in and of itself affect the validity of such provision in any other jurisdiction). The parties hereto shall endeavor in good-faith negotiations to replace the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions.
SECTION 7. The New Guarantor agrees to reimburse the Administrative Agent for its fees and expenses pursuant to Section 9.3 of the Credit Agreement.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the New Guarantor and the Administrative Agent have duly executed this Addendum as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.5
THIS DEED POLL INDEMNITY is made and effective as of July 1, 2009 by Ingersoll-Rand public limited company, an Irish incorporated company (the "Indemnitor"), in respect of the class of Indemnitees (hereinafter defined).
WHEREAS, the Indemnitor wishes to Indemnify the Indemnitees;
NOW THEREFORE, the Indemnitor hereby agrees as follows:
1. . (1) The Indemnitor hereby absolutely, unconditionally and irrevocably indemnifies severally any person who was, is or is threatened to be made a party to a Proceeding (hereinafter defined) by reason of the fact that he or she (a) is or was a director, secretary or "officer" or "senior executive" (as may be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors of the Indemnitor) or (b) is or was serving at the request of the Indemnitor or any of the Group Entities (hereinafter defined) as a director, officer, partner, venturer, proprietor, trustee, employee, agent or similar functionary (together, the class of persons in clauses (a) and (b) above are hereinafter referred to collectively as the "Indemnitees") of any subsidiary or a majority owned affiliate of the Indemnitor (wherever incorporated or organized) (the "Group Entities") to the fullest extent permitted under Irish law, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended, for payment and performance, of any and all obligations, amounts or other liabilities (the "Obligations") of the Indemnitees now or hereafter existing incurred in respect of such service, to the extent permitted by Irish law, provided that nothing in this Clause 1 or this Deed Poll shall indemnify any director or secretary of the Indemnitor in respect of any liability prohibited from being indemnified pursuant to section 200 of the Companies Act 1963 (as amended) ("Section 200"). Such right shall be a contract right and as such shall run to the benefit of each Indemnitee.
Indemnity
Any repeal or amendment of this Indemnity shall be prospective only and shall not limit the rights of any Indemnitee or the Obligations of the Indemnitor with respect to any claim arising from or related to the services of such Indemnitee in any of the foregoing capacities prior to any such repeal or amendment to this Indemnity. Such right shall include the right to be paid by the Indemnitor expenses incurred in defending any such Proceeding in advance of its final disposition to the maximum extent permitted under Irish law, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended; provided that to the extent required by law, such payment of expenses in advance of the final disposition of the Proceeding shall be made only upon receipt of an undertaking by the Indemnitee to repay all amounts advanced if it should be ultimately determined that the Indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified under this Indemnity or otherwise.
If a claim for indemnification or advancement of expenses hereunder is not paid in full by the Indemnitor within 60 days after a written claim has been received by the Indemnitor, the Indemnitee may at any time thereafter bring suit against the Indemnitor to recover the unpaid amount of the claim, and if successful in whole or in part, the Indemnitee shall also be entitled to be paid the expenses of prosecuting such claim. It shall be a defense to
any such action that such indemnification or advancement of costs of defense are not permitted under Irish law, but the burden of proving such defense shall be on the Indemnitor. Neither the failure of the Indemnitor (including the board of directors of the Indemnitor or any committee thereof, independent legal counsel or members of the Indemnitor (the "Members")) to have made its determination prior to the commencement of such action that indemnification of, or advancement of costs of defense to, the Indemnitee is permissible in the circumstances nor an actual determination by the Indemnitor (including the board of directors of the Indemnitor or any committee thereof, independent legal counsel or Members) that such indemnification or advancement is not permissible shall be a defense to the action or create a presumption that such indemnification or advancement is not permissible.
In the event of the death of any person having a right of indemnification under the foregoing provisions, such right shall inure to the benefit of his or her heirs, executors, administrators and personal representatives.
Except as otherwise provided in this subparagraph (1), the Indemnitor shall be required to indemnify an Indemnitee in connection with a Proceeding (or part thereof) commenced by such person only if the commencement of such Proceeding (or part thereof) by the person was authorised by the board of directors of the Indemnitor.
(2) The Indemnitor may additionally indemnify any employee or agent of the Indemnitor and/or the Group Entities to the fullest extent permitted by law.
(3) The rights conferred on any Indemnitee by this Indemnity shall not be exclusive of any other rights which such Indemnitee may have or hereafter acquire.
(4) The Indemnitor's obligation, if any, to indemnify or to advance expenses to any Indemnitee shall be reduced by any amount such Indemnitee may collect as indemnification or advancement of expenses from Ingersoll-Rand Company Limited or any of the Group Entities.
(5) This Indemnity shall not extend to any matter in respect of any intentional wrongdoing, fraud or dishonesty which may attach to any of the Indemnitees, or in respect of any liability prohibited from being indemnified under Section 200.
(6) "Proceeding," for purposes of this Indemnity, means any threatened, pending or completed action, suit, claim or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative, arbitrative or investigative, any appeal in such an action, suit, claim or proceeding, and any inquiry or investigation that could lead to such an action, suit, claim or proceeding.
(7) Each Member agrees to exempt an Indemnitee from any claim or right of action such Member might have, whether individually or by or in the right of the Indemnitor, against any Indemnitee on account of any action taken by such Indemnitee, or the failure of such Indemnitee to take any action in the performance of his or her duties with or for the Indemnitor or any Group Entities; provided that such waiver shall not extend to any matter in respect of any intentional wrongdoing, fraud or dishonesty which may attach to such Indemnitee.
 
2. . This Deed shall take effect on and be deemed to be delivered as a deed on the date on which it is executed and shall continue and remain in force and effect until and shall expire on the earlier of the date on which the Indemnitor shall have (a) performed all its Obligations and discharged its liabilities hereunder or (b) terminated this Deed and provided for indemnification of the Indemnitees by entering into a substitute Deed; provided that no Indemnitee who is entitled to indemnification pursuant to this Deed shall be prejudiced by the actions described at (b) above.
Duration
3. . the Indemnitor waives notice of acceptance of this Indemnity by any Indemnitee.
Notice to Indemnitor
4. . The Indemnitor assumes the Obligations and liabilities under this Deed in consideration of each Indemnitee's service as a director, officer, partner, venturer, proprietor, trustee, employee, agent or similar functionary of the Indemnitor or any of the Group Entities, as the case may be, whether such act is taken on the date of this Deed or subsequently. This Indemnity is made for the benefit of the Indemnitees severally.
Consideration and Several Indemnity
5. . The Indemnitor's Obligations hereunder shall not be affected by the existence, validity, enforceability, or by any other circumstance relating to the Obligations that might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge of or defense to the Indemnitor. In the event that any payment by the Indemnitor to the Indemnitees in respect of the Obligations is rescinded or must otherwise be returned for any reason whatsoever, the Indemnitor shall remain liable hereunder with respect to such Obligations as if such payment had not been made.
Nature of Indemnity
If at any time one or more of the provisions hereof or any part thereof is in contravention of Section 200, the validity, legality, and enforceability of the remaining provisions hereof shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby. It is agreed by the parties that a court of competent jurisdiction may sever any such provision which contravenes Section 200. The parties hereto agree that should any provision of this Agreement be found by a court of competent jurisdiction to contravene Section 200, then they shall forthwith enter into good faith negotiations to amend that provision in such a way that, as amended, it is valid, legal and enforceable and carries out the original intent of the parties as set out herein.
6. . The Indemnitor agrees that the Indemnitees may at any time and from time to time, either before or after the maturity thereof, without notice to or further consent of the Indemnitor, extend the time of payment of, or renew all or any part of the Obligations, and may also make any agreement for the extension, renewal, payment, compromise, discharge or release thereof, in whole or in part, or for any modification of the terms thereof, without in any way impairing or affecting this Indemnity.
Changes in Obligations, and Agreements Relating thereto; Waiver of Certain Notices
7. . No failure on the part of the Indemnitees to exercise, and no delay in exercising, any right, remedy or power hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise by the Indemnitees of any right, remedy or power hereunder preclude any other or future exercise of any right, remedy or power. Each and
No Waiver; Cumulative Rights
 
every right, remedy and power hereby granted to the Indemnitees or allowed it by law or other agreement shall be cumulative and not exclusive of any other, and may be exercised by the Indemnitees at any time or from time to time.
8. . No Indemnitee may assign its rights, interests or Obligations hereunder to any other person (except by operation of law) without the prior written consent of the Indemnitor.
Assignment
9. . All notices or demands on the Indemnitor shall be deemed effective when received, shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or by registered mail, or by facsimile transmission promptly confirmed by registered mail, addressed to the Indemnitor at:
Notices
 
or to such other address or fax number as the Indemnitor shall have notified the Indemnitees in a written notice delivered to the Indemnitees at the addresses or facsimile numbers specified in the Indemnitor's records.
10. . This Indemnity shall remain in full force and effect and shall be binding on the Indemnitor, its successors and assigns until all of the Obligations have been satisfied in full.
Continuing Indemnity
11. . This Indemnity shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of Irish without regard to principles of conflicts of laws.
Governing Law
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Deed Poll Indemnity has been duly executed as a deed and shall be delivered by the Indemnitor in accordance with clause 2 hereof.
SEAL: [SEAL]
 
 

Exhibit 10.6
EXECUTION VERSION
THIS DEED POLL INDEMNITY is made and effective as of July 1, 2009 by Ingersoll-Rand Company Limited, a Bermuda company (the "Indemnitor"), in respect of the class of Indemnitees (hereinafter defined).
WHEREAS, the Indemnitor wishes to Indemnify the Indemnitees;
NOW THEREFORE, the Indemnitor hereby agrees as follows:
1. . (1) The Indemnitor hereby absolutely, unconditionally and irrevocably indemnifies severally any person who was, is or is threatened to be made a party to a Proceeding (hereinafter defined) by reason of the fact that he or she (a) is or was a director or secretary or an "officer" or "senior executive" (as may be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors of Ingersoll-Rand plc, an Irish public limited company ("IR-Ireland")) of IR-Ireland, or (b) is or was serving at the request of IR-Ireland or any of the Group Entities (hereinafter defined) as a director, officer, partner, venturer, proprietor, trustee, employee, agent or similar functionary (together, the class of persons in clauses (a) and (b) above are hereinafter referred to collectively as the "Indemnitees") of any subsidiary or any majority owned affiliate of IR-Ireland (wherever incorporated or organized) (the "Group Entities"), to the fullest extent permitted under Bermuda law, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended, for payment and performance, of any and all obligations, amounts or other liabilities (the "Obligations") of the Indemnitees now or hereafter existing incurred in respect of such service. Such right shall be a contract right and as such shall run to the benefit of each Indemnitee.
Indemnity
Any repeal or amendment of this Indemnity shall be prospective only and shall not limit the rights of any Indemnitee or the Obligations of the Indemnitor with respect to any claim arising from or related to the services of such Indemnitee in any of the foregoing capacities prior to any such repeal or amendment to this Indemnity. Such right shall include the right to be paid by the Indemnitor expenses incurred in defending any such Proceeding in advance of its final disposition to the maximum extent permitted under Bermuda law, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended; provided that to the extent required by law, such payment of expenses in advance of the final disposition of the Proceeding shall be made only upon receipt of an undertaking by the Indemnitee to repay all amounts advanced if it should be ultimately determined that the Indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified under this Indemnity or otherwise.
If a claim for indemnification or advancement of expenses hereunder is not paid in full by the Indemnitor within 60 days after a written claim has been received by the Indemnitor, the Indemnitee may at any time thereafter bring suit against the Indemnitor to recover the unpaid amount of the claim, and if successful in whole or in part, the Indemnitee shall also be entitled to be paid the expenses of prosecuting such claim. It shall be a defense to any such action that such indemnification or advancement of costs of defense are not permitted under Bermuda law, but the burden of proving such defense shall be on the Indemnitor. Neither the failure of the Indemnitor (including the board of directors of the Indemnitor or any
committee thereof, independent legal counsel or members of the Indemnitor (the "Members")) to have made its determination prior to the commencement of such action that indemnification of, or advancement of costs of defense to, the Indemnitee is permissible in the circumstances nor an actual determination by the Indemnitor (including the board of directors of the Indemnitor or any committee thereof, independent legal counsel or Members) that such indemnification or advancement is not permissible shall be a defense to the action or create a presumption that such indemnification or advancement is not permissible.
In the event of the death of any person having a right of indemnification under the foregoing provisions, such right shall inure to the benefit of his or her heirs, executors, administrators and personal representatives.
Except as otherwise provided in this subparagraph (1), the Indemnitor shall be required to indemnify an Indemnitee in connection with a Proceeding (or part thereof) commenced by such person only if the commencement of such Proceeding (or part thereof) by the person was authorised by the board of directors of IR-Ireland.
(2) The Indemnitor may additionally indemnify any employee or agent of IR-Ireland and/or the Group Entities to the fullest extent permitted by law.
(3) The rights conferred on any Indemnitee by this Indemnity shall not be exclusive of any other rights which such Indemnitee may have or hereafter acquire.
(4) The Indemnitor's obligation, if any, to indemnify or to advance expenses to any Indemnitee shall be reduced by any amount such Indemnitee may collect as indemnification or advancement of expenses from IR-Ireland or any of the Group Entities.
(5) This Indemnity shall not extend to any matter in respect of any intentional wrongdoing, fraud or dishonesty which may attach to any of the Indemnitees.
(6) "Proceeding," for purposes of this Indemnity, means any threatened, pending or completed action, suit, claim or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative, arbitrative or investigative, any appeal in such an action, suit, claim or proceeding, and any inquiry or investigation that could lead to such an action, suit, claim or proceeding.
(7) Each Member agrees to exempt an Indemnitee from any claim or right of action such Member might have, whether individually or by or in the right of the Indemnitor, against any Indemnitee on account of any action taken by such Indemnitee, or the failure of such Indemnitee to take any action in the performance of his or her duties with or for the Indemnitor or any Group Entities; provided that such waiver shall not extend to any matter in respect of any intentional wrongdoing, fraud or dishonesty which may attach to such Indemnitee.
2. . This Deed shall take effect on and be deemed to be delivered as a deed on the date on which it is executed and shall continue and remain in force and effect until and shall expire on the earlier of the date on which the Indemnitor shall have (a) performed all its Obligations and discharged its liabilities hereunder or (b) terminated this Deed and provided for indemnification of the Indemnitees by entering into a substitute Deed; provided that no Indemnitee who is entitled to indemnification pursuant to this Deed shall be prejudiced by the actions described at (b) above.
Duration
 
3. . The Indemnitor waives notice of acceptance of this Indemnity by any Indemnitee.
Notice to Indemnitor
4. . The Indemnitor assumes the Obligations and liabilities under this Deed in consideration of each Indemnitee's service as a director, officer, partner, venturer, proprietor, trustee, employee, agent or similar functionary of IR-Ireland or any of the Group Entities, as the case may be, whether such act is taken on the date of this Deed or subsequently. This Indemnity is made for the benefit of the Indemnitees severally.
Consideration and Several Indemnity
5. . The Indemnitor's Obligations hereunder shall not be affected by the existence, validity, enforceability, or by any other circumstance relating to the Obligations that might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge of or defense to the Indemnitor. In the event that any payment by the Indemnitor to the Indemnitees in respect of the Obligations is rescinded or must otherwise be returned for any reason whatsoever, the Indemnitor shall remain liable hereunder with respect to such Obligations as if such payment had not been made.
Nature of Indemnity
6. . The Indemnitor agrees that the Indemnitees may at any time and from time to time, either before or after the maturity thereof, without notice to or further consent of the Indemnitor, extend the time of payment of, or renew all or any part of the Obligations, and may also make any agreement for the extension, renewal, payment, compromise, discharge or release thereof, in whole or in part, or for any modification of the terms thereof, without in any way impairing or affecting this Indemnity.
Changes in Obligations, and Agreements Relating thereto; Waiver of Certain Notices
7. . No failure on the part of the Indemnitees to exercise, and no delay in exercising, any right, remedy or power hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise by the Indemnitees of any right, remedy or power hereunder preclude any other or future exercise of any right, remedy or power. Each and every right, remedy and power hereby granted to the Indemnitees or allowed it by law or other agreement shall be cumulative and not exclusive of any other, and may be exercised by the Indemnitees at any time or from time to time.
No Waiver; Cumulative Rights
8. . No Indemnitee may assign its rights, interests or Obligations hereunder to any other person (except by operation of law) without the prior written consent of the Indemnitor.
Assignment
 
9. . All notices or demands on the Indemnitor shall be deemed effective when received, shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or by registered mail, or by facsimile transmission promptly confirmed by registered mail, addressed to the Indemnitor at:
Notices
 
or to such other address or fax number as the Indemnitor shall have notified the Indemnitees in a written notice delivered to the Indemnitees at the addresses or facsimile numbers specified in the Indemnitor's records.
10. . This Indemnity shall remain in full force and effect and shall be binding on the Indemnitor, its successors and assigns until all of the Obligations have been satisfied in full.
Continuing Indemnity
11. . This Indemnity shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of Bermuda without regard to principles of conflicts of laws.
Governing Law
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Deed Poll Indemnity has been duly executed as a deed and shall be delivered by the Indemnitor in accordance with clause 2 hereof.
SEAL: [SEAL]
 
 

Exhibit 10.7
SECTION 1. PURPOSES: The purposes of the Plan are (a) to provide additional incentives for Key Employees, by authorizing the payment of bonus or incentive compensation in shares of Common Stock and by encouraging Key Employees to invest in shares of Common Stock, thereby furthering their identity of interest with the interests of the Company's shareholders, increasing their stake in the future growth and prosperity of the Company and stimulating and sustaining constructive and imaginative thinking, (b) to enable the Company, by offering incentives comparable to other organizations with which it competes in connection with the employment of senior level individuals, to induce the employment of the most highly-qualified individuals and the continued employment of Key Employees, and (c) to enhance the Company's ability to attract and retain highly-qualified individuals as directors of the Company.
SECTION 2. DEFINITIONS: Unless otherwise required by the context, the following terms, when used in the Plan, shall have the meanings set forth in this Section 2:
Act: The Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Affiliate: Used to indicate a relationship with a specified person, a person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, or is controlled by, or is under common control with, such a specified person.
Associate: Used to indicate a relationship with a specified person, (a) any corporation or organization (other than the Company or a majority-owned subsidiary of the Company) of which such specified person is an officer or partner, or is, directly or indirectly, the beneficial owner of 10% or more of any class of equity securities, (b) any trust or other estate in which such specified person has a substantial beneficial interest or as to which such specified person serves as trustee or in a similar capacity, (c) any relative or spouse of such specified person, or any relative of such spouse who has the same home as such specified person, or who is a director or officer of the Company or any of its parents or subsidiaries, and (d) any person who is a director, officer or partner of such specified person or of any corporation (other than the Company or any wholly-owned Subsidiary), partnership or other entity which is an Affiliate of such specified person.
Beneficial Owner: As such term is defined by Rule 13d-3 under the Act (or any successor provision at the time in effect); provided, however, that any individual, corporation, partnership, group, association or other person or entity which has the right to acquire any of the Company's outstanding securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors at any time in the future, whether such right is contingent or absolute, pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding or upon exercise of conversion rights, warrants or options, or otherwise, shall be deemed the Beneficial Owner of such securities.
Board of Directors or Board: The Board of Directors of the Company.
Change in Control of the Company: The occurrence of either of the following:
(a) any individual, corporation, partnership, group, association or other person or entity, together with its Affiliates and Associates (other than a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company), is or becomes the Beneficial Owner of securities of the Company representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, unless a majority of the Continuing Directors determines in their sole discretion that, for purposes of the Plan, a Change in Control of the Company has not occurred; or
(b) the Continuing Directors shall at any time fail to constitute a majority of the members of the Board of Directors.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section or any other Section of the Plan to the contrary, none of the transactions contemplated by the Scheme of Arrangement under section 99 of the Bermuda Companies Act 1981 (the "Scheme of Arrangement"), pursuant to which the Class A common shares of the Company will be cancelled and the holders of such Class A common shares will receive, on a one-for-one basis, new shares of Ingersoll-Rand plc, a company incorporated and organized under the laws of Ireland ("IR-Ireland") (or, in the case of any fractional interests in shares, cash), and new common shares of Ingersoll-Rand Company Limited will be issued to IR-Ireland (the "Transaction") shall trigger, constitute or be deemed a Change in Control of the Company.
Code: The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
Committee: Such committee or committees as shall be appointed by the Board of Directors to administer the Plan pursuant to the provisions of Section 12.
Common Stock: The Common Stock of the Company, par value $2 per share, or such other class of shares or other securities as may be applicable pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 10. Effective July 1, 2009 "Common Stock" means the ordinary shares of the Company, par value $1.00 per share.
Common Stock Equivalents: Such of the rights and benefits of the actual owner of shares of Common Stock as the Committee (or the Independent Directors Committee in the case of grants to Key Employees who are also members of the Board) may determine, including the right to receive dividends and the right to receive the amount of appreciation in value, if any, on such shares of Common Stock from the date the grant of such Common Stock Equivalents became effective until they become payable to the holder.
Company: Ingersoll-Rand Company, a New Jersey corporation. Effective July 1, 2009, "Company" means Ingersoll-Rand plc, an Irish company.
Continuing Director: A director who either was a member of the Board on April 27, 1995 or who became a member of the Board subsequent to such date and whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's shareholders, was Duly Approved by the Continuing
 
Directors at the time of such nomination or election, either by a specific vote or by approval of the proxy statement issued by the Company on behalf of the Board in which such person is named as a nominee for director; provided, however, that no individual shall be considered a Continuing Director if such individual initially assumed office as a result of either an actual or threatened "Election Contest" (as described in Rule 14a-11 promulgated under the Act) or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents other than by or on behalf of the Board (a "Proxy Contest"), including by reason of any agreement intended to avoid or settle any Election Contest or Proxy Contest.
Disability: Such term as defined under the pension, retirement or appropriate benefit plan or plans of the Company or a Subsidiary applicable to the Key Employee.
Dividend Equivalents: A right to receive immediately or on a deferred basis, whether or not subject to forfeiture, an amount equivalent to all or part of dividends paid or payable on a share of Common Stock subject to a Stock Incentive.
Duly Approved by the Continuing Directors: An action approved by the vote of at least a majority of the Continuing Directors then on the Board, except, if the votes of such Continuing Directors in favor of such action would be insufficient to constitute an act of the Board if a vote by all of its members were to have been taken, then such term shall mean an action approved by the unanimous vote of the Continuing Directors then on the Board so long as there are at least three Continuing Directors on the Board at the time of such unanimous vote.
Fair Market Value: As applied to any date, the mean between the high and low sales prices of a share of Common Stock on such date in New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions, as reported in The Wall Street Journal or another newspaper of general circulation, or, if no such sales were made on such date, on the next preceding date on which there were such sales so reported. If the Common Stock is not listed or admitted to trading on the New York Stock Exchange, the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock shall be the closing sales price of one share of Common Stock on the principal national securities exchange on which the Common Stock is listed or admitted to trading, or, if the Common Stock is not listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, the last quoted sales price, or if not so quoted, the average of the high bid and low asked prices in the over-the-counter market of the Common Stock, as reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers Inc. Automated Quotations system or such other system then in use, or, if on any such date the Common Stock is not quoted by any such organization, the average of the closing bid and asked prices of the Common Stock as furnished by a professional market maker making a market in the Common Stock selected by the Board. If on any such date no market maker is making a market in the Common Stock, the Fair Market Value shall be determined in good faith by the Continuing Directors.
Incentive Compensation: Bonuses, extra and other compensation payable in addition to a salary or other base amount, whether contingent or not, whether discretionary or required to be paid pursuant to an agreement, resolution, arrangement, plan or practice and whether payable currently or on a deferred basis, in cash, Common Stock or other property, awarded by the Company or a Subsidiary.
 
Independent Directors Committee: The members of the Board who satisfy the requirements to be both (a) "disinterested persons" within the meaning of Rule 16b-3 under the Act (or any successor rule or regulation), and (b) "outside directors" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (or any successor provision, rules or regulations).
Key Employee: An employee of the Company or a Subsidiary, including an officer or director who is an employee, who in the opinion of the Committee (or the Independent Directors Committee, with respect to employees who are also members of the Board), can contribute significantly to the growth and successful operations of the Company or such Subsidiary. The granting of a Stock Incentive to an employee pursuant to the Plan shall be deemed a determination that such employee is a Key Employee.
Outside Director: A member of the Board (including an emeritus member) who is not an officer or employee of the Company, a Subsidiary or Affiliate.
Option: An option to purchase a share of Common Stock.
Plan: The Incentive Stock Plan of 1995 herein set forth as the same may from time to time be amended.
Retirement: Such term as defined under the pension or retirement plan or plans of the Company or a Subsidiary applicable to the Key Employee, pursuant to which the Key Employee is receiving or will, upon such retirement, be entitled to receive retirement benefits.
Stock Appreciation Right: A right to receive a number of shares of Common Stock, or, with the approval of the Committee (or the Independent Directors Committee in the case of grants to employees who are also members of the Board), cash, in either event based on the increase in the Fair Market Value of the number of shares of Common Stock subject to such right, as set forth in Section 7.
Stock Award: An issuance or transfer of shares of Common Stock at the time a Stock Incentive is granted or as soon thereafter as practicable, or an undertaking to issue or transfer such shares in the future. As provided in Section 5, Stock Awards may be designated as Employment Stock Awards or Performance Stock Awards.
Stock Incentive: A Stock Incentive granted under the Plan in one of the forms provided for in Section 3.
Subsidiary: A corporation or other form of business association of which shares (or other ownership interests) having 50% or more of the voting power are owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the Company.
SECTION 3. GRANTS OF STOCK INCENTIVES:
(a) Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee may at any time, and from time to time, grant Stock Incentives to, and only to, Key Employees; provided, however, that a Stock Incentive may be granted to a Key Employee who at the time of such grant is a member of the Board of Directors only by the Independent Directors Committee based upon a recommendation of the Committee.
 
(b) Stock Incentives may be granted in the following forms:
(i) a Stock Award, in accordance with Section 5, or
(ii) an Option, in accordance with Section 6, or
(iii) a Stock Appreciation Right, in accordance with Section 7, or
(iv) any combination of the foregoing.
SECTION 4. STOCK SUBJECT TO THE PLAN:
(a) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section 4 and of paragraph (a) of Section 10, the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock which may be issued or transferred pursuant to Stock Incentives granted under the Plan shall not exceed 6,000,000 shares of Common Stock. No Key Employee shall be granted in the aggregate Stock Incentives (excluding Stock Awards) relating to more than 15% of the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock issuable or transferable under the Plan.
(b) Authorized but unissued shares of Common Stock and shares of Common Stock held in the treasury, whether acquired by the Company specifically for use under the Plan or otherwise, may be used, as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine, for purposes of the Plan; provided, however, that any shares acquired or held by the Company for the purposes of the Plan shall, unless and until transferred to a Key Employee in accordance with the terms and conditions of a Stock Incentive, be and at all times remain treasury shares of the Company irrespective of whether such shares are entered in a special account for purposes of the Plan, and shall be available for any corporate purpose.
(c) If any shares of Common Stock subject to a Stock Incentive shall not be issued or transferred and shall cease to be issuable or transferable because of the termination, in whole or in part, of such Stock Incentive, or, subject to the provisions of paragraph (i) of Section 6 and paragraph (d) of Section 7, for any other reason, or if any such shares shall, after issuance or transfer, be reacquired by the Company or a Subsidiary because of an employee's failure to comply with the terms and conditions of a Stock Incentive, the shares not so issued or transferred, or the shares so reacquired by the Company or a Subsidiary, shall no longer be charged against the limitation provided for in paragraph (a) of this Section 4 and may again be made subject to Stock Incentives.
SECTION 5. STOCK AWARDS: Stock Incentives in the form of Stock Awards shall be subject to the following provisions:
(a) A Stock Award shall be granted only (i) in payment of Incentive Compensation that has been earned or (ii) as Incentive Compensation to be earned.
 
(b) Shares of Common Stock subject to a Stock Award may be issued or transferred to a Key Employee at the time the Stock Award is granted, or at any time subsequent thereto, or in installments from time to time, as the Committee (or the Independent Directors Committee in the case of a grant to a Key Employee who is also a member of the Board) shall determine. In the event that any such issuance or transfer shall not be made to the Key Employee at the time the Stock Award is granted, the Committee (or the Independent Directors Committee, as the case may be) may provide for the payment or crediting to such Key Employee of Dividend Equivalents. Any amount payable in shares of Common Stock under the terms of a Stock Award may, in the discretion of the Committee (or the Independent Directors Committee in the case of a grant to a Key Employee who is also a member of the Board), be paid in cash on each date on which delivery of shares would otherwise have been made, in an amount equal to the Fair Market Value on such date of the shares which would otherwise have been delivered.
(c) A Stock Award shall contain such terms and conditions as the Committee (or the Independent Directors Committee in the case of a grant to a Key Employee who is also a member of the Board) shall determine with respect to payment or forfeiture of all or any part of the Stock Award upon termination of employment or the occurrence of other circumstances.
(d) A Stock Award shall be subject to such other terms and conditions, including, without limitation, restriction on sale or other disposition of the Stock Award or of the shares issued or transferred pursuant to such Stock Award, as the Committee (or the Independent Directors Committee in the case of a grant to a Key Employee who is also a member of the Board) shall determine; provided, however, that upon the issuance or transfer of shares pursuant to a Stock Award, the recipient shall, with respect to such shares, be and become a shareholder of the Company fully entitled to receive dividends, to vote and to exercise all other rights of a shareholder except to the extent otherwise provided in the Stock Award. Each Stock Award shall be evidenced by a written instrument in such form as the Committee shall determine, provided the Stock Award is consistent with the Plan and incorporates it by reference.
(e) All or part of a Stock Award may be designated as an Employment Stock Award, as to which the shares so designated shall only be issued if the Key Employee to whom such Stock Award has been granted meets the employment terms and conditions specified by the Committee (or the Independent Directors Committee in the case of a grant to a Key Employee who is also a member of the Board) at the time such Stock Award is granted.
(f) All or part of a Stock Award may be designated as a Performance Stock Award, as to which the shares so designated shall only be issued if certain pre-established performance goals are met during the term of the grant. The Committee (or the Independent Directors Committee in the case of a grant to a Key Employee who is also a member of the Board) may establish such performance goals in writing at the time the Performance Stock Award is granted subject to these performance restrictions or it may establish such goals early in each year during the term of the grant, provided it indicates, at the time of grant, what portion of the Performance Stock Award will be available to be earned each year during the term of the award based on each year's performance goals. The performance goals established by the Committee (or the Independent Directors Committee, as the case may be) may be based, among other factors, upon the attainment of specified earnings per share, return on asset or asset management goals or upon the Company's total return to shareholder ranking relative to a
 
pre-established comparator group of companies. Shares subject to a Performance Stock Award granted to any individual whose compensation from the Company is covered by Section 162(m) of the Code shall be issued only after the Committee (or the Independent Directors Committee in the case of a grant to a Key Employee who is also a member of the Board) certifies in writing that the performance goals have been met.
SECTION 6. OPTIONS: Stock Incentives in the form of Options shall be subject to the following provisions:
(a) The price per share at which a share subject to an Option may be purchased shall be determined by the Committee (or the Independent Directors Committee in the case of an Option grant to a Key Employee who is also a member of the Board), but in no instance shall be less than the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the date such Option is granted.
(b) Each Option shall expire at such time as the Committee (or the Independent Directors Committee, as the case may be) may determine on the date such Option is granted, but no later than ten years from the date such Option is granted. The Committee (or the Independent Directors Committee, as the case may be) may, at any time prior to the expiration of the Option, extend its term for a period ending not later than ten years from the date such Option is granted and any such extension shall not be deemed the grant of a new or additional Option for any purpose under the Plan.
(c) The Option may be exercised solely by the person to whom it is granted, except as hereinafter provided in the case of such person's death or Disability. During the lifetime of the optionee, the Option and any rights and privileges pertaining thereto shall not be transferred, assigned, pledged or hypothecated in any way, whether by operation of law or otherwise, and shall not be subject to execution, attachment or similar process.
(d) Each optionee must complete twelve months of continuous employment with the Company or Subsidiary, or both, before any part of the Option may be exercised by such optionee.
(e) After the completion of the required period of employment, the Option may be exercised, in whole or in part, and from time to time during the balance of the term of the Option, subject to the terms and conditions specified in the Option or by the Committee (or the Independent Directors Committee in the case of a grant to a Key Employee who is also a member of the Board).
(f) Unless otherwise determined by the Committee (or the Independent Directors Committee in the case of a grant to a Key Employee who is also a member of the Board), each Option shall terminate if and when the optionee shall terminate employment with the Company and its Subsidiaries, except that if the optionee shall die or become subject to a Disability while in the employ of the Company or of a Subsidiary, then the Option shall be exercisable within such period as shall be set forth in the Option, by the optionee or by such person or persons as shall have acquired the optionee's rights under the Option by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, or by the optionee's guardian, conservator or similar legal
 
representative, but not later than three years after the date of death or Disability. In the event of the Retirement of the optionee, if the optionee shall have completed at least twelve months of continuous employment (or such shorter period as the Committee, or the Independent Directors Committee in the case of a grant to a Key Employee who is also a member of the Board, may determine) then the Option shall be exercisable within such period as shall be set forth in the Option but not later than three years after the date of Retirement (or such longer period as the Committee, or the Independent Directors Committee in the case of a grant to a Key Employee who is also a member of the Board, may determine).
(g) Shares purchased under the Option shall be paid for in full at the time of the exercise of the Option as to such shares upon such terms as the Committee (or the Independent Directors Committee in the case of a grant to a Key Employee who is also a member of the Board) may approve, including cash, secured or unsecured indebtedness, by exchange for other property (including shares of Common Stock), by delivery of irrevocable instructions to a financial institution to deliver promptly to the Company the portion of sale or loan proceeds sufficient to pay the Option exercise price, or otherwise.
(h) The Committee (or the Independent Directors Committee in the case of a grant to a Key Employee who is also a member of the Board) may at any time and from time to time provide for the payment to an optionee of Dividend Equivalents.
(i) The Option agreements or Option grants authorized by the Plan may contain such other provisions as the Committee (or the Independent Directors Committee in the case of grants to Key Employees who are also members of the Board) shall deem advisable. Without limiting the foregoing, if so authorized by the Committee (or the Independent Directors Committee, as the case may be) and subject to such terms and conditions as are specified in the Option or by the Committee (or the Independent Directors Committee, as the case may be), the Company may, with the consent of the holder of the Option, and at any time or from time to time, cancel all or a portion of the Option then subject to exercise and discharge its obligation in respect of the Option either by payment to the holder of an amount of money equal to the excess, if any, of the Fair Market Value, at such time or times, of the shares subject to the portion of the Option so cancelled over the aggregate purchase price of such shares, or by the issuance or transfer to the holder of shares of Common Stock with the Fair Market Value, at such time or times equal to any such excess, or by a combination of cash and shares. The number of shares of Common Stock subject to the Option, or portion thereof, so cancelled shall, in the event that a payment of money or transfer of shares is made by the Company in respect of such cancellation, be charged against the maximum limitation set forth in paragraph (a) of Section 4 of the Plan.
(j) Options may be granted under the Plan from time to time in substitution for stock options held by employees of other corporations who are about to become employees of the Company or a Subsidiary as the result of a merger or consolidation of the employing corporation with the Company or a Subsidiary, or the acquisition by the Company or a Subsidiary of the assets of the employing corporation, or the acquisition by the Company or a Subsidiary of stock of the employing corporation as the result of which it becomes a Subsidiary. The terms and conditions of the substitute options so granted may vary from the terms and conditions set forth in this Section 6 to such extent as the Committee at the time of grant may deem appropriate to conform, in whole or in part, to the provisions of the options in substitution for which they are granted.
 
SECTION 7. STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS:
(a) Stock Appreciation Rights may be granted in connection with any Option granted under the Plan, either at the time of the grant of such Option or at any time thereafter during the term of the Option, or may be granted independently of the grant of an Option.
(b) If granted in connection with an Option, Stock Appreciation Rights shall entitle the holder of the related Option, upon surrender of the Option, or any portion thereof, to exercise the Stock Appreciation Rights, to the extent unexercised, and to receive a number of shares of Common Stock, or cash, determined pursuant to paragraph (c)(iii) of this Section 7. Such Option shall, to the extent so surrendered, thereupon cease to be exercisable. If granted independently of an Option, Stock Appreciation Rights shall entitle the holder of the Stock Appreciation Rights to receive a number of shares of Common Stock, or cash, determined pursuant to paragraph (c)(iii) of this Section 7.
(c) Stock Appreciation Rights shall be subject to the following terms and conditions and to such other terms and conditions not inconsistent with the Plan as shall from time to time be approved by the Committee (or the Independent Directors Committee in the case of a grant to a Key Employee who is also a member of the Board):
(i) If granted in connection with an Option, Stock Appreciation Rights shall be exercisable at such time or times and to the extent, but only to the extent, that the Option to which they relate shall be exercisable, except that, at the time of granting such Stock Appreciation Rights, the Committee (or the Independent Directors Committee in the case of a grant to a Key Employee who is also a member of the Board) may provide that the period during which such Stock Appreciation Rights may be exercised shall expire prior to the expiration of the period during which the related Option may be exercised. If granted independently of an Option, Stock Appreciation Rights shall be exercisable at such time or times as shall be determined by the Committee (or the Independent Directors Committee, as the case may be) at the time of the grant of the Stock Appreciation Rights but, unless otherwise determined by the Committee (or the Independent Directors Committee, as the case may be), in no event later than the date the employment of the holder of the Stock Appreciation Rights shall have terminated other than by reason of death, Disability or Retirement. In the event of termination of employment by reason of death or Disability, Stock Appreciation Rights shall be exercisable for such period as the Committee (or the Independent Directors Committee, as the case may be) may specify at the time of granting of the Stock Appreciation Rights, but in no event later than three years after such termination of employment by the holder of the Stock Appreciation Rights or by the beneficiary designated pursuant to paragraph (1) of Section 13, and in the case of Retirement, no later than three years after the date of such Retirement. Unless otherwise determined by the Committee (or the Independent Directors Committee in the case of a grant to a Key Employee who is also a member of the Board), each Stock Appreciation Right shall terminate if and when the holder thereof shall terminate employment with the Company and its Subsidiaries for reasons other than the death, Disability or Retirement of such holder.
 
(ii) Stock Appreciation Rights shall in no event be exercisable unless and until the holder of the Stock Appreciation Rights shall have completed at least twelve months of continuous service with the Company or a Subsidiary, or both, immediately following the date upon which the Stock Appreciation Rights shall have been granted.
(iii) Upon exercise of Stock Appreciation Rights, the holder thereof shall be entitled to receive a number of shares equal in Fair Market Value on the date of exercise to the amount by which the Fair Market Value of one share of Common Stock on the date of such exercise shall exceed the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the date of grant of such Stock Appreciation Rights multiplied by the number of shares in respect of which the Stock Appreciation Rights shall have been exercised. The Company may determine, by action of the Committee (or the Independent Directors Committee in the case of a grant to a Key Employee who is also a member of the Board), to settle all or any part of its obligation arising out of an exercise of Stock Appreciation Rights by the payment of cash equal to the aggregate value of shares of Common Stock (or a fraction of a share) that it would otherwise be obligated to deliver under the preceding sentence of this paragraph (c)(iii) of Section 7.
(d) To the extent that Stock Appreciation Rights shall be exercised, an Option in connection with which such Stock Appreciation Rights shall have been granted shall be deemed to have been exercised for the purpose of the maximum limitation set forth in the Plan under which such Option shall have been granted. In the case of Stock Appreciation Rights granted independently of an Option, the number of shares of Common Stock in respect of which such Stock Appreciation Rights shall be exercised shall be charged against the maximum limitation set forth in paragraph (a) of Section 4.
(e) If so directed by the Committee (or the Independent Directors Committee in the case of a grant to a Key Employee who is also a member of the Board) at any time and from time to time, the grant of Stock Appreciation Rights may provide for payment of Dividend Equivalents to the holder of the Stock Appreciation Rights.
(f) Stock Appreciation Rights may provide that, upon exercise of such Stock Appreciation Rights, the shares or cash, as the case may be, which the holder of such Stock Appreciation Rights shall be entitled to receive, shall be distributed or paid in such installments and over such number of years as the Committee (or the Independent Directors Committee in the case of a grant to a Key Employee who is also a member of the Board) may direct, with distribution or payment of each such installment contingent upon continued services of the employee to the Company or a Subsidiary, or both (except for death, Disability, Retirement or termination of employment by the Company or with its consent), to the time for distribution or payment of such installment.
SECTION 8. DIVIDEND EQUIVALENTS: A grant of Dividend Equivalents shall be made subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee (or the Independent Directors Committee in the case of a grant to a Key Employee who is also a member of the Board) may
 
determine, and may be awarded only in connection with a Stock Incentive granted under Section 5, 6 or 7. Dividend Equivalents may be awarded either at the time of grant of a Stock Incentive or at any time thereafter during the term of the Stock Incentive. Dividend Equivalents may be payable or credited either in cash, shares of Common Stock, or in Common Stock Equivalents. If credited in Common Stock or in Common Stock Equivalents, they shall be credited at the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the day of such crediting. The Committee (or the Independent Directors Committee in the case of a grant to a Key Employee who is also a member of the Board) may provide that any amounts representing dividends earned by Common Stock Equivalents may either be paid currently or credited in cash or in Common Stock or that they may be represented by further Common Stock Equivalents, or any combination thereof. The Committee (or the Independent Directors Committee, as the case may be) may provide that when Common Stock Equivalents shall become payable to the holder, they may be paid in cash or in shares of Common Stock, or a combination of both. To the extent that any payment to the holder with respect to Dividend Equivalents is made in shares of Common Stock, the number of shares of Common Stock used for such payment shall be charged against the maximum limitation set forth in paragraph (a) of Section 4.
SECTION 9. OUTSIDE DIRECTORS' OPTIONS:
(a) On the date of the first Board of Directors meeting after each annual meeting of the shareholders (commencing with the Board of Directors meeting after the 1995 annual meeting of shareholders), each Outside Director shall automatically be granted Options to purchase 1,500 shares of Common Stock. In the event an adjustment is made under the provisions of Section 10 in the outstanding unexercised Options granted to Outside Directors hereunder, a similar adjustment shall be made in the number of Options to be granted to Outside Directors subsequent to the effectiveness of such adjustment.
(b) The price at which each share of Common Stock covered by Options granted to Outside Directors may be purchased shall be the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the date the Options are granted.
(c) Options granted to Outside Directors hereunder shall be fully vested on the date of grant and shall become exercisable on the first anniversary of such date of grant. Such Options may be exercised by the Outside Director during the period that the Outside Director remains a member of the Board and for a period of five years following retirement or resignation, provided that in no event shall any such Option be exercisable more than ten years after the date of grant.
(d) In the event of the death of an Outside Director, the Options shall be exercisable only within the three years next succeeding the date of death, and then only by the executor or administrator of the Outside Director's estate or by the person or persons to whom the Outside Director's rights under the Options shall pass by the Outside Director's will or the laws of descent and distribution, provided that in no event shall the Option be exercisable more than ten years after the date of grant.
 
(e) Except as expressly provided in this Section 9, Options granted to Outside Directors shall be subject to the terms and conditions of Section 6 regarding the terms of Options and to the other relevant provisions of the Plan.
SECTION 10. ADJUSTMENT AND CHANGE IN CONTROL PROVISIONS:
(a) In the event that any recapitalization, reclassification, split-up or consolidation of shares of Common Stock shall be effected, or the outstanding shares of Common Stock are, in connection with a merger or consolidation of the Company or a sale by the Company of all or a part of its assets, exchanged for a different number or class of shares of stock or other securities of the Company or for shares of the stock or other securities of any other corporation, or new, different or additional shares of other securities of the Company or of another corporation are received by the holders of Common Stock or any distribution is made to the holders of Common Stock other than a cash dividend, (i) the number and class of shares or other securities that may be issued or transferred pursuant to Stock Incentives, (ii) the number and class of shares or other securities which have not been issued or transferred under outstanding Stock Incentives, (iii) the purchase price to be paid per share under outstanding Options and other Stock Incentives, (iv) the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the date of grant of outstanding Stock Appreciation Rights, (v) the dates or events upon which Options and Stock Appreciation Rights may be exercised, which may, in appropriate instances, be related to specific dates or events under any of the aforesaid actions, and (vi) the price to be paid per share by the Company or a Subsidiary for shares or other securities issued or transferred pursuant to Stock Incentives which are subject to a right of the Company or a Subsidiary to reacquire such share or other securities, shall in each case be equitably adjusted. In addition, the Committee (or the Independent Directors Committee in the case of grants to Key Employees who are also members of the Board) may, in its discretion, make the adjustments described above in this paragraph (a) of Section 10 in the event the Company pays a cash dividend in respect of the Common Stock other than a regular quarterly dividend.
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary (and notwithstanding any requirement that conditions the receipt of benefits of a Stock Incentive granted hereunder on the completion of a specified period of employment by the holder thereof or on the attainment of certain performance goals by the Company or any group, subsidiary or division thereof), in the event of a Change in Control of the Company the holders of Stock Incentives outstanding as of the date of the occurrence of the Change in Control of the Company shall have the right to surrender such Stock Incentives within the 60-day period following the occurrence of the Change in Control of the Company and to receive cash as consideration for such surrender in accordance with the following:
(i) A holder of a Stock Award being surrendered shall be entitled to the amount equal to the highest Fair Market Value of one share of Common Stock during the 60 days preceding the date on which the Change in Control occurs, multiplied by the number of shares in respect of which the Stock Award shall have been surrendered.
(ii) A holder of Options being surrendered shall be entitled to the amount by which the highest Fair Market Value of one share of Common Stock during the 60 days preceding the date on which the Change in Control occurs exceeds the exercise price of one share of Common Stock subject to such Option, multiplied by the number of shares in respect of which the Option shall have been surrendered.
 
(iii) The holder of Stock Appreciation Rights being surrendered shall be entitled to the amount by which the highest Fair Market Value of one share of Common Stock during the 60 days preceding the date on which the Change in Control occurs exceeds the Fair Market Value of one share of Common Stock on the date of grant of such Stock Appreciation Rights (as adjusted, if applicable under the terms of the Plan), multiplied by the number of shares in respect of which the Stock Appreciation Rights shall have been surrendered. Stock Appreciation Rights granted in connection with the grant of Options may be surrendered only if surrendered together with the surrender of the related Options and the holder thereof shall be entitled to the payment described in this subparagraph (iii) only.
(iv) All payments to be made pursuant to this paragraph (b) of Section 10 shall be made within ten days of the delivery of written notice of such surrender by the holder to the Company.
SECTION 11. TERM: The Plan shall be deemed adopted and shall become effective on the date it is approved by the shareholders of the Company. No Stock Incentives shall be granted under the Plan after April 30, 2000.
SECTION 12. ADMINISTRATION:
(a) The Plan shall be administered by the Committee which shall consist of not less than three directors of the Company designated by the Board; provided, however, that no director shall be designated as or continue to be a member of the Committee, unless such director shall be (i) a "disinterested person" within the meaning of Rule 16b-3 under the Act (or any successor rule or regulation) and (ii) an "outside director" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder (or any successor provision, rules or regulations).
(b) The Committee shall have full authority to act for the Company under the Plan, except (i) to the extent the Plan delegates such authority to the Independent Directors Committee, (ii) the authority to amend or discontinue the Plan, which power shall be solely that of the Board, or (iii) to change the terms of any grant of Options to the Outside Directors from that provided for herein. All actions of the Independent Directors Committee shall be based upon recommendations of the Committee.
(c) The Committee may establish such rules and regulations not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan as it deems necessary to determine eligibility to participate in the Plan and for the proper administration of the Plan, and may amend or revoke any rule or regulation so established. The Committee may make such determinations and interpretations under or in connection with the Plan as it deems necessary or advisable. All such rules, regulations, determinations and interpretations shall be binding and conclusive upon the Company, its Subsidiaries, its shareholders and all employees, and upon their respective legal representatives, beneficiaries, successors and assigns and upon all other persons claiming under or through any of them.
 
(d) Any action required or permitted to be taken by the Committee (or the Independent Directors Committee) under the Plan shall require the affirmative vote of a majority of all the members of the Committee (or the Independent Directors Committee, as the case may be). The Committee (or the Independent Directors Committee) may act by written determination instead of by affirmative vote at a meeting, provided that any written determination shall be signed by all of the members of the Committee (or the Independent Directors Committee), and any such written determination shall be as fully effective as a unanimous vote at a meeting.
(e) Members of the Committee and the Independent Directors Committee acting under the Plan shall be fully protected in relying in good faith upon the advice of counsel and shall incur no liability except for gross negligence or willful misconduct in the performance of their duties.
SECTION 13. GENERAL PROVISIONS:
(a) With respect to any shares of Common Stock issued or transferred under any provision of the Plan, such shares may be issued or transferred subject to such conditions, in addition to those specifically provided in the Plan, as the Committee (or the Independent Directors Committee in the case of grants to Key Employees who are also members of the Board) may direct and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, provision may be made in the grant of Stock Incentives that shares issued or transferred upon their grant or exercise shall be subject to forfeiture upon failure to comply with conditions and restrictions imposed in the grant of such Stock Incentives.
(b) The Committee (or the Independent Directors Committee in the case of a grant to a Key Employee who is also a member of the Board) may fix a uniform date, within any specified period, either before or after the date so fixed, as of which any exercise of an Option or Stock Appreciation Rights shall be deemed to be effective.
(c) The Committee (or the Independent Directors Committee in the case of a grant to a Key Employee who is also a member of the Board) may, in its discretion, in the event of termination of employment with the consent of the Company or the death, Retirement or Disability of the holder of a Stock Incentive, reduce the period of employment required before such Stock Incentive may be exercised.
(d) In the event of the termination of employment with the consent of the Company of an optionee or a Key Employee who is a holder of Stock Appreciation Rights, other than by death, Retirement or Disability, the Committee (or the Independent Directors Committee in the case of a grant to a Key Employee who is also a member of the Board) may extend the period during which such Options or Stock Appreciation Rights may be exercised after the date of termination of employment but not beyond the expiration date of the term of the Options or Stock Appreciation Rights.
 
(e) Whether an authorized leave of absence or an absence for military or government service shall constitute termination of employment or interruption of required additional continuous employment for the purpose of the Plan shall be determined by the Committee (or the Independent Directors Committee in the case of grants to Key Employees who are also members of the Board).
(f) Nothing in the Plan nor in any instrument executed pursuant thereto shall confer upon any employee any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any Subsidiary or shall affect the right of the Company or of a Subsidiary to terminate the employment of any employee with or without cause.
(g) No shares of Common Stock shall be issued or transferred pursuant to a Stock Incentive unless and until all legal requirements applicable to the issuance or transfer of such shares have, in the opinion of counsel to the Company, been complied with. In connection with any such issuance or transfer, the person acquiring the shares shall, if requested by the Company, give assurances satisfactory to counsel to the Company that the shares are being acquired for investment and not with a view to resale or distribution thereof and assurances in respect of such other matters as the Company or a Subsidiary may deem desirable to assure compliance with all applicable legal requirements.
(h) No holder of a Stock Incentive (individually or as a member of a group), and no beneficiary or other person claiming under or through such holder, shall have any right, title or interest in or to any shares of Common Stock allocated or reserved for the purposes of the Plan or subject to any Stock Incentive except as to such shares of Common Stock, if any, as shall have been issued or transferred to such individual.
(i) The Company or a Subsidiary may, with the approval of the Committee, enter into an agreement or other commitment to grant a Stock Incentive in the future to a person who is or will be a Key Employee at the time of grant, and, notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, any such agreement or commitment shall not be deemed the grant of a Stock Incentive until the date on which the Committee takes action to implement such agreement or commitment.
(j) In the case of a grant of a Stock Incentive to any employee of a Subsidiary, such grant may, if the Committee so directs, be implemented by the Company issuing or transferring the shares, if any, covered by the Stock Incentive to the Subsidiary, for such lawful consideration as the Committee may specify, upon the condition or understanding that the Subsidiary will transfer the shares to the employee in accordance with the terms of the Stock Incentive specified by the Committee pursuant to the provisions of the Plan. Notwithstanding any other provision hereof, such Stock Incentive may be issued by and in the name of the Subsidiary and shall be deemed granted on the date it is approved by the Committee, on the date it is delivered by the Subsidiary, or on such other date between such two dates, as the Committee shall specify.
(k) The Company or a Subsidiary may make such provisions as it may deem appropriate for the withholding of any taxes which the Company or Subsidiary determines it is required to withhold in connection with any Stock Incentive.
 
(l) No Stock Incentive and no rights under the Plan, contingent or otherwise, shall be assignable or subject to any encumbrance, pledge or charge of any nature except that, under such rules and regulations as the Committee may establish, a beneficiary may be designated in respect of a Stock Incentive in the event of the death of the holder of such Stock Incentive and except that if such beneficiary shall be the executor or administrator of the estate of the holder of such Stock Incentive, any rights in respect of such Stock Incentive may be transferred to the person or persons or entity (including a trust) entitled thereto under the will of the holder of such Stock Incentive or, in the case of intestacy, under the laws relating to intestacy. A Stock Incentive shall be exercisable during the lifetime of the holder thereof only by the holder or by the holder's guardian, conservator or similar legal representative.
(m) Nothing in the Plan is intended to be a substitute for, or shall preclude or limit the establishment or continuation of, any other plan, practice or arrangement for the payment of compensation or fringe benefits to employees generally, or to any class or group of employees, which the Company or any Subsidiary now has or may hereafter lawfully put into effect, including, without limitation, any retirement, pension, insurance, stock purchase, incentive compensation or bonus plan.
(n) The place of administration of the Plan shall conclusively be deemed to be within the State of New Jersey and the validity, construction, interpretation and administration of the Plan and of any rules and regulations or determinations or decisions made thereunder, and the rights of any and all persons having or claiming to have any interest therein or thereunder, shall be governed by, and determined exclusively and solely in accordance with, the laws of the State of New Jersey. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the period within which any action must be commenced arising under or in connection with the Plan, or any payment or award made or purportedly made under or in connection therewith, shall be governed by the laws of the State of New Jersey, irrespective of the place where the act or omission complained of took place and of the residence of any party to such action and irrespective of the place where the action may be brought.
SECTION 14. AMENDMENT OR DISCONTINUANCE OF PLAN:
(a) The Plan may be amended by the Board at any time; provided, however, that, without the approval of the shareholders of the Company, no amendment shall be made which (i) increases the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock that may be issued or transferred pursuant to Stock Incentives as provided in paragraph (a) of Section 4, (ii) amends the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 12 with respect to the eligibility of the members of the Committee, (iii) permits any person to be granted a Stock Incentive who is not at the time of such grant a Key Employee or an Outside Director, (iv) amends any provision of the Plan insofar as it applies specifically to Options granted or to be granted to Outside Directors, (v) amends Section 11 to extend the term of the Plan, or (vi) amends this Section 14.
(b) The Board may by resolution adopted by a majority of the entire Board discontinue the Plan.
 
(c) No amendment or discontinuance of the Plan shall adversely affect any Stock Incentive theretofore granted without the consent of the holder thereof.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this amendment and restatement to be executed by its duly authorized representative as of July 1, 2009.
 
 

Exhibit 10.8
The purposes of the Plan are (a) to provide additional incentives for Key Employees, by authorizing the payment of bonus or incentive compensation in shares of Common Stock and by encouraging Key Employees to invest in shares of Common Stock, thereby furthering their identity of interest with the interests of the Company's members, increasing their stake in the future growth and prosperity of the Company and stimulating and sustaining constructive and imaginative thinking, and (b) to enable the Company, by offering incentives comparable to other organizations with which it competes in connection with the employment of senior level individuals, to induce the employment of the most highly-qualified individuals and the continued employment of Key Employees.
Section 1. Purposes:
Unless otherwise required by the context, the following terms, when used in the Plan, shall have the meanings set forth in this Section 2:
Section 2. Definitions:
The Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Act:
Used to indicate a relationship with a specified person, a person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, or is controlled by, or is under common control with, such a specified person.
Affiliate:
Used to indicate a relationship with a specified person, (a) any corporation or organization (other than the Company or a majority-owned Subsidiary of the Company) of which such specified person is an officer or partner, or is, directly or indirectly, the beneficial owner of 10% or more of any class of equity securities, (b) any trust or other estate in which such specified person has a substantial beneficial interest or as to which such specified person serves as trustee or in a similar capacity, (c) any relative or spouse of such specified person, or any relative of such spouse who has the same home as such specified person, or who is a director or officer of the Company or any of its parents or subsidiaries, and (d) any person who is a director, officer or partner of such specified person or of any corporation (other than the Company or any wholly-owned Subsidiary), partnership or other entity which is an Affiliate of such specified person.
Associate:
As such term is defined by Rule 13d-3 under the Act (or any successor provision at the time in effect); that any individual, corporation, partnership, group, association or other person or entity which has the right to acquire any of the Company's outstanding securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors at any time in the future, whether such right is contingent or absolute, pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding or upon exercise of conversion rights, warrants or options, or otherwise, shall be deemed the Beneficial Owner of such securities.
Beneficial Owner:
provided, however,
The Board of Directors of the Company.
Board of Directors or Board:
The occurrence of either of the following:
Change in Control of the Company:
 
 
 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section or any other Section of the Plan to the contrary, none of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement which are undertaken by (i) Ingersoll-Rand Company or its Affiliates prior to or as of the Effective Time or (ii) Ingersoll-Rand Company Limited or its Affiliates on or after the Effective Time shall trigger, constitute or be deemed a Change in Control of the Company.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section or any other Section of the Plan to the contrary, none of the transactions contemplated by the Scheme of Arrangement under section 99 of the Bermuda Companies Act 1981 (the ""), pursuant to which the Class A common shares of the Company will be cancelled and the holders of such Class A common shares will receive, on a one-for-one basis, new shares of Ingersoll-Rand plc, a company incorporated and organized under the laws of Ireland ("") (or, in the case of any fractional interests in shares, cash), and new common shares of Ingersoll-Rand Company Limited will be issued to IR-Ireland (the "") shall trigger, constitute or be deemed a Change in Control of the Company.
Scheme of Arrangement
IR-Ireland
Transaction
The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
Code:
Such committee or committees as shall be appointed by the Board of Directors to administer the Plan pursuant to the provisions of Section 12.
Committee:
The Class A common shares of the Company, par value $1.00 per share, or such other class of shares or other securities as may be applicable pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 10. Effective July 1, 2009 "Common Stock" means the ordinary shares of the Company, par value $1.00 per share.
Common Stock:
Such of the rights and benefits of the actual owner of shares of Common Stock as the Committee may determine, including the right to receive dividends and the right to receive the amount of appreciation in value, if any, on such shares of Common Stock from the date the grant of such Common Stock Equivalents becomes effective until they become payable to the holder.
Common Stock Equivalents:
Ingersoll-Rand Company Limited, a Bermuda company. Effective July 1, 2009, "Company" means Ingersoll-Rand plc, an Irish company.
Company:
A director who either was a member of the Board on January 1, 2002, or who became a member of the Board subsequent to such date and whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's shareholders, was Duly Approved by the Continuing Directors at the time of such nomination or election, either by a specific vote or by approval of the proxy statement issued by the Company on behalf of the Board in which such person is named as a nominee for director, that no individual shall be considered a Continuing Director if such individual initially assumed office as a result of either an actual or threatened "Election Contest" (as described in Rule 14a-11 promulgated under the Act) or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents other than by or on behalf of the Board (a "Proxy Contest"), including by reason of any agreement intended to avoid or settle any Election Contest or Proxy Contest.
Continuing Director:
provided, however,
 
Such term as defined under the pension, retirement or appropriate benefit plan or plans of the Company or a Subsidiary applicable to the Key Employee.
Disability:
A right to receive immediately or on a deferred basis, whether or not subject to forfeiture, an amount equivalent to all or part of dividends paid or payable on a share of Common Stock subject to a Stock Incentive.
Dividend Equivalents:
An action approved by the vote of at least a majority of the Continuing Directors then on the Board, except, if the votes of such Continuing Directors in favor of such action would be insufficient to constitute an act of the Board if a vote by all of its members were to have been taken, then such term shall mean an action approved by the unanimous vote of the Continuing Directors then on the Board so long as there are at least three Continuing Directors on the Board at the time of such unanimous vote.
Duly Approved by the Continuing Directors:
The Effective Time as such term is defined in the Merger Agreement.
Effective Time:
As applied to any date, the mean between the high and low sales prices of a share of Common Stock on such date in New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions, as reported in The Wall Street Journal or another newspaper of general circulation, or, if no such sales were made on such date, on the next preceding date on which there were such sales so reported. If the Common Stock is not listed or admitted to trading on The New York Stock Exchange, the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock shall be the closing sales price of one share of Common Stock on the principal national securities exchange on which the Common Stock is listed or admitted to trading, or, if the Common Stock is not listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, the last quoted sales price, or if not so quoted, the average of the high bid and low asked prices in the over-the-counter market of the Common Stock, as reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers Inc. Automated Quotations system or such other system then in use, or, if on any such date the Common Stock is not quoted by any such organization, the average of the closing bid and asked prices of the Common Stock as furnished by a professional market maker making a market in the Common Stock selected by the Board. If on any such date no market maker is making a market in the Common Stock, the Fair Market Value shall be determined in good faith by the Continuing Directors.
Fair Market Value:
Bonuses, extra and other compensation payable in addition to a salary or other base amount, whether contingent or not, whether discretionary or required to be paid pursuant to an agreement, resolution, arrangement, plan or practice and whether payable currently or on a deferred basis, in cash, Common Stock or other property, awarded by the Company or a Subsidiary.
Incentive Compensation:
An employee of the Company or a Subsidiary, including an officer or director who is an employee, who in the opinion of the Committee can contribute significantly to the growth and successful operations of the Company or such Subsidiary. The granting of a Stock Incentive to an employee pursuant to the Plan shall be deenied a determination that such employee is a Key Employee.
Key Employee:
A member of the Board who is not an officer or employee of the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate.
Outside Director:
That certain Agreement and Plan of Merger among Ingersoll-Rand Company, Ingersoll-Rand Company Limited, and IR Merger Corporation dated as of October 31, 2001, pursuant to which Ingersoll-Rand Company became an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Ingersoll-Rand Company Limited.
Merger Agreement:
 
An option to purchase a share of Common Stock.
Option:
The Incentive Stock Plan of 1998 herein set forth as the same may from time to time be amended.
Plan:
The termination of employment with the Company and its subsidiaries at or after the individual in question has attained age and served as such an employee for at least five years.
Retirement:
55
A right to receive a number of shares of Common Stock, or, with the approval of the Committee, cash, in either event based on the increase in the Fair Market Value of the number of shares of Common Stock subject to such right, as set forth in Section 7.
Stock Appreciation Right:
An issuance or transfer of shares of Common Stock at the time a Stock Incentive is granted or as soon thereafter as practicable, or an undertaking to issue or transfer such shares in the future. As provided in Section 5Stock Awards may be designated as Employment Stock Awards or Performance Stock Awards.
Stock Award:
,
A Stock Incentive granted under the Plan in one of the forms provided for in Section 3.
Stock Incentive:
A corporation or other form of business association of which shares (or other ownership interests) having 50% or more of the voting power are owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the Company.
Subsidiary:
Section 3. Grants of Stock Incentives:
(a) Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee may at any time, and from time to time, grant Stock Incentives to, and only to, Key Employees.
(b) Stock Incentives may be granted in the following forms:
(i) a Stock Award, in accordance with Section 5, or
(ii) an Option, in accordance with Section 6, or
(iii) a Stock Appreciation Right, in accordance with Section 7, or
(iv) any combination of the foregoing.
Section 4. Stock Subject to the Plan:
(a) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section 4 and of paragraph (a) of Section 10, the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock which may be issued or transferred pursuant to Stock Incentives granted under the Plan shall not exceed 30,000,000 shares of Common Stock. Of the total available Stock Incentives not more than 20% shall be in the form of Stock Awards. No Key Employee shall be granted in the aggregate Stock Incentives (excluding Stock Awards) relating to more than 15% of the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock issuable or transferable under the Plan.
(b) If any shares of Common Stock subject to a Stock Incentive shall not be issued or transferred and shall cease to be issuable or transferable because of the termination, in whole or in part, of such Stock Incentive, or, subject to the provisions of paragraph (j) of Section 6 and paragraph (d) of Section 7, for any other reason, or if any such shares shall, after issuance or
 
transfer, be reacquired by the Company or a Subsidiary because of an employee's failure to comply with the terms and conditions of a Stock Incentive, the shares not so issued or transferred, or the shares so reacquired by the Company or a Subsidiary, shall no longer be charged against the limitation provided for in paragraph (a) of this Section 4 and may again be made subject to Stock Incentives.
Stock Incentives in the form of Stock Awards shall be subject to the following provisions:
Section 5. Stock Awards:
(a) A Stock Award shall be granted only (i) in payment of Incentive Compensation that has been earned or (ii) as Incentive Compensation to be earned.
(b) Shares of Common Stock subject to a Stock Award may be issued or transferred to a Key Employee at the time the Stock Award is granted, or at any time subsequent thereto, or in installments from time to time, as the Committee shall determine. In the event that any such issuance or transfer shall not be made to the Key Employee at the time the Stock Award is granted, the Committee may provide for the payment or crediting to such Key Employee of Dividend Equivalents. Any amount payable in shares of Common Stock under the terms of a Stock Award may, in the discretion of the Committee, be paid in cash on each date on which delivery of shares would otherwise have been made, in an amount equal to the Fair Market Value on such date of the shares which would otherwise have been delivered.
(c) A Stock Award shall contain such terms and conditions as the Committee shall determine with respect to payment or forfeiture of all or any part of the Stock Award upon termination of employment or the occurrence of other circumstances.
(d) A Stock Award shall be subject to such other terms and conditions, including, without limitation, restriction on sale or other disposition of the Stock Award or of the shares issued or transferred pursuant to such Stock Award, as the Committee shall determine; that upon the issuance or transfer of shares pursuant to a Stock Award, the recipient shall, with respect to such shares, be and become a shareholder of the Company fully entitled to receive dividends, to vote and to exercise all other rights of a shareholder except to the extent otherwise provided in the Stock Award. Each Stock Award shall be evidenced by a written instrument in such form as the Committee shall determine, provided the Stock Award is consistent with the Plan and incorporates it by reference.
provided, however,
(e) All or part of a Stock Award may be designated as an Employment Stock Award, as to which the shares so designated shall only be issued if the Key Employee to whom such Stock Award has been granted meets the employment terms and conditions specified by the Committee at the time such Stock Award is granted.
(f) All or part of a Stock Award may be designated as a Performance Stock Award, as to which the shares so designated shall only be issued if certain pre-established performance goals are met during the term of the grant. The Committee may establish such performance goals in writing at the time the Performance Stock Award is granted or it may establish such goals early in each year during the term of the grant, provided it indicates, at the time of grant, what portion of the Performance Stock Award will be available to be earned each year during the term of the award based on each year's performance goals. The performance goals established by the Committee may be based, among other factors, upon the attainment of specified earnings per share, return on asset or asset management goals or upon the Company's total return to shareholder ranking relative to a pre-established comparator group of companies. Shares subject to a Performance Stock Award granted to any individual whose compensation from the Company is covered by Section 162(m) of the Code shall be issued only after the Committee certifies in writing that the performance goals have been met.
 
Stock Incentives in the form of Options shall be subject to the following provisions
Section 6. Options:
:
(a) The price per share at which a share subject to an Option may be purchased shall be determined by the Committee, but in no instance shall such price be less than the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the date such Option is granted.
(b) Each Option shall expire at such time as the Committee may determine on the date such Option is granted, but no later than ten years from the date such Option is granted. The Committee may, at any time prior to the expiration of the Option, extend its term for a period ending not later than ten years from the date such Option is granted and any such extension shall not be deemed the grant of a new or additional Option for any purpose under the Plan.
(c) The Option may be exercised solely by the person to whom it is granted, except as hereinafter provided in the case of such person's death or Disability. During the lifetime of the optionee, the Option and any rights and privileges pertaining thereto shall not be transferred, assigned, pledged or hypothecated in any way, whether by operation of law or otherwise, and shall not be subject to execution, attachment or similar process.
(d) The Option may be exercised, in whole or in part, and from time to time, during the term of the Option, subject to the terms and conditions specified in the Option or by the Committee.
(e) Unless otherwise determined by the Committee each Option (to the extent then exercisable) shall terminate 90 days after the optionee shall terminate employment with the Company and its Subsidiaries, except that if the optionee shall die or become subject to a Disability while in the employ of the Company or of a Subsidiary, then the Option shall be exercisable within such period as shall be set forth in the Option, by the optionee or by such person or persons as shall have acquired the optionee's rights under the Option by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, or by the optionee's guardian, conservator or similar legal representative, but not later than three years after the date of death or Disability. In the event of the Retirement of the optionee the Option shall be exercisable within such period as shall be set forth in the Option but not later than three years after the date of Retirement (or such longer period as the Committee may determine).
(f) Shares purchased under the Option shall be paid for in full at the time of the exercise of the Option as to such shares upon such terms as the Committee may approve, including cash, secured or unsecured indebtedness, by exchange for other property (including shares of Common Stock), by delivery of irrevocable instructions to a financial institution to deliver promptly to the Company the portion of sale or loan proceeds sufficient to pay the Option exercise price, or otherwise.
(g) The Committee may at any time and from time to time provide for the payment to an optionee of Dividend Equivalents.
(h) Except as otherwise provided in Section 10, in no event will the Committee decrease the price per share at which a share subject to an Option may be purchased after the date of grant or cancel outstanding Options and grant replacement Stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights with a lower purchase price than that of the replaced Stock Options without first obtaining the approval of the shareholders of the Company.
 
(i) The Option agreements or Option grants authorized by the Plan may contain such other provisions as the Committee shall deem advisable. Without limiting the foregoing, if so authorized by the Committee and subject to such terms and conditions as are specified in the Option or by the Committee, the Company may, with the consent of the holder of the Option, and at any time or from time to time, cancel all or a portion of the Option then subject to exercise and discharge its obligation in respect of the Option either by payment to the holder of an amount of money equal to the excess, if any, of the Fair Market Value, at such time or times, of the shares subject to the portion of the Option so cancelled over the aggregate purchase price of such shares, or by the issuance or transfer to the holder of shares of Common Stock with the Fair Market Value at such time or times equal to any such excess, or by a combination of cash and shares. The number of shares of Common Stock subject to the Option, or portion thereof, so cancelled shall, in the event that a payment of money or transfer of shares is made by the Company in respect of such cancellation, be charged against the maximum limitation set forth in paragraph (a) of Section 4 of the Plan.
(j) Options may be granted under the Plan from time to time in substitution for stock options held by employees of other corporations who are about to become employees of the Company or a Subsidiary as the result of a merger or consolidation of the employing corporation with the Company or a Subsidiary, or the acquisition by the Company or a Subsidiary of the assets of the employing corporation, or the acquisition by the Company or a Subsidiary of stock of the employing corporation as the result of which it becomes a Subsidiary. The terms and conditions of the substitute options so granted may vary from the terms and conditions set forth in this Section 6 to such extent as the Committee at the time of grant may deem appropriate to conform, in whole or in part, to the provisions of the options in substitution for which they are granted.
Section 7. Stock Appreciation Rights:
(a) Stock Appreciation Rights may be granted in connection with any Option granted under the Plan, either at the time of the grant of such Option or at any time thereafter during the term of the Option, or may be granted independently of the grant of an Option.
(b) If granted in connection with an Option, Stock Appreciation Rights shall entitle the holder of the related Option, upon surrender of the Option, or any portion thereof, to exercise the Stock Appreciation Rights, to the extent unexercised, and to receive a number of shares of Common Stock, or cash, determined pursuant to paragraph (c) (iii) of this Section 7. Such Option shall, to the extent so surrendered, thereupon cease to be exercisable. If granted independently of an Option, Stock Appreciation Rights shall entitle the holder of the Stock Appreciation Rights to receive a number of shares of Common Stock, or cash, determined pursuant to paragraph (c) (iii) of this Section 7.
(c) Stock Appreciation Rights shall be subject to the following terms and conditions and to such other terms and conditions not inconsistent with the Plan as shall from time to time be approved by the Committee:
(i) If granted in connection with an Option, Stock Appreciation Rights shall be exercisable at such time or times and to the extent, but only to the extent, that the Option to which they relate shall be exercisable, except that, at the time of granting such Stock Appreciation Rights, the Committee may provide that the period during which such Stock Appreciation Rights may be exercised shall expire prior to the expiration of the period during which the related Option may be exercised. If granted independently of an Option, Stock Appreciation Rights shall be exercisable at such time or times as shall be determined by the Committee at the time of the grant of the Stock Appreciation Rights but, unless otherwise determined by the Committee, in no event later than the date the employment of the holder of the Stock Appreciation Rights shall have terminated other than by reason of death, Disability or Retirement. In the event of
 
termination of employment by reason of death or Disability, Stock Appreciation Rights shall be exercisable for such period as the Committee may specify at the time of granting of the Stock Appreciation Rights, but in no event later than three years after such termination of employment by the holder of the Stock Appreciation Rights or by the beneficiary designated pursuant to paragraph (l) of Section 13, and in the case of Retirement, no later than three years after the date of such Retirement. Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, each Stock Appreciation Right shall terminate if and when the holder thereof shall terminate employment with the Company and its Subsidiaries for reasons other than the death, Disability or Retirement of such holder.
(ii) Upon exercise of Stock Appreciation Rights, the holder thereof shall be entitled to receive a number of shares equal in Fair Market Value on the date of exercise to the amount by which the Fair Market Value of one share of Common Stock on the date of such exercise shall exceed the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the date of grant of such Stock Appreciation Rights multiplied by the number of shares in respect of which the Stock Appreciation Rights shall have been exercised. The Company may determine, by action of the Committee, to settle all or any part of its obligation arising out of an exercise of Stock Appreciation Rights by the payment of cash equal to the aggregate value of shares of Common Stock (or a fraction of a share) that it would otherwise be obligated to deliver under the preceding sentence of this paragraph (c) (iii) of Section 7.
(d) To the extent that Stock Appreciation Rights shall be exercised, an Option in connection with which such Stock Appreciation Rights shall have been granted shall be deemed to have been exercised for the purpose of the maximum limitation set forth in the Plan under which such Option shall have been granted. In the case of Stock Appreciation Rights granted independently of an Option, the number of shares of Common Stock in respect of which such Stock Appreciation Rights shall be exercised shall be charged against the maximum limitation set forth in paragraph (a) of Section 4.
(e) If so directed by the Committee at any time and from time to time, the grant of Stock Appreciation Rights may provide for payment of Dividend Equivalents to the holder of the Stock Appreciation Rights.
(f) Stock Appreciation Rights may provide that, upon exercise of such Stock Appreciation Rights, the shares or cash, as the case may be, which the holder of such Stock Appreciation Rights shall be entitled to receive, shall be distributed or paid in such installments and over such number of years as the Committee may direct, with distribution or payment of each such installment contingent upon continued services of the employee to the Company or a Subsidiary, or both (except for death, Disability, Retirement or termination of employment by the Company or with its consent), to the time for distribution or payment of such installment.
(g) Except as otherwise provided in Section 10, in no event will the Committee, for purposes of a Stock Appreciation Right, decrease the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the date of grant of a Stock Appreciation Right after the date of grant or cancel outstanding Stock Appreciation Rights and grant replacement Options or Stock Appreciation Rights with a lower Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the date of grant.
Section 8. Dividend Equivalents:
A grant of Dividend Equivalents shall be made subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee may determine, and may be awarded only in connection with a Stock Incentive granted under Section 5, 6 or 7. Dividend Equivalents may be awarded either at the time of grant of a Stock Incentive or at any time thereafter during the term of the Stock Incentive. Dividend
 
Equivalents may be payable or credited either in cash, shares of Common Stock, or in Common Stock Equivalents. If credited in Common Stock or in Common Stock Equivalents, they shall be credited at the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the day of such crediting. The Committee may provide that any amounts representing dividends earned by Common Stock Equivalents may either be paid currently or credited in cash or in Common Stock or that they may be represented by further Common Stock Equivalents, or any combination thereof. The Committee may provide that when Common Stock Equivalents shall become payable to the holder, they may be paid in cash or in shares of Common Stock, or a combination of both. To the extent that any payment to the holder with respect to Dividend Equivalents is made in shares of Common Stock, the number of shares of Common Stock used for such payment shall be charged against the maximum limitation set forth in paragraph (a) of Section 4.
Section 9. Outside Directors' Options:
(a) On the date of the first Board of Directors meeting after each annual general meeting of the shareholders through 2003, each Outside Director shall automatically be granted Options to purchase 2,250 shares of Common Stock. In the event an adjustment is made under the provisions of Section 10 in the outstanding unexercised Options granted to Outside Directors hereunder, a similar adjustment shall be made in the number of Options to be granted to Outside Directors subsequent to the effectiveness of such adjustment. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Options shall not be granted under the Plan to an Outside Director who on the date referred to above in this paragraph (a) of Section 9 is awarded Options under another Incentive Stock Plan of the Company.
(b) The price at which each share of Common Stock covered by Options granted to Outside Directors may be purchased shall be the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the date the Options are granted.
(c) Options granted to Outside Directors hereunder shall be fully vested on the date of grant and shall become exercisable on the first anniversary of such date of grant. Such Options may be exercised by the Outside Director during the period that the Outside Director remains a member of the Board and for a period of five years following retirement or resignation, provided that in no event shall any such Option be exercisable more than ten years after the date of grant.
(d) In the event of the death of an Outside Director, the Options shall be exercisable only within the three years next succeeding the date of death, and then only by the executor or administrator of the Outside Director's estate or by the person or persons to whom the Outside Director's rights under the Options shall pass by the Outside Director's will or the laws of descent and distribution, provided that in no event shall the Option be exercisable more than ten years after the date of grant.
(e) Except as expressly provided in this Section 9, Options granted to Outside Directors shall be subject to the terms and conditions of Section 6 regarding the terms of Options and to the other relevant provisions of the Plan.
Section 10. Adjustment and Change in Control Provisions:
(a) In the event that any recapitalization, reclassification, split-up or consolidation of shares of Common Stock shall be effected, or the outstanding shares of Common Stock are, in connection with a merger or consolidation of the Company or a sale by the Company of all or a part of its assets, exchanged for a different number or class of shares of stock or other securities of the Company or for shares of the stock or other securities of any other corporation, or new, different or additional shares of other securities of the Company or of another corporation are received by the holders of Common Stock or any distribution is made to the holders of Common
 
Stock other than a cash dividend, (i) the number and class of shares or other securities that may be issued or transferred pursuant to Stock Incentives, (ii) the number and class of shares or other securities which have not been issued or transferred under outstanding Stock Incentives, (iii) the purchase price to be paid per share under outstanding Options and other Stock Incentives, (iv) the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the date of grant of outstanding Stock Appreciation Rights, (v) the dates or events upon which Options and Stock Appreciation Rights may be exercised, which may, in appropriate instances, be related to specific dates or events under any of the aforesaid actions, and (vi) the price to be paid per share by the Company or a Subsidiary for shares or other securities issued or transferred pursuant to Stock Incentives which are subject to a right of the Company or a Subsidiary to reacquire such share or other securities, shall in each case be equitably adjusted. In addition, the Committee may, in its discretion, make the adjustments described above in this paragraph (a) of Section 10 in the event the Company pays a cash dividend in respect of the Common Stock other than a regular quarterly dividend.
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary (and notwithstanding any requirement that conditions the receipt of benefits of a Stock Incentive granted hereunder on the completion of a specified period of employment by the holder thereof or on the attainment of certain performance goals by the Company or any group, Subsidiary or division thereof), in the event of a Change in Control of the Company the holders of Stock Incentives outstanding as of the date of the occurrence of the Change in Control of the Company shall have the right to surrender such Stock Incentives within the 60-day period following the occurrence of the Change in Control of the Company and to receive cash as consideration for such surrender in accordance with the following:
(i) A holder of a Stock Award being surrendered shall be entitled to the amount equal to the highest Fair Market Value of one share of Common Stock during the 60 days preceding the date on which the Change in Control of the Company occurs, multiplied by the number of shares in respect of which the Stock Award shall have been surrendered.
(ii) A holder of Options being surrendered shall be entitled to the amount by which the highest Fair Market Value of one share of Common Stock during the 60 days preceding the date on which the Change in Control of the Company occurs exceeds the exercise price of one share of Common Stock subject to such Option, multiplied by the number of shares in respect of which the Option shall have been surrendered.
(iii) The holder of Stock Appreciation Rights being surrendered shall be entitled to the amount by which the highest Fair Market Value of one share of Common Stock during the 60 days preceding the date on which the Change in Control occurs exceeds the Fair Market Value of one share of Common Stock on the date of grant of such Stock Appreciation Rights (as adjusted, if applicable under the terms of the Plan), multiplied by the number of shares in respect of which the Stock Appreciation Rights shall have been surrendered. Stock Appreciation Rights granted in connection with the grant of Options may be surrendered only if surrendered together with the surrender of the related Options and the holder thereof shall be entitled to the payment described in this subparagraph (iii) only.
(iv) All payments to be made pursuant to this paragraph (b) of Section 10 shall be made within ten days of the delivery of written notice of such surrender by the holder to the Company.
The Plan shall be deemed adopted and shall become effective on the date it is approved by the shareholders of the Company. No Stock Incentives shall be granted under the Plan after May 31, 2007.
Section 11. Term:
 
Section 12. Administration:
(a) The Plan shall be administered by the Committee which shall consist of not less than three directors of the Company designated by the Board; that no director shall be designated as or continue to be a member of the Committee, unless such director shall be (i) a "Non-Employee Director" within the meaning of Rule 16b-3 under the Act (or any successor rule or regulation), (ii) an "outside director" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder (or any successor provisions, rules or regulations) and (iii) an independent director under the rules of The New York Stock Exchange.
provided, however,
(b) The Committee shall have full authority to act for the Company under the Plan, except the authority to amend or discontinue the Plan, which power shall be solely that of the Board.
(c) The Committee may establish such rules and regulations not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan as it deems necessary to determine eligibility to participate in the Plan and for the proper administration of the Plan, and may amend or revoke any rule or regulation so established. The Committee may make such determinations and interpretations under or in connection with the Plan as it deems necessary or advisable. All such rules, regulations, determinations and interpretations shall be binding and conclusive upon the Company, its Subsidiaries, its shareholders and all employees, and upon their respective legal representatives, beneficiaries, successors and assigns and upon all other persons claiming under or through any of them.
(d) Any action required or permitted to be taken by the Committee under the Plan shall require the affirmative vote of a majority of all the members of the Committee. The Committee may act by written determination instead of by affirmative vote at a meeting, provided that any written determination shall be signed by all of the members of the Committee, and any such written determination shall be as fully effective as a unanimous vote at a meeting.
(e) Members of the Committee acting under the Plan shall be fully protected in relying in good faith upon the advice of counsel and shall incur no liability except for gross negligence or willful misconduct in the performance of their duties.
Section 13. General Provisions:
(a) With respect to any shares of Common Stock issued or transferred under any provision of the Plan, such shares may be issued or transferred subject to such conditions, in addition to those specifically provided in the Plan, as the Committee may direct and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, provision may be made in the grant of Stock Incentives that shares issued or transferred upon their grant or exercise shall be subject to forfeiture upon failure to comply with conditions and restrictions imposed in the grant of such Stock Incentives.
(b) The Committee may fix a uniform date, within any specified period, either before or after the date so fixed, as of which any exercise of an Option or Stock Appreciation Rights shall be deemed to be effective.
(c) In the event of the termination of employment with the consent of the Company of an optionee or a Key Employee who is a holder of Stock Appreciation Rights, other than by death, Retirement or Disability, the Committee may extend the period during which such Options or Stock Appreciation Rights may be exercised after the date of termination of employment but not beyond the expiration date of the term of the Options or Stock Appreciation Rights.
(d) Whether an authorized leave of absence or an absence for military or government service shall constitute termination of employment or interruption of required additional continuous employment for the purpose of the Plan shall be determined by the Committee.
 
(e) Nothing in the Plan nor in any instrument executed pursuant thereto shall confer upon any employee any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any Subsidiary or shall affect the right of the Company or of a Subsidiary to terminate the employment of any employee with or without cause.
(f) No shares of Common Stock shall be issued or transferred pursuant to a Stock Incentive unless and until all legal requirements applicable to the issuance or transfer of such shares have, in the opinion of counsel to the Company, been complied with. In connection with any such issuance or transfer, the person acquiring the shares shall, if requested by the Company, give assurances satisfactory to counsel to the Company that the shares are being acquired for investment and not with a view to resale or distribution thereof and assurances in respect of such other matters as the Company or a Subsidiary may deem desirable to assure compliance with applicable legal requirements.
(g) No holder of a Stock Incentive (individually or as a member of a group), and no beneficiary or other person claiming under or through such holder, shall have any right, title or interest in or to any shares of Common Stock allocated or reserved for the purposes of the Plan or subject to any Stock Incentive except as to such shares of Common Stock, if any, as shall have been issued or transferred to such individual.
(h) The Company or a Subsidiary may, with the approval of the Committee, enter into an agreement or other commitment to grant a Stock Incentive in the future to a person who is or will be a Key Employee at the time of grant, and, notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, any such agreement or commitment shall not be deemed the grant of a Stock Incentive until the date on which the Committee takes action to implement such agreement or commitment.
(i) In the case of a grant of a Stock Incentive to any employee of a Subsidiary, such grant may, if the Committee so directs, be implemented by the Company issuing or transferring the shares, if any, covered by the Stock Incentive to the Subsidiary, for such lawful consideration as the Committee may specify, upon the condition or understanding that the Subsidiary will transfer the shares to the employee in accordance with the terms of the Stock Incentive specified by the Committee pursuant to the provisions of the Plan. Notwithstanding any other provision hereof, such Stock Incentive may be issued by and in the name of the Subsidiary and shall be deemed granted on the date it is approved by the Committee, on the date it is delivered by the Subsidiary, or on such other date between such two dates, as the Committee shall specify.
(j) The Company or a Subsidiary may make such provisions as it may deem appropriate for the withholding of any taxes which the Company or Subsidiary determines it is required to withhold in connection with any Stock Incentive.
(k) No Stock Incentive and no rights under the Plan, contingent or otherwise, shall be assignable or subject to any encumbrance, pledge or charge of any nature except that, under such rules and regulations as the Committee may establish, a beneficiary may be designated in respect of a Stock Incentive in the event of the death of the holder of such Stock Incentive and except that if such beneficiary shall be the executor or administrator of the estate of the holder of such Stock Incentive, any rights in respect of such Stock Incentive may be transferred to the person or persons or entity (including a trust) entitled thereto under the will of the holder of such Stock Incentive or, in the case of intestacy, under the laws relating to intestacy. A Stock Incentive shall be exercisable during the lifetime of the holder thereof only by the holder or by the holder's guardian, conservator or similar legal representative.
 
(l) Nothing in the Plan is intended to be a substitute for, or shall preclude or limit the establishment or continuation of, any other plan, practice or arrangement for the payment of compensation or fringe benefits to employees generally, or to any class or group of employees, which the Company or any Subsidiary now has or may hereafter lawfully put into effect, including, without limitation, any retirement, pension, insurance, stock purchase, incentive compensation or bonus plan.
(m) The place of administration of the Plan shall conclusively be deemed to be within the State of New Jersey and the validity, construction, interpretation and administration of the Plan and of any rules and regulations or determinations or decisions made thereunder, and the rights of any and all persons having or claiming to have any interest therein or thereunder, shall be governed by, and determined exclusively and solely in accordance with, the laws of the State of New Jersey. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the period within which any action must be commenced arising under or in connection with the Plan, or any payment or award made or purportedly made under or in connection therewith, shall be governed by the laws of the State of New Jersey, irrespective of the place where the act or omission complained of took place and of the residence of any party to such action and irrespective of the place where the action may be brought.
Section 14. Amendment or Discontinuance of Plan:
(a) The Plan may be amended by the Board at any time; that, without the approval of the shareholders of the Company, no amendment shall be made which (i) increases the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock that may be issued or transferred pursuant to Stock Incentives as provided in paragraph (a) of Section 4, (ii) amends the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 12 with respect to the eligibility of the members of the Committee, (iii) permits any person to be granted a Stock Incentive who is not at the time of such grant a Key Employee or an Outside Director, (iv) amends Section 11 to extend the term of the Plan, or (v) amends this Section 14.
provided, however,
(b) The Board may by resolution adopted by a majority of the entire Board discontinue the Plan.
(c) No amendment or discontinuance of the Plan shall adversely affect any Stock Incentive theretofore granted without the consent of the holder thereof.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be executed by its duly authorized representative as of July 1, 2009.
 
 

Exhibit 10.9
 
 
 
 
The purpose of the IR Executive Deferred Compensation Plan (the "Plan") is to further increase the mutuality of interest between Ingersoll-Rand Company (the "Company"), its employees, the employees of a Participating Employer and members of Ingersoll-Rand plc by providing a select group of management and highly compensated employees of the Company or a Participating Employer the opportunity to elect to defer receipt of cash compensation. The Plan shall be unfunded for tax purposes and for purposes of Title I of ERISA. The Plan, originally known as the Ingersoll-Rand Company Executive Deferred Compensation and Stock Bonus Plan, became effective on January 1, 1997, was amended and restated effective January 1, 2001, and again effective August 1, 2007 and January 1, 2009. This further amendment and restatement is effective July 1, 2009.
Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary (including any election made by any Participant under the Plan), (i) no amount shall be deferred under the Plan if, pursuant to the effective date rules of Section 885(d) of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, Q&A-16 of IRS Notice 2005-1, and Treasury Regulations section 1.409A-6(a), such amount would be subject to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (a "Non-Grandfathered New Deferral Amount"), and (ii) any amount previously deferred under the Plan that, pursuant to the effective date rules of Section 885(d) of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, Q&A-16 of IRS Notice 2005-1, and Treasury Regulations section 1.409A-6(a), is subject to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (a "Non-Grandfathered Prior Deferral Amount") shall no longer be credited or payable under the Plan after December 31, 2004. Any Non- Grandfathered New Deferral Amount shall instead be deferred under the IR Executive Deferred Compensation Plan II, and any Non-Grandfathered Prior Deferral Amount shall instead be credited under the IR Executive Deferred Compensation Plan II, as and to the extent provided under the terms of the IR Executive Deferred Compensation Plan II.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Plan shall be administered by the Compensation Committee (or any successor committee). The Compensation Committee has delegated authority to the Administrative Committee to administer the Plan in accordance with the provisions of this Section. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, the Compensation Committee shall retain authority for determining (i) a Participant's eligibility to receive Supplemental Contributions, and (ii) eligibility for, and the amount of, Discretionary Company Contributions with respect to Participants whose job category indicates specified ownership guidelines as determined by the Compensation Committee.
The primary responsibility of the Administrative Committee is to administer the Plan for the exclusive benefit of Participants and their Beneficiaries, subject to the specific terms of the Plan. The Administrative Committee shall administer the Plan in accordance with its terms to the extent consistent with applicable law, and shall have the power to determine all questions arising in connection with the administration, interpretation, and application of the Plan. Any such determination by the Administrative Committee shall be conclusive and binding upon all affected parties. Any denial by the Administrative Committee of a claim for benefits under the Plan by a Participant or Beneficiary shall be stated in writing by the Administrative Committee and delivered or mailed to the Participant or Beneficiary. Such notice shall set forth the specific reasons for the Administrative Committee's decision. In addition, the Administrative Committee shall afford a reasonable opportunity to any Participant or Beneficiary whose claim for benefits has been denied for a review of the decision denying this claim.
 
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, the Administrative Committee, in its sole and absolute discretion, shall determine from time to time the percentage of Base Salary that may be deferred by Participants under the Plan in any Plan Year. Once such a determination is made the percentage shall remain in effect until changed by the Administrative Committee.
If the Administrative Committee determines in good faith that a Participant no longer qualifies as a member of a select group of management or highly compensated employees, as membership in such group is determined in accordance with ERISA Sections 201(2), 301(a)(3) and 401(a)(1), the Administrative Committee shall have the right, in its sole and absolute discretion, to (i) terminate any deferral election the Participant has made for the remainder of the Plan Year in which the Participant's membership status changes, (ii) prevent the Participant from making future deferral elections and/or (iii) immediately distribute the Participant's then vested Account Balances and terminate the Participant's participation in the Plan.
 
Subject to the right of the Administrative Committee to direct the types of investment options in which a Participant's Discretionary Company Contributions will be deemed to be invested as described in Section 6.3, in the event a Participant receives a Discretionary Company Contribution, the Participant shall, at the time designated by the Administrative Committee, in its sole and absolute discretion, designate, on an Election Form, the types of investment options in which the Participant's Discretionary Company Contributions will be deemed to be invested for purposes of determining the amount of earnings to be credited to the Participant's Discretionary Company Contribution Account and, with respect to Discretionary Company Contributions that are designated by the Participant to be deemed to be invested in IR Stock, the IR Stock Account.
 
In making the designations pursuant to this Section, the Participant may specify that all or any portion of the Participant's Deferral Amount and, subject to Section 6.3, Discretionary Company Contributions be deemed to be invested, in whole percentage increments, in one or more of the types of investment options provided under the Plan as communicated from time to time by the Administrative Committee. Subject to Section 6.4, a Participant may change the designation made under this Section with respect to prior and/or future Deferral Amounts and/or, subject to Section 6.3, prior and/or future Discretionary Company Contributions by filing an Election Form no later than the time specified by the Administrative Committee, in its sole and absolute discretion, to be effective as of the first business day of the following month. Except for Discretionary Company Contributions that the Administrative Committee, pursuant to Section 6.3, has directed the investment options in which a Participant's Discretionary Company Contributions shall be deemed to be invested, if a Participant fails to elect a type of investment option under this Section, he or she shall be deemed to have elected the investment option designated by the Administrative Committee as the default investment option.
 
 
 
 
 
Each Participant's Deferral Accounts shall be divided into Investment Option Subaccounts. A Participant's Deferral Accounts shall be credited as follows:
 
 
 
All Supplemental Contributions shall initially be credited to a Participant's Supplemental Contribution Account in units or fractional units of IR Stock. The value of each unit shall be determined each business day and shall equal the
 
closing price of one share of IR Stock on the New York Stock Exchange-Composite Tape. On each date that Supplemental Contributions are credited to a Participant's Supplemental Contribution Account, the number of units to be credited shall be determined by dividing the number of units by the value of a unit on such date.
Dividends paid on IR Stock shall be reflected in a Participant's Supplemental Contribution Account by the crediting of additional units or fractional units. Such additional units or fractional units shall equal the value of the dividends based upon the closing price of one share of IR Stock on the New York Stock Exchange-Composite Tape on the date such dividends are paid.
 
Each Participant's Discretionary Company Contribution Accounts shall be divided into Investment Option Subaccounts. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, the Administrative Committee may, in its sole and absolute discretion, at the time a Discretionary Company Contribution is made, direct that a Participant's Discretionary Company Contribution be invested in any one or more of the Investment Option Subaccounts (including the IR Stock Account) and that such Discretionary Company Contribution remain invested in such Investment Option Subaccounts until at least such time as the Administrative Committee, in its sole and absolute discretion, determines that such Discretionary Company Contribution, or portion thereof, may, except as otherwise provided in Section 6.4, be invested in Investment Option Subaccounts elected by the Participant. A Participant's Discretionary Company Contribution Accounts shall be credited as follows:
 
 
To the extent an agreement between the Company and the Participant contains provisions governing the deemed investment of Discretionary Company Contributions made on behalf of the Participant, the deemed investment provisions of such agreement shall apply.
 
 
 
 
Dividends paid on IR Stock shall be reflected in a Participant's IR Stock Account by the crediting of additional units or fractional units. Such additional units or fractional units shall equal the value of the dividends based upon the closing price of one share of IR Stock on the New York Stock Exchange-Composite Tape on the date such dividends are paid.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A Participant may elect, on an Election Form, to change the form and/or extend the timing of a distribution under this Section that he or she has previously elected to any other form of distribution or time permitted under this Section, provided that no such election shall be effective unless it is made at least one (1) year before the Participant's termination, Retirement, Disability or death, as applicable.
In the event of the Participant's termination of employment with the Company with five (5) years of Service, Retirement, Disability or death prior to the elected date for one or more scheduled distributions prior to termination of employment under Section 7.2, the portion of the Participant's Account Balance associated with such distribution(s) shall be paid to the Participant (and after his or her death to his or her Beneficiary) in the same form as elected by the Participant under this Section.
 
Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, if a Participant terminates employment after completing five (5) years of Service, has reached Retirement, incurs a Disability or dies while receiving annual installments prior to termination of employment pursuant to Section 7.2, such annual installments shall continue to be paid to the Participant (and after his or her death to his or her Beneficiary) in the same manner as if the Participant had not terminated employment, reached Retirement, incurred a Disability or died.
All distributions under this Section shall be made on a pro rata basis from the Participant's Account Balances.
 
At the time an election for a distribution under this Section is made, the Participant shall also elect, on the Election Form, the form of payment of the distribution. The Participant shall elect either (i) a lump sum payment to be paid as soon as soon as administratively practicable in the year specified by the Participant on the Election Form or (ii) annual installments over two (2), three (3), four (4) or five (5) years beginning as soon as administratively practicable in the year specified by the Participant on the Election Form.
A Participant may elect, on an Election Form, to change the form of payment for any distribution under this Section for any Plan Year to any other form of payment permitted under this Section, provided such election occurs at least one (1) year before the date of distribution previously elected by the Participant.
 
All distributions under this Section shall be made on a pro rata basis from the Participant's Deferral Account(s), IR Stock Account(s) and vested Discretionary Company Contribution Account(s), as applicable.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All distributions from the Plan that are to be paid in a specified number of annual installments shall be paid so that the amount of each annual installment is determined by dividing the total remaining number of units in the Participant's Account Balance to be paid in annual installments by the number of years of annual installments remaining.
 
 
 
A Participant shall have the right to designate a Beneficiary(ies) to receive the Participant's Account Balances in the event the Participant dies prior to receiving all of his or her Account Balances. A Beneficiary designation shall be made, and may be amended at any time, by the Participant by filing a written designation with the Administrative Committee, on such form and in accordance with such procedures as the Administrative Committee shall establish from time to time. A Participant may change the designated Beneficiary under the Plan at any time by providing such designation in writing to the Administrative Committee.
If a Participant fails to designate a Beneficiary(ies), or if all designated Beneficiaries predecease the Participant, the Participant's Beneficiary(ies) shall be deemed to be the Participant's estate. If the Company is unable to determine a Participant's Beneficiary or if any dispute arises concerning a Participant's Beneficiary, the Company may pay benefits to the Participant's estate. Upon such payment, the Company shall have no further liability hereunder.
If any distribution to a Beneficiary is to be made in annual installments, and the Beneficiary dies before receiving all such installments, the value of the remaining installments, if any, shall be paid to the estate of the Beneficiary in a lump sum.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
, the Company has caused this amendment and restatement to be executed by its duly authorized representative as of July 1, 2009.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 

Exhibit 10.10
 
 
 
 
The purpose of the IR Executive Deferred Compensation Plan II (the "Plan") is to further increase the mutuality of interest between Ingersoll-Rand Company (the "Company"), its employees, the employees of a Participating Employer and members of Ingersoll-Rand plc by providing a select group of management and highly compensated employees of the Company or a Participating Employer the opportunity to elect to defer receipt of cash compensation. The Plan shall be unfunded for tax purposes and for purposes of Title I of ERISA. To the extent Code Section 409A applies to the Plan, the terms of the Plan are intended to comply with that provision, and the terms of the Plan shall be interpreted and administered in accordance therewith.
The Plan is a successor to the IR Executive Deferred Compensation Plan (the "Predecessor Plan"). The Predecessor Plan, which previously was known as the Ingersoll-Rand Company Executive Deferred Compensation and Stock Bonus Plan, became effective on January 1, 1997, was amended and restated effective January 1, 2001.
On December 31, 2004, the Company froze the Predecessor Plan with respect to all deferrals to the extent such deferrals would otherwise be subject to Code Section 409A (including amounts that were credited under the Predecessor Plan as of December 31, 2004 but were not grandfathered with respect to Code Section 409A). Also on December 31, 2004, the Company adopted the Plan to provide for deferrals of amounts subject to Code Section 409A (including amounts that were credited under the Predecessor Plan as of December 31, 2004 but were not grandfathered with respect to Code Section 409A) on substantially the same terms as those provided under the Predecessor Plan to the extent such terms are not inconsistent with Code Section 409A.
The Company amended and restated the Plan in its entirety, effective August 1, 2007, and again, effective January 1, 2009, to conform the terms of the Plan to the requirements of the regulations under Code Section 409A. This further amendment and restatement is effective July 1, 2009. The Plan applies to (i) amounts initially deferred hereunder on or after January 1, 2005, (ii) amounts initially credited to the Predecessor Plan before January 1, 2005 that, pursuant to the effective-date rules of Code Section 409A, are subject to the provisions of Code Section 409A, and (iii) investment earnings allocable to amounts described in (i) and (ii). Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan, no amount will be deferred or credited under this Plan with respect to a Participant for a Plan Year if such amount is properly deferred or credited with respect to such Participant for such Plan Year under the Predecessor Plan.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Plan shall be administered by the Compensation Committee (or any successor committee). The Compensation Committee has delegated authority to the Administrative Committee to administer the Plan in accordance with the provisions of this Section. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, the Compensation Committee shall retain authority for determining (i) a Participant's eligibility to receive Supplemental Contributions, and (ii) eligibility for, and the amount of, Discretionary Company Contributions with respect to Participants whose job category indicates specified ownership guidelines as determined by the Compensation Committee.
The primary responsibility of the Administrative Committee is to administer the Plan for the exclusive benefit of Participants and their Beneficiaries, subject to the specific terms of the Plan. The Administrative Committee shall administer the Plan in accordance with its terms to the extent consistent with applicable law, and shall have the power to determine all questions arising in connection with the administration, interpretation, and application of the Plan. Any such determination by the Administrative Committee shall be conclusive and binding upon all affected parties. Any denial by the Administrative Committee of a claim for benefits under the Plan by a Participant or Beneficiary shall be stated in writing by the Administrative Committee and delivered or mailed to the Participant or Beneficiary. Such notice shall set forth the specific reasons for the Administrative Committee's decision. In addition, the Administrative Committee shall afford a reasonable opportunity to any Participant or Beneficiary whose claim for benefits has been denied for a review of the decision denying this claim.
 
 
Any election to defer a Deferral Amount for a Plan Year is irrevocable upon the filing of the Election Form, and must be properly completed and filed by the Participant no later than the December 31 immediately preceding the first Plan Year during which the services for which the compensated is paid or awarded are performed or:
 
 
 
An Eligible Employee who fails to file a properly completed Election Form by the applicable date indicated above will be ineligible to defer under the Plan the Deferral Amount to which such applicable date relates. In addition, the Administrative Committee, in its sole and absolute discretion, may establish from time to time such other enrollment requirements as it determines are necessary or proper.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, the Administrative Committee, in its sole and absolute discretion, shall determine from time to time the percentage of Base Salary that may be deferred by Participants under the Plan in any Plan Year. Once such a determination is made the percentage shall remain in effect until the beginning of the first Plan Year after such percentage is changed by the Administrative Committee.
 
If the Administrative Committee determines in good faith that a Participant no longer qualifies as a member of a select group of management or highly compensated employees, as membership in such group is determined in accordance with ERISA Sections 201(2), 301(a)(3) and 401(a)(1), the Participant shall not be permitted to make any future deferral election under this Section 4.1 for any future Plan Year.
 
Subject to the right of the Administrative Committee to direct the types of investment options in which a Participant's Discretionary Company Contributions will be deemed to be invested as described in Section 6.3, in the event a Participant receives a Discretionary Company Contribution, the Participant shall, at the time designated by the Administrative Committee, in its sole and absolute discretion, designate, on an Election Form, the types of investment options in which the Participant's Discretionary Company Contributions will be deemed to be invested for purposes of determining the amount of earnings to be credited to the Participant's Discretionary Company Contribution Account and, with respect to Discretionary Company Contributions that are designated by the Participant to be deemed to be invested in IR Stock, the IR Stock Account.
In making the designations pursuant to this Section, the Participant may specify that all or any portion of the Participant's Deferral Amount and, subject to Section 6.3, Discretionary Company Contributions be deemed to be invested, in whole percentage increments, in one or more of the types of investment options provided under the Plan as communicated from time to time by the Administrative Committee. Subject to Section 6.4, a Participant may change the designation made under this Section with respect to prior and/or future Deferral Amounts and/or, subject to Section 6.3, prior and/or future Discretionary Company Contributions by filing an Election Form no later than the time specified by the Administrative Committee, in its sole and absolute discretion, to be effective as of the first business day of the following month.
 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section 4.2, in no event may a Participant designate that any Base Salary deferred under the Plan or any earnings thereon be deemed to be invested in IR Stock, and in no event may a Participant designate that any Stock Based Awards or earnings thereon be deemed to be invested other than in IR Stock.
Except for Discretionary Company Contributions that the Administrative Committee, pursuant to Section 6.3, has directed the investment options in which a Participant's Discretionary Company Contributions shall be deemed to be invested, if a Participant fails to elect a type of investment option under this Section, he or she shall be deemed to have elected the investment option designated by the Administrative Committee as the default investment option.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each Participant's Deferral Accounts shall be divided into Investment Option Subaccounts. A Participant's Deferral Accounts shall be credited as follows:
 
 
 
 
All Supplemental Contributions shall initially be credited to a Participant's Supplemental Contribution Account in units or fractional units of IR Stock. The value of each unit shall be determined each business day and shall equal the closing price of one share of IR Stock on the New York Stock Exchange-Composite Tape. On each date that Supplemental Contributions are credited to a Participant's Supplemental Contribution Account, the number of units to be credited shall be determined by dividing the number of units by the value of a unit on such date.
Dividends paid on IR Stock shall be reflected in a Participant's Supplemental Contribution Account by the crediting of additional units or fractional units. Such additional units or fractional units shall equal the value of the dividends based upon the closing price of one share of IR Stock on the New York Stock Exchange-Composite Tape on the date such dividends are paid.
 
Each Participant's Discretionary Company Contribution Accounts shall be divided into Investment Option Subaccounts. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, the Administrative Committee may, in its sole and absolute discretion, at the time a Discretionary Company Contribution is made, direct that a Participant's Discretionary Company Contribution be invested in any one or more of the Investment Option Subaccounts (including the IR Stock Account) and that such Discretionary Company Contribution remain invested in such Investment Option Subaccounts until at least such time as the Administrative Committee, in its sole and absolute discretion, determines that such Discretionary Company Contribution, or portion thereof, may, except as otherwise provided in Section 6.4, be invested in Investment Option Subaccounts elected by the Participant. A Participant's Discretionary Company Contribution Accounts shall be credited as follows:
 
 
To the extent an agreement between the Company and the Participant contains provisions governing the deemed investment of Discretionary Company Contributions made on behalf of the Participant, the deemed investment provisions of such agreement shall apply.
 
 
 
Dividends paid on IR Stock shall be reflected in a Participant's IR Stock Account by the crediting of additional units or fractional units. Such additional units or fractional units shall equal the value of the dividends based upon the closing price of one share of IR Stock on the New York Stock Exchange-Composite Tape on the date such dividends are paid.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Participant may irrevocably elect, on a subsequent Election Form, to change the form and/or extend the timing of a distribution under this Section to a lump sum distribution payable in the Plan Year specified by the Participant on such Election Form, which Plan Year shall not be later than ten (10) years following the Participant's Separation from Service, Retirement, Disability, or death, provided that, as and to the extent required by Code Section 409A(a)(4)(C): (i) no such election shall take effect until twelve months after the date on which such election was made; (ii) no such election (other than an election related to a distribution payable by reason of Disability or death) shall be effective unless it defers by a period of at least five years the date
 
on which such distribution would otherwise be made or begin; and (iii) no such election related to a distribution payable at a specified time or pursuant to a fixed schedule (within the meaning of Code Section 409A(a)(2)(A)(iv)) may be made within twelve months of the date such distribution would otherwise be made. As and to the extent required under Code Section 409A(a)(4)(C), the first day of the Plan Year in which a distribution would otherwise be made or begin (but for an election made by the Participant under this paragraph) shall be treated as the date the distribution would otherwise be made or begin for purposes of the rules set forth in the preceding sentence.
In the event of the Participant's Separation from Service with five (5) years of Service, Retirement, Disability or death prior to the elected date for one or more scheduled distributions under Section 7.2, the portion of the Participant's Account Balance associated with such distribution(s) shall be paid to the Participant (and after his or her death to his or her Beneficiary) at the time and in the form determined under this Section 7.1.
Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, if a Participant has a Separation from Service after completing five (5) years of Service, has a Retirement, incurs a Disability or dies while receiving annual installments pursuant to Section 7.2, such annual installments shall continue to be paid to the Participant (and after his or her death to his or her Beneficiary) in the same manner as if the Participant had not a Separation from Service or Retirement, incurred a Disability or died.
All distributions under this Section 7.1 shall be made on a pro rata basis from the Participant's Account Balances.
 
 
A Participant may irrevocably elect, on a subsequent Election Form, to change the form and/or extend the timing of a distribution under this Section, provided that, as and to the extent required by Code Section 409A(a)(4)(C): (i) no such election shall take effect until twelve months after the date on which such election was made; (ii) no such election shall be effective unless it defers by a period of at least five years the date on which such distribution would otherwise be made or begin; and (iii) no such election may be made within twelve months of the date such distribution would otherwise be made. As and to the extent required under Code Section 409A(a)(4)(C), the first day of the Plan Year in which a distribution would otherwise be made or begin (but for an election made by the Participant under this paragraph) shall be treated as the date the distribution would otherwise be made or begin for purposes of the rules set forth in the preceding sentence. The Participant shall have the right to extend the date for any distribution under this paragraph twice.
All distributions under this Section 7.2 shall be made on a pro rata basis from the Participant's Deferral Account(s), IR Stock Account(s), vested Discretionary Company Contribution Account(s), and vested Supplemental Contribution Account(s), as applicable.
 
 
 
All distributions under this Section 7.4 shall be made on a pro rata basis from the Participant's Deferral Account(s), IR Stock Account(s), vested Discretionary Company Contribution Account(s) and vested Supplementary Contribution Account(s), as applicable.
 
 
 
All distributions from the Plan that are to be paid in a specified number of annual installments shall be paid so that the amount of each annual installment is determined by dividing the total remaining number of units in the Participant's Account Balance to be paid in annual installments by the number of years of annual installments remaining.
 
 
 
 
 
 
A Participant shall have the right to designate a Beneficiary(ies) to receive the Participant's Account Balances in the event the Participant dies prior to receiving all of his or her Account Balances. A Beneficiary designation shall be made, and may be amended at any time, by the Participant by filing a written designation with the Administrative Committee, on such form and in accordance with such procedures as the Administrative Committee shall establish from time to time. A Participant may change the designated Beneficiary under the Plan at any time by providing such designation in writing to the Administrative Committee.
If a Participant fails to designate a Beneficiary(ies), or if all designated Beneficiaries predecease the Participant, the Participant's Beneficiary(ies) shall be deemed to be the Participant's estate. If the Company is unable to determine a Participant's Beneficiary or if any dispute arises concerning a Participant's Beneficiary, the Company may pay benefits to the Participant's estate. Upon such payment, the Company shall have no further liability hereunder.
If any distribution to a Beneficiary is to be made in annual installments, and the Beneficiary dies before receiving all such installments, the remaining installments, if any, shall continue to be paid as installments to the estate of the Beneficiary.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
, the Company has caused this amendment and restatement to be executed by its duly authorized representative as of July 1, 2009.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 

Exhibit 10.11
 
 
 
The purpose of the IR-plc Director Deferred Compensation and Stock Award Plan (the "Plan") is to further increase the mutuality of interest between Ingersoll-Rand plc, an Irish company (the "Company"), its non-employee members of the Board ("Non-employee Directors") and members by providing its Non-employee Directors the opportunity to elect to defer receipt of cash compensation. The Plan, originally known as the Ingersoll-Rand Company Directors Deferred Compensation and Stock Award Plan, became effective on January 1, 1997, was amended and restated effective January 1, 2001, was subsequently amended as of December 21, 2001, was again amended and restated effective August 1, 2007 and January 1, 2009. This further amendment and restatement is effective July 1, 2009.
Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary (including any election made by any Participant under the Plan), (i) no amount shall be deferred under the Plan if, pursuant to the effective date rules of Section 885(d) of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, Q&A-16 of IRS Notice 2005-1, and Treasury Regulations section 1.409A-6(a), such amount would be subject to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (a "Non-Grandfathered New Deferral Amount"), and (ii) any amount previously deferred under the Plan that, pursuant to the effective date rules of Section 885(d) of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, Q&A-16 of IRS Notice 2005-1, and Treasury Regulations section 1.409A-6(a), is subject to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (a "Non-Grandfathered Prior Deferral Amount") shall no longer be credited or payable under the Plan after December 31, 2004. Any Non-Grandfathered New Deferral Amount shall instead be deferred under the IR-plc Director Deferred Compensation and Stock Award Plan II, and any Non-Grandfathered Prior Deferral Amount shall instead be credited under the IR-plc Director Deferred Compensation and Stock Award Plan II, as and to the extent provided under the terms of IR-plc Director Deferred Compensation and Stock Award Plan II.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If the Company determines in good faith that a Participant no longer qualifies as a Non-employee Director, the Company shall have the right to (i) terminate any deferral election the Participant has made for the remainder of the Plan Year in which the Participant's membership status changes, (ii) prevent the Participant from making future deferral elections and/or (iii) immediately distribute the Participant's then vested Account Balances and terminate the Participant's participation in the Plan.
 
Subject to Section 5.3, in making the designations pursuant to this Section, the Participant may specify that all or any portion of the Participant's Deferral
 
Amount be deemed to be invested, in whole percentage increments, in one or more of the types of investment options provided under the Plan. A Participant may change the designation made under this Section with respect to prior and/or future Deferral Amounts by filing an Election Form no later than the time specified by the Secretary of the Company, to be effective as of the first business day of the following month. If a Participant fails to elect a type of investment option under this Section, he or she shall be deemed to have elected the investment option designated by the Company as the default investment option.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each Participant's Deferral Accounts shall be divided into Investment Option Subaccounts. A Participant's Deferral Accounts shall be credited as follows:
On the day a Deferral Amount is credited to a Participant's Deferral Account, the Administrative Committee shall credit the Investment Option Subaccounts of the Participant's Deferral Account with an amount equal to the Participant's Deferral Amount in accordance with the Participant's Election Form; that is, the portion of the Participant's Deferral Amount that the Participant has elected to be deemed to be invested in a certain type of investment option shall be credited to the Investment Option Subaccount corresponding to that investment option, and
Each business day, each Investment Option Subaccount of a Participant's Deferral Account shall be adjusted for earnings or losses in an amount equal to that determined by multiplying the balance credited to such Investment Option Subaccount as of the prior day plus contributions credited that day to the Investment Option Subaccount by the Return for the corresponding investment option selected by the Company.
 
All Supplemental Contributions shall initially be credited to a Participant's Supplemental Contribution Account in units or fractional units of IR Stock. The value of each unit shall be determined each business day and shall equal the closing price of one share of IR Stock on the New York Stock Exchange-Composite Tape. On each date that Supplemental Contributions are credited to a Participant's Supplemental Contribution Account, the number of units to be credited shall be determined by dividing the number of units by the value of a unit on such date.
Dividends paid on IR Stock shall be reflected in a Participant's Supplemental Contribution Account by the crediting of additional units or fractional units. Such additional units or fractional units shall equal the value of the dividends based upon the closing price of one share of IR Stock on the New York Stock Exchange-Composite Tape on the date such dividends are paid.
 
 
 
 
Dividends paid on IR Stock shall be reflected in a Participant's IR Stock Account by the crediting of additional units or fractional units. Such additional units or fractional units shall equal the value of the dividends based upon the closing price of one share of IR Stock on the New York Stock Exchange-Composite Tape on the date such dividends are paid.
 
A Participant's Deferred IR Stock Award Accounts shall be credited as follows:
 
 
 
Dividends paid on IR Stock shall be reflected in a Participant's Deferred IR Stock Award Account by the crediting of additional units or fractional units. Such additional units or fractional units shall equal the value of the dividends based upon the closing price of one share of IR Stock on the New York Stock Exchange-Composite Tape on the date such dividends are paid.
 
 
A Non-employee Director's balance, as such balance is described in the previous paragraph, shall be credited to the Non-employee Director's Conversion Account as of January 1, 2001 in units or fractional units. The value of each unit shall be determined each business day and shall equal the closing price of one share of IR Stock on the New York Stock Exchange-Composite Tape.
Dividends paid on IR Stock shall be reflected in a Non-employee Director's Conversion Account by the crediting of additional units or fractional units. Such additional units or fractional units shall equal the value of the dividends based upon the closing price of one share of IR Stock on the New York Stock Exchange-Composite Tape on the date such dividends are paid.
 
 
In the event of a Change in Control pursuant to Section 6.4, the value of a Participant's Account Balances for all investment options other than IR Stock shall be determined as of the end of the month during which the Change in Control occurs.
 
 
 
A Participant's Deferred IR Stock Award Accounts shall be credited as follows:
 
 
Dividends paid on IR Stock shall be reflected in a Participant's Deferred IR Stock Award Account by the crediting of additional units or fractional units. Such additional units or fractional units shall equal the value of the dividends based upon the closing price of one share of IR Stock on the New York Stock Exchange-Composite Tape on the date such dividends are paid.
 
A lump sum distribution to be paid as soon as administratively practicable in the year following the Participant's termination, Retirement or death;
Annual installments over five (5) years commencing as soon as administratively practicable in the year following the Participant's termination, Retirement or death;
Annual installments over fifteen (15) years commencing as soon as administratively practicable in the year following the Participant's termination, Retirement or death; and
A lump sum distribution which shall be paid as soon as administratively practicable in the year specified by the Participant on the Election Form. Such specified time shall be no less than one (1) year and no more than five (5) years following termination, Retirement or death.
 
A Participant may elect, on an Election Form, to change the form and/or extend the timing of a distribution under this Section that he or she has previously elected to any other form of distribution or time permitted under this Section, provided that no such election shall be effective unless it is made at least one (1) year before the Participant's termination, Retirement or death, as applicable.
In the event of the Participant's termination, Retirement or death prior to the elected date for one or more scheduled distributions pursuant to Section 6.2, the portion of the Participant's Account Balance associated with such distribution(s) shall be paid to the Participant (and after his or her death to his or her Beneficiary) in the same form as elected by the Participant under this Section.
Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, if a Participant terminates, has reached Retirement or dies while receiving annual installments pursuant to Section 6.2, such annual installments shall continue to be paid to the Participant (and after his or her death to his or her Beneficiary) in the same manner as if the Participant had not terminated employment, reached Retirement or died.
All distributions under this Section shall be made on a pro rata basis from the Participant's Account Balances.
 
At the time an election for a distribution under this Section is made, the Participant shall also elect, on the Election Form, the form of payment of the distribution. The Participant shall elect either (i) a lump sum payment to be paid as soon as soon as administratively practicable in the year specified by the Participant on the Election Form or (ii) annual installments over two (2), three (3),
 
four (4) or five (5) years beginning as soon as administratively practicable in the year specified by the Participant on the Election Form.
A Participant may elect, on an Election Form, to change the form of payment for any distribution under this Section for any Plan Year to any other form of payment permitted under this Section, provided such election occurs at least one (1) year before the date of distribution previously elected by the Participant.
All distributions under this Section shall be made on a pro rata basis from the Participant's Deferral Account(s) and IR Stock Account(s), as applicable.
 
All distributions from the Plan that are to be paid in a specified number of annual installments shall be paid so that the amount of each annual installment is determined by dividing the total remaining number of units in the Participant's Account Balance to be paid in annual installments by the number of years of annual installments remaining.
 
For purposes hereof,
(1) "Affiliate" shall mean, when used to indicate a relationship with a specified person, a person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, or is controlled by, or is under common control with, such specified person.
(2) "Associate" shall mean, when used to indicate a relationship with a specified person, (a) any corporation, partnership, or other organization of which such specified person is an officer or partner, (b) any trust or other estate in which such specified person has a substantial beneficial interest or as to which such specified person serves as trustee or in a similar fiduciary capacity, (c) any relative or spouse of such specified person, or any relative of such spouse who has the same home as such specified person, or who is a Director or officer of the Company or any of its parents or subsidiaries, and (d) any person who is a director, officer, or partner of such specified person or of any corporation (other than the Company or any wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company), partnership or other entity which is an Affiliate of such specified person.
 
(3) "Beneficial Owner" shall have the same meaning as such term is defined by Rule 13d-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (or any successor provision at the time in effect); provided, however, that any individual, corporation, partnership, group, association, or other person or entity which has the right to acquire any of the Company's outstanding securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors at any time in the future, whether such right is contingent or absolute, pursuant to any agreement, arrangement, or understanding or upon exercise of conversion rights, warrants or options, or otherwise, shall be deemed the Beneficial Owner of such securities.
(4) "Change in Control" shall mean the occurrence of either of the following:
(a) any individual, corporation, partnership, group, association or other person or entity, together with its Affiliates and Associates (other than a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company), is or becomes the Beneficial Owner of securities of the Company representing 20 percent or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, unless a majority of the Continuing Directors determines in their sole discretion that, for purposes of this Plan, a Change in Control has not occurred;
(b) the Continuing Directors shall at any time fail to constitute a majority of the members of the Board; or
(c) any sale, lease, exchange or other transfer (in one transaction or a series of related transactions) of all, or substantially all, of the assets of the Company, other than any sale, lease, exchange or other transfer to any person or entity where the Company owns, directly or indirectly, at least 80 percent of the outstanding voting securities of such person or entity after any such transfer.
(d) Notwithstanding any provision of this Section 6.4 or any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, none of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement which are undertaken by (i) Ingersoll-Rand Company or its affiliates prior to or as of the Effective Time or (ii) Ingersoll-Rand Company Limited or its affiliates on or after the Effective Time shall trigger, constitute or be deemed a Change in Control. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section or any other Section of the Plan to the contrary, none of the transactions contemplated by the Scheme of Arrangement under section 99 of the Bermuda Companies Act 1981 (the "Scheme of Arrangement"), pursuant to which the Class A common shares of Ingersoll-Rand Company Limited will be cancelled and the holders of such Class A common shares will receive, on a one-for-one basis, new shares of Ingersoll-Rand plc, a company incorporated and organized under the laws of Ireland ("IR-Ireland") (or, in the case of any fractional interests in shares, cash), and new common shares of Ingersoll-Rand Company Limited will be issued to IR-Ireland (the "Transaction") shall trigger, constitute or be deemed a Change in Control.
(5) "Continuing Director" shall mean a Director who either was a member of the Board on April 24, 1998 or who became a member of the Board subsequent to such date and whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's shareholders, was Duly Approved by the Continuing Directors of the Board at the time of such nomination or election, either by a specific vote or by approval of the proxy statement issued by the Company on behalf of the Board in which such
 
person is named as a nominee for Director, provided, however, that no individual shall be considered a Continuing Director if such individual initially assumed office as a result of either an actual or threatened "Election Contest" (as described in Rule 14a-11 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents other than by or on behalf of the Board (a "Proxy Contest"), including by reason of any agreement intended to avoid or settle any Election Contest or Proxy Contest.
(6) "Duly Approved by the Continuing Directors" shall mean an action approved by the vote of at least a majority of the Continuing Directors then on the Board, except, if the votes of such Continuing Directors in favor of such action would be insufficient to constitute an act of the Board if a vote by all of its members were to have been taken, then such term shall mean an action approved by the unanimous vote of the Continuing Directors then on the Board so long as there are at least three Continuing Directors on the Board at the time of such unanimous vote.
 
A Participant shall have the right to designate a Beneficiary(ies) to receive the Participant's Account Balances in the event the Participant dies prior to receiving all of his or her Account Balances. A Beneficiary designation shall be made, and may be amended at any time, by the Participant by filing a written designation with the Secretary of the Company, on such form and in accordance with such procedures as the Company shall establish from time to time. A Participant may change the designated Beneficiary under this Plan at any time by providing such designation in writing to the Secretary of the Company.
If a Participant fails to designate a Beneficiary(ies), or if all designated Beneficiaries predecease the Participant, the Participant's Beneficiary(ies) shall be deemed to be the Participant's estate. If the Company is unable to determine a Participant's Beneficiary or if any dispute arises concerning a Participant's Beneficiary, the Company may pay benefits to the Participant's estate. Upon such payment, the Company shall have no further liability hereunder.
If any distribution to a Beneficiary is to be made in annual installments, and the Beneficiary dies before receiving all such installments, the value of the remaining installments, if any, shall be paid to the estate of the Beneficiary in a lump sum.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
, the Company has caused this amendment and restatement to be executed by its duly authorized representative as of July 1, 2009.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 

Exhibit 10.12
 
 
 
The purpose of the IR plc Director Deferred Compensation and Stock Award Plan II (the "Plan") is to further increase the mutuality of interest between Ingersoll-Rand plc, an Irish company (the "Company"), its non-employee members of the Board ("Non-employee Directors") and members by providing its Non-employee Directors the opportunity to elect to defer receipt of cash compensation. The Plan shall be unfunded for tax purposes. To the extent Code Section 409A applies to the Plan, the terms of the Plan are intended to comply with that provision, and the terms of the Plan shall be interpreted and administered in accordance therewith.
The Plan is a successor to the IR-PLC Director Deferred Compensation and Stock Award Plan (the "Predecessor Plan"). The Predecessor Plan, which previously was known as the Ingersoll-Rand Company Directors Deferred Compensation and Stock Award Plan, became effective on January 1, 1997, was amended and restated effective January 1, 2001.
On December 31, 2004, Ingersoll-Rand Company Limited froze the Predecessor Plan with respect to all deferrals to the extent such deferrals would otherwise be subject to Code Section 409A (including amounts that were credited under the Predecessor Plan as of December 31, 2004 but were not grandfathered with respect to Code Section 409A). Also on December 31, 2004, Ingersoll-Rand Company Limited adopted the Plan to provide for deferrals of amounts subject to Code Section 409A (including amounts that were credited under the Predecessor Plan as of December 31, 2004 but were not grandfathered with respect to Code Section 409A) on substantially the same terms as those provided under the Predecessor Plan to the extent such terms are not inconsistent with Code Section 409A.
Ingersoll-Rand Company Limited amended and restated the Plan in its entirety, effective August 1, 2007, and again effective January 1, 2009 to conform the terms of the Plan to the requirements of the regulations under Code Section 409A. This further amendment and restatement to reflect the Company's reorganization in Ireland is effective July 1, 2009. The Plan applies to (i) amounts initially deferred hereunder on or after January 1, 2005, (ii) amounts initially credited to the Predecessor Plan before January 1, 2005 that, pursuant to the effective-date rules of Code Section 409A, are subject to the provisions of Code Section 409A, and (iii) investment earnings allocable to amounts described in (i) and (ii). Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan, no amount will be deferred or credited under this Plan with respect to a Participant for a Plan Year if such amount is properly deferred or credited with respect to such Participant for such Plan Year under the Predecessor Plan.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Any election to defer a Deferral Amount otherwise payable for services provided by a Non-Employee Director during a Plan Year is irrevocable upon the filing of the Election Form, and must be properly completed and filed no later than: (i) the December 31 immediately preceding such Plan Year; or (ii) with respect to a new Non-employee Director who is described in Code Section 409A(a)(4)(B)(ii), before the earlier of the effective date of his or her election to the Board or the 30th day after such new Non-employee Director first becomes eligible to participate in the Plan (provided that such election shall relate only to amounts earned subsequent to the date such Election Form is filed).
A Non-employee Director who fails to file a properly completed Election Form by such date will be ineligible to defer a Deferral Amount under the Plan for the following Plan Year. In addition, the Company may establish from time to time such other enrollment requirements as it determines are necessary or proper.
If the Company determines in good faith that a Participant no longer qualifies as a Non-employee Director, the Participant shall not be permitted to make any future deferral election under this Section 3.1 for any future Plan Year.
 
Subject to Section 5.3, in making the designations pursuant to this Section, the Participant may specify that all or any portion of the Participant's Deferral Amount, other than Fees deferred under Section 5.7, be deemed to be invested, in
 
whole percentage increments, in one or more of the types of investment options provided under the Plan. A Participant may change the designation made under this Section with respect to prior and/or future Deferral Amounts by filing an Election Form no later than the time specified by the Secretary of the Company, to be effective as of the first business day of the following month. If a Participant fails to elect a type of investment option under this Section, he or she shall be deemed to have elected the investment option designated by the Company as the default investment option.
A Participant shall not be permitted to make any election under this Section 3.2 with respect to any Fees deferred under Section 5.7.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each Participant's Deferral Accounts shall be divided into Investment Option Subaccounts. A Participant's Deferral Accounts shall be credited as follows:
On the day a Deferral Amount is credited to a Participant's Deferral Account, the Administrative Committee shall credit the Investment Option Subaccounts of the Participant's Deferral Account with an amount equal to the Participant's Deferral Amount in accordance with the Participant's Election Form; that is, the portion of the Participant's Deferral Amount that the Participant has elected to be deemed to be invested in a certain type of investment option shall be credited to the Investment Option Subaccount corresponding to that investment option, and
Each business day, each Investment Option Subaccount of a Participant's Deferral Account shall be adjusted for earnings or losses in an amount equal to that determined by multiplying the balance credited to such Investment Option Subaccount as of the prior day plus contributions credited that day to the Investment Option Subaccount by the Return for the corresponding investment option selected by the Company.
 
 
All Supplemental Contributions shall initially be credited to a Participant's Supplemental Contribution Account in units or fractional units of IR Stock. The value of each unit shall be determined each business day and shall equal the closing price of one share of IR Stock on the New York Stock Exchange-Composite Tape. On each date that Supplemental Contributions are credited to a Participant's Supplemental Contribution Account, the number of units to be credited shall be determined by dividing the number of units by the value of a unit on such date.
Dividends paid on IR Stock shall be reflected in a Participant's Supplemental Contribution Account by the crediting of additional units or fractional units. Such additional units or fractional units shall equal the value of the dividends based upon the closing price of one share of IR Stock on the New York Stock Exchange-Composite Tape on the date such dividends are paid.
 
 
 
 
Dividends paid on IR Stock shall be reflected in a Participant's IR Stock Account by the crediting of additional units or fractional units. Such additional units or fractional units shall equal the value of the dividends based upon the closing price of one share of IR Stock on the New York Stock Exchange-Composite Tape on the date such dividends are paid.
 
In the event of a Change in Control pursuant to Section 6.5, the value of a Participant's Account Balances for all investment options other than IR Stock shall be determined as of the end of the month during which the Change in Control occurs.
 
 
 
A Participant's Deferred IR Stock Award Account shall be credited as follows:
 
 
Dividends paid on IR Stock shall be reflected in a Participant's Deferred IR Stock Award Account by the crediting of additional units or fractional units. Such additional units or fractional units shall equal the value of the dividends based upon the closing price of one share of IR Stock on the New York Stock Exchange-Composite Tape on the date such dividends are paid.
 
Annual installments over five (5) years commencing in the Plan Year following the Participant's Separation from Service or death;
Annual installments over ten (10) years commencing in the Plan Year following the Participant's Separation from Service or death;
 
Annual installments over fifteen (15) years commencing in the Plan Year following the Participant's Separation from Service or death; and
A lump sum distribution payable in the Plan Year specified by the Participant on such Election Form; provided that such specified year shall be no less than one (1) year and no more than five (5) years following the Participant's Separation from Service or death.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Participant may irrevocably elect, on a subsequent Election Form, to change the form and/or extend the timing of a distribution under this Section to a lump sum distribution payable in the Plan Year specified by the Participant on such Election Form, which Plan Year shall not be later than ten (10) years following the Participant's Separation from Service or death, provided that, as and to the extent required by Code Section 409A(a)(4)(C): (i) no such election shall take effect until twelve months after the date on which such election was made; (ii) no such election (other than an election related to a distribution payable by reason of death) shall be effective unless it defers by a period of at least five years the date on which such distribution would otherwise be made or begin; and (iii) no such election related to a distribution payable at a specified time or pursuant to a fixed schedule (within the meaning of Code Section 409A(a)(2)(A)(iv)) may be made within twelve months of the date such distribution would otherwise be made. As and to the extent required under Code Section 409A(a)(4)(C), the first day of the Plan Year in which a distribution would otherwise be made or begin (but for an election made by the Participant under this paragraph) shall be treated as the date the distribution would otherwise be made or begin for purposes of the rules set forth in the preceding sentence.
In the event of the Participant's Separation from Service or death prior to the elected date for one or more scheduled distributions pursuant to Section 6.2, the portion of the Participant's Account Balance associated with such distribution(s) shall be paid to the Participant (and after his or her death to his or her Beneficiary) at the time and in the form determined under this Section 6.1.
Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, if a Participant has a Separation from Service or dies while receiving annual installments pursuant to Section 6.2, such annual installments shall continue to be paid to the Participant (and after his or her death to his or her Beneficiary) in the same manner as if the Participant had not had a Separation from Service or died.
All distributions under this Section shall be made on a pro rata basis from the Participant's Account Balances.
 
A Participant may irrevocably elect, on a subsequent Election Form, to change the form and/or extend the timing of a distribution under this Section, provided that, as and to the extent required by Code Section 409A(a)(4)(C): (i) no such election shall take effect until twelve months after the date on which such election was made; (ii) no such election shall be effective unless it defers by a period of at least five years the date on which such distribution would otherwise be made or begin; and (iii) no such election may be made within twelve months of the date such distribution would otherwise be made. As and to the extent required under Code Section 409A(a)(4)(C), the first day of the Plan Year in which a distribution would otherwise be made or begin (but for an election made by the Participant under this paragraph) shall be treated as the date the distribution would otherwise be made or begin for purposes of the rules set forth in the preceding sentence.
All distributions under this Section shall be made on a pro rata basis from the Participant's Deferral Account(s) and IR Stock Account(s), as applicable.
 
 
All distributions from the Plan that are to be paid in a specified number of annual installments shall be paid so that the amount of each annual installment is determined by dividing the total remaining number of units in the Participant's Account Balance to be paid in annual installments by the number of years of annual installments remaining.
 
 
 
 
 
 
A Participant shall have the right to designate a Beneficiary(ies) to receive the Participant's Account Balances in the event the Participant dies prior to receiving all of his or her Account Balances. A Beneficiary designation shall be made, and may be amended at any time, by the Participant by filing a written designation with the Secretary of the Company, on such form and in accordance with such procedures as the Company shall establish from time to time. A Participant may change the designated Beneficiary under this Plan at any time by providing such designation in writing to the Secretary of the Company.
If a Participant fails to designate a Beneficiary(ies), or if all designated Beneficiaries predecease the Participant, the Participant's Beneficiary(ies) shall be deemed to be the Participant's estate. If the Company is unable to determine a Participant's Beneficiary or if any dispute arises concerning a Participant's Beneficiary, the Company may pay benefits to the Participant's estate. Upon such payment, the Company shall have no further liability hereunder.
If any distribution to a Beneficiary is to be made in annual installments, and the Beneficiary dies before receiving all such installments, the remaining installments, if any, shall continue to be paid as installments to the estate of the Beneficiary.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
, the Company has caused this amendment and restatement to be executed by its duly authorized representative as of this 1st day of July, 2009.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 

Exhibit 10.13
Ingersoll-Rand Company (the "Company") established the Ingersoll-Rand Company Employee Savings Plan (the "Qualified Savings Plan") effective January 1, 2003 for employees employed by the Company and certain subsidiaries and affiliates of the Company (the "Employees"), under which benefits do not reflect compensation of Employees in excess of the limitation imposed by Section 401(a)(17) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") or Compensation deferred under the IR Executive Deferred Compensation Plan (the "Deferral Plan").
The purpose of this amended and restated Ingersoll-Rand Company Supplemental Employee Savings Plan, which was formerly known as the Ingersoll-Rand Company Supplemental Savings and Stock Investment Plan (the "Supplemental Savings Plan") is to provide a vehicle under which Employees can be paid benefits which are supplemental to benefits payable under the Qualified Savings Plan with respect to compensation that is not taken into account under the Qualified Savings Plan.
Effective August 1, 2002, the liabilities under the Ingersoll-Rand Company Supplemental Retirement Account Plan (the "Supplemental RAP") were merged into this Supplemental Savings Plan. This Supplemental Savings Plan was last amended and restated effective January 1, 2003 with respect to all Employees except those Employees employed by The Torrington Company.
This Supplemental Savings Plan was amended and restated effective January 1, 2009 and is hereby further amended and restated effective July 1, 2009. The provisions of this Supplemental Savings Plan as in effect prior to January 1, 2003 shall continue to apply to Employees of The Torrington Company.
It is intended that this Supplemental Savings Plan be treated as "a plan which is unfunded and is maintained by an employer primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation for a select group of management or highly compensated employees" within the meaning of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
Unless otherwise indicated herein, capitalized terms shall have the same meanings as they have under the Qualified Savings Plan.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Supplemental Savings Plan to the contrary, the terms of this Supplemental Savings Plan are limited to amounts credited to Employees accounts hereunder (including earnings on such amounts) with respect to compensation earned in years
commencing prior to January 1, 2005 that pursuant to the effective date rules of Section 885(d) of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 and Treasury Regulations section 1.409A-6(a), are not subject to the requirements of Section 409A of the Code. Effective January 1, 2005, the Company has established the Ingersoll-Rand Company Supplemental Savings Plan II to provide similar supplemental benefits that are subject to the requirements of Section 409A of the Code with respect to compensation earned by Employees in years commencing after December 31, 2004.
 
 
The Company shall maintain on its books an account for each Employee who had an account under the Supplemental RAP merged into this Supplemental Savings Plan (each a "Supplemental RAP Account").
 
 
Contributions shall not be made to the Supplemental RAP Account on or after January 1, 2003. Contributions made to the Supplemental RAP Account prior to January 1, 2003 were made in accordance with the provisions of the Supplemental RAP in effect prior to January 1, 2003.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Unless and until the Company establishes a trust pursuant to Section 6.1 hereof, the amounts credited to each Supplemental RAP Account shall be credited with interest at a rate equal to the rate of return earned by the money market investment option available under the Qualified Savings Plan and that is designated by the Committee as the money
 
market investment option that shall apply for purposes of crediting interest under this Section 2.4. To the extent the Company contributes funds on behalf of an Employee to a trust established under Section 6.1 hereof, his Supplemental RAP Account hereunder shall be transferred to an account within such trust and shall be credited with the rate of return earned by the funds so contributed. Any unfunded portion of the Supplemental RAP Account shall continue to be credited with interest as provided above in this Section 2.4.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the Company has caused this amendment and restatement to be executed by its duly authorized representative as of July 1, 2009.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
 
 

Exhibit 10.14
Ingersoll-Rand Company (the "Company") established the Ingersoll-Rand Company Employee Savings Plan (the "Qualified Savings Plan") effective January 1, 2003 for employees employed by the Company and certain subsidiaries and affiliates of the Company (the "Employees"), under which benefits do not reflect compensation of Employees in excess of the limitation imposed by Section 401(a)(17) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") or compensation deferred under the IR Executive Deferred Compensation Plan II (the "Deferral Plan"). The Qualified Savings Plan is a continuation of the Ingersoll-Rand Company Savings and Stock Investment Plan.
The purpose of this Ingersoll-Rand Company Supplemental Employee Savings Plan II (the "Supplemental Savings Plan II") is to provide a vehicle under which Employees can be paid benefits that are supplemental to benefits payable under the Qualified Savings Plan with respect to compensation that is not taken into account under the Qualified Savings Plan.
The Supplemental Savings Plan II is a continuation of the amended and restated Ingersoll-Rand Company Supplemental Employee Savings Plan (the "Predecessor Plan"), which was formerly known as the Ingersoll-Rand Company Supplemental Savings and Stock Investment Plan. The Company has frozen the Predecessor Plan with respect to all deferrals to the extent such deferrals would be subject to Section 409A of the Code.
The Company now hereby adopts this Supplemental Savings Plan II, effective January 1, 2005, to provide for deferrals of amounts subject to Section 409A of the Code on substantially the same terms as those provided under the Predecessor Plan to the extent such terms are not inconsistent with Section 409A of the Code. The Supplemental Savings Plan II shall apply to amounts credited to Employees accounts hereunder (including earnings on such amounts) with respect to compensation earned after December 31, 2004 that, pursuant to the effective date rules of Section 885(d) of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 and Treasury Regulations section 1.409A-6(a) are subject to Section 409A of the Code.
It is intended that this Supplemental Savings Plan II be treated as "a plan which is unfunded and is maintained by an employer primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation for a select group of management or highly compensated employees" within the meaning of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended. To the extent that Section 409A of the Code applies to the Supplemental Savings Plan II, the terms of the Supplemental Savings Plan II are intended to comply with Section 409A of the Code and any regulations or other administrative guidance issued thereunder, and such terms shall be interpreted and administered in accordance therewith.
Unless otherwise indicated herein, capitalized terms shall have the same meanings that they have under the Qualified Savings Plan.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the Company has caused this instrument to be executed by its duly authorized representative as of July 1, 2009.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
 
 

Exhibit 10.15
 
The purpose of the Plan is to aid the Company and its Affiliates in recruiting and retaining key employees and directors and to motivate such employees and directors to exert their best efforts on behalf of the Company and its Affiliates by providing incentives through the granting of Awards. The Company expects that it will benefit from the added interest which such key employees and directors will have in the welfare of the Company as a result of their proprietary interest in the Company's success.
 
The following capitalized terms used in the Plan have the respective meanings set forth in this Section:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject to Section 9, the total number of Shares which may be issued under the Plan is 27,000,000 and the maximum number of Shares for which ISOs may be granted is 20% of the total number of Shares which may be issued under the Plan. For Awards granted prior to June 3, 2009, not more than 25% shall be in the form of Full Value Awards. With respect to Awards granted on or after June 3, 2009, to the extent any Shares are granted as Full Value Awards, each such Share shall count as 2.05 Shares for purposes of the overall limit on Shares available for further grants under the Plan. The Shares may consist, in whole or in part, of unissued Shares or treasury Shares. The actual issuance of Shares upon the exercise of an Award or in consideration of the cancellation or termination of an Award shall reduce the number of Shares available for grant under the Plan (i) in the case of Awards granted on or after June 3, 2009, with a reduction of 2.05 Shares for every Share previously granted as a Full Value Award and a reduction of one Share for every Share previously granted as an Award of Options or Stock Appreciation Rights and (ii) in the case of Awards granted prior to June 3, 2009, with a reduction of one Share for every Share previously granted as an Award. In the event all or any portion of an Award is terminated or lapses without the payment of consideration, the number of Shares not issued that were originally deducted for such Award pursuant to this Section 3 shall be restored and may again be used for Awards under the Plan. In the event that Shares are retained or are otherwise not issued by the Company in order to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with Full Value Awards (i.e. Awards other than Stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights), the number of Shares so retained or not issued that were originally deducted for such Award pursuant to this Section 3 shall be restored and may again be used for Awards under the Plan. Shares subject to an Award under the Plan may not be available again for issuance under the Plan if such Shares are retained or otherwise not issued by the Company in order to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with Stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights.
 
The Plan shall be administered by the Committee, which may delegate its duties and powers in whole or in part to any subcommittee thereof consisting solely of at least two individuals who are intended to qualify as "Non-Employee Directors" within the meaning of Rule 16b-3 under the Act (or any successor rule thereto), "independent directors" within the meaning of The New York Stock Exchange's listed company rules and "outside directors" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code (or any successor section thereto).
Additionally, the Committee may delegate the authority to grant Awards under the Plan to any employee or group of employees of the Company or an Affiliate; provided, however, that such delegation and grants are consistent with applicable law and guidelines established by the Committee from time to time. Awards may, in the discretion of the Committee, be made under the Plan in assumption of, or in substitution for, outstanding awards previously granted by a company acquired by the Company or with which the Company and/or any of its Affiliates combines. The number of Shares underlying such substitute awards shall be counted against the aggregate number of Shares available for Awards under the Plan. The Committee is authorized to interpret the Plan, to establish, amend and rescind any rules and regulations relating to the Plan, and to make any other determinations that it deems necessary or desirable for the administration of the Plan. The Committee may correct any defect or supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan in the manner and to the extent the Committee deems necessary or desirable. Any decision of the Committee in the interpretation and administration of the Plan, as described herein, shall lie within its sole and absolute discretion and shall be final, conclusive and binding on all parties concerned (including, but not limited to, Participants and their beneficiaries or successors). The Committee shall have the full power and authority to establish the terms and conditions of any Award consistent with the provisions of the Plan and to waive any such terms and conditions at any time (including, without limitation, accelerating or waiving any vesting conditions). The Committee shall require payment of any amount it may determine to be necessary for federal, state, local or other taxes as a result of the exercise, grant or vesting of an Award. The Committee shall not be required to issue any Award under the Plan until such obligations described in the previous sentence have been satisfied in full. In no event shall the Committee cancel any outstanding Option or Stock Appreciation Right for the purpose of reissuing such Option or Stock Appreciation Right to the Participant at a lower exercise price nor shall the Committee reduce the exercise price of an outstanding Option or Stock Appreciation Right.
 
No Award may be granted under the Plan after the tenth anniversary of the Effective Date, but Awards theretofore granted may extend beyond that date.
 
Options granted under the Plan shall be, as determined by the Committee, non-qualified or incentive stock options for United States federal income tax purposes, as evidenced by the related Award letters, and shall be subject to the foregoing and the following terms and conditions and to such other terms and conditions, not inconsistent therewith, as the Committee shall determine:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding any other provisions in the Plan to the contrary (except for Section 17), the following provisions shall apply to all Awards granted under the Plan:
 
 
(i) All outstanding Options and Stock Appreciation Rights shall become immediately vested and exercisable;
(ii) All Other Stock-Based Awards shall become immediately vested and payable; and
(iii) The performance period applicable to Performance-Based Awards shall lapse and the performance goals associated with such awards shall be deemed to have been met at their target level.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may (subject to Section 17), in its sole discretion, but shall not be obligated to, (A) cancel such Awards for fair value (as determined in the sole discretion of the Committee) which, in the case of Options and Stock Appreciation Rights, shall equal the excess, if any, of value of the consideration to be paid in the Change in Control transaction to holders of the same number of Shares subject to such Options or Stock Appreciation Rights (or, if no consideration is paid in any such transaction, the Fair Market Value of the Shares subject to such Options or Stock Appreciation Rights) over the aggregate exercise price of such Options or Stock Appreciation Rights, (B) provide for the issuance of substitute awards that will substantially preserve the otherwise applicable terms of any affected Awards previously granted hereunder as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion or (C) provide that for a period of at least 15 days prior to the Change in Control, such Options and Stock Appreciation Rights shall be exercisable as to all shares subject thereto and that upon the occurrence of the Change in Control, such Options and Stock Appreciation Rights shall terminate and be of no further force and effect.
 
The granting of an Award under the Plan shall impose no obligation on the Company or any Affiliate to continue the employment or service of a Participant and shall not lessen or affect the Company's or Affiliate's right to terminate the employment or service of such Participant. No Participant or other Person shall have any claim to be granted any Award, and there is no obligation for uniformity of treatment of Participants, or holders or beneficiaries of Awards. The terms and conditions of Awards and the Committee's determinations and interpretations with respect thereto need not be the same with respect to each Participant (whether or not such Participants are similarly situated).
 
The Plan shall be binding on all successors and assigns of the Company and a Participant, including without limitation, the estate of such Participant and the executor, administrator or trustee of such estate, or any receiver or trustee in bankruptcy or representative of the Participant's creditors.
 
Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, an Award shall not be transferable or assignable by the Participant otherwise than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. An Award exercisable after the death of a Participant may be exercised by the legatees, personal representatives or distributees of the Participant.
The Board may amend, alter or discontinue the Plan, but no amendment, alteration or discontinuation shall be made, (a) without the approval of the shareholders of the Company, if such action would (except as is provided in Section 9 of the Plan), increase the total number of Shares reserved for the purposes of the Plan or change the maximum number of Shares for which Awards may be granted to any Participant or (b) without the consent of a Participant, if such action would diminish any of the rights of the Participant under any Award theretofore granted to such Participant under the Plan; provided, however, that the Committee may amend the Plan in such manner as it deems necessary to permit the granting of Awards meeting the requirements of the Code or other applicable laws (including, without limitation, to avoid adverse tax consequences to the Company or to Participants).
 
With respect to Participants who reside or work outside the United States of America and who are not (and who are not expected to be) "covered employees" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, amend the terms of the Plan or Awards with respect to such Participants in order to conform such terms with the requirements of local law or to obtain more favorable tax or other treatment for a Participant, the Company or an Affiliate.
 
The Plan shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New Jersey without regard to conflicts of laws.
 
The Plan shall be effective as of the Effective Date, subject to the approval of the shareholders of the Company.
 
Notwithstanding other provisions of the Plan or any Award letter thereunder, no Award shall be granted, deferred, accelerated, extended, paid out or modified under this Plan in a manner that would result in the imposition of an additional tax under Section 409A of the Code upon a Participant. In the event that it is reasonably determined by the Committee that, as a result of Section 409A of the Code, payments in respect of any Award under the Plan may not be made at the time contemplated by the terms of the Plan or the relevant Award letter, as the case may be, without causing the Participant holding such Award to be subject to taxation under Section 409A of the Code, the Company will make such payment on the first day that would not result in the Participant incurring any tax liability under Section 409A of the Code.
Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, to the extent applicable, notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, this Plan and Awards issued hereunder shall be interpreted in accordance with Section 409A of the Code and Department of Treasury regulations and other interpretative guidance issued thereunder, including without limitation any
such regulations or other guidance that may be issued after the Effective Date. Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, in the event that the Committee determines that any amounts payable hereunder will be taxable to a Participant under Section 409A of the Code and related Department of Treasury guidance prior to payment to such Participant of such amount, the Company may (a) adopt such amendments to the Plan and Awards and appropriate policies and procedures, including amendments and policies with retroactive effect, that the Committee determines necessary or appropriate to preserve the intended tax treatment of the benefits provided by the Plan and Awards hereunder and/or (b) take such other actions as the Committee determines necessary or appropriate to avoid the imposition of an additional tax under Section 409A of the Code.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this amendment and restatement to be executed by its duly authorized representative as of July 1, 2009.
 

Exhibit 10.16
 
Effective July 1, 2009, Ingersoll-Rand plc (the "Company") has assumed all the rights and obligations of Ingersoll-Rand Company Limited under the Ingersoll-Rand Incentive Stock Plan of 2007 (the "Plan"). The Plan was established by the Board of Directors of Ingersoll-Rand Company Limited for the benefit of certain employees and directors of the Company and its affiliated companies, including its French affiliates of which the Company holds directly or indirectly at least 10% of the share capital and its French branches (collectively, the "French Entities").
Sections 4 and 14 of the Plan specifically authorize the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Board") of the Company (the "Committee") to administer the Plan and to establish rules relating to the Plan that the Committee deems necessary or desirable for the administration of the Plan and to amend the terms of the Plan with respect to Participants who reside or work outside the United States of America (including Participants in France) in order to conform such terms to obtain more favorable tax treatment or other treatment for a Participant, the Company or an affiliate of the Company. The Committee has determined that it is desirable to establish a subplan for the purposes of permitting stock options to qualify for favorable tax and social security treatment in France. The Committee, therefore, intends to establish a subplan of the Plan for the purpose of granting stock options which qualify for the favorable tax and social security treatment in France applicable to stock options granted under Sections L. 225-177 to L. 225-186-1 of the French Commercial Code, as amended ("French-qualified Options"), to qualifying Participants who are resident in France for French tax purposes and/or subject to the French social security regime (the "French Participants").
Effective July 1, 2009, the terms of the Plan, as set out in Appendix 1 hereto, shall, subject to the limitations in the following rules, constitute the Ingersoll-Rand plc Incentive Stock Plan for the Grant of Options to Participants in France (the "French Options Plan"). Under the French Options Plan, the qualifying French Participants will be granted only Options as defined under Section 2(q) of the Plan and under Section 2 (a) of this French Options Plan.
Further, as provided in Section 2 of the Plan, the Committee has delegated to the Company's Senior Vice President  Human Resources (the "Committee's Delegate") authority to take appropriate action to implement the French Options Plan, including, without limitation, signing the French Options Plan, and to set forth the terms of any French-qualified Options in a stock option award agreement in keeping with the terms of the French Options Plan.
 
Unless otherwise defined herein, the terms defined in the Plan shall have the same meanings in this French Options Plan. The terms set out below will have the following meanings:
 
The term "Closed Period" as defined under Section L. 225-177 of the French Commercial Code means:
(i) ten (10) quotation days preceding and following the disclosure to the public of the consolidated financial statements or the annual statements of the Company;
(ii) the period as from the date the corporate management of the Company possesses confidential information which could, if disclosed to the public, significantly impact the quotation price of the Shares, until ten (10) quotation days after the day such information is disclosed to the public; or
(iii) any period of twenty (20) quotation days after the date on which Shares start trading ex-dividend or ex-rights.
 
The term "Disability" shall mean disability as determined in categories 2 and 3 under Section L. 341-4 of the French Social Security Code, as amended, and subject to the fulfillment of related conditions.
 
The term "Effective Grant Date" shall be the date on which the French-qualified Options are effectively granted (, the date on which the condition precedent of the expiration of a Closed Period applicable to the French-qualified Options, if any, is satisfied, which is the first day after any Closed Period). Such condition precedent shall be satisfied when the Committee or other authorized corporate body shall determine that the granting of French-qualified Options is no longer prevented by a Closed Period. If the Grant Date does not occur within a Closed Period, the "Effective Grant Date" shall be the same as the "Grant Date" without any need for action by the Committee.
i.e.
 
The term "Forced Retirement" shall mean forced retirement as determined under Section L. 1237-5 of the French Labor Code, as amended, and subject to the fulfillment of related conditions.
 
The term "Grant Date" shall be the date on which the Committee both (i) designates the French Participants, and (ii) specifies the terms and conditions of the French-qualified Options, including the number of Shares subject to the Options, the vesting conditions and any restrictions of the transferability of the Shares subject to the Options.
 
The term "Option" shall include both:
(i) purchase stock options (rights to acquire Shares repurchased by the Company prior to the date on which the Option becomes exercisable); and
(ii) subscription stock options (rights to subscribe for newly issued Shares).
 
Subject to Section 3(c) below, any individual who, on the Grant Date, is employed under the terms and conditions of an employment contract ("") by a French Entity or who is a corporate officer of a French Entity, shall be eligible to receive, at the discretion of the Committee, Options under this French Options Plan, provided that he or she also satisfies the eligibility conditions of the Plan.
(a)
contrat de travail
Options may not be issued under the French Options Plan to employees or corporate officers owning more than ten percent (10%) of the Company's capital shares or to individuals other than employees and corporate officers of a French Entity, as set forth in this Section 3.
(b)
Options may not be issued to corporate officers of a French Entity, other than the managing corporate officers (, ), unless the corporate officer is employed under the terms of an employment contract ("") by a French Entity, as defined by French law and in accordance with applicable French rules.
(c)
e.g.
Prsident du Conseil d'Administration, Directeur Gnral, Directeur Gnral Dlgu, Membre du Directoire, Grant de Socits par actions
contrat de travail
 
Options may not be granted during a Closed Period as set forth in Section L. 225-177 of the French Commercial Code, as amended, to the extent such Closed Periods are applicable to Options granted by the Company.
 
The Option Price and number of Shares subject to the Options shall not be modified after the Effective Grant Date, except as provided in Section 9 of this French Options Plan, or as otherwise authorized by French law. Any other modification permitted under the Plan may result in the Options no longer qualifying as French-qualified Options.
(a)
 
The Options will vest and become exercisable pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan, this French Options Plan and the stock option award agreement delivered to each French Participant.
(b)
The Option Price for Options granted under this French Options Plan shall be fixed by the Committee on the Grant Date. In no event shall the Option Price be less than the greatest of the following:
(c)
 
 
 
 
At the time the French-qualified Options are granted, the Committee shall fix the period within which the French-qualified Options vest and may be exercised and shall determine any conditions that must be satisfied before the French-qualified Options may be exercised. Specifically, the Committee may provide for a holding period measured from the Effective Grant Date for the vesting or exercise of the French-qualified Options or for the sale of Shares acquired pursuant to the exercise of the French-qualified Options, designed to obtain the favorable tax and social security treatment pursuant to Section 163 bis C of the French Tax Code, as amended, or any section of a French code providing for a favorable tax and/or social security regime. Such period for the vesting or exercise of the French-qualified Options or holding period before the sale of Shares shall be set forth in the applicable stock option award agreement. The holding period of the Shares shall not exceed three (3) years as from the effective exercise date of the French-qualified Options or such other period as may be required to comply with French law.
(a)
Upon exercise of the French-qualified Options, the full Option Price and any required withholding tax and/or social security contributions shall be paid by the French Participants as set forth in the applicable stock option award agreement. Under a cashless exercise program, the French Participants may give irrevocable instructions to a licensed securities broker acceptable to the Company to properly deliver the Option Price to the Company. No delivery, surrendering or attesting to the ownership of previously owned Shares having a Fair Market Value on the date of delivery equal to the aggregate Option Price of the Shares may be used to pay the Option Price.
(b)
If a French Participant dies, his or her French-qualified Options shall thereafter be immediately vested and exercisable in full under the conditions set forth in Section 7 of this French Options Plan.
(c)
 
If a French Participant is terminated or ceases to be employed by the Company or any Affiliate, his or her French-qualified Options will be exercisable according to the provisions of the applicable stock option award agreement.
(d)
If a French Participant is terminated or ceases to be employed by the Company or any Affiliate by reason of Disability (as defined in this French Options Plan), his or her French-qualified Options may benefit from the favorable tax and social security treatment of French-qualified Options, even if the date of sale of the Shares subject to the Options occurs prior to the expiration of the minimum holding period of the Shares, as provided for by Section 163 bis C of the French Tax Code, as amended.
(e)
If a French Participant ceases to be employed by the Company or any Affiliate by reason of his or her Forced Retirement (as defined in this French Options Plan) or dismissal as defined by Section 91-ter of Exhibit II to the French Tax Code, as amended, and as construed by the French tax circulars and subject to the fulfillment of related conditions, his or her French-qualified Options may benefit from the favorable tax and social security treatment of French-qualified Options, irrespective of the date of sale of the Shares, provided the exercise of the Options was authorized under the applicable stock option award agreement and the Options are exercised at least three (3) months prior to the effective date of the Forced Retirement or at least three (3) months prior to the date of the effective date of dismissal (i.e., the date of the sending of the letter of dismissal to the French Participant, as defined by French law and as construed by French tax and social security guidelines and the French Labor Courts).
(f)
Upon exercise of the Options, the French Participant will receive the number of Shares for which the Options are being exercised and the Committee will not settle the Options by any other method, notwithstanding any provision in Section 6 (c) of the Plan to the contrary. The Shares acquired upon exercise of the Options shall be recorded in an account in the name of the French Participant with a broker or in such other manner as the Company may otherwise determine in order to ensure compliance with applicable law and holding periods.
(g)
To the extent and as long as applicable to French-qualified Options granted by the Company, a specific holding period or a restriction on exercise of the Options shall be imposed and described in the applicable stock option award agreement for any French Participant who qualifies as a managing corporate officer under French law (""), as defined in Section 3(c) above.
(h)
mandataires sociaux
 
In the event of the death of a French Participant while he or she is actively employed, all French-qualified Options shall become immediately vested and exercisable and may be exercised in full by the French Participant's heirs for the six (6) month period following the date of the French Participant's death. In the event of the death of a French Participant after termination of active employment, the treatment of the French-qualified Options shall be as set forth in the stock option award agreement. Any French-qualified Options that remain unexercised shall expire six (6) months following the date of the French Participant's death. The six (6) month exercise period will apply without regard to the term of the Options as described in Section 11 of this French Options Plan.
 
Except in the case of death, the Options cannot be transferred or surrendered to any third party. In addition, the Options are only exercisable by the French Participant during his or her lifetime, subject to Sections 6(c) and 7 above.
 
Adjustments to the French-qualified Options and/or the underlying Shares shall be made to preclude the dilution or enlargement of benefits under the Options in the event of certain transactions by the Company as set forth in Section L. 225-181 of the French Commercial Code, as amended, and in case of a repurchase of Shares by the Company at a price higher than the stock quotation price on the open market, and according to the provisions of Section L. 228-99 of the French Commercial Code, as amended, as well as according to specific decrees.
In the event of a change in the outstanding shares or a Change in Control as set forth in Section 9 of the Plan, adjustments to the terms and conditions of the French-qualified Options and/or the underlying Shares may be made only in accordance with the Plan and pursuant to applicable French legal and tax rules.
Nevertheless, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, determine to make adjustments in the case of a transaction for which adjustments are not authorized under French law, in which case the Options may no longer qualify as French-qualified Options.
Assumption of the French-qualified Options in the case of a Change in Control, as well as an acceleration of the vesting and exercisability of the French-qualified Options or any other mechanism implemented upon such Change in Control, or in any other event, to compensate the Participants, may result in the Options no longer being eligible for the favorable French tax and social security regime.
 
If the Options or underlying Shares are modified or adjusted in a manner in keeping with the terms of the Plan or as mandated as a matter of law or by decision of the Company's shareholders or the Board or the Committee, and the modification or adjustment is contrary to the terms and conditions of this French Options Plan, the Options may no longer qualify for favorable tax and social security treatment in France.
If the Options no longer qualify as French-qualified Options, the Committee may, provided it is authorized to do so under the Plan, and in its sole discretion, determine to lift, shorten or terminate certain restrictions applicable to the Options or to the sale of the Shares underlying the Options, which may have been imposed under this French Options Plan or in the applicable stock option award agreement in order to achieve the favorable tax and social security treatment applicable to French-qualified Options.
 
Options granted pursuant to this French Options Plan shall expire no later than nine-and-a-half (9
 1
/
2
) years after the Grant Date, unless otherwise specified in the applicable stock option award agreement. The Option term will be extended only in the event of the death of a French Participant, but in no event will any Options be exercisable beyond six (6) months following the date of death of the French Participant.
 
It is intended that Options granted under this French Options Plan shall qualify for the favorable tax and social security treatment applicable to stock options granted under Sections L. 225-177 to L. 225-186-1 of the French Commercial Code, as amended, and in accordance with the relevant provisions set forth by French tax and the French tax administration, but no undertaking is made to maintain such status.
The terms of this French Options Plan shall be interpreted accordingly and in accordance with the relevant provisions set forth by French tax and social security laws and relevant guidelines published by French tax and social security administrations and subject to the fulfilment of certain legal, tax and reporting obligations.
In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this French Options Plan and the Plan, the provisions of this French Options Plan shall control for any grants of Option made thereunder to French Participants.
 
The adoption of this French Options Plan shall not confer upon the French Participants or any employees of a French Entity, any employment rights and shall not be construed as part of any employment contracts that a French Entity has with its employees.
 
Subject to the terms of the Plan, the Committee or the Committee's Delegate reserves the right to amend or terminate this French Options Plan at any time in accordance with applicable French law.
 
The amended and restated French Options Plan is effective as of its date of adoption, , as of July 1, 2009. The French Options Plan is hereby adopted as of July 1, 2009.
i.e.
 
 
 
 
The purpose of the Plan is to aid the Company and its Affiliates in recruiting and retaining key employees and directors and to motivate such employees and directors to exert their best efforts on behalf of the Company and its Affiliates by providing incentives through the granting of Awards. The Company expects that it will benefit from the added interest which such key employees and directors will have in the welfare of the Company as a result of their proprietary interest in the Company's success.
 
The following capitalized terms used in the Plan have the respective meanings set forth in this Section:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject to Section 9, the total number of Shares which may be issued under the Plan is 27,000,000 and the maximum number of Shares for which ISOs may be granted is 20% of the total number of Shares which may be issued under the Plan. For Awards granted prior to June 3, 2009, not more than 25% shall be in the form of Full Value Awards. With respect to Awards granted on or after June 3, 2009, to the extent any Shares are granted as Full Value Awards, each such Share shall count as 2.05 Shares for purposes of the overall limit on Shares available for further grants under the Plan. The Shares may consist, in whole or in part, of unissued Shares or treasury Shares. The actual issuance of Shares upon the exercise of an Award or in consideration of the cancellation or termination of an Award shall reduce the number of Shares available for grant under the Plan (i) in the case of Awards granted on or after June 3, 2009, with a reduction of 2.05 Shares for every Share previously granted as a Full Value Award and a reduction of one Share for every Share previously granted as an Award of Options or Stock Appreciation Rights and (ii) in the case of Awards granted prior to June 3, 2009, with a reduction of one Share for every Share previously granted as an Award. In the event all or any portion of an Award is terminated or lapses without the payment of consideration, the number of Shares not issued that were originally deducted for such Award pursuant to this Section 3 shall be restored and may again be used for Awards under the Plan. In the event that Shares are retained or are otherwise not issued by the Company in order to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with Full Value Awards (i.e. Awards other than Stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights), the number of Shares so retained or not issued that were originally deducted for such Award pursuant to this Section 3 shall be restored and may again be used for Awards under the Plan. Shares subject to an Award under the Plan may not be available again for issuance under the Plan if such Shares are retained or otherwise not issued by the Company in order to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with Stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights.
 
The Plan shall be administered by the Committee, which may delegate its duties and powers in whole or in part to any subcommittee thereof consisting solely of at least two individuals who are intended to qualify as "Non-Employee Directors" within the meaning of Rule 16b-3 under the Act (or any successor rule thereto), "independent directors" within the meaning of The New York Stock Exchange's listed company rules and "outside directors" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code (or any successor section thereto).
Additionally, the Committee may delegate the authority to grant Awards under the Plan to any employee or group of employees of the Company or an Affiliate; provided, however, that such delegation and grants are consistent with applicable law and guidelines established by the Committee from time to time. Awards may, in the discretion of the Committee, be made under the Plan in assumption of, or in substitution for, outstanding awards previously granted by a company acquired by the Company or with which the Company and/or any of its Affiliates combines. The number of Shares underlying such substitute awards shall be counted against the aggregate number of Shares available for Awards under the Plan. The Committee is authorized to interpret the Plan, to establish, amend and rescind any rules and regulations relating to the Plan, and to make any other determinations that it deems necessary or desirable for the administration of the Plan. The Committee may correct any defect or supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan in the manner and to the extent the Committee deems necessary or desirable. Any decision of the Committee in the interpretation and administration of the Plan, as described herein, shall lie within its sole and absolute discretion and shall be final, conclusive and binding on all parties concerned (including, but not limited to, Participants and their beneficiaries or successors). The Committee shall have the full power and authority to establish the terms and conditions of any Award consistent with the provisions of the Plan and to waive any such terms and conditions at any time (including, without limitation, accelerating or waiving any vesting conditions). The Committee shall require payment of any amount it may determine to be necessary for federal, state, local or other taxes as a result of the exercise, grant or vesting of an Award. The Committee shall not be required to issue any Award under the Plan until such obligations described in the previous sentence have been satisfied in full. In no event shall the Committee cancel any outstanding Option or Stock Appreciation Right for the purpose of reissuing such Option or Stock Appreciation Right to the Participant at a lower exercise price nor shall the Committee reduce the exercise price of an outstanding Option or Stock Appreciation Right.
 
No Award may be granted under the Plan after the tenth anniversary of the Effective Date, but Awards theretofore granted may extend beyond that date.
 
Options granted under the Plan shall be, as determined by the Committee, non-qualified or incentive stock options for United States federal income tax purposes, as evidenced by the related Award letters, and shall be subject to the foregoing and the following terms and conditions and to such other terms and conditions, not inconsistent therewith, as the Committee shall determine:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding any other provisions in the Plan to the contrary (except for Section 17), the following provisions shall apply to all Awards granted under the Plan:
 
 
(i) All outstanding Options and Stock Appreciation Rights shall become immediately vested and exercisable;
(ii) All Other Stock-Based Awards shall become immediately vested and payable; and
(iii) The performance period applicable to Performance-Based Awards shall lapse and the performance goals associated with such awards shall be deemed to have been met at their target level.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may (subject to Section 17), in its sole discretion, but shall not be obligated to, (A) cancel such Awards for fair value (as determined in the sole discretion of the Committee) which, in the case of Options and Stock Appreciation Rights, shall equal the excess, if any, of value of the consideration to be paid in the Change in Control transaction to holders of the same number of Shares subject to such Options or Stock Appreciation Rights (or, if no consideration is paid in any such transaction, the Fair Market Value of the Shares subject to such Options or Stock Appreciation Rights) over the aggregate exercise price of such Options or Stock Appreciation Rights, (B) provide for the issuance of substitute awards that will substantially preserve the otherwise applicable terms of any affected Awards previously granted hereunder as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion or (C) provide that for a period of at least 15 days prior to the Change in Control, such Options and Stock Appreciation Rights shall be exercisable as to all shares subject thereto and that upon the occurrence of the Change in Control, such Options and Stock Appreciation Rights shall terminate and be of no further force and effect.
 
The granting of an Award under the Plan shall impose no obligation on the Company or any Affiliate to continue the employment or service of a Participant and shall not lessen or affect the Company's or Affiliate's right to terminate the employment or service of such Participant. No Participant or other Person shall have any claim to be granted any Award, and there is no obligation for uniformity of treatment of Participants, or holders or beneficiaries of Awards. The terms and conditions of Awards and the Committee's determinations and interpretations with respect thereto need not be the same with respect to each Participant (whether or not such Participants are similarly situated).
 
The Plan shall be binding on all successors and assigns of the Company and a Participant, including without limitation, the estate of such Participant and the executor, administrator or trustee of such estate, or any receiver or trustee in bankruptcy or representative of the Participant's creditors.
 
Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, an Award shall not be transferable or assignable by the Participant otherwise than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. An Award exercisable after the death of a Participant may be exercised by the legatees, personal representatives or distributees of the Participant.
The Board may amend, alter or discontinue the Plan, but no amendment, alteration or discontinuation shall be made, (a) without the approval of the shareholders of the Company, if such action would (except as is provided in Section 9 of the Plan), increase the total number of Shares reserved for the purposes of the Plan or change the maximum number of Shares for which Awards may be granted to any Participant or (b) without the consent of a Participant, if such action would diminish any of the rights of the Participant under any Award theretofore granted to such Participant under the Plan; provided, however, that the Committee may amend the Plan in such manner as it deems necessary to permit the granting of Awards meeting the requirements of the Code or other applicable laws (including, without limitation, to avoid adverse tax consequences to the Company or to Participants).
 
With respect to Participants who reside or work outside the United States of America and who are not (and who are not expected to be) "covered employees" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, amend the terms of the Plan or Awards with respect to such Participants in order to conform such terms with the requirements of local law or to obtain more favorable tax or other treatment for a Participant, the Company or an Affiliate.
 
The Plan shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New Jersey without regard to conflicts of laws.
 
The Plan shall be effective as of the Effective Date, subject to the approval of the shareholders of the Company.
 
Notwithstanding other provisions of the Plan or any Award letter thereunder, no Award shall be granted, deferred, accelerated, extended, paid out or modified under this Plan in a manner that would result in the imposition of an additional tax under Section 409A of the Code upon a Participant. In the event that it is reasonably determined by the Committee that, as a result of Section 409A of the Code, payments in respect of any Award under the Plan may not be made at the time contemplated by the terms of the Plan or the relevant Award letter, as the case may be, without causing the Participant holding such Award to be subject to taxation under Section 409A of the Code, the Company will make such payment on the first day that would not result in the Participant incurring any tax liability under Section 409A of the Code.
Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, to the extent applicable, notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, this Plan and Awards issued hereunder shall be interpreted in accordance with Section 409A of the Code and Department of Treasury regulations and other interpretative guidance issued thereunder, including without limitation any
such regulations or other guidance that may be issued after the Effective Date. Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, in the event that the Committee determines that any amounts payable hereunder will be taxable to a Participant under Section 409A of the Code and related Department of Treasury guidance prior to payment to such Participant of such amount, the Company may (a) adopt such amendments to the Plan and Awards and appropriate policies and procedures, including amendments and policies with retroactive effect, that the Committee determines necessary or appropriate to preserve the intended tax treatment of the benefits provided by the Plan and Awards hereunder and/or (b) take such other actions as the Committee determines necessary or appropriate to avoid the imposition of an additional tax under Section 409A of the Code.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this amendment and restatement to be executed by its duly authorized representative as of July 1, 2009.
 

Exhibit 10.17
The purpose of the Plan is to foster and promote the long-term financial success of the Company and materially increase shareholder value by () providing flexibility to the Company to implement annual and long term incentives that are consistent with the Company's goals, () encouraging and providing for the acquisition of an ownership interest in the Company by Employees, and () enabling the Company to attract and retain the services of world-class leaders upon whose judgment, interest and special effort the successful conduct of its operations is largely dependent.
a
b
c
2.1 . Whenever used herein, the following terms shall have the respective meanings set forth below:
Definitions
(a) "Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
(b) "Adjustment Event" shall mean any stock dividend, stock split or share combination of, or extraordinary cash dividend on, the Common Stock or recapitalization, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, combination, exchange of shares, warrants or rights offering to purchase Common Stock at a price substantially below Fair Market Value, or other similar event affecting the Common Stock of the Company.
(c) "Annual Incentive Award" means an Incentive Award made pursuant to Section 9 with a Performance Cycle of one year or less.
(d) "Beneficial Owner" means any "person", as such term is used in Section 13(d) of the Act, who, directly or indirectly, has or shares the right to vote or dispose of such securities or otherwise has "beneficial ownership" of such securities (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 and Rule 13d-5 under the Act), including pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding (whether or not in writing).
(e) "Board" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
(f) "Cause" means a Participant's (i) dishonesty, fraud or misrepresentation, (ii) the Participant's engaging in conduct that is injurious to the Company or any Subsidiary in any way, including, but not limited to by way of damage to its reputation or standing in the industry, (iii) the Participant's having been convicted of, or entered a plea of nolo contendere to, a crime that constitutes a felony; (iv) the breach by the Participant of any written covenant or agreement with the Company or any Subsidiary not to disclose or misuse any information pertaining to, or misuse any property of, the Company or any Subsidiary or (v) a material violation by the Participant of any policy of the Company or any Subsidiary.
(g) "Change of Control" shall mean the occurrence of any of the following events:
(i) any "person", as such term is used in Section 13(d) of the Act (other than the Company, any Subsidiary or any employee benefit plan maintained by the Company or any Subsidiary (or any trustee or other fiduciary thereof)) is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then-outstanding securities, provided, however, that an acquisition of securities of the Company representing less than 25% of the combined voting power shall not constitute a Change of Control if, prior to meeting the 20% threshold, the members of the Board who are not Employees unanimously adopt a resolution consenting to such acquisition by such Beneficial Owners;
(ii) during any consecutive 24-month period, individuals who at the beginning of such period constitute the Board, together with those individuals who first become directors during such period (other than by reason of an agreement with the Company or the Board in settlement of a proxy contest for the election of directors) and whose election or nomination for election to the Board was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors then still in office who either were directors at the beginning of the period or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved (the "Continuing Directors"), cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the Board;
 
(iii) the consummation of any merger, consolidation, recapitalization or reorganization involving the Company, other than any such transaction immediately following which the persons who were the Beneficial Owners of the outstanding voting securities of the Company immediately prior to such transaction are the Beneficial Owners of at least 55% of the total voting power represented by the voting securities of the entity surviving such transaction or the ultimate parent of such entity in substantially the same relative proportions as their ownership of the Company's voting securities immediately prior to such transaction; , such continuity of ownership (and preservation of relative voting power) shall be deemed to be satisfied if the failure to meet such threshold (or to preserve such relative voting power) is due solely to the acquisition of voting securities by an employee benefit plan of the Company, such surviving entity, any Subsidiary or any subsidiary of such surviving entity;
provided
that
(iv) the sale of substantially all of the assets of the Company to any person other than any Subsidiary or any entity in which the Beneficial Owners of the outstanding voting securities of the Company immediately prior to such sale are the Beneficial Owners of at least 55% of the total voting power represented by the voting securities of such entity or the ultimate parent of such entity in substantially the same relative proportions as their ownership of the Company's voting securities immediately prior to such transaction; or
(v) the shareholders of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
Effective June 5, 2008 Change of Control shall have the meaning set forth in the Ingersoll-Rand Company Limited Incentive Stock Plan of 2007 or any successor thereto.
(h) "Change of Control Settlement Value" shall mean, with respect to a share of Common Stock, the excess of the Change of Control Stock Value over the option price of the Option or the base price of the Stock Appreciation Right covering such share of Common Stock, , (i) with respect to any Option which is an Incentive Stock Option immediately prior to the election to receive the Change of Control
provided
that
 
Settlement Value, the Change of Control Settlement Value shall not exceed the maximum amount permitted for such Option to continue to qualify as an Incentive Stock Option and (ii) in respect of that portion, if any, of any Option or Stock Appreciation Right that had not become exercisable on or before December 31, 2004, the Change of Control Settlement Value shall not exceed the maximum amount permitted for such Option or Stock Appreciation Right to remain exempt from Section 409A.
(i) "Change of Control Stock Value" shall mean the value of a share of Common Stock determined as follows:
(i) if the Change of Control results from an event described in clause (iii) of the Change of Control definition, the highest per share price paid for shares of Common Stock of the Company in the transaction resulting in the Change of Control; or
(ii) if the Change of Control results from an event described in clause (i), (ii) (iv) or (v) of the Change of Control definition and no event described in clause (iii) of the Change of Control definition has occurred in connection with such Change of Control, the highest sale price of a share of Common Stock of the Company on any trading day during the 60 consecutive trading days immediately preceding and following the date of such Change of Control as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape, or other national securities exchange on which the Common Stock is traded, and published in
The Wall Street Journal;
(j) "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
(k) "Committee" means the Management Development and Nominating Committee of the Board (or such other committee of the Board that the Board shall designate), which shall consist of two or more members, each of whom shall be a non-employee director within the meaning of Rule 16b-3, as promulgated under the Act and serving at the pleasure of the Board. Effective June 5, 2008, Committee means the Compensation Committee of the Board (or such other committee of the Board that the Board shall designate), which shall consist of two or more members, each of whom shall be a non-employee director within the meaning of Rule 16b-3, as promulgated under the Act and serving at the pleasure of the Board. Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to Incentive Awards granted to non-employee directors, the Committee shall mean the entire Board.
 
(l) "Common Stock" means the common stock of the Company, par value $0.01 per share. Effective July 1, 2009, "Common Stock " means the ordinary shares of the Company, par value $1.00 per share.
(m) "Company" means Trane Inc., a Delaware corporation, and any successor thereto. Effective June 5, 2008, "Company" means Ingersoll-Rand Company Limited, a Bermuda company. Effective July 1, 2009 "Company" means Ingersoll-Rand plc, an Irish company
(n) "Disability" means a Participant's inability, due to reasonably documented physical or mental illness, for more than six months to perform his duties with the Company or a Subsidiary on a full time basis if, within 30 days after written notice of termination has been given to such Participant, he shall not have returned to the full time performance of his duties.
(o) "Dividend Equivalents" means an amount equal to the cash dividends paid by the Company upon one share of Common Stock for each Restricted Unit or property distributions awarded to a Participant in accordance with Section 8 of the Plan.
(p) "Employee" means an individual who is paid on the payroll of the Company or one of its Subsidiaries, and is classified on the employer's human resource payroll system as a regular full-time or regular part-time employee.
(q) "Executive Officer" means each person who is an officer of the Company or any Subsidiary and who is subject to the reporting requirements under Section 16(a) of the Act.
(r) "Fair Market Value" means, on any date, the average of the highest and lowest sales price reported for such day on the principal national exchange on which the Common Stock is listed for trade or the average of the highest and lowest bid and asked prices on such date as reported on the principal nationally recognized system of price quotation on which the Common Stock is listed. In the event that there are no Common Stock transactions reported on such exchange or system on such date, Fair Market Value shall mean the closing price on the immediately preceding date on which Common Stock transactions were so reported.
 
(s) "Family Member" means as to a Participant, any (i) child, stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law or daughter-in-law (including adoptive relationships), (ii) trusts for the exclusive benefit of one or more such persons and/or the Participant and (iii) other entity owned solely by one or more such persons and/or the Participant.
(t) "Incentive Award" means the award of an Annual Incentive Award, a Long-Term Incentive Award, an Option, a Stock Appreciation Right, a Restricted Unit, or Restricted Stock under the Plan and shall also include an award of Common Stock or Restricted Units made in conjunction with other incentive programs established by the Company and so designated by the Committee.
(u) "Long-Term Incentive Award" means an Incentive Award made pursuant to Section 9 with a Performance Cycle of two years or more.
(v) "Option" means the right to purchase Common Stock at a stated price for a specified period of time. For purposes of the Plan, an Option may be either () an "Incentive Stock Option" with the meaning of Section 422 of the Code or () an Option which is not an Incentive Stock Option (a "Non-Qualified Stock Option").
i
ii
(w) "Participant" means any Employee or any non-employee director of the Company designated by the Committee to receive an Incentive Award under the Plan, provided that non-employee directors shall not be eligible for Annual Incentive Awards, Long-Term Incentive Awards or Incentive Stock Options.
(x) "Performance Cycle" means the period selected by the Committee during which the performance of the Company or any Subsidiary or unit thereof or any individual is measured for the purpose of determining the extent to which an Incentive Award subject to Performance Goals has been earned.
(y) "Performance Goals" means the objectives for the Company, any Subsidiary or business unit thereof or individual that may be established by the Committee for a Performance Cycle with respect to any performance based Incentive Awards contingently awarded under the Plan. The Performance Goals for Incentive Awards that are intended to constitute "performance-based" compensation within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code shall be based on one or more of the following measures: sales, gross revenues, gross margins, earnings per share, internal rate of
 
return, return on equity, return on capital, net income (before or after taxes), management net income, operating income, operating income before interest expense and taxes ("OEBIT"), segment income, cash flow, free cash flow or stock price. Performance Goals may reflect absolute entity performance or a relative comparison of entity performance to the performance of a peer group or other external measure.
(z) "Plan" means the Trane Inc. 2002 Omnibus Incentive Plan, as set forth herein and as the same may be amended from time to time.
(aa) "Restricted Period" means the period during which Restricted Units or shares of Restricted Stock are subject to forfeiture or restrictions on transfer (if applicable) pursuant to Section 8 of the Plan.
(bb) "Restricted Stock" means Common Stock awarded to a Participant pursuant to the Plan which is subject to forfeiture and restrictions on transferability in accordance with Section 8 of the Plan.
(cc) "Restricted Unit" means a Participant's right to receive pursuant to the Plan one share of Common Stock at the end of a specified period of time, which right is subject to forfeiture in accordance with Section 8 of the Plan.
(dd) "Retirement" means termination of a Participant's employment on or after the Participant attains (i) age 55 with 5 years of service or (ii) age 50 with 10 years of service.
(ee) "Stock Appreciation Right" means the right to receive a payment from the Company, in cash or Common Stock, in an amount determined under Section 7 of the Plan.
(ff) "Subsidiary" means any corporation, partnership or limited liability company in which the Company owns, directly or indirectly, 50% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of such corporation or of the capital interest or profits interest of such partnership.
2.2 . Except when otherwise indicated by the context, words in the masculine gender used in the Plan shall include the feminine gender, the singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include the singular.
Gender and Number
 
Participants in the Plan shall be those Employees and non-employee directors selected by the Committee to participate in the Plan.
4.1 . The Committee shall have the authority, subject to the terms of the Plan, to determine the Participants to whom Incentive Awards shall be granted and the terms and conditions of any and all Incentive Awards, including but not limited to the number of shares of Common Stock to be covered by each Incentive Award, the time or times at which Incentive Awards shall be granted, and the terms and provisions of the instruments by which Options shall be evidenced; to designate Options as Incentive Stock Options or Non-Qualified Stock Options; to determine the period of time during which restrictions on Restricted Stock or Restricted Units shall remain in effect; and to establish and administer any Performance Goals applicable to Incentive Awards granted hereunder, as well as to determine Participants' target Annual Incentive and Long-Term Incentive Awards. The proper officers of the Company may suggest to the Committee the Participants who should receive Incentive Awards. The terms and conditions of each Incentive Award shall be determined by the Committee at the time of grant, and such terms and conditions shall not be subsequently changed in a manner which would be adverse to the Participant without the consent of the Participant to whom such Incentive Award has been granted. The Committee may establish different terms and conditions for different Participants receiving Incentive Awards and for the same Participant for each Incentive Award such Participant may receive, whether or not granted at different times. The grant of any Incentive Award to any Participant shall neither entitle such Participant to, nor disqualify him from, the grant of any other Incentive Awards. Notwithstanding anything else contained in the Plan to the contrary, the Committee may delegate, subject to such terms and conditions or guidelines as it shall determine, to any employee of the Company or to a committee of employees of the Company any portion of its authority and powers under the Plan with respect to Participants who are not Executive Officers. Effective June 5, 2008, no additional Incentive Awards shall be granted under the Plan.
Power to Grant and Establish Terms of Incentive Awards
 
4.2 . The Committee shall be responsible for the administration of the Plan. Any Incentive Award granted by the Committee may be subject to such conditions, not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan, as the Committee shall determine. The Committee, by majority action thereof, is authorized to prescribe, amend and rescind rules and regulations relating to the Plan, to provide for conditions deemed necessary or advisable to protect the interests of the Company to interpret the Plan and to make all other determinations necessary or advisable for the administration and interpretation of the Plan to carry out its provisions and purposes. Determinations, interpretations or other actions made or taken by the Committee pursuant to the provisions of the Plan shall be final, binding and conclusive for all purposes and upon all persons. The Committee may consult with legal counsel, who may be counsel to the Company, and shall not incur any liability for any action taken in good faith in reliance upon the advice of counsel.
Administration
4.3 . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the Committee, in order to conform with provisions of local laws and regulations in foreign countries in which the Company or its Subsidiaries operate, shall have sole discretion to (i) modify the terms and conditions of Incentive Awards granted to Participants employed outside the United States, (ii) establish subplans with modified exercise procedures and such other modifications as may be necessary or advisable under the circumstances presented by local laws and regulations, provided that no more than 1,000,000 shares shall be issued as Incentive Awards under such subplans; and (iii) take any action which it deems advisable to obtain, comply with or otherwise reflect any necessary governmental regulatory procedures, exemptions or approvals with respect to the Plan or any subplan established hereunder.
Participants Based Outside the United States
4.4 . The Committee shall be entitled to make such rules, determinations and adjustments as it deems appropriate with respect to any Participant who becomes eligible to receive a performance based Incentive Award after the commencement of a Performance Cycle.
Newly Eligible Participants
4.5 . The Committee may condition the grant of any Incentive Award under the Plan upon the Participant to whom such Incentive Award would be granted agreeing in writing to certain conditions in addition to the provisions regarding exercisability of an Option or the vesting or payment of any other Incentive Award (such as restrictions on the ability to transfer the underlying shares of Common Stock) or covenants in favor of the Company and/or its Subsidiaries (including, without limitation covenants not to compete, not to solicit employees and customers that may have effect following the termination of the Participant's employment and after the Option has been
Restrictive Covenants and Other Conditions
 
exercised or the Incentive Award has otherwise vested, including, without limitation, the requirement that the Participant disgorge any profit, gain or other benefit received in respect of the Incentive Award prior to any breach of any such covenant by the Participant).
4.6 . The Plan is intended to be administered in a manner consistent with the requirements, where applicable, of Section 409A of the Code. Where reasonably possible and practicable, the Plan shall be administered in a manner to avoid the imposition on Participants of immediate tax recognition and additional taxes pursuant to such Section 409A. To that end, and without limiting the generality of the foregoing, unless otherwise expressly provided herein or in any Incentive Award agreement, any amount payable or shares distributable hereunder in connection with the vesting of any Incentive Award (including upon the satisfaction of any applicable performance criteria) shall be paid not later than two and one-half months (or such other time as is required to cause such amounts not to be treated as deferred compensation under Section 409A of the Code) following the end of the taxable year of the Company or the Participant in which the Participant's rights with respect to the corresponding Incentive Award (or portion thereof) ceased to be subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture. Notwithstanding the foregoing, neither the Company nor the Committee shall have any liability to any person in the event such Section 409A applies to any such Incentive Award in a manner that results in adverse tax consequences for the Participant or any of his beneficiaries or transferees.
409A Compliance
5.1 . Subject to the provisions of Section 5.3, the number of shares of Common Stock available for Incentive Awards under the Plan shall be 16,500,000. The shares to be delivered under the Plan may consist, in whole or in part, of Common Stock held in treasury or authorized but unissued Common Stock, not reserved for any other purpose. The total number of shares of Common Stock available under the Plan for Incentive Awards other than Options and Stock Appreciation Rights shall not exceed 1,000,000.
Number
5.2 . Any shares of Common Stock subject to an Incentive Award issued under this Plan which for any reason expires, or is canceled, terminated or otherwise settled without the issuance of any consideration, whether in cash, Common Stock or other property (including, without limitation, any shares issued in connection with a Restricted Stock award that are subsequently forfeited) shall again be available under the Plan.
Cancelled, Terminated, or Forfeited Awards
 
5.3 . In the event of any Adjustment Event, (i) the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock available for Incentive Awards under Section 5.1, (ii) the aggregate limitations on the number of shares that may be awarded as a particular type of Incentive Award or that may be awarded to any particular Participant in any particular period under Section 5.4 and (iii) the aggregate number of shares subject to outstanding Incentive Awards and the respective prices and/or vesting criteria applicable to outstanding Incentive Awards shall be proportionately adjusted to reflect, as deemed equitable and appropriate by the Committee, an Adjustment Event. To the extent deemed equitable and appropriate by the Committee, subject to any required action by stockholders, in any merger, consolidation, reorganization, liquidation, dissolution, or other similar transaction, any Incentive Award granted under the Plan shall pertain to the securities and other property, including cash, to which a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock covered by the Incentive Award would have been entitled to receive in connection with such event.
Adjustment Due to Change in Capitalization
Any shares of stock (whether Common Stock, shares of stock into which shares of Common Stock are converted or for which shares of Common Stock are exchanged or shares of stock distributed with respect to Common Stock) or cash or other property received with respect to any award of Restricted Stock or Restricted Units granted under the Plan as a result of any Adjustment Event or any distribution of property shall, except as provided in Section 10 or as otherwise provided by the Committee at or after the date an award of Restricted Stock or Restricted Units is made by the Committee, be subject to the same terms and conditions, including restrictions on transfer, as are applicable to such shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Units and any stock certificate(s) representing or evidencing any shares of stock so received shall be legended in such manner as the Company deems appropriate.
5.4 . Subject to Section 5.3:
Incentive Award Limitations
(a) the total number of shares of Common Stock subject to Options and Stock Appreciation Rights awarded to any Participant during a calendar year may not exceed 4,500,000;
(b) the total amount of any Restricted Stock or Restricted Units that may be awarded to any Participant during a calendar year shall not exceed 450,000 shares or units as the case may be;
 
(c) the total amount of any Annual Incentive Award paid to an y Participant during a calendar year shall not exceed $3,000,000; and
(d) the total amount of any Long-Term Incentive Award paid to any Participant during a calendar year shall not exceed $4,500,000.
6.1 . Options may be granted to Participants at such time or times as shall be determined by the Committee; provided that, in no event shall the Committee be permitted to grant Options conditioned on the surrender or cancellation of previously granted Options. Options granted to non-employee directors shall be in such amounts and intervals as determined by the Board from time to time. Options granted under the Plan may be of two types: () Incentive Stock Options and () Non-Qualified Stock Options, except that no Incentive Stock Option may be granted to a non-employee director or to any Employee of a Subsidiary which is not a corporation (unless the Subsidiary is a disregarded entity for Federal income tax purposes). The date of grant of an Option under the Plan will be the date on which the Option is awarded by the Committee or, if so determined by the Committee, the date on which occurs any event the occurrence of which is an express condition precedent to the grant of the Option. Subject to Section 5.4, the Committee shall determine the number of Options, if any, to be granted to the Participant. Each Option shall be evidenced by an electronic or written document that shall specify the type of Option granted, the exercise price, the duration of the Option, the number of shares of Common Stock to which the Option pertains, and such other terms and conditions not inconsistent with the Plan as the Committee shall determine.
Grant of Options
i
ii
6.2 . Non-Qualified Stock Options and Incentive Stock Options granted pursuant to the Plan shall have an exercise price that is not less than the Fair Market Value on the date the Option is granted. Except in the event of an Adjustment Event, the Committee shall not have the power or authority to reduce the exercise price of any outstanding Option, whether through amendment, through the cancellation of existing grants and the issuance of new grants with lower exercise prices or by any other means.
Option Price
6.3 . Options awarded to a Participant under the Plan shall be exercisable at such times and shall be subject to such restrictions and conditions including the performance of a minimum period of service or the satisfaction of Performance
Exercise of Options
 
Goals, as the Committee may impose either at or after the time of grant of such Options, subject to the Committee's right to accelerate the exercisability of such Option in its discretion. Notwithstanding the foregoing, unless otherwise determined by the Committee at grant, Options shall become exercisable in three equal installments on each of the first three anniversaries of the date of grant. Except as may be provided in any provision approved by the Committee pursuant to this Section 6.3, after becoming exercisable each installment shall remain exercisable until expiration, termination or cancellation of the Option. An Option may be exercised from time to time, in whole or in part, up to the total number of shares of Common Stock with respect to which it is then exercisable. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Option shall be exercisable for more than 10 years after the date on which it is granted.
6.4 . The Committee shall establish procedures governing the exercise of Options. No shares shall be delivered pursuant to any exercise of an Option unless arrangements satisfactory to the Committee have been made to assure full payment of the exercise price therefor. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, payment of the exercise price may be made () in cash or cash equivalents, () by exchanging shares of Common Stock which have been owned by the Participant for at least six months' at the time of exercise (or such greater or lesser period as the Committee shall determine), (iii) by any combination of the foregoing; provided that the combined value of all cash and cash equivalents paid and the Fair Market Value of any such Common Stock so tendered to the Company, valued as of the date of such tender, is at least equal to the exercise price, () through an arrangement with a broker approved by the Company whereby payment of the exercise price is accomplished with the proceeds of the sale of Common Stock or (v) through such other procedures as the Committee may determine. As soon as administratively practicable after receipt of a written exercise notice and payment of the exercise price in accordance with this Section 6.4, the Company shall deliver to the Participant a certificate or certificates representing the acquired shares of Common Stock.
Payment
i
ii
iv
6.5 . At the time a Participant exercises an Option in lieu of accepting payment of the exercise price of the Option and delivering the number of shares of Common Stock for which the Option is being exercised, the Committee may direct that the Company either () pay the Participant a cash amount, or () issue a lesser number of shares of Common Stock having a Fair Market Value on the date of exercise, equal to the amount, if any, by which the aggregate Fair Market Value of the shares of Common Stock as to which the Option is being exercised exceeds the aggregate exercise price for such shares, based on such
Settlement
i
ii
 
terms and conditions as the Committee shall establish; provided that, for the avoidance of doubt, in either case, the number of shares remaining for issuance under the Plan shall be determined as though the full number of shares corresponding to the portion of such Option settled or net exercised pursuant to this Section 6.5 had been issued.
6.6 . Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, no term of the Plan relating to Incentive Stock Options shall be interpreted, amended or altered, nor shall any discretion or authority granted under the Plan be so exercised, so as to disqualify the Plan under Section 422 of the Code, or, without the consent of any Participant affected thereby, to cause any Incentive Stock Option previously granted to fail to qualify for the Federal income tax treatment afforded under Section 421 of the Code.
Incentive Stock Options
6.7 . Unless otherwise determined by the Committee at the time of grant, in the event a Participant's employment with the Company or a Subsidiary terminates by reason of Retirement, any such Options granted to such Participant which are exercisable at the date of such Participant's termination of employment may be exercised at any time during the remainder of the full term of such Options.
Termination of Employment Due to Retirement
6.8 . Unless otherwise determined by the Committee at the time of grant, in the event a Participant's employment with the Company or a Subsidiary terminates by reason of death or Disability, any such Options granted to such Participant which are exercisable at the date of such Participant's termination of employment may be exercised by the Participant or the Participant's designated beneficiary, and if none is named, in accordance with Section 11.2, at any time during the remainder of the full term of such Options.
Termination of Employment Due to Death or Disability
6.9 . Unless otherwise determined by the Committee at the time of grant, in the event a Participant's employment with the Company or a Subsidiary is terminated for Cause, all Options granted to such Participant which are then outstanding (whether or not exercisable prior to the date of such termination) shall be forfeited.
Termination of Employment for Cause
6.10 . Unless otherwise determined by the Committee at or after the time of grant, in the event a Participant's
Termination of Employment for Any Other Reason
 
employment with the Company or a Subsidiary terminates for any reason other than one described in Section 6.7, 6.8 or 6.9, any Options granted to such Participant which are exercisable at the date of such Participant's termination of employment shall be exercisable at any time prior to 90 days following such Participant's termination of employment or the expiration of the term of such Options, whichever period is shorter.
6.11 . Notwithstanding anything else contained in this Section 6 to the contrary, unless otherwise determined by the Committee at or after the time of grant, upon a Participant's termination of employment for any reason, including death, any Options granted to such Participant which are not exercisable as of the date of such termination of employment shall be cancelled.
Cancellation of Unvested Options
6.12 . Notwithstanding anything else contained in this Section 6 to the contrary, the Committee may permit all or any portion of any Options to be exercised following a Participant's termination of employment for any reason on such terms and subject to such conditions as the Committee shall determine for a period up to and including, but not beyond, the expiration of the term of such Options.
Committee Discretion
7.1 . Stock Appreciation Rights may be granted to any Participants, all Participants or any class of Participants at such time or times as shall be determined by the Committee. Stock Appreciation Rights may be granted in tandem with an Option, or may granted on a freestanding basis, not related to any Option. A grant of a Stock Appreciation Right shall be evidenced in writing, whether as part of the agreement governing the terms of the Option, if any, to which such Stock Appreciation Rights relate or pursuant to a separate written agreement with respect to freestanding Stock Appreciation Rights, in each case containing such provisions not inconsistent with the Plan as the Committee shall approve.
Grant of Stock Appreciation Rights
7.2 . The terms and conditions (including, without limitation, the exercise period of the Stock Appreciation Right, the vesting schedule applicable thereto and the impact of any termination of service on the Participant's rights with respect to the Stock Appreciation Right) applicable with respect to () Stock Appreciation Rights granted in tandem with an Option shall be substantially identical (to
Terms and Conditions of Stock Appreciation Rights
i
 
the extent possible taking into account the differences related to the character of the Stock Appreciation Right) to the terms and conditions applicable to the tandem Options and () freestanding Stock Appreciation Rights shall be substantially identical (to the extent possible taking into account the differences related to the character of the Stock Appreciation Right) to the terms and conditions that would have been applicable under Section 6 above were the grant of the Stock Appreciation Rights a grant of an Option.
ii
7.3 . Stock Appreciation Rights which are granted in tandem with an Option may only be exercised upon the surrender of the right to exercise such Option for an equivalent number of shares and may be exercised only with respect to the shares of Common Stock for which the related Option is then exercisable.
Exercise of Tandem Stock Appreciation Rights
7.4 . Upon exercise of a Stock Appreciation Right, the holder shall be entitled to receive payment, in cash, in shares of Common Stock or in a combination thereof, as determined by the Committee, of an amount determined by multiplying the excess, if any, of the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock at the date of exercise over the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the date of grant, by the number of shares of Common Stock with respect to which the Stock Appreciation Rights are then being exercised; provided that, for the avoidance of doubt, the number of shares remaining for issuance under the Plan shall be determined as though the full number of shares corresponding to the portion of such Stock Appreciation Right exercised had been issued.
Payment of Stock Appreciation Right Amount
8.1 . Any award made hereunder of Restricted Stock or Restricted Units shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan and to any other terms and conditions not inconsistent with the Plan (including, but not limited to, requiring the Participant to pay the Company an amount equal to the par value per share for each share of Restricted Stock awarded) as shall be prescribed by the Committee in its sole discretion. As determined by the Committee, with respect to an award of Restricted Stock, the Company shall either () transfer or issue to each Participant to whom an award of Restricted Stock has been made the number of shares of Restricted Stock specified by the Committee or () hold such shares of Restricted Stock for the benefit of the Participant for the Restricted Period. In the case of an award of Restricted Units, no shares of Common Stock shall be issued at the time an award is made, and the Company shall not be required to set aside a fund for the payment of such award.
Grant of Restricted Stock and Restricted Units
i
ii
 
8.2 . Shares of Restricted Stock may not be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged, hypothecated or otherwise encumbered by the Participant during the Restricted Period, except as hereinafter provided. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may permit (on such terms and conditions as it shall establish) shares of Restricted Stock to be transferred during the Restricted Period pursuant to Section 12.1, that any shares of Restricted Stock so transferred shall remain subject to the provisions of this Section 8.
Restrictions on Transferability
provided
8.3 . Except for the restrictions set forth herein and unless otherwise determined by the Committee, the Participant shall have all the rights of a shareholder with respect to such shares of Restricted Stock, including but not limited to, the right to vote and the right to receive dividends. A Participant shall not have any right, in respect of Restricted Units awarded pursuant to the Plan, to vote on any matter submitted to the Company's stockholders until such time as the shares of Common Stock attributable to such Restricted Units have been issued. At the discretion of the Committee, a Participant's Restricted Unit account may be credited with Dividend Equivalents during the Restricted Period.
Rights as a Shareholder
8.4 . Unless the Committee shall otherwise determine at or after the date an award of Restricted Stock or Restricted Units is made to the Participant by the Committee, the Restricted Period shall commence upon the date of grant and shall lapse with respect to the shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Units on the third anniversary of the date of grant, unless sooner terminated as otherwise provided herein. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Committee may provide for termination of the Restricted Period upon the achievement by the Participant of Performance Goals specified by the Committee at the date of grant. The determination of whether the Participant has achieved such Performance Goals shall be made by the Committee in its sole discretion.
Restricted Period
8.5 . Each certificate issued to a Participant in respect of shares of Restricted Stock awarded under the Plan shall be registered in the name of the Participant and shall be legended in such manner as the Company deems appropriate.
Legend
8.6 . Unless the Committee shall otherwise determine at the date of grant, if a Participant ceases to be employed by the Company or any Subsidiary by reason of death, Disability or Retirement, the Restricted Period will lapse as to a pro rated portion of the shares of Restricted Stock and Restricted Units transferred or issued to
Death, Disability or Retirement
 
such Participant under the Plan based on the number of days the Participant actually worked since the date the shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Units were granted (or in the case of an award which becomes vested in installments, since the date, if any, on which the last installment of such Restricted Stock or Restricted Units became vested); , in the case of an award with respect to which the restrictions will lapse, if at all, based on the attainment of Performance Goals or targets, such vesting shall be deferred until the end of the applicable performance period and be based on that number of shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Units, if any, that would have been earned based on the attainment or partial attainment of such Performance Goals or targets. Any shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Units as to which the Restricted Period has not lapsed at the date of a Participant's termination of employment by reason of death, Disability or Retirement (or which do not become vested after such date under the preceding sentence) shall revert back to the Company upon such Participant's termination of employment (or, if applicable, such deferred vesting date).
provided
that
8.7 . Unless the Committee shall otherwise determine at or after the date of grant, if a Participant ceases to be employed by the Company or any Subsidiary for any reason other than those specified in Section 8.6 at any time prior to the date when the Restricted Period lapses, all shares of Restricted Stock held by the Participant shall revert back to the Company and all Restricted Units and any Dividend Equivalents credited to such Participant shall be forfeited upon the Participant's termination of employment.
Termination of Employment
8.8 . Upon the lapse of the Restricted Period with respect to any shares of Restricted Stock, such shares shall no longer be subject to the restrictions imposed under Section 8.2 and the Company shall issue or have issued new share certificates without the legend described in Section 8.5 in exchange for those previously issued. Upon the lapse of the Restricted Period with respect to any Restricted Units, the Company shall deliver to the Participant, or the Participant's beneficiary or estate, as provided in Section 12.2, one share of Common Stock for each Restricted Unit as to which restrictions have lapsed and any Dividend Equivalents credited with respect to such Restricted Units and any interest thereon. The Committee may, in its sole discretion, elect to pay cash or part cash and part Common Stock in lieu of delivering only Common Stock for Restricted Units. If a cash payment is made in lieu of delivering Common Stock, the amount of such cash payment for each share of Common Stock to which a Participant is entitled shall be equal to the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the date on which the Restricted Period lapsed with respect to the related Restricted Unit.
Issuance of New Certificates; Settlement of Restricted Units
 
8.9 . Notwithstanding anything else contained in the Plan to the contrary and unless the Committee shall otherwise determine at the time of grant, to the extent required to ensure that the grant of an award of Restricted Shares or Restricted Units to an Executive Officer (other than an award which will vest solely on the basis of the passage of time) is deductible by the Company or such Subsidiary pursuant to Section 162(m) of the Code, any such award shall become vested, if at all, upon the determination by the Committee that Performance Goals established by the Committee have been attained, in whole or in part.
Performance Related Awards
9.1 . Unless determined otherwise by the Committee at or after the date of grant, Annual Incentive Awards shall be payable in cash. If a Participant terminates employment before the end of a Performance Cycle due to death, Disability or Retirement, such Participant or his or her estate, shall be eligible to receive a prorated Annual Incentive Award based on (i) in the case of death or Disability, full achievement of the Participant's Performance Goals for such Performance Cycle and (ii) in the case of Retirement, the actual achievement of the Performance Goals for such Performance Cycle, in each case prorated for the portion of the Performance Cycle coming before the Participant's termination of employment. Unless determined otherwise by the Committee at or, in the case of any Participant who is not an Executive Officer, after the date of grant, if a Participant terminates employment before payment of an Annual Incentive Award is authorized by the Committee for any reason other than death, Disability or Retirement, the Participant shall forfeit all rights to such Annual Incentive Award.
Annual Incentive Awards
9.2 . Unless determined otherwise by the Committee at or after the date of grant, Long-Term Incentive Awards shall be payable in cash. If a Participant terminates employment before the end of a Performance Cycle due to death, Disability or Retirement, such Participant or his or her estate, shall be eligible to receive a prorated Long-Term Incentive Award based (i) in the case of death or Disability, full achievement of the Participant's Performance Goals for such Performance Cycle and (ii) in the case of Retirement, the actual achievement of the Performance Goals for such Performance
Long-Term Incentive Awards
 
Cycle, in each case prorated for the portion of the Performance Cycle coming before the Participant's termination of employment. Unless determined otherwise by the Committee at, or, in the case of a Participant who is not an Executive Officer, after the date of grant, if a Participant terminates employment before payment of a Long-Term Incentive Award is authorized by the Committee for any reason other than death, Disability or Retirement, the Participant shall forfeit all rights to such Long-Term Incentive Award.
9.3 . Notwithstanding anything contained in the Plan to the contrary, to the extent required to so qualify any Annual Incentive Award, Long-Term Incentive Award, Restricted Unit or Restricted Stock intended to be qualified as other performance based compensation within the meaning of Section 162(m)(4)(c) of the Code, the Committee shall not be entitled to exercise any discretion otherwise authorized under the Plan (such as the right to authorize payout at a level above that dictated by the achievement of the relevant Performance Goals) with respect to such Incentive Award if the ability to exercise discretion (as opposed to the exercise of such discretion) would cause such award to fail to qualify as other performance based compensation.
Interpretation
10.1 . Subject to the provisions of Section 10.2 below, in the event of a Change of Control each Option and Stock Appreciation Right then outstanding shall be fully exercisable regardless of the exercise schedule otherwise applicable to such Option and/or Stock Appreciation Right and the Restricted Period shall lapse as to each share of Restricted Stock and each Restricted Unit then outstanding. In connection with such a Change of Control, the Committee may, in its discretion, provide that each Option and/or Stock Appreciation Right shall, upon the occurrence of such Change of Control, be canceled in exchange for a cash payment by the Company of the Change of Control Settlement Value per share; provided that, if, following the Change of Control and after taking into account any adjustment under Section 5.3 related to such Change of Control, the securities underlying any Options or Stock Appreciation Rights are not readily tradable on a public market, such a cash settlement shall occur automatically without any further action by the Committee.
Accelerated Vesting and Payment
10.2 . Notwithstanding Section 10.1, no cancellation, acceleration of exercisability, vesting, cash settlement or other payment shall occur with respect to any Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Restricted Share or Restricted Unit if the Committee
Alternative Awards
 
reasonably determines in good faith prior to the occurrence of a Change of Control that such award shall be honored or assumed, or new rights substituted therefor (such honored, assumed or substituted award hereinafter called an "Alternative Award"), by a Participant's employer (or the parent or an affiliate of such employer) immediately following the Change of Control; that any such Alternative Award must:
provided
(i) be based on stock which is traded on an established securities market;
(ii) provide such Participant with rights and entitlements substantially equivalent to or better than the rights, terms and conditions applicable under such award, including, but not limited to, an identical or better exercise or vesting schedule and identical or better timing and methods of payment;
(iii) have substantially equivalent economic value to such award (determined at the time of the Change in Control in accordance with principles applicable under Section 424 of the Internal Revenue Code); and
(iv) have terms and conditions which provide that in the event that the Participant's employment or service is involuntarily terminated for any reason (including, but not limited to a termination due to death, Disability or for Cause) or Constructively Terminated (as defined below), all of such Participant's Option and/or SARs shall be deemed immediately and fully exercisable, the Restricted Period shall lapse as to each of the Participant's outstanding Restricted Stock or Restricted Unit awards, and each such Alternative Award shall be settled for a payment per each share of stock subject to the Alternative Award in cash, in immediately transferable, publicly traded securities or in a combination thereof, in an amount equal to, in the case of an Option or SAR, the excess of the Fair Market Value of such stock on the date of the Participant's termination over the corresponding exercise or base price per share and, in the case of any Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Unit award, the Fair Market Value of the number of shares of Common Stock subject or related thereto.
For this purpose, a Participant's employment or service shall be deemed to have been Constructively Terminated if, without the Participant's written consent, the Participant terminates employment or service within 120 days following either () a material reduction in the Participant's base salary or a Participant's incentive compensation opportunity, or () the relocation of the Participant's principal place of employment or service to a location more than 30 miles away from the Participant's prior principal place of employment or service.
x
y
 
10.3 . In the event of a Change of Control, (i) any Annual or Long-Term Incentive Awards relating to Performance Cycles ending prior to the Change of Control which have been earned but not paid shall become immediately payable in cash, (ii) any Performance Cycle for which Annual Incentive Awards are outstanding shall end, all Participants shall be deemed to have achieved a pro rata award equal to the product of (a) such Participant's target award opportunity for the Performance Cycle in question and (b) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of full plus partial months that have elapsed since the beginning of such Performance Cycle to the date on which the Change of Control occurs and the denominator of which is twelve, the Company shall pay all such Annual Incentive Awards within ten days of such Change of Control, and Participants may elect to receive all payments in cash, and (iii) all then in progress Performance Cycles for Long-Term Incentive Awards are outstanding shall end, all Participants shall be deemed to have earned a pro rata award equal to the product of (a) such Participant's target award opportunity for the Performance Cycle in question and (b) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of full plus partial months that have elapsed since the beginning of such Performance Cycle to the date on which the Change of Control occurs, the denominator of which is the total number of months in such Performance Cycle, the Company shall pay all such Long-Term Incentive Awards within ten days of such Change of Control, and Participants may elect to receive all such payments in cash.
Annual Incentive and Long-Term Incentive Awards
10.4 . In the event that any Change of Control occurs as a result of any transaction described in subclause (iii) or (iv) of the definition of such term, any Participant whose employment is terminated due to death or Disability or by the Company for any reason other than Cause on or after the date, if any, on which the shareholders of the Company approve such transaction, but prior to the consummation thereof, shall be treated, solely for purposes of this Plan (including, without limitation, this Section 10), as continuing in the Company's employment until the occurrence of such Change of Control, and to have been terminated immediately thereafter.
Termination of Employment Prior to Change of Control
10.5 . Notwithstanding Section 11, the provisions of this Section 10 may not be amended in any respect for two years following a Change of Control.
No Amendment
 
10.6 . Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, if any amount that is subject to Section 409A of the Code is to be paid or distributed solely on account of a Change of Control (as opposed to being paid or distributed on account of termination of employment or within a reasonable time following the lapse of any substantial risk of forfeiture with respect to the corresponding Incentive Award), solely for purposes of determining whether such distribution or payment shall be made in connection with a Change of Control, the term Change of Control shall be deemed to be defined in the manner provided in Section 409A of the Code and the regulations thereunder. If any such distribution or payment cannot be made because an event that constitutes a Change of Control under the Plan is not a change of control as defined under Section 409A, then such distribution or payment shall be distributed or paid at the next event, occurrence or date at which such distribution or payment could be made in compliance with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code.
Distribution of Amounts Subject to Section 409A
Subject to Section 10.5, the Board may at any time terminate or suspend the Plan, and from time to time may amend or modify the Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no action of the Board may, without the consent of a Participant, alter or impair his or her rights under any previously granted Incentive Award.
12.1 . No Incentive Award granted under the Plan may be sold, transferred, pledged or assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than in accordance with Section 12.2 below, by will or by laws of descent and distribution; provided that, the Committee may, in the appropriate award grant or otherwise, permit transfers of Non-Statutory Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Units or Restricted Shares to Family Members (including, without limitation, transfers affected by a domestic relations order) subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee shall determine.
Transferability of Awards
12.2 . Each Participant under the Plan may from time to time name any beneficiary or beneficiaries (who may be named contingently or successively) to whom any benefit under the Plan is to be paid or by whom any right under the Plan is to be exercised in case of his death. Each designation will revoke all prior designations by the same
Beneficiary Designation
 
Participant, shall be in a form prescribed by the Committee, and will be effective only when filed by the Participant in writing with the Committee during his lifetime. In the absence of any such designation, benefits remaining unpaid or Incentive Awards outstanding at the Participant's death shall be paid to or exercised by the Participant's surviving spouse, if any, or otherwise to or by his estate.
12.3 . Nothing in the Plan shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company or any Subsidiary to terminate any Participant's employment at any time, nor confer upon any Participant any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any Subsidiary or affiliate.
No Guarantee of Employment
12.4 . The Company or any Subsidiary shall have the power to withhold, or require a Participant to remit to the Company or such Subsidiary promptly upon notification of the amount due, an amount, which may include shares of Common Stock, sufficient to satisfy Federal, state and local, including foreign, withholding tax requirements with respect to any Incentive Award (including payments made pursuant to Section 9), and the Company may defer payment of cash or issuance or delivery of Common Stock until such requirements are satisfied. The Committee may, in its discretion, permit a Participant to elect, subject to such conditions as the Committee shall impose () to have Common Stock otherwise issuable or deliverable under the Plan withheld by the Company or () to deliver to the Company previously acquired shares of Common Stock, in each case, having a Fair Market Value sufficient to satisfy not more than the Participant's statutory minimum Federal, state and local tax obligations associated with the transaction.
Tax Withholding
i
ii
12.5 . Each person who is or shall have been a member of the Committee or of the Board shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Company against and from any loss, cost, liability, or expense that may be imposed upon or reasonably incurred by him in connection with or resulting from any claim, action, suit, or proceeding to which he may be made a party or in which he may be involved by reason of any action taken or failure to act under the Plan, provided he shall give the Company an opportunity, at its own expense, to handle and defend the same before he undertakes to handle and defend it on his own behalf. The foregoing right of indemnification shall not be exclusive and shall be independent of any other rights of indemnification to which such persons may be entitled under the Company's Articles of Incorporation or By-laws, by contract, as a matter of law, or otherwise.
Indemnification
 
12.6 . Nothing in the Plan shall be construed to limit the right of the Company to establish other plans or to pay compensation to its employees in cash or property, in a manner which is not expressly authorized under the Plan.
No Limitation on Compensation
12.7 . The granting of Incentive Awards and the issuance of shares of Common Stock shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules, and regulations, and to such approvals by any governmental agencies or national securities exchanges as may be required.
Requirements of Law
12.8 . The Plan, and all Incentive Awards made and actions taken thereunder, shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Delaware.
Governing Law
12.9 . With the exception of Annual Incentive Awards, which shall be compensation for purposes of calculating a Participant's rights under the Company's employee benefit programs, Incentive Awards granted under the Plan are not compensation for purposes of calculating an Employee's rights under any employee benefit program.
Impact On Benefits
12.10 . Instruments evidencing Incentive Awards may contain such other provisions, not inconsistent with the Plan, as the Committee deems advisable, including a requirement that the Participant represent to the Company in writing, when an Incentive Award is granted or when he receives shares with respect to such Incentive Award (or at such other time as the Committee deems appropriate) that he is accepting such Incentive Award, or receiving or acquiring such shares (unless they are then covered by a Securities Act of 1933 registration statement), for his own account for investment only and with no present intention to transfer, sell or otherwise dispose of such shares except such disposition by a legal representative as shall be required by will or the laws of any jurisdiction in winding up the estate of the Participant. Such shares shall be transferable, or may be sold or otherwise disposed of only if the proposed transfer, sale or other disposition shall be permissible pursuant to the Plan and if, in the opinion of counsel satisfactory to the Company, such transfer, sale or other disposition at such time will be in compliance with applicable securities laws.
Securities Law Compliance
12.11 . If approved by shareholders, the Plan shall be effective January 1, 2002. The Plan shall terminate on June 5, 2008 (except as to Incentive Awards outstanding on that date), unless sooner terminated pursuant to Section 11.
Term of Plan
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this amendment and restatement to be executed by its duly authorized representative as of July 1, 2009.
 
 

Exhibit 10.18
The purpose of the Plan is to foster and promote the long-term financial success of the Company and materially increase shareholder value by () motivating superior performance by means of performance-related incentives, () encouraging and providing for the acquisition of an ownership interest in the Company by Employees, and () enabling the Company to attract and retain the services of an outstanding management team upon whose judgment, interest and special effort the successful conduct of its operations is largely dependent.
a
b
c
2.1 . Whenever used herein, the following terms shall have the respective meanings et forth below:
Definitions
(a) "Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
(b) "Adjustment Event" shall mean any stock dividend, stock split or share combination of, or extraordinary cash dividend on, the Common Stock or recapitalization, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, combination, exchange of shares, warrants or rights offering to purchase Common Stock at a price substantially below Fair Market Value, or other similar event affecting the Common Stock of the Company.
(c) "Board" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
(d) "Cause" means a Participant's (i) willful and continued failure substantially to perform his duties with the Company or any Subsidiary (other than any such failure resulting from incapacity due to reasonably documented physical or mental illness), after
a demand for substantial performance is delivered to such Participant by the Chairman of the Board or any executive officer which specifically identifies the manner in which it is believed that such Participant has not substantially performed his duties, or (ii) the willful engaging by such Participant in illegal misconduct materially and demonstrably injurious to the Company or any Subsidiary or to the trustworthiness or effectiveness of such Participant in the performance of his duties. For purposes hereof, no act, or failure to act, on such Participant's part shall be considered "willful" unless done, or omitted to be done, by him not in good faith and without reasonable belief that his action or omission was in the best interest of the Company or a Subsidiary. Any act, or failure to act, based upon authority given pursuant to a resolution duly adopted by the Board or based upon the advice of counsel for the Company shall be conclusively presumed to be done, or omitted to be done, by such Participant in good faith and in the best interest of the Company or such Subsidiary.
(e) "Change of Control" shall mean the occurrence of any of the following events:
(i) any person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 15% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then-outstanding securities (a "15% Beneficial Owner"); , , that (a) the term "15% Beneficial Owner" shall not include any Beneficial Owner who has crossed such 15% threshold solely as a result of an acquisition of securities directly from the Company, or solely as a result of an acquisition by the Company of Company securities, until such time thereafter as such person acquires additional voting securities other than directly from the Company and, after giving effect to such acquisition, such person would constitute a 15% Beneficial Owner; and (b) with respect to any person eligible to file a Schedule 13G pursuant to Rule 13d-1(b)(1) under the Act with respect to Company securities (an "Institutional Investor"), there shall be excluded from the number of securities deemed to be beneficially owned by such person a number of securities representing not more than 10% of the combined voting power of the Company's then-outstanding securities;
provided
however
(ii) during any period of two consecutive years beginning after December 1, 1996, individuals who at the beginning of such period constitute the Board together with those individuals who first become directors during such
 
period (other than by reason of an agreement with the Company or the Board in settlement of a proxy contest for the election of directors) and whose election or nomination for election to the Board was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors then still in office who either were directors at the beginning of the period or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved (the "Continuing Directors"), cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the Board;
(iii) the shareholders of the Company approve a merger, consolidation, recapitalization or reorganization of the Company, or a reverse stock split of any class of voting securities of the Company, or the consummation of any such transaction if shareholder approval is not obtained, other than such transaction which would result in at least 75% of the total voting power represented by the voting securities of the Company or the surviving entity outstanding immediately after such transaction being beneficially owned by persons who together owned at least 75% of the combined voting power of the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior to such transaction, with the relative voting power of each such continuing holder compared to the voting power of each other continuing holder not substantially altered as a result of the transaction; , for purposes of this paragraph (iii), (a) such continuity of ownership (and preservation of relative voting power) shall be deemed to be satisfied if the failure to meet such 75% threshold (or to preserve such relative voting power) is due solely to the acquisition of voting securities by an employee benefit plan of the Company or of such surviving entity or of any subsidiary of the Company or such surviving entity and (b) voting securities beneficially owned by such persons who receive them other than as holders of voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior to such transaction shall not be taken into account for purposes of determining whether such 75% threshold (or such relative voting power) is satisfied;
provided
that
(iv) the shareholders of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company or an agreement for the sale or disposition of all or substantially all the assets of the Company unless following the completion of such liquidation or dissolution, or such sale or disposition, the 75% threshold (and relative voting power) requirements set forth in sub-paragraph (iii) above are satisfied; or
 
(v) any other event which the Committee determines shall constitute a Change of Control for purposes of this Plan;
, , that a Change of Control shall not be deemed to have occurred if one of the following exceptions applies:
provided
however
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, unless otherwise determined by a majority of the Continuing Directors, no Change of Control shall be deemed to have occurred with respect to a particular Participant if the Change of Control results from actions or events in which such Participant is involved in a capacity other than solely as an officer, employee or director of the Company.
For purposes of the foregoing definition of Change of Control, the term "Beneficial Owner," with respect to any securities, shall mean any person who, directly or indirectly, has or shares the right to vote or dispose of such securities or otherwise has "beneficial ownership" of such securities (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 and Rule 13d-5 (as such Rules are in effect on December 1, 1996) under the Act), including pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding (whether or not in writing); , , that (i) a person shall not be deemed the Beneficial Owner of any security as a result of any agreement, arrangement or understanding to vote such security (A) arising solely from a revocable proxy or consent solicited pursuant to, and in accordance with, the applicable provisions of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder or (B) made in connection with, or otherwise to participate in, a proxy or consent solicitation made, or to be made, pursuant to, and in accordance with, the applicable provisions of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder, in either case described in clause (A) or clause (B) above whether or not such agreement, arrangement or understanding is also then reportable by such person on Schedule 13D under the Act (or any comparable or successor report), and (ii) a person engaged in business as an underwriter of securities shall not be deemed to be the Beneficial Owner of any securities acquired through such person's participation in good faith in a firm commitment underwriting until the expiration of forty days after the date of such acquisition.
provided
however
Effective June 5, 2008, Change of Control shall have the meaning set forth in the Ingersoll-Rand Company Limited Incentive Stock Plan of 2007 or any successor thereto.
(f) "Change of Control Settlement Value" shall mean, with respect to a share of Common Stock, the excess of the Change of Control Stock Value over the option price of the Option covering such share of Common Stock, , (i) with respect to any Option which is an Incentive Stock Option immediately prior to the election to receive the Change of Control Settlement Value, the Change of Control Settlement Value shall not exceed the maximum amount permitted for such Option to continue to qualify as an Incentive Stock Option and (ii) in respect of that portion, if any, of any
provided
that
 
Option that had not become exercisable on or before December 31, 2004, the Change of Control Settlement Value shall not exceed the maximum amount permitted for such Option to remain exempt from Section 409A.
(g) "Change of Control Stock Value" shall mean the value of a share of Common Stock determined as follows:
(i) if the Change of Control results from an event described in clause (iii) of the Change of Control definition, the highest per share price paid for shares of Common Stock of the Company in the transaction resulting in the Change of Control;
(ii) if the Change of Control results from an event described in clauses (i), (ii) or (v) of the Change of Control definition and no event described in clauses (iii) or (iv) of the Change of Control definition has occurred in connection with such Change of Control, the highest sale price of a share of Common Stock of the Company on any trading day during the 60 consecutive trading days immediately preceding and following the date of such Change of Control as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape, or other national securities exchange on which the Common Stock is traded, and published in ; or
The Wall Street Journal
(iii) if the Change of Control results from an event described in clause (iv) of the Change of Control definition, the price per share at which shares of Common Stock are redeemed or exchanged by their holders in the transaction described in such clause (iv) or, if there has been no such redemption or exchange, the higher of the amounts determined in accordance with clause (i) or clause (ii) of this Change of Control Stock Value definition.
(h) "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
(i) "Committee" means the Management Development and Nominating Committee of the Board (or such other committee of the Board that the Board shall designate), which shall consist of two or more members, each of whom shall be a non-employee director within the meaning of Rule 16b-3, as promulgated under the Act and serving at the pleasure of the Board. Effective June 5, 2008, Committee means the Compensation Committee of the Board (or such other committee of the Board that the
 
Board shall designate), which shall consist of two or more members, each of whom shall be a non-employee director within the meaning of Rule 16b-3, as promulgated under the Act and serving at the pleasure of the Board. Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to Incentive Awards granted to non-employee directors, the Committee shall mean the entire Board.
(j) "Common Stock" means the common stock of the Company, par value $0.01 per share. Effective June 5, 2008, "Common Stock" shall mean the common stock of the Company, par value $1.00 per share. Effective July 1, 2009, "Common Stock" shall mean the ordinary shares of the Company, par value $1.00 per share.
(k) "Company" means Trane Inc., a Delaware corporation, and any successor thereto. Effective June 5, 2008, "Company" means Ingersoll-Rand Company Limited, a Bermuda company. Effective July 1, 2009, "Company" means Ingersoll-Rand plc, an Irish company and any successor thereto.
(l) "Disability" means a Participant's inability, due to reasonably documented physical or mental illness, for more than six months to perform his duties with the Company or a Subsidiary on a full time basis if, within 30 days after written notice of termination has been given to such Participant, he shall not have returned to the full time performance of his duties.
(m) "Dividend Equivalents" means an amount equal to the cash dividends paid by the Company upon one share of Common Stock for each Restricted Unit awarded to a Participant in accordance with Section 7 of the Plan.
(n) "Employee" means any officer or other key employee of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, including any employee of a minority-owned joint venture.
(o) "Fair Market Value" means, on any date, the average of the highest and lowest sales price reported for such day on a national exchange or the average of the highest and lowest bid and asked prices on such date as reported on a nationally recognized system of price quotation. In the event that there are no Common Stock transactions reported on such exchange or system on such date, Fair Market Value shall mean the closing price on the immediately preceding date on which Common Stock transactions were so reported.
 
(p) "Incentive Award" means the award of an Option, a Stock Appreciation Right, a Restricted Unit, or Restricted Stock under the Plan and shall also include an award of Common Stock or Restricted Units made in conjunction with other incentive programs established by the Company.
(q) "Option" means the right to purchase Common Stock at a stated price for a specified period of time. For purposes of the Plan, an Option may be either () an "Incentive Stock Option" with the meaning of Section 422 of the Code or () an Option which is not an Incentive Stock Option (a "Non-Qualified Stock Option").
i
ii
(r) "Participant" means any Employee or any non-employee director of the Company designated by the Committee to receive an Incentive Award under the Plan.
(s) "Plan" means the Trane Inc. Stock Incentive Plan, as set forth herein and as the same may be amended from time to time.
(t) "Public Offering" means the Company's offering of Common Stock to the general public through a registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission that covers (together with prior effective registrations) not less than 15% of the shares of Common Stock outstanding at the closing of such offering on a fully diluted basis.
(u) "Restricted Period" means the period during which Restricted Units or shares of Restricted Stock are subject to forfeiture or restrictions on transfer (if applicable) pursuant to Section 7 of the Plan.
(v) "Restricted Stock" means Common Stock awarded to a Participant pursuant to the Plan which is subject to forfeiture and restrictions on transferability in accordance with Section 7 of the Plan.
(w) "Restricted Unit" means a Participant's right to receive pursuant to the Plan one share of Common Stock at the end of a specified period of time, which right is subject to forfeiture in accordance with Section 7 of the Plan.
(x) "Retirement" means
(i) with respect to Incentive Awards granted before December 7, 2000, termination of a Participant's employment on or after the date the Participant attains age 55 with 10 years of service;
 
(ii) with respect to Incentive Awards granted on or after December 7, 2000, termination of a Participant's employment on or after the date the Participant attains age 55 with 5 years of service.
(y) "Stock Appreciation Right" means the right to receive a payment from the Company, in cash or Common Stock, in an amount determined under Section 6.12 of the Plan.
(z) "Subsidiary" means any corporation or partnership in which the Company owns, directly or indirectly, 50% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of such corporation or of the capital interest or profits interest of such partnership.
2.2. . Except when otherwise indicated by the context, words in the masculine gender used in the Plan shall include the feminine gender, the singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include the singular.
Gender and Number
Participants in the Plan shall be those Employees and non-employee directors selected by the Committee to participate in the Plan.
4.1. . The Committee shall have the authority, subject to the terms of the Plan, to determine the Participants to whom Incentive Awards shall be granted and the terms and conditions of any and all Incentive Awards, including but not limited to the number of shares of Common Stock to be covered by each Incentive Award, the time or times at which Incentive Awards shall be granted, and the terms and provisions of the instruments by which Options shall be evidenced; to designate Options as Incentive Stock Options or Non-Qualified Stock Options; and to determine the period of time during which restrictions on Restricted Stock or Restricted Units shall remain in effect. The
Power to Grant and Establish Terms of Awards
 
proper officers of the Company may suggest to the Committee the Participants who should receive Incentive Awards. The terms and conditions of each Incentive Award shall be determined by the Committee at the time of grant, and such terms and conditions shall not be subsequently changed in a manner which would be adverse to the Participant without the consent of the Participant to whom such Incentive Award has been granted. The Committee may establish different terms and conditions for different Participants receiving Incentive Awards and for the same Participant for each Incentive Award such Participant may receive, whether or not granted at different times. The grant of any Incentive Award to any Participant shall neither entitle such Participant to, nor disqualify him from, the grant of any other Incentive Awards. Notwithstanding anything else contained in the Plan to the contrary, the Committee may delegate, subject to such terms and conditions as it shall determine, to any officer of the Company or to a committee of officers of the Company the authority to grant Incentive Awards (and to make any and all determinations related thereto) to Participants who are not subject to the reporting requirements of Section 16(a) of the Act. Effective June 5, 2008, no additional Incentive Awards shall be granted under the Plan.
4.2. . The Committee shall have the right, subject to the consent of Participants to whom Options have been granted, to grant in substitution for outstanding Options, replacement Options which may contain terms more favorable to the Participant than the Options they replace, including, without limitation, a lower exercise price (subject to Section 6.2), and to cancel replaced Options.
Substitute Options
4.3. . The Committee shall be responsible for the administration of the Plan. Any Incentive Award granted by the Committee may be subject to such conditions, not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan, as the Committee shall determine. The Committee, by majority action thereof, is authorized to prescribe, amend and rescind rules and regulations relating to the Plan, to provide for conditions deemed necessary or advisable to protect the interests of the Company to interpret the Plan and to make all other determinations necessary or advisable for the administration and interpretation of the Plan to carry out its provisions and purposes. Determinations, interpretations or other actions made or taken by the Committee pursuant to the provisions of the Plan shall be final, binding and conclusive for all purposes and upon all persons. The Committee may consult with legal counsel, who may be counsel to the Company, and shall not incur any liability for any action taken in good faith in reliance upon the advice of counsel.
Administration
 
5.1. . Subject to the provisions of Section 5.3, the number of shares of Common Stock subject to Incentive Awards under the Plan may not exceed 14,504,475, provided that, no more than 7,604,475 of such shares may be granted as Incentive Stock Options under the Plan. The shares to be delivered under the Plan may consist, in whole or in part, of Common Stock held in treasury or authorized but unissued Common Stock, not reserved for any other purpose.
Number
5.2. . Any shares of Common Stock subject to an Incentive Award which for any reason expires, or is canceled, terminated or otherwise settled without the issuance of any Common Stock shall again be available under the Plan.
Canceled, Terminated, or Forfeited Awards
5.3. . The aggregate number of shares of Common Stock available for Incentive Awards under Section 5.1 or subject to outstanding Incentive Awards and the respective prices and/or vesting criteria applicable to outstanding Incentive Awards shall be proportionately adjusted to reflect, as deemed equitable and appropriate by the Committee, an Adjustment Event. To the extent deemed equitable and appropriate by the Committee, subject to any required action by stockholders, in any merger, consolidation, reorganization, liquidation, dissolution, or other similar transaction, any Incentive Award granted under the Plan shall pertain to the securities and other property to which a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock covered by the Incentive Award would have been entitled to receive in connection with such event.
Adjustment in Capitalization
Any shares of stock (whether Common Stock, shares of stock into which shares of Common Stock are converted or for which shares of Common Stock are exchanged or shares of stock distributed with respect to Common Stock) or cash or other property received with respect to any award of Restricted Stock or Restricted Units granted under the Plan as a result of any Adjustment Event, any distribution of property or any merger, consolidation, reorganization, liquidation, dissolution or other similar transaction shall, except as provided in Section 7.4 or as otherwise provided by the Committee at or after the date an award of Restricted Stock or Restricted Units is made by the Committee, be subject to the same terms and conditions, including restrictions on transfer, as are applicable to such shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Units and any stock certificate(s) representing or evidencing any shares of stock so received shall be legended in substantially the same manner as provided in Section 7.5 hereof.
 
6.1. . Options may be granted to Participants at such time or times as shall be determined by the Committee. Options granted to non-employee directors shall be in such amounts and intervals as determined by the Board from time to time. Options granted under the Plan may be of two types: () Incentive Stock Options and () Non-Qualified Stock Options, except that no Incentive Stock Option may be granted to a non-employee director or to any Employee of a Subsidiary which is not a corporation. The date of grant of an Option under the Plan will be the date on which the Option is awarded by the Committee or, if so determined by the Committee, the date on which occurs any event the occurrence of which is an express condition precedent to the grant of the Option. The Committee shall determine the number of Options, if any, to be granted to the Participant, , in no event shall the number of shares of Common Stock subject to any Options or related Stock Appreciation Rights granted to any Participant during any 12 month period exceed 1,000,000 shares as such number may be adjusted pursuant to Section 5.3. Each Option shall be evidenced by an Option agreement that shall specify the type of Option granted, the exercise price, the duration of the Option, the number of shares of Common Stock to which the Option pertains, and such other terms and conditions not inconsistent with the Plan as the Committee shall determine.
Grant of Options
i
ii
provided
that
6.2. . Non-Qualified Stock Options and Incentive Stock Options granted pursuant to the Plan shall have an exercise price which is not less than the Fair Market Value on the date the Option is granted.
Option Price
6.3. . Options awarded to a Participant under the Plan shall be exercisable at such times and shall be subject to such restrictions and conditions including the performance of a minimum period of service or the satisfaction of performance goals, as the Committee may impose either at or after the time of grant of such Options, subject to the Committee's right to accelerate the exercisability of such Option in its discretion. Notwithstanding the foregoing, unless otherwise determined by the Committee, Options shall become exercisable in three equal installments on each of the first three anniversaries of the date of grant. Except as may be provided in any provision approved by the Committee pursuant to this Section 6.3, after becoming exercisable each installment shall remain exercisable until
Exercise of Options
 
expiration, termination or cancellation of the Option. An Option may be exercised from time to time, in whole or in part, up to the total number of shares of Common Stock with respect to which it is then exercisable. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Option shall be exercisable for more than 10 years after the date on which it is granted.
6.4. . The Committee shall establish procedures governing the exercise of Options, which shall require that written notice of exercise be given and that the Option price be paid in full at the time of exercise () in cash or cash equivalents, () in the discretion of the Committee, in shares of Common Stock which have been owned by the Participant for at least six months' (or such greater or lesser period as the Committee shall determine) having a Fair Market Value on the date of exercise equal to such Option price or in a combination of cash and Common Stock or () in accordance with such procedures or in such other form as the Committee shall from time to time determine. As soon as practicable after receipt of a written exercise notice and payment of the exercise price in accordance with this Section 6.4, the Company shall deliver to the Participant a certificate or certificates representing the acquired shares of Common Stock.
Payment
i
ii
iii
6.5. . Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, no term of the Plan relating to Incentive Stock Options shall be interpreted, amended or altered, nor shall any discretion or authority granted under the Plan be so exercised, so as to disqualify the Plan under Section 422 of the Code, or, without the consent of any Participant affected thereby, to cause any Incentive Stock Option previously granted to fail to qualify for the Federal income tax treatment afforded under Section 421 of the Code.
Incentive Stock Options
6.6. . At the time a Participant exercises an Option in lieu of accepting payment of the exercise price of the Option and delivering the number of shares of Common Stock for which the Option is being exercised, the Committee may direct that the Company either () pay the Participant a cash amount, or () issue a lesser number of shares of Common Stock having a Fair Market Value on the date of exercise, equal to the amount, if any, by which the aggregate Fair Market Value of the shares of Common Stock as to which the Option is being exercised exceeds the aggregate exercise price for such shares, based on such terms and conditions as the Committee shall establish.
Settlement
i
ii
6.7. . Unless otherwise determined by the Committee at the time of grant, in the event a Participant's employment with the Company or a Subsidiary terminates by reason of Retirement, any Options granted to such
Termination of Employment Due to Retirement
 
Participant which are exercisable at the date of such Participant's termination of employment may be exercised at any time prior to three (3) years following the Participant's termination of employment or the expiration of the term of the Options, whichever period is shorter. Notwithstanding the foregoing, for all Options granted on or after December 7, 2000, unless otherwise determined by the Committee at the time of grant, in the event a Participant's employment with the Company or a Subsidiary terminates by reason of Retirement, any such Options granted to such Participant which are exercisable at the date of such Participant's termination of employment may be exercised at any time during the period ending on the tenth anniversary of the grant date of such Options.
6.8. . Unless otherwise determined by the Committee at the time of grant, in the event a Participant's employment with the Company or a Subsidiary terminates by reason of death or Disability, any Options granted to such Participant which are exercisable at the date of such Participant's termination of employment may be exercised by the Participant or the Participant's designated beneficiary, and if none is named, in accordance with Section 10.2, at any time prior to one (1) year following the Participant's termination of employment or the expiration date of the term of the Options, whichever period is shorter. Notwithstanding the foregoing, for all Options granted on or after December 7, 2000, unless otherwise determined by the Committee at the time of grant, in the event a Participant's employment with the Company or a Subsidiary terminates by reason of death or Disability, any such Options granted to such Participant which are exercisable at the date of such Participant's termination of employment may be exercised by the Participant or the Participant's deisgnated beneficiary, and if none is named, in accordance with Section 10.2, at any time during the period ending on the tenth anniversary of the grant date of such Options.
Termination of Employment Due to Death or Disability
6.9. . Unless otherwise determined by the Committee at the time of grant, in the event a Participant's employment with the Company or a Subsidiary is terminated for Cause, all Options granted to such Participant which are then outstanding (whether or not exercisable prior to the date of such termination) shall be forfeited.
Termination of Employment for Cause
6.10. . Unless otherwise determined by the Committee at or after the time of grant, in the event a Participant's employment with the Company or a Subsidiary terminates for any reason other than one described in Section 6.7, 6.8 or 6.9, any Options granted to such Participant which are exercisable at the date of such Participant's termination of employment shall be exercisable at any time prior to 90 days following such Participant's termination of employment or the expiration of the term of such Options, whichever period is shorter.
Termination of Employment for Any Other Reason
 
6.11. . Notwithstanding anything else contained in this Section 6 to the contrary, the Committee may permit all or any portion of any Options to be exercised following a Participant's termination of employment for any reason on such terms and subject to such conditions as the Committee shall determine for a period up to and including, but not beyond, the expiration of the term of such Options.
Committee Discretion
6.12. . The Committee may, in its discretion, include in any Option, either at the time the Option is granted or thereafter at any time prior to the exercise, termination or expiration of the Option, a right of the Participant to elect, in lieu of purchasing any shares of Common Stock in respect of which such Option is exercisable at any time, to relinquish his Option with respect to any and all of such shares of Common Stock and to receive from the Company a payment, in cash or Common Stock, equal to the amount by which () the product of () the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the date of such election multiplied by () the number of shares of Common Stock as to which the Participant shall have made such election exceeds () the total exercise price for that number of shares of Common Stock under the terms of such Option. If the Participant shall exercise Stock Appreciation Rights appertaining to any Option, such Option shall thereafter remain exercisable, according to its term, only with respect to the number of shares of Common Stock as to which it would otherwise be exercisable less the number of shares of Common Stock with respect to which such Stock Appreciation Rights have been exercised. Each Stock Appreciation Right shall be subject to the same terms and conditions as the related Option and shall be exercisable only to the extent the related Option is exercisable.
Stock Appreciation Rights
i
x
y
ii
7.1. . Any award made hereunder of Restricted Stock or Restricted Units shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan and to any other terms and conditions not inconsistent with the Plan (including, but not limited to, requiring the Participant to pay the Company an amount equal to the par value per share for each share of Restricted Stock awarded) as shall be prescribed by the Committee in its sole discretion. As determined by the Committee, with respect to an award of Restricted Stock, the Company shall either () transfer or issue to each Participant to whom an award of
Grant of Restricted Stock and Restricted Units
i
 
Restricted Stock has been made the number of shares of Restricted Stock specified by the Committee or () hold such shares of Restricted Stock for the benefit of the Participant for the Restricted Period. In the case of an award of Restricted Units, no shares of Common Stock shall be issued at the time an award is made, and the Company shall not be required to set aside a fund for the payment of such award.
ii
7.2. . Shares of Restricted Stock may not be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged, hypothecated or otherwise encumbered by the Participant during the Restricted Period, except as hereinafter provided. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may permit (on such terms and conditions as it shall establish) shares of Restricted Stock to be transferred during the Restricted Period by the Participant to a member of the Participant's immediate family or to a trust or similar vehicle for the benefit of such immediate family members, that any shares of Restricted Stock so transferred shall remain subject to the provisions of this Section 7.
Restrictions on Transferability
provided
7.3. . Except for the restrictions set forth herein and unless otherwise determined by the Committee, the Participant shall have all the rights of a shareholder with respect to such shares of Restricted Stock, including but not limited to, the right to vote and the right to receive dividends. A Participant shall not have any right, in respect of Restricted Units awarded pursuant to the Plan, to vote on any matter submitted to the Company's stockholders until such time as the shares of Common Stock attributable to such Restricted Units have been issued. At the discretion of the Committee, a Participant's Restricted Unit account may be credited with Dividend Equivalents during the Restricted Period.
Rights as a Shareholder
7.4. . Unless the Committee shall otherwise determine at or after the date an award of Restricted Stock or Restricted Units is made to the Participant by the Committee, the Restricted Period shall commence upon the date of grant and shall lapse with respect to the shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Units on the third anniversary of the date of grant, unless sooner terminated as otherwise provided herein. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Committee may provide for termination of the Restricted Period upon the achievement by the Participant of performance goals specified by the Committee at the date of grant. The determination of whether the Participant has achieved such performance goals shall be made by the Committee in its sole discretion.
Restricted Period
 
7.5. . Each certificate issued to a Participant in respect of shares of Restricted Stock awarded under the Plan shall be registered in the name of the Participant and Shall bear the following (or similar) legend:
Legend
"The shares of stock represented by this certificate are subject to the terms and conditions contained in the American Standard Companies Inc. Stock Incentive Plan and may not be sold, pledged, transferred, assigned, hypothecated or otherwise encumbered in an manner (except as provided in Section 7.2 of the Plan) until ."
                                        
7.6. . Unless the Committee shall otherwise determine at the date of grant, if a Participant ceases to be employed by the Company or any Subsidiary by reason of death, Disability or Retirement, the Restricted Period will lapse as to a pro rated portion of the shares of Restricted Stock and Restricted Units transferred or issued to such Participant under the Plan based on the number of days the Participant actually worked since the date the shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Units were granted (or in the case of an award which becomes vested in installments, since the date, if any, on which the last installment of such Restricted Stock or Restricted Units became vested); , in the case of an award with respect to which the restrictions will lapse, if at all, based on the attainment of performance goals or targets, such vesting shall be deferred until the end of the applicable performance period and be based on that number of shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Units, if any, that would have been earned based on the attainment or partial attainment of such performance goals or targets. Any shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Units as to which the Restricted Period has not lapsed at the date of a Participant's termination of employment by reason of death, Disability or Retirement (or which do not become vested after such date under the preceding sentence) shall revert back to the Company upon such Participant's termination of employment (or, if applicable, such deferred vesting date).
Death, Disability or Retirement
provided
that
7.7. . Unless the Committee shall otherwise determine at or after the date of grant, if a Participant ceases to be employed by the Company or any Subsidiary for any reason other than those specified in Section 7.6 at any time prior to the date when the Restricted Period lapses, all shares of Restricted Stock held by the Participant shall revert back to the Company and all Restricted Units and any Dividend Equivalents credited to such Participant shall be forfeited upon the Participant's termination of employment.
Termination of Employment
 
7.8. . Upon the lapse of the Restricted Period with respect to any shares of Restricted Stock, such shares shall no longer be subject to the restrictions imposed under Section 7.2 and the Company shall issue or have issued new share certificates without the legend described in Section 7.5 in exchange for those previously issued. Upon the lapse of the Restricted Period with respect to any Restricted Units, the Company shall deliver to the Participant, or the Participant's beneficiary or estate, as provided in Section 10.2, one share of Common Stock for each Restricted Unit as to which restrictions have lapsed and any Dividend Equivalents credited with respect to such Restricted Units and any interest thereon. The Committee may, in its sole discretion, elect to pay cash or part cash and part Common Stock in lieu of delivering only Common Stock for Restricted Units. If a cash payment is made in lieu of delivering Common Stock, the amount of such cash payment for each share of Common Stock to which a Participant is entitled shall be equal to the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the date on which the Restricted Period lapsed with respect to the related Restricted Unit.
Issuance of New Certificates; Settlement of Restricted Units
7.9. . Notwithstanding anything else contained in the Plan to the contrary, unless the Committee otherwise determines at the time of grant, any award of Restricted Shares or Restricted Units, or an award of Common Stock or Restricted Units made in conjunction with other incentive plans established by the Company, to an officer of the Company or a Subsidiary who is subject to the reporting requirements of Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act, other than an award which will vest solely on the basis of the passage of time, shall become vested, if at all, upon the determination by the Committee that performance objectives established by the Committee have been attained, in whole or in part (a "Performance Award"), to the extent required to ensure that the grant of such awards are deductible by the Company or such Subsidiary pursuant to Section 162(m) of the Code. Such performance objectives shall be determined over a measurement period or periods established by the Committee and related to at least one of the following criteria, which may be determined solely by reference to the performance of () the Company, () a Subsidiary, () an affiliate of the Company, or () a division or unit of any of the foregoing or based on comparative performance of any of the foregoing relative to other companies: () earnings per share; () revenues; () operating cash flow; () operating earnings; () working capital; () inventory turnover rates; () earnings to sales ratio; and () return on capital (the "Performance Criteria"). The maximum number of shares of Common Stock that may be subject to any such Performance Award in any 12 month period shall not exceed 500,000 shares, as such number may be adjusted pursuant to Section 5.3.
Performance Related Awards
i
ii
iii
iv
A
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
 
8.1. . In the event of a Change of Control, the Restricted Period with respect to each share of Restricted Stock and each Restricted Unit will lapse and each Option and Stock Appreciation Right shall become immediately exercisable on the date of such Change of Control.
Accelerated Vesting and Payment
8.2. . Notwithstanding any provision of Section 6, any Participant who holds on the date of a Change of Control an Option or Stock Appreciation Right granted under this Plan shall be entitled to elect, during the 60-days period immediately following such Change of Control, in lieu of acquiring the shares of Common Stock covered by any such Option (or, in the case of a Stock Appreciation Right, the amount of cash and Common Stock such Participant would otherwise be entitled to receive upon the relinquishment of the Option related to such Stock Appreciation Right), to receive, and the Company shall be obligated to pay, the Change of Control Settlement Value with respect to shares of Common Stock up to the number of shares covered by such Option or Stock Appreciation Right, which amount shall be paid in cash.
Alternative Awards
8.3. . Notwithstanding Section 9, the provisions of this Section 8 may not be amended in any respect following a Change of Control.
No Amendment
The Board may at any time terminate or suspend the Plan, and from time to time may amend or modify the Plan. No action of the Board may, without the consent of a Participant alter or impair his rights under any previously granted Incentive Award.
10.1. . Unless the Committee shall permit (on such terms and conditions as it shall establish) an Incentive Award to be transferred, no Incentive Award
Nontransferability of Awards
 
granted under the Plan may be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. All rights with respect to any Incentive Award granted to a Participant under the Plan shall be exercisable during his lifetime only by such Participant or, if transferred as contemplated by the previous sentence, a permitted transferee.
10.2. . Each Participant under the Plan may from time to time name any beneficiary or beneficiaries (who may be named contingently or successively) to whom any benefit under the Plan is to be paid or by whom any right under the Plan is to be exercised in case of his death. Each designation will revoke all prior designations by the same Participant, shall be in a form prescribed by the Committee, and will be effective only when filed by the Participant in writing with the Committee during his lifetime. In the absence of any such designation, benefits remaining unpaid or Incentive Awards outstanding at the Participant's death shall be paid to or exercised by the Participant's surviving spouse, if any, or otherwise to or by his estate.
Beneficiary Designation
10.3. . Nothing in the Plan shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company or any Subsidiary to terminate any Participant's employment at any time, nor confer upon any Participant any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any Subsidiary or affiliate. No Employee or non-employee director shall have a right to be selected as a Participant, or, having been so selected, to receive any future Incentive Awards.
No Guarantee of Employment or Participation
10.4. . The Company shall have the power to withhold, or require a Participant to remit to the Company promptly upon notification of the amount due, an amount sufficient to satisfy Federal, state and local withholding tax requirements on with respect to any Incentive Award, and the Company may defer payment of cash or issuance or delivery of Common Stock until such requirements are satisfied. The Committee may, in its discretion, permit a Participant to elect, subject to such conditions as the Committee shall impose () to have Common Stock otherwise issuable or deliverable under the Plan withheld by the Company or () to deliver to the Company previously acquired shares of Common Stock, in each case, having a Fair Market Value sufficient to satisfy not more than the Participant's statutory minimum Federal, state and local tax obligation associated with the transaction.
Tax Withholding
i
ii
 
10.5. . Each person who is or shall have been a member of the Committee or of the Board shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Company against and from any loss, cost, liability, or expense that may be imposed upon or reasonably incurred by him in connection with or resulting from any claim, action, suit, or proceeding to which he may be made a party or in which he may be involved by reason of any action taken or failure to act under the Plan and against and from any and all amounts paid by him in settlement thereof, with the Company's approval, or paid by him in satisfaction of any judgment in any such action, suit or proceeding against him, provided he shall give the Company an opportunity, at its own expense, to handle and defend the same before he undertakes to handle and defend it on his own behalf. The foregoing right of indemnification shall not be exclusive and shall be independent of any other rights of indemnification to which such persons may be entitled under the Company's Articles of Incorporation or By-laws, by contract, as a matter of law, or otherwise.
Indemnification
10.6. . Nothing in the Plan shall be construed to limit the right of the Company to establish other plans or to pay compensation to its employees in cash or property, in a manner which is not expressly authorized under the Plan.
No Limitation on Compensation
10.7. . The granting of Incentive Awards and the issuance of shares of Common Stock shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules, and regulations, and to such approvals by any governmental agencies or national securities exchanges as may be required.
Requirements of Law
10.8. . The Plan, and all agreements hereunder, shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Delaware.
Governing Law
10.9. . Incentive Awards granted under the Plan are not compensation for purposes of calculating an Employee's rights under any employee benefit plan.
No Impact On Benefits
10.10. . Instruments evidencing Incentive Awards may contain such other provisions, not inconsistent with the Plan, as the Committee deems advisable, including () a provision limiting the period during which Stock Appreciation Rights could be exercised to the extent required in order to avoid the application of Section 16(b) of the Act in the case of officers of the Company and () a requirement that the Participant represent to the Company in writing, when an Incentive Award is granted or when he receives shares with respect to such Award (or at such other time as the Committee deems appropriate) that he is accepting such Incentive Award, or receiving or acquiring such shares (unless they are then
Securities Law Compliance
i
ii
 
covered by a Securities Act of 1933 registration statement), for his own account for investment only and with no present intention to transfer, sell or otherwise dispose of such shares except such disposition by a legal representative as shall be required by will or the laws of any jurisdiction in winding up the estate of the Participant. Such shares shall be transferable only if the proposed transfer shall be permissible pursuant to the Plan and if, in the opinion of counsel satisfactory to the Company, such transfer at such time will be in compliance with applicable securities laws.
10.11 . The Plan shall be effective upon its adoption by the Board and approval by the holders of the Common Stock, , however, that in no event shall the Plan become effective until immediately prior to the occurrence of a Public Offering. The Plan shall expire on the tenth anniversary of the date on which it is adopted by the Board (except as to Incentive Awards outstanding on that date), unless sooner terminated pursuant to Section 9.
Term of Plan
provided
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this amendment and restatement to be executed by its duly authorized representative as of July 1, 2009.
 
 

Exhibit 10.19
Section 1.
Purpose
The purpose of this Trane Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan (the "Plan"), as amended as of July 1, 2009, is to provide a select group of management or highly compensated employees of Trane Inc. (the "Company") and its subsidiaries with the opportunity to defer receipt of certain compensation, and for the Company to defer payment of certain compensation to such individuals, into future years. The Plan covers employees of the Company and subsidiaries of the Company which, with the consent of the Company, elect to participate in the Plan (the "Employer"). The Plan has been amended as of January 1, 2005 to conform to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code ("Section 409A") for all amounts deferred on or after January 1, 2005 as defined in Section 409A and applicable regulations (such amounts hereinafter referred to as "Post-December 31, 2004 Deferrals"). All amounts deferred hereunder which are not subject to Section 409A shall be referred to herein as "Pre-2005 Deferrals". The provisions in the Plan with respect to Post-December 31, 2004 Deferrals are subject to the transition rules set forth in guidance from the Internal Revenue Service (the "IRS"), including, without limitation, Notice 2005-1 and subsequent notices issued by the IRS providing for transitional relief with respect to Section 409A. The Company reserves the right to allow Participants to take advantage of any such transitional relief with respect to their Post-December 31, 2004 Deferrals.
Section 2.
Eligibility
Each employee of the Employer who is a U.S. taxpayer and who either (i) participates in the Long Term Incentive Compensation Plan of the Company or any equivalent plan of Ingersoll-Rand Company plc ("Ingersoll Rand") or any of its subsidiaries or (ii) is a district sales manager for the Trane Commercial Sales business is eligible to participate in the Plan, or (iii)
effective July 7, 2006 is a territory sales manager for the Trane Commercial Sales Business. All those who are eligible to participate in the Plan are considered to be Participants. The Plan Administrator shall provide a copy of the Plan to each Participant together with a form of letter which the Participant may use to notify the Company of his or her election to defer compensation under the Plan.
Section 3.
Participation
On or before the date chosen from time to time by the Plan Administrator, a Participant may elect to defer receipt of certain forms of compensation which, but for such election, would have been paid to him or her, and to have such amounts credited, in whole or in part, to a memorandum account credited with a fixed annual return (the "Interest Account") and/or a memorandum account deemed to be invested in notional Ordinary Shares of Ingersoll Rand (the "Stock Account"). A Participant may elect to defer up to (i) 50% of base pay, (ii) 100% of payments under the Company's Annual Incentive Program or an equivalent Ingersoll Rand program, (iii) 100% of payments under the Company's Long Term Incentive Compensation Program or an equivalent Ingersoll Rand program, and (iv) 100% of such other sources as are determined from time to time by the Plan Administrator; that the total amount deferred by a Participant shall be limited in any calendar year, if necessary, to satisfy Social Security Tax (including Medicare), income tax and employee benefit plan withholding requirements as determined in the sole and absolute discretion of the Plan Administrator.
a. .
Deferral Election
provided, however,
A deferral election shall be made by a Participant in the form of a written notice filed on a designated form with the Plan Administrator (the "Deferral Election"). The Deferral Election shall specify the amount being deferred under that election and how much, if any, of the deferral amount is going to each of the Interest Account and the Stock Account. The minimum amount that each Participant may defer under the Plan for each year shall be $5,000 (or such other amount as the Plan Administrator shall determine from time to time). For Pre-2005 Deferrals, any such election shall be effective solely with respect to payments that would otherwise be made in the calendar year following the year in which such election is filed, except that with respect to individuals who first become
b. .
Form and Duration of Deferral Election
 
Participants during a calendar year, such election shall apply to compensation to be earned and paid in that calendar year. For Post-December 31, 2004 Deferrals that are not deferrals of performance based compensation based on services provided over a period of at least twelve (12) months within the meaning of Section 409A (hereinafter, "Performance Based Compensation"), any deferral election with respect to compensation for services to be performed during a taxable year must be made not later than the close of the preceding taxable year or at such other times as provided under the regulations governing Section 409A. For Post-December 31, 2004 Deferrals of Performance Based Compensation, such deferral election may be made no later than six (6) months before the end of the performance period to which the Performance Based Compensation applies. Notwithstanding the foregoing, for Post-December 31, 2004 Deferrals by individuals who first become Participants during a calendar year, elections to defer shall be made with respect to compensation for services to be performed subsequent to the election within thirty (30) days after the date such individual becomes a Participant. All deferral elections shall remain in effect for future years until it is modified or revokedAny revocation or modification of a Deferral Election shall become effective only with respect to compensation payable in the calendar year following receipt of such revocation or modification by the Plan Administrator.
.
A Participant who has revoked an election to participate in the Plan may file a new election to defer compensation payable in the calendar year following the year in which such election is filed, if the Participant continues to meet the Plan's eligibility criteria as are then in effect.
c. .
Renewal
The Employer may from time to time elect to make fully discretionary contributions ("Discretionary Company Contributions") to the Interest Accounts of some or all Participants, in such amounts as it, in its sole discretion, elects. Such Discretionary Company Contributions may be subject to a vesting schedule, as determined by the Plan Administrator. Notwithstanding the vesting schedule, such amounts will become fully vested upon the occurrence of a Change of Control, or upon the death or disability (as defined below) of the Participant (while actively employed by the Employer as an employee). "Change of Control" shall have the same meaning as set forth in the Ingersoll-Rand Company Limited 2007 Incentive Stock Plan, as amended, or any successor plan thereto.
d. .
Discretionary Company Contributions; Change of Control
 
The Employer may from time to time elect to make fully discretionary matching contributions ("Matching Contributions") to the Interest Accounts of some or all Participants, in such amounts as it, in its sole discretion, elects. Such Matching Contributions shall be fully vested at all times.
e. .
Matching Contributions
Section 4.
Participant's Accounts
The Company shall maintain an Interest Account and a Stock Account for each Participant, and shall make additions to and subtractions from such Accounts as provided in this Plan. For each amount credited to the Interest Account, such Account shall note the date the amount was credited to the Account, any interest accrued pursuant to this Section 4, as well as the date that distribution is to commence. For each amount credited to the Stock Account, the Account shall note the date the amount was credited to the Account, the number of notional shares credited on such date, the Market Value per Share used to determine the notional shares credited, as well as the date distribution is to commence.
a. .
Establishment of Account
Compensation allocated to the Interest Account pursuant to this Section 4 shall be credited to such Account as of the date such compensation would otherwise have been paid to the Participant, and for Matching Contributions and Discretionary Company Contributions, as of the date on which such amounts are credited to the Interest Account. Any amounts credited to the Interest Account shall earn interest on an annual basis at the Applicable Interest Rate in effect for each calendar year, as defined below, which interest shall be credited on the last business day of each calendar month.
b. .
Interest Account
The Applicable Interest Rate for amounts credited prior to January 1, 2002, shall mean the percentage equal to the prime rate of interest in effect at Chase Manhattan Bank (or any successor thereto) on the last business day of the previous calendar year, plus one percent.
For amounts credited to the Interest Account after December 31, 2001, Applicable Interest Rate shall mean the rate of interest to be determined by the Plan Administrator from time to time.
Any compensation allocated to the Stock Account pursuant to this Section 4 shall be deemed to be invested in a number of notional Ordinary Shares (including fractional shares) of Ingersoll Rand (the "Shares") equal to the quotient of (i) the dollar amount
c. .
Stock Account
 
of such compensation divided by (ii) the Market Value Per Share (as defined below) on the date the compensation being allocated to the Stock Account would otherwise have been payable to the Participant. The Market Value Per Share on any date shall mean the closing price per share for an ordinary share of Ingersoll Rand ("Ordinary Share") as reported on the Consolidated Tape of the New York Stock Exchange on such date. If such date is not a business day or if no sale occurs on such date, Market Value Per Share shall be determined, in the manner described above, as of the first preceding business day on which a sale occurs.
Whenever a dividend other than a dividend payable in the form of Ingersoll Rand's Ordinary Shares is declared with respect to Ingersoll Rand's Ordinary Shares, the number of Shares in the Participant's Stock Account shall be increased by the number of Shares determined by dividing (i) the product of (A) the number of Shares in the Participant's Stock Account on the related dividend record date and (B) the amount of any cash dividend declared by Ingersoll Rand on a Ordinary Share (or, in the case of any dividend distributable in property other than Ordinary Shares, the per share value of such dividend, as determined by Ingersoll Rand for purposes of income tax reporting) by (ii) the Market Value Per Share on the related dividend payment date. In the case of any dividend declared on Ingersoll Rand's Ordinary Shares which is payable in Ordinary Shares, the Participant's Stock Account shall be increased by the number of Shares equal to the product of (i) the number of Shares credited to the Participant's Stock Account on the related dividend record date and (ii) the number of shares of Ordinary Shares (including any fraction thereof) distributable as a dividend on a Ordinary Share.
In the event of any change in the number or kind of outstanding Ordinary Shares by reason of any recapitalization, reorganization, merger, consolidation, stock split or any similar change affecting the Ordinary Shares, other than a stock dividend as provided above, the Administrator shall make an appropriate adjustment in the number of Shares credited to each Participant's Stock Account and, to the extent such adjustment results in a cash credit to such Stock Account, may cause such cash credit to be deemed reinvested in Shares or may effect a transfer of such cash credit to the Participant's Interest Account. Solely for purposes of determining the amount of any interest to be credited thereon, any amount transferred to a Participant's Interest Account pursuant to the immediately preceding sentence shall be treated in the same manner as though such transfer were a deferral, at the election of the Participant, of compensation otherwise payable as of the effective date of the corresponding adjustment to the Participant's Stock Account.
 
At the time a Participant elects to defer compensation pursuant to Section 3(a), the Participant shall designate in writing the portion of such compensation, stated as a whole percentage, to be credited to the Interest Account and the portion to be credited to the Stock Account. Any compensation to be credited to either Account shall be rounded to the nearest whole cent. If a Participant fails to designate how the deferrals and/or other contributions are to be allocated between the two Accounts, 100% of such amounts shall be credited to the Interest Account. Participants may not elect to transfer from the Interest Account to the Stock Account, or . In addition, any Discretionary or Matching Company Contributions shall be invested in the Interest Account.
(d) .
Investment Elections for Deferrals and Other Contributions
vice versa
Section 5.
Distributions from the Accounts
This Section 5.a applies to Pre-2005 Deferrals only. At the time a Participant makes a Deferral Election with respect to a particular calendar year, such Participant shall also file with the Plan Administrator a written election (a "Distribution Election") with respect to the timing and manner of distribution of the aggregate amount, if any, credited to the Interest Account and/or the Stock Account for that year's deferrals and matching contributions. In all cases, the Plan Administrator will determine the time and form of distributions with respect to Discretionary Company Contributions, if any. A Distribution Election shall specify that a distribution for that year's deferrals and Matching Contributions shall be made in one of the following manners:
a. .
Distribution Elections for Pre-2005 Deferrals
 
 
 
 
 
This Section 5.b applies to Pre-2005 Deferrals only. A Participant may change a Distribution Election applicable to a particular year's deferrals and Matching Contributions upon written notice filed with the Plan Administrator up to two times, subject to the following limitations:
b. .
Amendment of Distribution Election for Pre-2005 Deferrals
 
 
 
 
This Section 5.c applies to Post-December 31, 2004 Deferrals only. At the time a Participant makes a Deferral Election with respect to a particular calendar year, such Participant shall also file with the Plan Administrator a written election (a "Distribution Election") with respect to the timing and manner of distribution of the aggregate amount, if any, credited to the Interest Account and/or the Stock Account for that year's deferrals and matching contributions. In all cases, the Plan Administrator will determine the time and form of distributions with respect to Discretionary Company Contributions, if any, provided that such distributions shall be made in accordance with Section 409A. A Distribution Election shall specify that a distribution for that year's deferrals and Matching Contributions shall be made in one of the following manners:
c. .
Distribution Elections for Post-December 31, 2004 Deferrals
 
 
 
 
 
This Section 5.d applies to Post-December 31, 2004 Deferrals only. A Participant may change a Distribution Election applicable to a particular year's deferrals and Matching Contributions upon written notice filed with the Plan Administrator up to two times, subject to the following limitations:
d. .
Amendment of Distribution Election for Post-December 31, 2004 Deferrals
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding anything else herein to the contrary, if a Participant shall die before payment of all amounts credited to such Participant's Accounts have been completed, the total remaining balance in such Accounts shall be paid in a single lump sum to the Participant's designated beneficiary or, if no beneficiary has been designated, to his or her estate, thirty (30) days after the Plan Administrator receives notice of the Participant's death.
e. .
Payment upon Death
Distributions from the Stock Account shall be paid in Ordinary Shares, unless otherwise determined by the Plan Administrator in its sole discretion. In the event of a distribution from the Stock Account to be paid in Ordinary Shares, the number of Ordinary Shares payable shall be equal to the number of whole Shares subject to such distribution. Any fractional Shares will be settled in cash. The Stock Account will be valued for tax withholding purposes, as well as all other purposes (including, but not limited to, settlement of the Stock Account (in whole or in part) in cash), based on the Market Value Per Share on the last business day of the calendar month prior to the date as of which distribution is to be made. Distributions from the Interest Account will be valued as of the last business day of the calendar month prior to the date as of which distribution is to be made.
f. .
Valuation on Distribution
Where a Participant elects to receive a distribution in annual installments, the amount of each installment payment from the Interest Account shall be equal to the product of (i) the balance credited to such Interest Account (which is subject to the particular installment election) on the last business day of the calendar month prior to the date as of which such payment is to be made, and (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which is one (1) and the denominator of which is the total number of installments remaining to be paid at that time.
g. .
Interest Account Installment Payments
 
Where a Participant elects to receive the distribution in annual installments, the number of Shares subject to such annual installment payment from the Stock Account shall be equal to the product of (i) the number of Shares credited to such Stock Account on the date of such payment which is subject to the particular installment election, and (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which is one (1) and the denominator of which is the total number of installments remaining to be paid at that time.
h. .
Stock Account Installment Payments
Section 6.
Hardship and Unscheduled In-Service Distributions
A Participant shall be permitted to elect a Hardship Distribution from his or her vested Accounts at any time, subject to the following. Discretionary Company Contributions are not available for a Hardship Distribution, unless otherwise determined by the Plan Administrator in its sole discretion. The election to take a Hardship Distribution shall be made by filing a form provided by and filed with the Plan Administrator prior to the end of any calendar month. The Plan Administrator shall determine whether the requested distribution constitutes a Hardship Distribution as defined below. The amount determined by the Plan Administrator as a Hardship Distribution shall be paid in a single payment as soon as practicable after the end of the calendar month in which the Hardship Distribution election is made and approved by the Plan Administrator. If a Participant receives a Hardship Distribution, the Participant will be ineligible to participate in the Plan for the balance of that calendar year. The Plan Administrator will in its sole discretion determine the Account or Accounts from which to debit the amount of the distribution.
a. .
Hardship Distributions
For this purpose, Hardship Distribution shall mean a severe financial hardship to the Participant resulting from a sudden and unexpected illness or accident of the Participant or of his or her dependent (as defined in Section 152(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended), loss of a Participant's property due to casualty, or other similar or extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances arising as a result of events beyond the control of the Participant. The circumstances that would constitute an unforeseeable emergency will depend upon the facts
 
of each case, but, in any case, a Hardship Distribution may not be made to the extent that such hardship is or may be relieved (i) through reimbursement or compensation by insurance or otherwise, or (ii) by liquidation of the Participant's assets, to the extent the liquidation of assets would not itself cause severe financial hardship. In all instances, the Plan Administrator will have sole discretion to determine whether a valid hardship exists for this purpose. The amounts distributed pursuant to a Hardship Distribution shall not exceed the amount necessary to satisfy the emergency plus amounts necessary to pay taxes reasonably anticipated as a reasonably anticipated as a result of the distribution.
. In no event shall this paragraph apply to Post-December 31, 2004 Deferrals. A Participant shall be permitted to elect an Unscheduled In-Service Distribution from his or her vested Accounts at any time, subject to the following. Discretionary Company Contributions are not available for an Unscheduled In-Service Distribution. The election to take an Unscheduled In-Service Distribution shall be made by filing a form provided by and filed with the Plan Administrator prior to the end of any calendar month. The amount of the Unscheduled In-Service Distribution shall be the amount selected by the Participant, up to a maximum of 90% of his vested Account balance. The amount described herein shall be paid in a single payment as soon as practicable after the end of the calendar month in which the Unscheduled In-Service Distribution election is made. If a Participant requests an Unscheduled In-Service Distribution of some or all of his or her vested Account, such Participant shall permanently forfeit 10% of the gross amount to be distributed from the Participant's Account, and the Company shall have no obligation to the Participant or his or her Beneficiary with respect to such forfeited amount. If a Participant receives an Unscheduled In-Service Distribution of either all or a part of his or her Account, then the Participant will be ineligible to participate in the Plan for the balance of the calendar year. The Plan Administrator will in its sole discretion determine the Account or Accounts from which to debit the amount of the distribution.
b.
Unscheduled In-Service Distributions
A Participant may designate a beneficiary or beneficiaries (which may be an entity other than a natural person) to receive payments to be made following such Participant's death. At any time, and from time to time, any such
Section 7.
Designation of Beneficiaries
 
designation may be changed or canceled by the Participant without the consent of the beneficiary. Any such designation, change or cancellation must be made by written notice filed with the Plan Administrator. If a Participant designates more than one beneficiary, any payments to such beneficiaries shall be made in equal amounts unless the Participant has designated otherwise, in which case the payments shall be made as designated by the Participant. If no beneficiary is named by the Participant, or if a beneficiary has been designated and such designation has been canceled, payment shall be made to the Participant's estate. Notwithstanding the above, if a Participant has designated his or her spouse as beneficiary, and subsequent to such designation becomes divorced from such spouse, then the designation previously filed will be deemed revoked as to such former spouse, unless specifically reaffirmed in writing by the Participant subsequent to the date of divorce.
The Board of Directors of Ingersoll Rand ("Board") may amend or terminate the Plan at any time; , , that, no such amendment or termination shall impair the rights of a Participant with respect to amounts then credited to his Account under the Plan, and , however, that no amendment or termination may be effected with respect to a Participant prior to the end of two years following a Change of Control, except with the written consent of such an affected Participant.
Section 8.
Amendment and Termination
provided
however
further provided
The Plan shall be administered by the Compensation Committee appointed by the Board (the "Committee"). The Committee may delegate any or all of its administrative powers and duties to one or more employees of Ingersoll Rand or its affiliates and subsidiaries. In addition to such functions and responsibilities specifically reserved to the Plan Administrator under the Plan, the Plan Administrator shall have full power and authority, subject to the provisions of the Plan, to construe and interpret and carry out the terms of the Plan, and to exercise discretion where necessary or appropriate in the interpretation of the Plan, and all decisions by the Plan Administrator shall be final and binding on all affected parties. In addition to such powers, the Plan Administrator has the authority to modify eligibility criteria for the Plan, to select or change investment options under the Plan, to appoint and replace the trustee of the grantor trust to be established hereunder, to establish rules and regulations for efficient plan
Section 9.
Administration
 
administration, to employ and rely upon advisers, and shall have such other powers, duties and responsibilities as are customary for plans such as the Plan, all as determined by the Plan Administrator. The Plan is intended to be administered in a manner consistent with the requirements, where applicable, of Section 409A of the Code. Where reasonably possible and practicable, the Plan shall be administered in a manner to avoid the imposition on Participants of immediate tax recognition and additional taxes pursuant to such Section 409A. Notwithstanding anything else contained herein to the contrary, neither the Plan Administrator nor the Company shall be in breach of its obligations hereunder, nor liable for any interest or other payments, if the Company fails to make any payments hereunder on the stated date on which such payment is due.
Section 10.
Miscellaneous
The Employer shall not be obligated to fund its liabilities under the Plan, the Accounts established for each Participant electing deferment shall not constitute a trust, and a Participant shall have no claim against the Company or its assets other than as an unsecured general creditor. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Participant's claim at any time shall be for the amount credited to such Participant's Accounts at such time. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company will establish a grantor trust to assist it in meeting its obligations hereunder, which grantor trust may be funded by the Company at such levels as it determines from time to time; that in no event shall any Participant have any interest in such trust or property other than that of an unsecured general creditor of the Company. Notwithstanding the above, upon the occurrence of a Change of Control, the Company will immediately contribute to such grantor trust such amounts of cash and Company stock as are necessary to satisfy all claims for benefits under the Plan, on an assumed termination basis at such date.
a. .
Unfunded Plan
provided, however,
The right of a Participant to receive a distribution of the value of such Participant's Account payable pursuant to the Plan shall not be subject to assignment, alienation, attachment, garnishment or other similar process.
b. .
Non-Alienation
Nothing in this Plan shall be construed to give any Participant the right to continued employment by the Employer, nor shall it limit the Employer's ability to affect the terms and conditions of a Participant's employment with the Employer.
c. .
No Right to Continued Employment
 
This Plan and all rights and obligations hereunder shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, to the extent such laws are not superseded by federal law. The Plan is intended to be a nonqualified deferred compensation plan maintained for a select group of management or highly compensated individuals. As such, it is generally subject to Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA"). While ERISA generally applies to the Plan, Parts 2 (Participation and Vesting), 3 (Funding), and 4 (Fiduciary Responsibility) of Title I of ERISA do not apply. Part 5 (Administration and Enforcement) applies, and the Part 1 (Reporting and Disclosure) requirements apply to the Plan, but only on a limited basis.
d. .
Governing Law
The Company may withhold from any amounts payable hereunder, whether in cash or shares, such federal, state or local taxes as may be deemed required to be withheld pursuant to applicable law or regulations.
e. .
Withholding
A Participant shall have no right to receive payment (in any form) with respect to his or her Accounts until legal and contractual obligations of the Employer relating to the making of such payments shall have been complied with in full. In addition, the Plan Administrator shall impose such restrictions, limitations, rules and regulations as it may deem advisable in order to comply with the applicable federal securities laws, the requirements of the New York Stock Exchange or any other applicable stock exchange or automated quotation system, any applicable state securities laws, any provision of the Company's Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws, or any other law, regulation, rule, or binding contract to which the Company or the Employer is subject.
f.
Compliance.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this amendment and restatement to be executed by its duly authorized representative as of July 1, 2009.
 
 

Exhibit 10.20
The purpose of the Plan is to provide those participants in the Trane Savings Plan (the "Savings Plan") and the Trane Pension Plan (the "Pension Plan"), who are not Corporate Officers participating in the Company's SERP, and whose employer contributions under the Savings Plan and the Pension Plan have been cut back by the statutory reduction to the amount of annual compensation recognizable for qualified plan benefit accruals under Section 401(a)(17) of the Code, with an annual benefit, subject to certain limitations, to roughly reflect the equivalent value of lost Savings Plan and Pension Plan contributions.
Section 1.
Purpose
. Whenever used herein, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below. Words in the masculine gender shall also include the feminine gender.
Section 2
Definitions
2.1 means that portion, if any, of a Participant's Eligible Compensation for a calendar year in excess of the Statutory Limitation, provided that, if more than one Valuation Date occurs in a calendar year, the Plan Administrator shall allocate Affected Earnings in such manner as the Plan Administrator shall specify from time to time.
Affected Earnings
2.2 means for any calendar year, the interest rate used to credit interest to Participants' accounts under the Pension Plan.
Applicable Interest Rate
2.3 means the Board of Directors of Ingersoll-Rand plc ("Ingersoll Rand").
Board
2.4 means a separate memorandum account established in respect of a Participant which shall be credited with awards under the Plan intended to compensate such Participant for employer contributions under the Pension Plan which have been cut back due to the Statutory Limitation.
Cash Account
 
2.5 means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or any subsequent income tax law of the United States. References to Code shall be deemed to include all subsequent amendments of those sections or the corresponding provisions of any subsequent income tax law.
Code
2.6 means Trane Inc., a Delaware corporation.
Company
2.7 means, effective January 1, 2005, the Participant (i) is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than twelve (12) months or (ii) is by reason of medically determinable physical or mental impairment, which can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than twelve (12) months, receiving income replacement benefits for a period of not less than three (3) months under an accident and health plan covering employees of the Participant's employer.
Disability
2.8 means, for any calendar year beginning on or after January 1, 2006, the Participant's total remuneration, up to a maximum of $250,000 ($235,000 for calendar years prior to January 1, 2006), that would have been included in the definition of compensation under the Savings Plan and the Pension Plan but for the Statutory Limitation.
Eligible Compensation
2.9 means for each Participant the sum of (a) 3% plus (b) the percentage of such Participant's compensation for which the Company actually provided a matching contribution under the Savings Plan during the year, determined by taking into account (i) such Participant's level of contributions throughout the year and (ii) whether or not such Participant also participated in the Pension Plan.
Employer Contribution Percentage
 
2.10 on any date means the closing price of a Share on such date as reported on the New York Stock Exchange consolidated reporting system, provided that, in the event that there are no Ordinary Share transactions reported on such date, Fair Market Value shall mean the closing price of a Share on the immediately preceding date on which Ordinary Share transactions were so reported.
Fair Market Value
2.11 means the ordinary shares, par value $1.00 per share, of Ingersoll Rand.
Ordinary Shares
2.12 means with respect to each calendar year any participant in the Savings Plan or the Pension Plan, who is not a corporate officer of the Company who also actively participates in the Company's Executive Supplemental Retirement Benefit Program (the "SERP"), and whose allowable employer contributions under the Savings Plan or the Pension Plan have been determined by the Plan Administrator to have been cut back by the Statutory Limitation.
Participant
2.13 means this Trane Inc. Supplemental Savings Plan.
Plan
2.14 means a Participant's right to receive pursuant to the Plan one Share upon such Participant's Termination of Employment, which right is subject to forfeiture in accordance with Section 14 (a) of the Plan.
Plan Unit
2.15 means, with respect to a Participant, the Participant's "separation from service" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code and the regulations and interpretative guidance promulgated thereunder.
Separation from Service
2.16 means an Ordinary Share.
Share
 
2.17 means for any calendar year the maximum dollar amount of compensation that may be taken into account under the Savings Plan and the Pension Plan pursuant to section 401(a) (17) of the Code.
Statutory Limitation
2.18 means a separate memorandum account established in respect of a Participant which shall be credited with Plan Units intended to compensate such Participant for employer contributions under the Savings Plan which have been cut back due to the Statutory Limitation.
Stock Account
2.19 means (i) with respect to a Participant whose active service ends prior to January 1, 2008, a Participant's termination of service as such is defined for purposes of the ESOP, the Savings Plan and the Pension Plan and (ii) with respect to a Participant whose active service ends after December 31, 2007, a Participant's Separation from Service.
Termination of Employment
2.20 means the last day of any calendar year (or such other date or dates as the Plan Administrator may specify from time to time).
Valuation Date
2.21 means the distribution by the Company of WABCO Holding, Inc. to the Company's shareholders.
WABCO Spin Off
Benefits awarded under this Plan shall be in the form of either (a) Plan Units and fractions thereof, with each Plan Unit to be equivalent to one Share or (b) cash equivalent credits to the Cash Account.
Section 3.
Form of Benefits.
The Company shall maintain a Stock Account for each Participant. For each award of Plan Units, the Stock Account shall note the number of Plan Units and fractions thereof awarded, the date of the award, as well as the Fair Market Value that was used to determine the award of Plan Units and fractions thereof.
Section 4.
Stock Account.
 
The Company shall maintain a Cash Account for each Participant who receives an award under the Plan due to such individual's participation in the Pension Plan. For each award to the Cash Account, the account shall note the amount credited, the date of the award and interest accrued according to this Section 5. Any amounts credited to the Cash Account shall earn interest at the Applicable Interest Rate in effect for each calendar year, which interest shall be credited in the same manner as credited to Participants' accounts under the Pension Plan.
Section 5.
Cash Account.
As of the Valuation Date, the Company will add to each Participant's Stock Account that number of Plan Units and/or fractions thereof equal to the quotient of:
Section 6.
Awarding of Plan Units.
(a) the Employer Contribution Percentage of the Participant's Affected Earnings divided by
(b) the Fair Market Value as of the Valuation Date.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, a Participant whose employer contributions to the Savings Plan have been limited by provisions of the Code applicable to contributions to qualified retirement plans other than the provisions of Section 401(a)(17) of the Code before such Participant would have otherwise been limited under Section 401(a)(17) of the Code shall be eligible for an award of Plan Units to the same extent as if such Participant had not first been limited by such other provisions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, for so long as the Valuation Date occurs less frequently than by each payroll period, no Participant shall be entitled to the foregoing award of Plan Units if such Participant has experienced a Termination of Employment before the applicable Valuation Date.
 
Except as otherwise provided in Section 9, whenever a dividend other than a dividend payable in the form of Shares is declared with respect to Ingersoll Rand's Ordinary Shares, the number of Plan Units in the Participant's Stock Account shall be increased by a number of Plan Units determined by dividing (i) the product of (A) the number of Plan Units in the Participant's Stock Account on the related dividend record date and (B) the amount of any cash dividend declared by Ingersoll Rand on a Share (or, in the case of any dividend distributable in property other than Ordinary Shares, the per share value of such dividend, as determined by Ingersoll Rand for purposes of income tax reporting) by (ii) the Fair Market Value Per Share on the related dividend payment date.
As of each Valuation Date, the Company will add to the Cash Account of any Participant who suffered a reduction in employer credits to the Pension Plan as a result of the Statutory Reduction an amount equal to 3% of such Participant's Affected Earnings. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, a Participant whose employer contributions to the Pension Plan have been limited by provisions of the Code applicable to contributions to qualified retirement plans other than the provisions of Section 401(a)(17) of the Code before such Participant would have otherwise been limited under Section 401(a)(17) of the Code shall be eligible for an award under this Section 7 to the same extent as if such Participant had not first been limited by such other provisions.
Section 7.
Awards to the Cash Account.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, for so long as the Valuation Date occurs less frequently than by each payroll period, no Participant shall be entitled to an award if such Participant has experienced a Termination of Employment before the applicable Valuation Date.
Any Participant who is employed by the Company or an Affiliate as of January 1, 2004 shall, subject to the last sentence of the first paragraph of Section 6 and the last sentence of Section 7, be 100% vested in their Cash and Stock Accounts at all times. Cash Account balances of those Participants who are first employed by the Company or an Affiliate (as such term is defined in the Pension Plan) after January 1, 2004 shall vest in accordance with the vesting rules in effect for the Pension Plan. Stock Account balances of those Participants who are first employed by the Company or an Affiliate (as such term is defined in the Savings Plan) after January 1, 2004 shall vest in accordance with the vesting rules in effect for the Savings Plan. Upon Termination of Employment of a Participant who is not vested in his or her Cash Account or Stock Account, such unvested accounts shall be forfeited as of thirty (30) days after the date of Termination of Employment. Notwithstanding the foregoing, forfeited balances in the Cash Account and Stock Account shall be subject to restoration in accordance with the rules regarding restoration of forfeited account balances in the Pension Plan and Savings Plan, respectively, including with respect to the Cash Account, restoration of interest credits that would have been earned during the period of forfeiture.
Section 8.
Vesting and Forfeitures.
 
In the event of the payment of any dividend payable in, or the making of any distribution of, Shares to holders of record of Shares during the period any Plan Units awarded under the Plan are credited to a Participant's Stock Account; or in the event of any stock split, combination of Shares, recapitalization or other similar change in the authorized capital stock of Ingersoll Rand or any tax-free distribution on the Shares or other transaction affecting the Shares during such period; or in the event of the merger or consolidation of the Company into or with any other corporation or the reorganization, dissolution or liquidation of the Company during such period; the Plan Administrator shall make an appropriate adjustment in the number of Plan Units credited to each Participant's Stock Account and, to the extent such adjustment results in a cash credit to such Stock Account, may cause such cash amount to be deemed reinvested in Shares or may effect a transfer of such cash credit to the Participant's Cash Account. Solely for purposes of determining the amount of any interest to be credited thereon, any amount transferred to a Participant's Cash Account pursuant to the immediately preceding sentence shall be treated in the same manner as an addition to the Participant's Cash Account pursuant to Section 7 made as of the effective date of the corresponding adjustment to the Participant's Stock Account. Effective July 31, 2007, in connection with the WABCO Spin-Off, such adjustment shall be effected in the following manner: the number of Plan Units credited to a Participant's Share Account on the first business day following the WABCO Spin-Off shall be equal to the product of (1) the number of Plan Units credited to the Participant's Stock Account on July 31, 2007, the effective date of the WABCO Spin-Off, by (2) a fraction, the numerator of which is the closing price of a Share on July 31, 2007 (, $54.05) and the denominator of which is the opening price of a Share on August 1, 2007 (, $38.75).
Section 9.
Changes in Capital Structure.
i.e.
i.e.
 
Section 10.
Distribution of a Participant's Stock Account.
Subject to any distributions made in accordance with the transition relief promulgated under Section 409A of the Code, effective January 1, 2005, upon a Participant's Termination of Employment, such Participant shall be entitled to a distribution of his Stock Account within forty-five (45) days thereafter , , if the Participant (i) incurs a Separation from Service during 2007 and prior to Termination of Employment, any distribution to such Participant shall be made on the 90
provided that
th
day following the Participant's Separation from Service; or (ii) incurs a Separation from Service after December 31, 2007 and has not completed three years of service at the date of such Separation from Service, but shall nonetheless vest in his Cash Account under Section 8, any distribution to such Participant shall be made on the first anniversary of the date of the Participant's Separation from Service. Notwithstanding the immediately preceding sentence, effective January 1, 2005, if a Participant is a "key employee" under Section 416(i) of the Code for the relevant measuring period under Section 409A of the Code, any distribution hereunder other than in connection with the Participant's death or Disability will be made no earlier than six months after the Participant's Separation from Service. Any distribution under this Section 10 shall be in Shares, with one Share distributed for each unit in the Stock Account, and fractional units converted to cash based on the Fair Market Value as of the last business day of the month preceding the date of distribution. Notwithstanding the foregoing, so long as it will not cause Ingersoll Rand, the Company or Trane U.S. Inc. to breach any covenant or otherwise incur a default under any credit or other financing agreement to which it is a party, the Company may elect to pay the Participant the cash
 
value of his Shares based on the Fair Market Value as of the last business day of the month preceding the date of distribution. Distributions shall be subject to all required tax withholdings, and for purposes of Stock Account distributions, the Stock Account shall be valued as of the last business day of the month preceding the date of distribution. In the event of distribution of a Participant's Stock Account due to such Participant's death, distribution under this Section 10 shall be made to the same person or persons to whom such Participant's interest in the Savings Plan becomes payable as a result of such Participant's death.
Section 11.
Distribution of a Participant's Cash Account.
Subject to any distributions made in accordance with the transition relief promulgated under Section 409A of the Code, effective January 1, 2005, upon a Participant's Termination of Employment, such Participant shall be entitled to a distribution of the Actuarial Equivalent value of his Cash Account balance, if any, within forty-five (45) days thereafter, , if the Participant (i) incurs a Separation from Service during 2007 and prior to Termination of Employment, any distribution to such Participant shall be made on the 90
provided that
th
day following the Participant's Separation from Service; or (ii) incurs a Separation from Service after December 31, 2007 and has not completed three years of service at the date of such Separation from Service, but shall nonetheless vest in his Cash Account under Section 8, any distribution to such Participant shall be made on the first anniversary of the date of the Participant's Separation from Service. Notwithstanding the immediately preceding sentence, effective January 1, 2005, if a Participant is a "key employee" under Section 416(i) of the Code for the relevant measuring period under Section 409A of the Code, any distribution hereunder (other than in connection
 
with the Participant's death or Disability will be made no earlier than six months after the Participant's Separation from Service. "Actuarial Equivalent" shall have the same meaning as ascribed to such term in the Pension Plan and Actuarial Equivalent value shall be calculated in the same manner as for lump sum distributions from the Pension Plan. Any distribution under this Section 11 shall be in cash, subject to all required tax withholdings, and for purposes of Cash Account distributions, the Cash Account shall be valued as of the last business day of the month preceding the date of distribution. In the event of a distribution of a Participant's Cash Account due to such Participant's death, distribution under this Section 11 shall be made to the same person or persons to whom such Participant's interest in the Pension Plan becomes payable as a result of such Participant's death.
The Plan was first effective as of January 1, 1994. The Plan has been amended and restated from time to time, including to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code. The current restatement is effective as of July 1, 2009. The Board may amend or terminate the Plan at any time; provided that, no such amendment or termination shall impair the rights of a Participant with respect to amounts then credited to his Account under the Plan.
Section 12.
Effective Date, Amendment and Termination.
The Plan shall be administered by the Senior Vice President, Human Resources (the "Plan Administrator") of Ingersoll-Rand Company or such person's delegate(s). In addition to such functions and responsibilities specifically reserved to the Plan Administrator under the Plan, the Plan Administrator shall have full power and authority, subject to the provisions of the Plan, to determine any and all questions as to eligibility to participate in the Plan, the amounts to be credited to a Participant's Account(s), a Participant's
Section 13. .
Administration
 
right to receive a distribution from the Plan, to interpret and carry out the terms of the Plan, and to exercise discretion where necessary or appropriate in the interpretation of the Plan. All decisions by the Plan Administrator shall be final and binding on all affected parties. Claims made for benefits under the Plan shall be subject to the same claims and appeals procedures as the qualified plans.
Section 14.
Miscellaneous.
a. The Company shall not be obligated to fund its liabilities under the Plan, the Account(s) established for each Participant shall not constitute a trust, and a Participant shall have no claim against Ingersoll Rand, the Company or Trane U.S. Inc. or their assets other than as an unsecured general creditor. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Participant's claim at any time shall be for the amount credited to such Participant's Stock Account and Cash Account at such time. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may establish a grantor's trust to assist it in meeting its obligations hereunder; provided, however, that in no event shall any Participant have any interest in such trust or property other than as an unsecured general creditor.
Unfunded Plan.
b. The right of a Participant to receive a distribution of the value of such Participant's Account payable pursuant to the Plan shall not be subject to assignment or alienation.
Non-Alienation.
c. Nothing in this Plan shall be construed to give any Participant the right to continued employment by the Company or any of its affiliates.
No Right to Continued Employment.
 
d. This Plan and all rights and obligations hereunder shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, to the extent such laws are not superseded by ERISA or other federal law. The Plan is intended to be a nonqualified deferred compensation plan maintained for a select group of management or highly compensated individuals.
Governing Law.
e. The Company shall provide for the withholding of any taxes required to be withheld by federal, state or local law in respect of any contribution, payment or distribution made pursuant to the Plan.
Withholding.
f. The Plan Administrator shall impose such restrictions, limitations, rules and regulations as it may deem advisable in order to comply with the applicable federal securities laws, the requirements of the New York Stock Exchange or any other applicable stock exchange or automated quotation system, any applicable state securities laws, any provision of the Company Certificate of Incorporation of Bylaws, or any other law, regulation, rule, or binding contract to which the Company is subject. The Plan is intended to (i) be an excess parallel plan within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange rules relating to shareholder approval of equity compensation plans and (ii) comply with the applicable requirements of Section 409A of the Code. Notwithstanding anything else contained herein to the contrary, the Company shall not be in breach of its obligations hereunder, nor liable for any interest or other payments, if it fails to make any payments hereunder on the stated date on which such payment is due, so long as such payment is made not later than the later of (i) 30 days after the date such payment would otherwise be due and (ii) the last day of the calendar year in which it is otherwise due hereunder.
Compliance.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this restatement to be executed by its duly authorized representative as of July 1, 2009.
 
 

Exhibit 10.21
, Ingersoll-Rand Company, a New Jersey corporation, adopted the Ingersoll-Rand Company Supplemental Pension Plan (the "Plan"), which was originally effective on June 30, 1995, and subsequently amended and restated effective January 1, 2003 and effective January 1, 2005; and
WHEREAS
,effective July 1, 2009, a corporate reorganization was effected pursuant to arrangements under Bermuda law which will result in a new parent company, Ingersoll-Rand plc ("IR plc") ("Irish Reorganization"); and
WHEREAS
, Ingersoll-Rand Company desires to amend the Plan in accordance with Section 4.1 of the Plan to reflect that the Irish Reorganization shall not be deemed a "change in control" for purposes of the Plan and that on and after the effective date of the Irish Reorganization, a "change in control" shall refer solely to Ingersoll-Rand plc; and
WHEREAS
, the Plan is hereby amended, effective July 1, 2009, as set forth below:
NOW THEREFORE
1. Sections 4.1(a) and (b) of the Plan is deleted in its entirety and, inserting the following, in lieu thereof:
"(a) This Supplemental Pension Plan may, at any time and from time to time, be amended or terminated, without consent of any Employee or beneficiary (i) by the Board of Directors of Ingersoll-Rand plc ("IR plc") (or if Ingersoll-Rand plc is a subsidiary of any other company, of the ultimate parent company) or the Compensation Committee (as described in Section 4.3), or (ii) in the case of amendments which do not materially modify the provisions hereof, the Company's Administrative Committee (as described in Section 4.3), provided, however, that no such amendment or termination shall reduce any benefits accrued or vested under the terms of this Supplemental Pension Plan as of the date of termination or amendment.
(b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, following a "change in control" of IR plc, any amendment modifying or terminating this Supplemental Pension Plan shall have no force or effect. For purposes hereof, a "change in control" shall have the meaning designated: (i) in the Ingersoll-Rand Company Amended and Restated Grantor Trust Agreement dated August 6, 1999 between the Company and Wachovia Bank, as trustee, or (ii) in such other trust agreement that restates or supercedes the agreement referred to in clause (i), in either case for purposes of satisfying certain obligations to executive employees of Ingersoll-Rand Company. For purposes of this Section 4, on and after the effective date of the Irish Reorganization, the term "change in control" shall refer solely to a "change in control" of IR plc."
 
2. Section 4.3 of the Plan of the Plan is deleted in its entirety and, inserting the following, in lieu thereof:
"4.3 Compensation CommitteeThis Supplemental Pension Plan shall be administered by the Compensation Committee appointed by the Board of Directors of IR plc or any successor committee appointed by the Board of Directors of IR plc (or if Ingersoll-Rand plc is a subsidiary of any other company, of the ultimate parent company), (the "Compensation Committee"). The Compensation Committee has delegated to the members of the administrative committee appointed by the Company's Chief Executive Officer (the "Administrative Committee") the authority to administer this Supplemental Pension Plan in accordance with its terms. Subject to review by the Compensation Committee, the Administrative Committee shall make all determinations as to the right of any person to a benefit. Any denial by the Administrative Committee of the claim for benefits under this Supplemental Pension Plan by an Employee or beneficiary shall be stated in writing by the Administrative Committee and delivered or mailed to the Employee or beneficiary. Such notice shall set forth the specific reasons for the Administrative Committee's decision. In addition, the Administrative Committee shall afford a reasonable opportunity to any Employee or beneficiary whose claim for benefits has been denied for a review of the decision denying the claim."
.
3. Except as specifically set forth herein, all other terms of the Plan shall remain in full force and effective and are hereby ratified in all respects.
, the Company has had its duly authorized representative sign this Amendment as of July 1, 2009
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 

Exhibit 10.22
, Ingersoll-Rand Company, a New Jersey corporation, adopted the Ingersoll-Rand Company Supplemental Pension Plan II (the "Plan"), which was originally effective on January 1, 2005; and
WHEREAS
,effective July 1, 2009, a corporate reorganization was effected pursuant to arrangements under Bermuda law which will result in a new parent company, Ingersoll-Rand plc ("IR plc") ("Irish Reorganization"); and
WHEREAS
, Ingersoll-Rand Company desires to amend the Plan in accordance with Section 4.1 of the Plan to reflect that the Irish Reorganization shall not be deemed a "change in control" for purposes of the Plan and that on and after the effective date of the Irish Reorganization, a "change in control" shall refer solely to Ingersoll-Rand plc; and
WHEREAS
, the Plan is hereby amended, effective July 1, 2009, as described below:
NOW THEREFORE
1. Sections 4.1(a) and (b) of the Plan is deleted in its entirety and, inserting the following, in lieu thereof:
"(a) This Supplemental Pension Plan II may, at any time and from time to time, be amended or terminated, without consent of any Employee or beneficiary (i) by the Board of Directors of Ingersoll-Rand plc ("IR plc") (or if Ingersoll-Rand plc is a subsidiary of any other company, of the ultimate parent company) or the Compensation Committee (as described in Section 4.3), or (ii) in the case of amendments which do not materially modify the provisions hereof, the Company's Administrative Committee (as described in Section 4.3), provided, however, that no such amendment or termination shall reduce any benefits accrued or vested under the terms of this Supplemental Pension Plan II as of the date of termination or amendment.
(b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, following a "change in control" of IR plc, any amendment modifying or terminating this Supplemental Pension Plan II shall have no force or effect. For purposes hereof, a "change in control" shall have the meaning designated: (i) in the Ingersoll-Rand Company Amended and Restated Grantor Trust Agreement dated August 6, 1999 between the Company and Wachovia Bank, as trustee, or (ii) in such other trust agreement that restates or supercedes the agreement referred to in clause (i), in either case for purposes of satisfying certain obligations to executive employees of Ingersoll-Rand Company. For purposes of this Section 4, on and after the effective date of the Irish Reorganization, the term "change in control" shall refer solely to a "change in control" of IR plc."
 
2. Section 4.3 of the Plan of the Plan is deleted in its entirety and, inserting the following, in lieu thereof:
"4.3 Compensation CommitteeThis Supplemental Pension Plan II shall be administered by the Compensation Committee appointed by the Board of Directors of IR plc or any successor committee appointed by the Board of Directors of IR plc (or if Ingersoll-Rand plc is a subsidiary of any other company, of the ultimate parent company), (the "Compensation Committee"). The Compensation Committee has delegated to the members of the administrative committee appointed by the Company's Chief Executive Officer (the "Administrative Committee") the authority to administer this Supplemental Pension Plan II in accordance with its terms. Subject to review by the Compensation Committee, the Administrative Committee shall make all determinations as to the right of any person to a benefit. Any denial by the Administrative Committee of the claim for benefits under this Supplemental Pension Plan II by an Employee or beneficiary shall be stated in writing by the Administrative Committee and delivered or mailed to the Employee or beneficiary. Such notice shall set forth the specific reasons for the Administrative Committee's decision. In addition, the Administrative Committee shall afford a reasonable opportunity to any Employee or beneficiary whose claim for benefits has been denied for a review of the decision denying the claim."
.
3. Except as specifically set forth herein, all other terms of the Plan shall remain in full force and effective and are hereby ratified in all respects.
, the Company has had its duly authorized representative sign this Amendment as of July 1, 2009
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 

Exhibit 10.23
Ingersoll-Rand Company (the "Company") maintains the Ingersoll-Rand Company Management Incentive Unit Plan (the "Plan") to provide benefits to certain individuals employed by the Company and its subsidiaries; and
WHEREAS,
no Management Incentive Unit Award has been made under the Plan since 1990, and all previously unvested awards under the Plan became vested on January 1, 2003; and
WHEREAS,
under Article XV of the Plan, the Company has reserved the right to amend or terminate the Plan at any time;
WHEREAS,
and
the Company desires to amend the Plan to reflect the change in the new ultimate parent of the Company and issuer of the Common Stock;
WHEREAS
the Plan is hereby amended as follows:
NOW THEREFORE,
Effective July 1, 2009, all references in the Plan to "Common Stock" shall mean the ordinary shares, par value $1.00 per share, of Ingersoll-Rand plc, an Irish company.
All other provisions of the Plan shall remain unchanged and in full force and effect.
the Company has caused this amendment to be executed by its duly authorized representative as of July 1, 2009
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
 

Exhibit 10.24
, Ingersoll-Rand Company, a New Jersey corporation, adopted the Ingersoll-Rand Company Elected Officer Supplemental Program (the "Plan"), which was originally effective on June 30, 1995, and subsequently amended and restated effective January 1, 2003; and
WHEREAS
effective July 1, 2009, a corporate reorganization was effected pursuant to arrangements under Bermuda law which will result in a new parent company, Ingersoll-Rand plc ("IR plc") ("Irish Reorganization"); and
WHEREAS,
, Ingersoll-Rand Company desires to amend the Plan in accordance with Section 8.1 of the Plan to reflect that the Irish Reorganization shall not be deemed a "Change in Control" for purposes of the Plan and that on and after the effective date of the Irish Reorganization, a "Change in Control" shall refer solely to Ingersoll-Rand plc; and
WHEREAS
, the Plan is hereby amended, effective July 1, 2009, as set forth below:
NOW THEREFORE
1. Section 1.2 of the Plan is deleted in its entirety and, inserting the following, in lieu thereof:
"The Board' shall mean the Board of Directors of Ingersoll-Rand plc (or if Ingersoll-Rand plc is a subsidiary of any other company, of the ultimate parent company)."
2. Section 1.3 of the Plan, "Change in Control", is hereby amended by adding the following to the end thereof:
"Further notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 1.3, or any other provision in this Plan or the Ingersoll-Rand Company Limited Incentive Stock Plan of 2007, none of the transactions contemplated by the Irish Reorganization that are undertaken by (i) Ingersoll-Rand Company Limited or its affiliates prior to, or as of, the effective date of the Irish Reorganization or (ii) Ingersoll-Rand plc or its affiliates on and after the effective date of the Irish Reorganization shall trigger, constitute or be deemed a Change in Control.' On and after the effective date of the Irish Reorganization, the term Change in Control' shall refer solely to a Change in Control' of Ingersoll-Rand plc."
 
3. Section 1.5 of the Plan is deleted in its entirety and, inserting the following, in lieu thereof:
"Committee' shall mean the Compensation Committee of Ingersoll-Rand plc"
4. Section 1.8 of the Plan is deleted in its entirety and, inserting the following, in lieu thereof:
"Elected Officer' means an individual elected by the Board as an officer of the Company or Ingersoll-Rand plc."
5. Section 2.1 of the Plan is deleted in its entirety and, inserting the following, in lieu thereof:
"An individual employed by the Company shall commence participation in the Program upon (a) becoming an Elected Officer of the Company (or of Ingersoll-Rand plc) and (b) being approved for participation by the Compensation Committee."
6. Section 7.2 of the Plan is deleted in its entirety and, inserting the following, in lieu thereof:
"Following a Change in Control of Ingersoll-Rand plc, any amendment modifying or terminating the Program shall have no force or effect."
7. Except as specifically set forth herein, all other terms of the Plan shall remain in full force and effective and are hereby ratified in all respects.
, the Company has had its duly authorized representative sign this Amendment as of July 1, 2009
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 

Exhibit 10.25
, Ingersoll-Rand Company, a New Jersey corporation, adopted the Ingersoll-Rand Company Elected Officer Supplemental Program II (the "Plan"), which was originally effective on January 1, 2005, and subsequently amended and restated effective January 1, 2009; and
WHEREAS
effective July 1, 2009, a corporate reorganization was effected pursuant to arrangements under Bermuda law which will result in a new parent company, Ingersoll-Rand plc ("IR plc") ("Irish Reorganization"); and
WHEREAS,
, Ingersoll-Rand Company desires to amend the Plan in accordance with Section 8.1 of the Plan to reflect that the Irish Reorganization shall not be deemed a "Change in Control" for purposes of the Plan and that on and after the effective date of the Irish Reorganization, a "Change in Control" shall refer solely to Ingersoll-Rand plc; and
WHEREAS
, the Plan is hereby amended, except as otherwise described below effective July 1, 2009, as described below:
NOW THEREFORE
1. Section 1.2 of the Plan is deleted in its entirety and, inserting the following, in lieu thereof:
"The Board' shall mean the Board of Directors of Ingersoll-Rand plc (or if Ingersoll-Rand plc is a subsidiary of any other company, of the ultimate parent company)."
2. Section 1.3 of the Plan, "Change in Control", is hereby amended by adding the following to the end thereof:
"Further notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 1.3, or any other provision in this Plan or the Ingersoll-Rand Company Limited Incentive Stock Plan of 2007, none of the transactions contemplated by the Irish Reorganization that are undertaken by (i) Ingersoll-Rand Company Limited or its affiliates prior to, or as of, the effective date of the Irish Reorganization or (ii) Ingersoll-Rand plc or its affiliates on and after the effective date of the Irish Reorganization shall trigger, constitute or be deemed a Change in Control.' On and after the effective date of the Irish Reorganization, the term Change in Control' shall refer solely to a Change in Control' of Ingersoll-Rand plc."
 
3. Section 1.7 of the Plan is deleted in its entirety and, inserting the following, in lieu thereof:
"Elected Officer' means an individual elected by the Board as an officer of the Company or Ingersoll-Rand plc."
4. Section 1.18 of the Plan is deleted in its entirety and, inserting the following, in lieu thereof:
"Year of Service' shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of the Pension Plan or such other qualified defined benefit pension plan or Foreign Plan in which an Employee participates that are applicable to determining the Employee's years of vesting service under such plan. For purposes of this Section, a qualified defined benefit pension plan means a plan defined in Code Section 414(j) which is sponsored by an Employer. Notwithstanding any provision of the Program to the contrary, in the event an Employee earns one or more hours of service during a calendar year, he shall be credited with a Year of Service with respect to such year for purposes of the Program. Further, the preceding sentence notwithstanding, any Employee who becomes a Participant in Program on or after effective May 18, 2009 and who earns one or more hours of service during a calendar month shall be credited with a service only for that month for purposes of the Program. Unless otherwise agreed by the Company, an Employee's Years of Service shall exclude any period of service during which the employer of the Employee was not an Employer under the Program, and shall not include any period of service in a calendar year following the year of the Employee's Separation from Service."
5. Section 2.1 of the Plan is deleted in its entirety and, inserting the following, in lieu thereof:
"An individual employed by the Company shall commence participation in the Program upon (a) becoming an Elected Officer of the Company (or of Ingersoll-Rand plc) and (b) being approved for participation by the Compensation Committee."
6. Section 7.2 of the Plan is deleted in its entirety and, inserting the following, in lieu thereof:
"Following a Change in Control of Ingersoll-Rand plc, any amendment modifying or terminating the Program shall have no force or effect."
7. Except as specifically set forth herein, all other terms of the Plan shall remain in full force and effective and are hereby ratified in all respects.
 
, the Company has had its duly authorized representative sign this Amendment as of July 1, 2009
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 

Exhibit 10.26
, Ingersoll-Rand Company, a New Jersey corporation, adopted the Ingersoll-Rand Company Estate Enhancement Program (the "Plan") which was originally effective on September 2, 1997, and subsequently amended and restated effective 1998; and
WHEREAS
effective July 1, 2009, a corporate reorganization was effected pursuant to arrangements under Bermuda law which will result in a new parent company, Ingersoll-Rand plc ("IR plc") ("Irish Reorganization"); and
WHEREAS,
, Ingersoll-Rand Company preserved the right at any time and from time to time to amend the Plan in accordance with Section 16.01 of the Plan; and
WHEREAS
, Ingersoll-Rand Company desires to amend the Plan to reflect that the Irish Reorganization shall not be deemed a "Change in Control" for purposes of the Plan and that on and after the effective date of the Irish Reorganization, a "Change in Control" shall refer solely to Ingersoll-Rand plc.
WHEREAS
, the Plan is hereby amended, effective July 1, 2009, as set forth below:
NOW THEREFORE
1. Section 2.05 of the Plan, "Change in Control", is hereby amended by adding the following to the end thereof:
"Further notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 2.05, or any other provision in this Plan or the Company's Incentive Stock Plans of 1995 and 1998, as amended, or the Ingersoll-Rand Company Limited Incentive Stock Plan of 2007, none of the transactions contemplated by the Irish Reorganization that are undertaken by (i) Ingersoll-Rand Company Limited or its affiliates prior to, or as of, the effective date of the Irish Reorganization or (ii) Ingersoll-Rand plc or its affiliates on and after the effective date of the Irish Reorganization shall trigger, constitute or be deemed a Change in Control.' On and after the effective date of the Irish Reorganization, the term Change in Control' shall refer solely to a Change in Control' of Ingersoll-Rand plc."
2. Except as specifically set forth herein, all other terms of the Plan shall remain in full force and effective and are hereby ratified in all respects.
 
, the Company has had its duly authorized representative sign this Amendment as of July 1, 2009
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Ingersoll-Rand plc (NYSE:IR), a leader in creating and sustaining safe, comfortable and efficient environments, announced today that it has completed its previously announced reorganization changing the jurisdiction of incorporation of the parent company of Ingersoll Rand from Bermuda to Ireland. The reorganization was completed on July 1, 2009, prior to the opening of trading on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE).
Swords, Ireland, July 1, 2009
"Ireland is home to approximately 700 Ingersoll Rand employees operating in manufacturing, sales and corporate roles," said Herbert L. Henkel, chairman and chief executive officer. "Ingersoll Rand's Thermo King business has a major manufacturing site in Galway and many of the company's European Region shared services are based in Swords.
"In addition to its stable economic, legal and regulatory environment, Ireland enjoys strong relationships as a member of the European Union. Ireland also enjoys a long history of international investment and a good network of tax treaties with the United States, the European Union and several other countries where Ingersoll Rand has major operations."
As a result of the reorganization, the Class A common shareholders of Ingersoll-Rand Company Limited (the Bermuda company) have become ordinary shareholders of Ingersoll-Rand plc (the Irish company) and Ingersoll-Rand Company Limited has become a wholly owned subsidiary of Ingersoll-Rand plc. Shares of Ingersoll-Rand plc will begin trading on the NYSE today under the symbol "IR," the same symbol under which the Ingersoll-Rand Company Limited Class A common shares previously traded. Ingersoll-Rand plc will continue to be subject to United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) reporting requirements, to prepare its financial statements in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and to report in U.S. dollars.
-more-
Ingersoll Rand is a global diversified industrial firm providing products, services and solutions to enhance the quality and comfort of air in homes and buildings, transport and protect food and perishables, secure homes and commercial properties, and enhance industrial productivity and efficiency. Driven by a 100-year-old tradition of technological innovation, we enable companies and their customers to create progress. For more information, visit .
www.ingersollrand.com
 
 


