FILE:IR/IR-8K-20110411135233.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 7, 2011, Ingersoll-Rand plc (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that the Company's Board of Directors had declared a 12 cents per share quarterly dividend on the Company's ordinary shares, representing an increase of approximately 71 percent, and had authorized a share repurchase program of up to $2 billion of the Company's ordinary shares. A copy of the press release is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated in its entirety by reference herein.
The information contained in this report and the attached press release is "furnished" but not "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
Ingersoll-Rand plc (NYSE:IR), a world leader in creating and sustaining safe, comfortable and efficient environments, announced that its board of directors declared a quarterly dividend of 12 cents per ordinary share of the company, reflecting a 71 percent increase. The board also authorized the repurchase of up to $2 billion of the company's ordinary shares.
Swords, Ireland, April 7, 2011 
The dividend is payable June 30, 2011, to shareholders of record on June 17, 2011. The previous quarterly dividend was 7 cents per share.
"Today's announcement reflects our continued focus to create long-term shareholder value and deliver against the commitments we have made," said Michael W. Lamach, chairman, president and chief executive officer of Ingersoll Rand. "We are on track to solidify our balance sheet through the reduction of debt, and with the strong cash flow delivered through ongoing productivity and margin improvement, we are pleased to move to the next phase of our communicated capital allocation strategy and significantly increase our dividend."
Based on market conditions, share repurchases will be made from time to time in the open market and in privately negotiated transactions at the discretion of management.
About Ingersoll Rand
Ingersoll Rand (NYSE:IR) is a world leader in creating and sustaining safe, comfortable and efficient environments in commercial, residential and industrial markets. Our people and our family of brandsincluding Club Car, Hussmann, Ingersoll Rand, Schlage, Thermo King and Trane work together to enhance the quality and comfort of air in homes and buildings, transport and protect food and perishables, secure homes and commercial properties, and increase industrial productivity and efficiency. We are a $14 billion global business committed to sustainable business practices within our company and for our customers. For more information, visit .
www.ingersollrand.com


