FILE:IR/IR-8K-20110722140336.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On July 20, 2011, the Board of Directors of Ingersoll-Rand plc (the "Company") appointed Gary S. Michel, age 49, as Senior Vice President and President of the Residential Solutions Sector, effective August 1, 2011, replacing Steven B. Hochhauser, who will remain in the position until August 1, 2011, and who will be leaving the Company to pursue other business opportunities. A copy of the press release announcing Mr. Michel's appointment is filed with this report as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
:
Contact
Misty Zelent, Ingersoll Rand
704-655-5324,
mzelent@irco.com
 plc (NYSE:IR), a world leader in creating and sustaining safe, comfortable and efficient environments, announced the appointment of Gary S. Michel, a 26-year company veteran, as president of its Residential Solutions Sector, effective August 1. He replaces Steven B. Hochhauser, who is leaving the company to pursue other business opportunities.
Swords, Ireland, July 21, 2011
Ingersoll-Rand
Since 2007, Michel, 49, has been chief executive officer of Ingersoll Rand's Club Car business. In his new role, he will report to Michael W. Lamach, chairman, president and chief executive officer and be a member of the company's Enterprise Leadership Team. He also has been appointed senior vice president of the company by the Board of Directors. Michel will be based in Carmel, Ind.
"Gary is an outstanding, results-oriented leader who has driven growth of our Club Car business during a difficult economic market," said Lamach. "He understands the importance of delivering on customer expectations, and maintaining close relationships with dealers and channel partners, resulting in strong brand loyalty and enhanced brand reputation. His extensive company tenure, proven operational skills and demonstrated leadership have prepared him well for this new challenge. I am confident that he is the right leader to grow our Residential Solutions business, and I am especially pleased to promote someone who has built such a long and successful career with Ingersoll Rand."
The Ingersoll Rand Residential Solutions business, with well-known brands like Schlage, Trane and American Standard  Heating & Air Conditioning, delivers safety, comfort and efficiency to homeowners throughout North America. Its quality products, services and solutions include mechanical and electronic locks, heating and air conditioning systems, indoor air quality solutions, advanced controls, portable security systems and remote home management. 2010 revenues for this business were approximately $2.1 billion.
Ingersoll Rand will name Michel's successor at Club Car in the near future.
Prior to being named CEO of Club Car, Michel served in multiple leadership roles with the company, including executive director, corporate development; president, road development construction technologies; president, utility equipment construction technologies; and vice president and general manager, utility equipment. He joined Ingersoll Rand in 1985 as an application engineer and subsequently held product, sales and business management roles. Michel received a Bachelor of Science degree from Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University (Virginia Tech) and a Master of Business Administration degree from the University of Phoenix.
About Ingersoll Rand
Ingersoll Rand (NYSE:IR) is a world leader in creating and sustaining safe, comfortable and efficient environments in commercial, residential and industrial markets. Our people and our family of brands  including Club Car, Ingersoll Rand, Schlage, Thermo King and Trane  work together to enhance the quality and comfort of air in homes and buildings, transport and protect food and perishables, secure homes and commercial properties, and increase industrial productivity and efficiency. We are a $14 billion global business committed to sustainable business practices within our company and for our customers. For more information, visit .
www.ingersollrand.com


