FILE:IR/IR-8K-20110606060634.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders of Ingersoll-Rand plc (the "Company") held on June 2, 2011, the Company's shareholders (1) elected all eleven of the Company's nominees for director; (2) approved the adoption of a new Senior Executive Performance Plan; (3) considered and approved an advisory proposal relating to the Company's compensation of its named executive officers; (4) considered and approved the holding of an advisory vote on executive compensation on an annual basis; (5) authorized the Company and/or any of its subsidiaries to make market purchases of Company shares; and (6) approved the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers to serve as the Company's independent auditors for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2011 and authorized the Audit Committee to set the auditors' remuneration. Shares were voted on these proposals as follows:
Election of eleven (11) directors to hold office until the Company's next Annual General Meeting of Shareholders:
Proposals 1(a)-(k).
 
Approval of a new Senior Executive Performance Plan:
Proposal 2.
 
Approval of an advisory proposal relating to the Company's compensation of its named executive officers:
Proposal 3.
 
 
Approval of the frequency of the holding of an advisory proposal relating to the Company's compensation of its named executive officers:
Proposal 4.
 
Authorization of the Company and/or any of its subsidiaries to make market purchases of Company shares:
Proposal 5.
 
Appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers as the independent auditors of the Company for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2011 and authorization of the Audit Committee to set the auditors' remuneration:
Proposal 6.
 
As described above, a plurality of the votes cast voted, in an advisory, non-binding vote, in favor of having a shareholder vote to approve the compensation of the Company's named executive officers every year. In light of such vote, and consistent with the Company's recommendation, the Company's board of directors determined that it currently intends to include an advisory, non-binding vote to approve the compensation of the Company's named executive officers every year until the next required vote on the frequency of shareholder votes on the compensation of the Company's named executive officers.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


