FILE:IR/IR-8K-20110207110542.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On February 1, 2011, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Ingersoll-Rand plc (the "") approved the Fourth Amendment to the Ingersoll-Rand Company Elected Officer Supplemental Program II dated as of February 1, 2011 (the ""). Pursuant to the Fourth Amendment, no employee of the company who is either (i) hired after March 31, 2011 or (ii) elected as an officer after April 30, 2011 will be eligible to participate in the program. The foregoing description of the Fourth Amendment does not purport to be a complete description and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Fourth Amendment, which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
Company
Fourth Amendment
The Compensation Committee's decision followed its annual review of competitive compensation and benefit practices which revealed declining benefit levels being offered with respect to supplemental executive retirement programs among the Company's peer group companies.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
, Ingersoll-Rand Company (the "Company") adopted the Ingersoll-Rand Company Elected Officer Supplemental Program II (the "Plan"), which was originally effective on January 1, 2005, and subsequently amended and restated effective January 1, 2009;
WHEREAS
, section 8.2 of the Plan provides that the Plan may at any time and from time to time be amended by the Board (as defined in the Plan) or Compensation Committee (as defined in the Plan); and
WHEREAS
, the Compensation Committee of Ingersoll-Rand plc has decided at its February 1, 2011 meeting to cease eligibility to participate in the Plan to any employee who is either: (i) hired after March 31, 2011 or (ii) elected as an officer of the Company or Ingersoll-Rand plc. after April 30, 2011.
WHEREAS
, the Plan is, hereby, amended as described below:
NOW THEREFORE
1. Section 2.1 of the Plan is amended by adding the following at the end thereof:
"Notwithstanding the foregoing, no individual hired after March 31, 2011 or who becomes an Elected Officer after April 30, 2011 shall commence participation in the Program."
2. Except as specifically set forth herein, all other terms of the Plan shall remain in full force and effective and are hereby ratified in all respects.
, the Company has had its duly authorized representative sign this Amendment as of this 2nd day of February 2011.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 


