FILE:IR/IR-8K-20120420083044.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On April 20, 2012, Ingersoll-Rand plc issued a press release announcing its first quarter 2012 results. The information in this
Form 8-K and the exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 Ingersoll-Rand plc (NYSE:IR), a world leader in creating and sustaining safe, comfortable and efficient environments, today reported diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $0.31 for the first quarter of 2012.
Swords, Ireland, April 20, 2012
The company reported net earnings of $95.6 million, or EPS of $0.31, for the first quarter of 2012. First-quarter net earnings included $97.8 million, or EPS of $0.31, from continuing operations, as well as $2.2 million of costs from discontinued operations. This compares with a net loss for the 2011 first quarter of $(77.6) million, which included EPS of $(0.21) from continuing operations and EPS of $(0.02) from discontinued operations. First-quarter 2011 EPS included $186.3 million, or EPS of ($0.55), of impairment costs related to the disposition of the Hussmann refrigeration business. Excluding impairment costs, first-quarter 2011 EPS from continuing operations totaled $0.34.
-more-
"During the first quarter, we made progress toward our growth and operational excellence objectives, delivering revenue and EPS above forecast in a difficult economic environment," said Michael W. Lamach, chairman, president and CEO. "While we expect continued challenges throughout 2012 from a slow and uneven recovery in some key markets, our focus is on continuing to grow revenue, earnings and cash flow."
Additional Highlights for the 2012 First Quarter
: The company's reported revenues declined by 4 percent to $3,151 million, compared with revenues of $3,274 million for the 2011 first quarter. Total revenues, excluding the results of Hussmann, were up approximately 3 percent compared with 2011. U.S. revenues, excluding Hussmann, were up 4 percent compared to 2011, and revenues from international operations increased approximately 1 percent (up 4 percent excluding currency).
Revenues
: Operating income for the 2012 first quarter was $212.0 million, compared with $41.8 million ($228.1 million when adjusted for impairment costs) for the 2011 first quarter. The first-quarter operating margin was 6.7 percent compared with an operating margin of 1.3 percent (7.6 percent excluding Hussmann results and impairment costs) for the same period of 2011. The year-over-year margin decline was due to inflation, as well as an increase in restructuring costs and investments, which offset pricing actions and gains from operational excellence initiatives.
Operating Income and Margin
: Interest expense of $69 million for the first quarter of 2012 increased slightly compared with the same period last year. Other expense totaled $(0.2) million for the first quarter of 2012, compared with $4.9 million of income for the 2011 first quarter. The year-over-year change was due to higher losses from equity investments and currency.
Interest Expense and Other Income/Expense
: The company had an effective tax rate of 27 percent in the first quarter of 2012. The rate for the first quarter of 2011, excluding the Hussmann impairment charge, was 25 percent.
Taxes
 
-more-
 
First-Quarter Business Review
delivers energy-efficient solutions globally and includes Trane, which provides heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) systems and building services, parts, support and controls for commercial buildings; and Thermo King, the leader in transport temperature control solutions. The total results of the divested Hussmann refrigeration business are included through the third quarter of 2011. The company's ownership interest in Hussmann was reported within other income/ expense using the equity method of accounting for the first quarter of 2012. First-quarter 2011 results included approximately $213.1 million of revenues and $(4) million of operating losses attributable to Hussmann.
Climate Solutions
Revenues for the first quarter of 2012 were $1,662 million and declined by 9 percent compared with the first quarter of 2011. Excluding Hussmann, revenue increased by 3 percent (up 4 percent excluding currency). Bookings, excluding Hussmann, increased 7 percent year-over-year.
On a year-over-year basis, total commercial HVAC revenues increased by 4 percent. Total Thermo King refrigerated transport revenues increased slightly in the first quarter compared with last year as growth in the refrigerated trailer and truck businesses was largely offset by declines in the seagoing container business.
First-quarter 2012 segment operating margin was 5.7 percent, compared with 5.2 percent (6.1 percent excluding Hussmann's results) last year. The year-over-year margin decline was due to inflation and higher restructuring and investment spending, partially offset by pricing and productivity actions.
provides products, services and solutions to enhance customers' productivity, energy efficiency and operations. Products include compressed air systems, tools, fluid power products, and golf and utility vehicles. Total revenues in the first quarter of $689 million increased approximately 8 percent (up 9 percent excluding currency) compared with the first quarter of 2011. Air and productivity revenues increased 9 percent, with volume increases in all major geographic regions.
Industrial Technologies
Club Car revenues increased by 2 percent compared with the first quarter of 2011, showing small gains in golf cars, utility vehicles and aftermarket activity.
 
-more-
 
First-quarter segment operating margin for Industrial Technologies was 13.3 percent, and was flat compared with last year. Margin benefits from higher volumes, improved pricing and productivity were offset by increased restructuring and investment spending, inflation and unfavorable product mix.
includes the Trane and Schlage brands, which deliver safety, comfort and efficiency to homeowners throughout the Americas. Products, services and solutions include mechanical and electronic locks, HVAC systems, indoor air quality solutions and controls, and remote home management systems. First-quarter revenues were $422 million, a decrease of approximately 3 percent (down 3 percent excluding currency) compared with 2011.
Residential Solutions
Total reported residential security revenues were up high teens compared with 2011 as a result of improved sales to the new builder markets and South American customers, and higher sales to "big box" customers in the United States from new products.
Residential HVAC revenues declined by 8 percent compared with the first quarter of 2011. Projected residential HVAC industry shipments were down low teens in the first quarter of 2012, with declines in all equipment categories. Residential revenues and operating profits were also negatively impacted by the ongoing downward revenue mix shift to lower SEER products.
First-quarter segment operating margin was negative (2.5 percent) compared with 1.8 percent recorded in 2011. The segment margin decline was due to lower volumes of HVAC products, negative mix and inflation, which were partly offset by pricing and productivity gains.
is a leading global supplier of commercial security products and services. The segment's market-leading products include mechanical and electronic security products, biometric and access-control systems, and security and time and attendance scheduling software. First-quarter revenues of $379 million increased by approximately 1 percent (up 2 percent excluding currency) compared with the first quarter of 2011. Revenues in the Americas were up slightly, as price improvements more than offset lower volumes. Revenues in overseas markets declined slightly. First-quarter segment operating margin was 18.5 percent, compared with 19.0 percent in the first quarter of 2011. The lower segment operating margin was due to inflation and unfavorable geographic revenue mix, which were largely offset by higher productivity and improved pricing.
Security Technologies
 
-more-
 
Balance Sheet
During the first quarter, working capital was 3.4 percent of revenues  an improvement of 1.9 percentage points compared with 2011. Cash balances and total debt balances were $1.1 billion and $3.6 billion, respectively, at the end of the first quarter. On April 16, 2012, the company repaid $345 million of convertible debt.
Outlook
Ingersoll Rand's major end markets showed a mixed demand pattern in the first quarter of 2012. There remains sustained, but moderating, activity in the worldwide industrial markets and global parts and service. Refrigerated transport markets and commercial HVAC equipment replacement activity in North America are expected to demonstrate moderate year-over-year growth. Performance in European markets will be hampered by slow economic growth and by volatile financial markets. The North American new commercial construction market is continuing its weak and uneven demand pattern, and activity in North American consumer-related markets, especially residential HVAC, is expected to be relatively flat for 2012.
Revenues for the full year 2012 are expected to be in the range of $14.0 billion to $14.4 billion. The year-over-year change in currency exchange rates is expected to reduce reported revenue growth by 2 percentage points in 2012. Full-year EPS from continuing operations are expected to be in the range of $2.90 to $3.10. The forecast includes a tax rate of 25 percent for continuing operations and an average diluted share count for the full year of approximately 315 million shares. Available cash flow for full-year 2012 is expected to approximate $1.1 billion, based on projected earnings, capital expenditures and working capital requirements.
Second-quarter 2012 revenues are expected to be in the range of $3.8 billion to $3.9 billion and EPS from continuing operations are expected to be in the range of $0.85 to $0.90. The second-quarter forecast reflects a tax rate of 25 percent for continuing operations and an average diluted share count of approximately 315 million shares.
 
-more-
 
This news release includes "forward-looking statements," which are statements that are not historical facts, including statements that relate to the mix of and demand for our products, performance of the markets in which we operate, and our 2012 full-year and second-quarter financial performance. These forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties, which may cause actual results to differ materially from our current expectations. Factors that could cause such differences can be found in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, and in our other SEC filings. We assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
This news release also includes adjusted non-GAAP financial information which should be considered supplemental to, not a substitute for or superior to, the financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP. Further information about the adjusted non-GAAP financial information, including reconciliation to the nearest GAAP measure, is included in financial tables attached to this news release.
All amounts reported within the earnings release above related to net earnings (loss), earnings (loss) from continuing operations, earnings (loss) from discontinued operations, and per share amounts are attributed to Ingersoll Rand's ordinary shareholders.
Ingersoll Rand (NYSE:IR) advances the quality of life by creating and sustaining safe, comfortable and efficient environments. Our people and our family of brands  including Club Car, Ingersoll Rand, Schlage, Thermo King and Trane  work together to enhance the quality and comfort of air in homes and buildings; transport and protect food and perishables; secure homes and commercial properties; and increase industrial productivity and efficiency. We are a $14 billion global business committed to a world of sustainable progress and enduring results. For more information, visit ingersollrand.com.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-more-
 
Table 1
 
Table 2
 
 
Table 3
 
The Company reports its financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP). This supplemental schedule provides adjusted non-GAAP financial information and a quantitative reconciliation of the difference between the non-GAAP financial measures and the financial measures calculated and reported in accordance with GAAP.
The non-GAAP financial measures should be considered supplemental to, not a substitute for or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. They have limitations in that they do not reflect all of the costs associated with the operations of our businesses as determined in accordance with GAAP. In addition, these measures may not be comparable to non-GAAP financial measures reported by other companies.
We believe the non-GAAP financial information provides important supplemental information to both management and investors regarding financial and business trends used in assessing our financial condition and results of operations. We believe that it is meaningful to provide the relative impact of impairment charges and the corresponding tax impacts in order to present a better understanding of our results on a period to period comparative basis.
The non-GAAP financial measures for operating income and margin, tax rate and EPS assist investors with analyzing our business segment results as well as with predicting future performance. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures are also reviewed by management in order to evaluate the financial performance of each segment. They are the basis for performance reviews, compensation and resource allocation. We believe that the presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures will permit investors to assess the performance of the Company on the same basis as management.
As a result, one should not consider these measures in isolation or as a substitute for our results reported under GAAP. We compensate for these limitations by analyzing results on a GAAP basis as well as a non-GAAP basis, prominently disclosing GAAP results and providing reconciliations from GAAP results to non-GAAP results.
Table 4
 
The Company reports its financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP). This supplemental schedule provides adjusted non-GAAP financial information and a quantitative reconciliation of the difference between the non-GAAP financial measures and the financial measures calculated and reported in accordance with GAAP.
The non-GAAP financial measures should be considered supplemental to, not a substitute for or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. They have limitations in that they do not reflect all of the costs associated with the operations of our businesses as determined in accordance with GAAP. In addition, these measures may not be comparable to non-GAAP financial measures reported by other companies.
We believe the non-GAAP financial information provides important supplemental information to both management and investors regarding financial and business trends used in assessing our financial condition and results of operations. We believe that it is meaningful to provide the relative impact of impairment charges and the corresponding tax impacts in order to present a better understanding of our results on a period to period comparative basis.
The non-GAAP financial measures for operating income and margin, tax rate and EPS assist investors with analyzing our business segment results as well as with predicting future performance. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures are also reviewed by management in order to evaluate the financial performance of each segment. They are the basis for performance reviews, compensation and resource allocation. We believe that the presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures will permit investors to assess the performance of the Company on the same basis as management.
As a result, one should not consider these measures in isolation or as a substitute for our results reported under GAAP. We compensate for these limitations by analyzing results on a GAAP basis as well as a non-GAAP basis, prominently disclosing GAAP results and providing reconciliations from GAAP results to non-GAAP results.
Table 5
 
 
The Company reports its financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP). This supplemental schedule provides adjusted non-GAAP financial information and a quantitative reconciliation of the difference between the non-GAAP financial measure and the financial measure calculated and reported in accordance with GAAP.
The non-GAAP financial measure should be considered supplemental to, not a substitute for or superior to, the financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP. It has limitations in that it does not reflect all of the costs associated with the operations of our businesses as determined in accordance with GAAP. In addition, this measure may not be comparable to non-GAAP financial measures reported by other companies.
We believe the non-GAAP financial information provides important supplemental information to both management and investors regarding financial and business trends used in assessing our financial condition and cash flow.
The non-GAAP financial measure of available cash flow assists investors with analyzing our business results as well as with predicting future performance. In addition, this non-GAAP financial measure is reviewed by management in order to evaluate the financial performance of each segment as well as the Company as a whole. It is the basis for performance reviews, compensation and resource allocation. We believe that the presentation of this non-GAAP financial measure will permit investors to assess the performance of the Company on the same basis as management.
As a result, one should not consider this measure in isolation or as a substitute for our results reported under GAAP. We compensate for these limitations by analyzing results on a GAAP basis as well as a non-GAAP basis, prominently disclosing GAAP results and providing reconciliations from GAAP results to non-GAAP results.
Table 6
 
 
Table 7
 


