Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Summary In 2001, Dover Corporation sales declined 14% from 2000 to $4.5 billion. This decline was primarily due to the dramatic impact on Dover Technologies of the market contraction in demand for its products serving the electronics industry. All of the Dover Technologies businesses were impacted. At the same time, many of the industrial businesses in the other three operating segments were negatively impacted by the slowdown in general economic activity. As a result, segment income from continuing operations totaled $337.6 million in 2001, a decline of 61% from 2000. Record earnings of $392.0 million in Technologies in 2000, a boom year, became a loss of $13.0 million in 2001. Industries earnings of $191.0 million in 2000, declined 26% to $142.2 million in 2001, the result of weak markets for most companies. Diversifieds earnings declined 38% from $150.6 million in 2000 to $93.3 million in 2001, largely due to operational problems at Crenlo, but also due to weak markets for several businesses. Dover Resources earnings declined 4% from $120.0 million in 2000 to $115.0 million in 2001, as strength in oil and gas related businesses until late in the year were offset by weakness in industrial markets. As the result of unexpectedly weak market conditions, efforts were made throughout the year, and more intensively as the year progressed, to right size by reducing employment levels, eliminating costs, and restructuring operations. Thus, a series of restructuring and other charges were taken as discussed below, and in Note 3 of Item 8 of this form 10K. Partially offsetting these negatives were a $4.3 million decline in corporate expense (to $23.9 million), a decline in net interest expense of $12.9 million (to $75.3 million), and a lower tax rate. Dover Technologies Dover Technologies sales in 2001 declined 40% from the prior year to $1,258.0 million due to the well chronicled collapse of the technology sector. Technologies reported a loss of $13.0 million after $55.5 million in charges for restructurings, inventory, accounts receivable and other reserves, following record earnings of $392.0 million in 2000, the unprecedented boom year for the electronics manufacturing market. The lack of end market demand for electronics equipment caused Technologies Circuit Board Assembly and Test (CBAT) businesses customers to dramatically curtail spending for its predominantly capital equipment products. CBAT sales declined 52% to $651.3 million, and record 2000 earnings of $265.2 million were transformed to a $53.2 million loss. Technologies Specialty Electronics Components (SEC) businesses were similarly affected, particularly given their product focus on the higher technology data communications, telecommunications and networking markets. SEC sales declined 25% to $397.0 million, and record earnings in 2000 of $104.0 million dropped to $31.2 million. Imaje, the French based industrial ink jet printer manufacturer, had another very successful year. CBAT Universal Instruments experienced the largest percentage sales decline from the prior year in this group of companies (a decline so large that Universal is no longer Dovers largest company) and went from record profits to a sizable loss indeed Universal accounted for the majority of the loss at CBAT. Universals high end products were particularly hard hit as large Electronic Manufacturing Services (EMS) and OEM customers stopped adding capacity. A similar thing occurred at Universals Alphasem subsidiary when semiconductor assembly customers stopped expanding. DEK, whose increasingly well positioned, broad line, of circuit board screen printers had a smaller sales decline, as they also have lower priced products that appeal to customers that were not as hard hit by the downturn. Vitronics Soltec had a lower rate of decline than either Universal or DEK as its comprehensive range of soldering machines improved their competitive position. DEK and Vitronics Soltec both have a strong European base, which trailed the U.S. in the downturn, and both companies managed to generate a modest level of profitability. Everett Charles Technologies sales in 2001 declined less dramatically because some of their products are not capital equipment and they acquired Multitest at mid year. Contact spring probes for instance, are not a capital item, and demand depends more on its customers production volumes and new product introduction in electronics end markets. However, these markets which were also slow in 2001. The portion of the business serving the semiconductor test market, including Multitest, though well positioned competitively, saw demand decline to unanticipated low levels, creating an overall loss. OK International, acquired in late 2000, experienced a sales decline similar to DEK and Vitronics Soltec, and reported a small loss in 2001. OKs products are generally shorter lived tools or consumables. Thus OK also depends largely on 15 of 59 Table of Contents customers production levels, which were declining entering 2001 and remained at depressed levels all year. This condition persists. Entering 2001, customer demand for the large machines used in circuit board production, which had increasingly been centered with the large EMS customers, had already begun to evaporate, and backlog was little more than half of what it had been at the market peak six months earlier. As bookings and backlog continued to decline, losses mounted, peaking in the third quarter. In the fourth quarter, with some relative stability in demand, albeit at depressed levels, together with the early benefits of substantial cost reductions, losses began to diminish. The reaction to the dramatic downturn was to right size the business by reducing employment and eliminating all but critical operating expenses. At Universal, for instance, near the end of 2001, a complete organizational restructuring accompanied the third major employment reduction for the year. At the end of the year, most remaining demand for larger machines was from smaller EMS companies and some OEMs. Demands for replacement parts to service the installed base, re manufactured machines, other types of assembly machines, and through hole placement equipment were all also down substantially, though not as dramatically as in the core surface mount businesses. At year end the group was still below the breakeven point. Throughout CBAT, product development critical for long term market leadership in this still attractive market was maintained, albeit under close cost benefit scrutiny. Universal has recently introduced a new product, the all linear motor GSM B which sets new standards in flexible fine pitch applications, a market segment requiring both high speed and extreme placement accuracy. Universals now self sufficient Alphasem offspring also introduced a new product, the leading die sorter and die bonder suitable for the new 300 millimeter wafer technology expected to become predominant in semiconductor manufacturing. At DEK, continued new product development and introduction in the traditional circuit board market are now also being supplemented by wafer bumping and ball attach applications for semiconductor manufacturers. Vitronics Soltecs new offerings range from redesigned machines for lower end applications to entirely new technologies for selective soldering, suitable for mixed component attachment applications. Entering 2002, the outlook for a near term revival in spending for CBATs machines is not encouraging. Substantial excess productive capacity exists in the market, and until there is a significant increase in end market demand or change in technological production requirements, sales will remain at low levels. Elimination of losses, as a result of business restructurings, should occur sooner perhaps as early as mid year. The equipment companies are also planning their response to reflect a market where the dynamics clearly will have changed when the recovery does occur. The customer base will have become more global less U.S. centered with a geographic shift toward Asia. The response envisions accelerated product sourcing and manufacturing in China. SEC The SEC companies all produce highly specialized, often custom designed, high end components used in a wide variety of electronic devices. The largest served market is the telecommunications industry both wired and wireless primarily for infrastructure applications. This market experienced a rapid ramp up through 2000. Entering 2001, backlogs were still high and much of the customer base remained optimistic that they could maintain reasonable volume levels. However, order intake and market optimism dropped precipitously in the first quarter of 2001, and backlog declined all year. In the wired infrastructure end market, SECs customers were hurt as the collapse of the dot com bubble left the market glutted with unused equipment, and demand from end customers could not support the existing expanded capacity. In the wireless market, the much anticipated boom in new markets and applications, such as 3G, failed to materialize, and the high cost of frequency licenses, followed by a contraction of capital availability, caused many carriers to restrict or eliminate spending. Demand in end markets for access devices (cable and DSL modems, telephones and the like) also slowed sharply. In many cases, SECs customers were left with excess component inventory, causing not only low demand, but also cancellations of prior orders. In other cases, customers, new product launches, critical to SECs leading technology orientation, were curtailed. Other markets for SEC, representing roughly one third of sales, include the high reliability oriented, military, satellite, aerospace and industrial markets. The SEC companies saw modest growth in these markets in 2001, as evidenced by the improved earnings at Dow Key Microwave. SEC was somewhat cushioned by its geographic profile, as the market slowdown spread from the U.S., to Europe, and then Asia. Novacap, in particular, which acquired like sized, U.K. based, Syfer in 2000, with complementary technologies and customers, benefited from Syfers relatively stronger demand through the first half of the year. Each SEC company has responded by significantly reducing headcount, restricting unnecessary spending, and lowering product cost. DT Magnetics, for instance, aggressively restructured its business by downsizing higher cost U.S. operations and expanding off shore manufacturing in this case, in the Dominican Republic. K L Microwave and 16 of 59 Table of Contents Quadrant both moved aggressively to expand business opportunities in China. The focus on China sourcing is motivated not only by the desire to lower product cost and retain price competitiveness, but to be closer to a healthy and growing telecom infrastructure market. SEC companies have also responded by enhancing their research, design and development activity. With the market decline, the increased availability of talented technical experts has helped these companies develop the products needed to maintain market leadership. Examples include the development of new application specific integrated circuit (ASIC) designs at Quadrant, and transformer products for customer chip sets at DT Magnetics. Entering 2002 there is no clear evidence that the market will recover soon and the group is operating at about the breakeven level. As demonstrated by customers continued collaborative product development work with the SEC companies, the longer term outlook remains strong. Marking and Coding Imaje, the industrial business in this segment, had a very strong year under a new management team, particularly considering the switch of one large customer account to a different technology. Sales were up due both to the addition of the Markpoint acquisition in June 2001, and to a concentrated market penetration effort. Earnings declined slightly, due to acquisition integration costs and expenses related to the upgrade of the organization, particularly in the sales network, but margins remained high. While the industrial markets Imaje serves are weak, the companys geographic diversity and the technical and market initiatives undertaken in 2001 are expected to yield improved results in 2002. Dover Industries Dover Industries sales in 2001 declined 4% to $1,160.1 million, as general weakness in its industrial and commercial markets impacted most of its companies. Heil Environmental, Texas Hydraulics, and the food service markets of Groen and Randell experienced the largest sales declines. Continuing earnings of $142.2 million were reduced for the year by $4.6 million in charges for restructurings, inventory, accounts receivable and other reserves. Without those charges, earnings were down 23%. Segment operating profit margins declined from 15.9% to 12.3%. After Heil Environmentals strongest earning year in its history in 2000, market conditions entering 2001, outside of large municipal markets (such as New York City), were showing signs of softness. As the year progressed, all the negative factors which can make this business cyclical such as capital spending constraints at the large waste haulage companies, higher fuel costs, and the impact of economic uncertainty on spending plans (particularly by the independent smaller operators), were in evidence. The loss of a major portion of one large customers business during the first quarter compounded this problem, as did a slow down in product acceptance in New York City after September 11th. These factors led results for the year to fall below those of the prior two years, both of which were new records at the time. Nonetheless, 2001 represented the third best year in company history and though margins declined, they remained significantly above the average for all Industries companies. Heil Environmental has responded with programs for lowering product cost, both through product redesign and lean manufacturing initiatives. These efforts should help gain business and increase margins in 2002, although the general economic factors influencing the customer base have not changed and fourth quarter 2001 ending backlogs were at the lowest level of the year. Marathon, influenced by many of the same industry dynamics, was plagued not only by a very weak market, but also by fierce competition from a heavily leveraged competitor liquidating inventory at low prices. Marathon has a much broader range of product capability than any of its competitors, and can adapt more readily in such a market and it did receive important new business with large national waste haulage and chain store accounts. However, Marathon typically operates with relatively low backlogs, and the weak economy, particularly since the fourth quarter, has led the company to focus on internal cost containment programs to maintain its still above average margin levels. For Rotary Lift, long one of Industries largest earnings contributors and increasingly so, 2001 was both a very challenging and successful year. The market for automotive lifts was down 12%, after a smaller decline the prior year. However, Rotarys sales in 2001 were flat with the prior year, and it further improved its leading market share position. Rotary successfully continued its track record of using cost reduction to drive price competitiveness in the market, while maintaining margins. Rotary was also able to solidify its position by developing a new product, In Bay". Having the most technologically advanced product has helped grow market share, particularly with larger accounts, such as the large auto repair chains. Entering 2002, market conditions remain weak. Heil Trailer, one of Industries largest companies measured by sales, endured its second straight year of double digit percentage earnings declines, which in turn followed a year of flat earnings, because of the continuing recession in its markets. Capital spending programs at the major oil companies for petroleum tankers have been hurt by the wave of 17 of 59 Table of Contents industry consolidations and the market for dry bulk trailers has remained very weak. A pickup in military orders, particularly at the recently acquired Kalyn/Siebert business, helped later in the year. The decline in the market has intensified competitive pricing pressure. Heil has responded with new products, such as safer low profile petroleum tanker trailers, and a repeatedly demonstrated commitment to cost reductions. Heil has thus been able to stabilize margins, albeit at much lower than traditional levels. Late in the year, Heil suffered currency losses in its Argentine operation due to that countrys currency crisis, but the other small operations in the UK and Thailand both showed improved performance. Heil Trailers ability to address global oil companies international product and service needs is a distinct competitive advantage. Entering 2002, the impact of the economic downturn on customer spending plans has dampened enthusiasm about the prospect of a quick market recovery. Texas Hydraulics historical growth in sales and earnings, with very strong margins, has been driven by a product differentiation strategy to provide engineered solutions to customers hydraulic cylinder needs. However, in 2001 all served markets were down substantially, particularly in Texas Hydraulics important aerial lift and utility platform markets. This trend began in 2000 and was driven by consolidation in the rental equipment end markets for these applications. It resulted in a substantial decline in sales and earnings, but a more modest margin deterioration. Texas Hydraulics has responded by re emphasizing penetration in other end markets through new products and new designs, but price competition has been fierce due to excess industry capacity. Thus, significant investment has been made in lean manufacturing tools and techniques, leading to higher quality, quicker response time to customers, and lower labor and material cost. With market conditions remaining depressed, it is unclear how well or whether all of Texas Hydraulics weaker competitors will survive the downturn. PDQ, which joined Dover in mid 1998, turned in yet another full year of substantial sales and earnings growth based on its continued penetration of the vehicle wash equipment market with its innovative touch less products. PDQs success is based on successful new market introductions, close attention to competitive pricing, and continual cost reductions. Tipper Tie struggled in 2001 with both internal and external problems that led to flat sales and lower margins. Early in the year, demand for capital equipment from meat processors was severely reduced by the mad cow and hoof and mouth disease scares, particularly in Europe where roughly 50% of Tipper Ties sales are generated. Though this effect dissipated as the year progressed, margins for new equipment came under pressure as the soft market caused fierce competition. Intense price competition was also seen in the clip market. Miscues in product introductions further depressed earnings. Entering 2002, cost reductions (particularly in the U.S.), the introduction of proven European products into the U.S. market, and new clip designs are the focus of Tipper Ties still new management team. Triton, which was acquired in early 2000, has under performed initial expectations, and 2001 was a particularly difficult year. Sales were flat, but profits were a fraction of the prior year. Adverse external factors included an industry upheaval caused by the rapid rise and then decline to bankruptcy of Credit Card Center (CCC), an independent sales organization that flooded the market with competitors product. This resulted in a market overloaded with a great many unused ATM machines when CCCs business model proved unviable. That overhang, which has not been fully absorbed by early 2002, is further complicated by slowing domestic market growth, and resultant price competition. Internally, Triton has struggled with delayed new product development and introductions, as well as manufacturing inefficiencies. In the fourth quarter of 2001, Triton executed a major staff reduction, realigned the management structure in marketing and manufacturing, and re invigorated the product pipeline. Tritons sales and earnings margins should increase when these initiatives take hold. Somero, acquired in mid 1999, has also failed to meet initial expectations, and sales and earnings have declined significantly since acquisition. Further declines are expected in 2002. The Somero market niche is small and narrow, and its construction markets remain depressed. Chief Automotive has been challenged for three years by the sluggish growth of a maturing market. Chief has responded by focusing on new product introductions and marketing programs geared to induce customers to trade up to new, high end products. Sales and earnings declined in 2001 but Chief is maintaining market leadership and high returns on operating investment. Groens institutional food service equipment market declined in 2001, particularly in the fourth quarter, causing Groens sales and earnings to also decline. A new management team has re invigorated product development and has begun introducing product line extensions and variations and has a new cost conscious business model to grow margins and cash flow. Randells market, concentrated in the restaurant chains, has grown for a number of years as the percentage of meals eaten away from home increased. However, this trend may have slowed. The market, increasingly competitive, now 18 of 59 Table of Contents depends more on renovations and less on new construction. For 2001, these trends were amplified in the weak economic environment, and margins suffered. In 2002, Randell expects to renew its focus on new product development as a strategy to gain share, and on operational improvements for competitiveness and margin recovery. After the sale of its main line welding products business in April of 2001, DovaTechs remaining laser and laser cooler business was hit hard by the economic downturn particularly in solid state applications for the telecommunications industry. Machine tool customers also slowed orders as the year progressed. Dover Diversified Dover Diversifieds sales increased 8% in 2001 to $1,104.6 million, but earnings declined 38% to $93.3 million. Continuing earnings were reduced $18.1 million by charges for restructurings, inventory, accounts receivable and other reserves. Before these charges, earnings were down 26%. Segment profit margins declined to 8.4% from 14.8%. A substantial amount of the decline in earnings related to Crenlo, where strong earnings in 2000 became a significant loss in 2001. This, along with earnings declines at Tranter, Mark Andy and SWF, caused by difficult market conditions, offset gains at Hill Phoenix, Sargent, Waukesha and Performance Motorsports. Hill Phoenixs sales increased dramatically, setting a new record in 2001, easily retaining its number one sales position within Diversified. This was accomplished in a market that declined about 7% during the year. Hill Phoenixs 2001 market share gain should establish it as the strong number two company in its highly competitive marketplace. Market share growth was a function both of being well positioned with the fastest growing customers, and of penetrating new key accounts. Some of these are the large discount chains that are becoming larger competitors of the supermarket operators. Bookings grew and backlog increased all through the year, until the fourth quarter when some spending commitments were delayed into the coming year. Earnings were also sharply higher, as margins were maintained. Both sales and earnings were helped to a degree by the contribution of National Cooler, a walk in cooler case business acquired in September 2000 in an effort to broaden the product line, which was successfully integrated into Hill Phoenix operations. In a year when the competitive landscape was marked by consolidation, particularly in the supermarket industry, the stability and experience of the Hill Phoenix management team and the perceived technical superiority of its product line both contributed to growth in market share. Based on current backlogs and customer spending plans, Hill Phoenix is poised for a very strong year in 2002. However, the impact of the general economic slowdown on the customer base could dampen demand. Tranter, one of Diversifieds largest businesses, again captured the distinction of being its largest profit contributor despite significant erosion in profit margin. Tranters trend of steady growth and high, stable margins was broken in a very challenging 2001. Tranter is highly dependent on industrial capital spending, one of the weakest sectors of the economy. In addition, the strength of the U.S. dollar gave foreign based competitors an advantage in the U.S. radiator market, and price competition was severe. Also because of U.S. dollar strength, the profitability of Tranters foreign operations was lower when translated from local currency. Some plant inefficiencies and temporary product line gaps also contributed to the shortfall in earnings. Entering 2002, Tranters markets remain challenging. Some relief from the competitiveness and translation issues would come from a weakening dollar. However, it is unknown whether the inroads into the U.S. market made by foreign competitors over the last year will be easily reversed. Crenlo had a very disappointing year, as a variety of post acquisition management challenges were further complicated by a weak market for which it was not well prepared. This led to a substantial loss for 2001, in contrast to a highly profitable 2000, the first year after acquisition. Throughout 2000, Crenlo had focused on growing sales by providing a cost effective, quality source of cab enclosures to customers who had often manufactured these internally. During the same period, the market for its electronics enclosures product line was growing dramatically with the electronics market generally. A decision to build a second large, fully integrated plant for cabs was made in early 2000, and by mid 2001 the plant was complete. In early 2001, it became apparent that during this growth oriented period, not only had internal controls over inventory begun to suffer, but also product costs had risen and pricing had eroded while fixed costs had risen substantially faster than the business was growing. A new president was installed and he began the process of dealing with internal controls, and aligning the cost structure more closely to the existing order intake levels. As the year progressed, all served markets began to slow down, and then, late in the year, contract rapidly. Costs added from the new plant added complexity to the management challenge. New managements improvement initiatives were unable to keep pace with the declining market, and losses continued. As 2002 begins, the level of incoming orders is very low, making efforts to restore profitability difficult. The current focus is on customer satisfaction through on time delivery, 19 of 59 Table of Contents quality and value and on regaining Crenlos historically stable profit profile. Some market improvement will be required to restore profitability. Sargents 2001 sales, adjusted for operations discontinued in the fourth quarter, were up sharply due to a strong backlog at the beginning of the year and stable conditions in both the aerospace and marine markets for much of the year. However, with the weakening of market conditions after the September 11th terrorist attacks, aerospace order intake, particularly in the profitable aftermarket segment of the business, declined precipitously along with airline traffic. Earnings for the year were also up to record levels, as margins remained stable, despite heavy investment in new regional jet and marine product development programs. At the end of the year, the Airtomic business, which had been part of C. Lee Cook in the Dover Resources segment, was transferred to Sargent because of very strong synergies in the aerospace aftermarket repair and overhaul sector. The incremental sales will roughly replace those of the discontinued operations, but with much higher margins. Entering 2002, Sargents marine business remains very strong, but shipments to aircraft OEMs are expected to decline sharply, and maintaining growth in the aftermarket in aerospace will be difficult. Investment in new aerospace programs and in developing new aftermarket service capabilities will continue. Mark Andys printing markets were weak throughout 2001, leading to a substantial drop in profitability. Sales were higher due to the acquisition of Comco at the end of March, but its sales and profitability were substantially below expectations as well. As a result of the weak market, the integration of Comco was accelerated, with more cost cutting at both facilities than had been originally planned. Significant reductions in employment and plant consolidations helped at both businesses, but these actions were not able to restore margins. Mark Andy also consolidated facilities at its Graphics Microsystems business. Entering 2002, there is no evidence that Mark Andys markets will recover soon. With the cost reductions completed to date, a renewed emphasis on marketing and new product development, and continued focus on gaining efficiencies, Mark Andy is well positioned for an improvement in the market, but significant improvement in profitability will likely await better market conditions. Waukesha Bearings set an earnings record in 2001 on sharply higher sales. This was driven primarily by continued strength in demand for its large bearing products from the gas turbine market. Demand for electrical power generation capacity was particularly strong, and bookings and backlog remained at high levels throughout the year. However, the likely duration of this markets boom period, which had been expected to continue for at least a few more years, has recently been questioned with the decline in electrical usage in the economic downturn, relative to capacity recently added. Waukeshas geographic penetration, technical capabilities, and product offerings were substantially improved with the third quarter acquisition of Federal Mogul RPB, a U.K. based bearing manufacturing company. This acquisition makes Waukesha the clear market leader in its niche. Entering 2002, and at least for the short term, the benefits of the acquisition and a continued robust turbine business should boost profits. Performance Motorsports Inc. (PMI) had a much stronger sales and earnings performance in 2001 than it did in the prior year and a record performance on both metrics, with consistently high margins. Though this was helped by acquisitions of the Carillo and Perfect Bore businesses in the second half, the core business also performed well for most of the year. Some market weakness was evident in the fourth quarter. Performance improvements were primarily due to investments in manufacturing efficiency and technical capabilities. Tangible improvements in throughput, quality and cost reduction were also due to a successful focus on lean manufacturing tools and techniques. The recent acquisitions, though small, have also helped position PMI well in its markets through improved geographic coverage, manufacturing synergies and a broader array of technical capabilities for each of its market segments. The combination of the benefits of the acquisitions for the full year 2002, expected acquisition related synergies and the continuing results of internal improvements should offset the impact that a possibly weaker market environment might have. SWFs sales increased substantially in 2001 largely due to the full year impact of acquisitions made in 2000, and the contribution of acquisitions made early in 2001. However, earnings declined for two reasons. Externally, the market for SWFs packaging machine products was down an estimated 20%. In this environment, SWF was able to maintain market share. Internally, the management complexity of the acquisition integration process caused some slippage in focus on customers and product cost. Improved internal processes, and the renewed focus on product improvement and internal cost control should help improve margins regardless of market conditions. A market recovery in 2002 would result in substantial positive operating leverage. Belvacs position as the only remaining independent supplier of can forming equipment ties its fortunes to the capital spending cycles and sourcing preferences of its customers, some of whom have competing in house capabilities. Belvac is now structured to perform well even in the cyclical troughs in this market. Thus the weak market experienced in 2001 resulted in a meaningful sales decline but a more modest profit decline, enhancing its profile as a strong cash flow contributor. 20 of 59 Table of Contents In 2001, Langbein Engelbrachts sales increased modestly; however, earnings were flat as competitive pricing pressures held margins down. Improved market segmentation, investment in sales coverage, focus on higher first pass yield, and project bidding with complementary suppliers may lead to more opportunities but anemic economic growth in Europe will be a limiting factor. Dover Resources Dover Resources sales in 2001 increased 7% to a record $942.5 million, largely due to strength in the oil and gas production markets served by Petroleum Equipment Group, C. Lee Cook and Quartzdyne, and due to the full year impact of add on acquisitions in 2000. Earnings of $115.0 million in 2001 were reduced by $8.6 million in charges for restructurings, inventory, accounts receivable and other reserves. Without those charges, earnings would have been slightly higher than the prior year. Operating profit margins declined from 13.7% in 2000 to 12.2% in 2001, as very difficult conditions in the automotive and transportation markets impacted several Dover Resources companies. Petroleum Equipment Groups (PEG) 2001 sales and earnings were both about 20% higher than in 2000, reaching a modern record (post early 1980s boom period). Through the first half of the year, demand was strong in the oil and gas production markets served and across all product lines, but particularly for sucker rods used in oil production. After mid year, these markets weakened considerably, and by the end of 2001, PEGs results were comparable to the same period in 2000. Significant investments in production capabilities and business streamlining initiatives since 1998 have resulted in lower product costs, improved flexibility and reduced cycle times. These initiatives have also helped PEG further increase its market penetration. Lower oil prices discouraged new drilling as the year progressed. Declining natural gas prices also reduced spending by natural gas producers. However, all PEG units were able to maintain solid profitability even while demand was weakening. Norriseal has been able to regain market share for its valves and controls through enhanced customer service, Norris and AOT have been successful with their sucker rod guide initiatives, and Ferguson Beauregards plunger lift product line achieved solid success with its new initiative to provide complete control systems to natural gas producers. Entering 2002, demand is declining due to reduced oil and gas prices and comparisons to a much stronger 2001 period will likely be unfavorable. The outlook is clouded by global economic uncertainty and the impact that geo political events might have on oil and gas prices. C. Lee Cooks record sales and earnings results in 2001 reflected strong demand from the natural gas production and distribution customers (both OEM and aftermarket) for its gas compressor components. Cooks recent investments in improved manufacturing processes, increased capacity, new products, product line extensions, and strong results from the service and repair operations at its Compressor Components unit contributed to the companys ability to capitalize on the strong market. The demand for increased natural gas production evident earlier in 2001 has waned as new production has become available and demand and prices declined in a weaker economy. As a result, C. Lee Cooks sales in the OEM segment of the market will likely decline in 2002, with some possible offset from increased emphasis on aftermarket sales of components and services, new product initiatives and increased penetration in international markets. Quartzdyne also had record sales and earnings in 2001, as high oil prices spurred new oil well drilling and completions in the first half of the year. A result of product development initiatives, Quartzdynes ruggedized pressure transducer product line, utilizing enhanced quartz pressure sensor technology and hybrid circuit designs, is being increasingly used in measurement while drilling, permanent pressure measurement and intelligent completions applications. In 2001, OPW Fueling Components managed a modest sales increase and maintained flat earnings and margins in a challenging market. New service station construction activity has continued to be slow, as pricing pressure on the major oil companies and convenience store chains have curtailed investment. The only source of significant new retail station growth has been in the hyper market segment. Industry consolidation at all levels of the market oil companies, distributors and competitors has been a dampening factor, but has left the company in a comparatively favorable position because of its strong product line and global reach. Replacement demand for OPW Fueling Components broad product line of gasoline nozzles and other service station devices has been more stable. Success continues with the Pisces line of underground secondary containment systems and with Petro Vends automated fuel management systems. OPW Fueling Components investment for its new line of enhanced vapor recovery products positions it well as environmental compliance expectations increase in all markets. In 2001, OPW Fluid Transfer Group suffered from continued weakness in its petroleum, dry bulk, chemical and petrochemical transportation related businesses. The benefits of a major business restructuring initiative undertaken in 1999, which boosted 2000s results, also helped maintain respectable margins in 2001. Nevertheless, further cost reductions and restructuring actions were undertaken during the year. OPW Fluid Transfer Groups focus in 2002 will be 21 of 59 Table of Contents to maintain margins in a weak market, as it continues new product development and customer service initiatives in order to benefit from substantial positive operating leverage when transportation markets recover. As a result of internal and operational improvements, better results from its international sales channels, and successful introduction of a complete line of plastic bolted pumps, Wilden has maintained solid operational profitability in spite of the generally weak industrial and process industry markets it serves. Wilden is expected to benefit from favorable operating leverage when its core markets improve. Blackmer experienced a significant profit improvement in 2001, as higher European sales and a more pronounced increase in European margins resulted from the streamlining actions initiated in 2000. With the exception of government related sales, most of Blackmers other served markets industrial, petroleum, chemical and petrochemical, and transportation related were generally weaker than the prior year. A number of sales channel initiatives, as well as marketing and manufacturing efficiency improvements made in 2001, should cushion Blackmer in a market that is expected to remain weak in 2002. The full year impact of acquisitions at Tulsa Winch Group led to record sales and earnings. In the early part of the year, Tulsa Winch benefited from strong demand from its OEM customer base and a very strong market for its oil field winch product line. As the year progressed, the oil field related market weakened and sales to its OEM market slowed dramatically. Further progress is expected in 2002 in achieving synergistic benefits from the four previously independent companies that now comprise the Tulsa Winch Group. In the weak market expected in 2002, these operational improvements and a more focused product offering will help position the company well for market recovery. De Sta Co Industries was challenged in 2001 by low general industrial market demand for its clamping and workplace automation products, particularly because of its sales concentration in the domestic automotive industry. This decline in end user demand was made more pronounced by inventory reduction in distribution channels. International markets were also weak, made worse by the strong U.S. dollar. Sales of robotic equipment in the electronics assembly market also declined severely. The result was a slump in profitability and margin decline. De Sta Co Industries has responded with numerous right sizing actions and a focus on factory productivity solutions. This effort was boosted by the acquisition of CPI (end of robot arm devices) at the beginning of the year. With further market declines expected, De Sta Co Industries will accelerate market penetration efforts and continue tight cost control measures to hold profitability until economic conditions improve. In 2001, De Sta Co Manufacturing maintained profits by reducing costs in the face of severe margin pressure from its automotive customer base, and at the end of the year finalized plans to exit an under performing business segment. In 2002, De Sta Co Manufacturing will focus on its core compressor reed valve and ride control disc customers with a much reduced cost structure but market conditions are expected to remain challenging. RPA Process Technologies (RPA) had significant improvements in both sales and operating profit as its European unit recovered from a very poor performance in 2000, the year it was acquired. Capital spending in RPAs markets, particularly in the paper industry, was weak throughout 2001, and entering 2002 there are few signs of near term recovery in the global process industry markets that RPA serves. Hydro Systems had a record year for both sales and earnings, as a result of success with new product and market initiatives and progress with cost reduction efforts. The institutional and industrial cleaning market served by Hydro Systems has proven to be relatively recession resistant, although some market weakness is being experienced as Hydro Systems enters 2002. The global market for carbon dioxide generation and recovery equipment supplied by Wittemann remains quite depressed and although Duncan had another difficult year in 2001, improved performance in the second half resulted from a reduced cost structure and increased customer focus. Critical Accounting Policies The Companys consolidated financial statements and related public financial information are based on the application of generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). GAAP requires the use of estimates, assumptions, judgments and subjective interpretations of accounting principles that have an impact on the assets, liabilities, revenue and expense amounts reported. These estimates can also affect supplemental information contained in the external disclosures of the Company including information regarding contingencies, risk and the financial condition. The Company believes its use of estimates and underlying accounting assumptions adhere to generally accepted accounting principles and are consistently and conservatively applied. Valuations based on estimates are reviewed for reasonableness and conservatism on a consistent basis throughout the Company. Primary areas where financial information of Dover is 22 of 59 Table of Contents subject to the use of estimates, assumptions and the application of judgment include revenues, receivables, inventories, warranties, acquisitions and intangible assets, taxes, legal and environmental contingencies and accruals. The Company recognizes revenue when title and risk of ownership have passed to the buyer. Allowances for doubtful accounts are estimated at the individual operating companies based on estimates of losses related to customer receivable balances. Estimates are developed by using standard quantitative measures based on historical losses, adjusting for current economic conditions and, in some cases, evaluating specific customer accounts for risk of loss. The establishment of reserves requires the use of judgment and assumptions regarding the potential for losses on receivable balances. Though Dover considers these balances adequate and proper, changes in economic conditions in specific markets in which the Company operates could have a material effect on reserve balances required. In times of rapid market decline, such as affected a number of Dover Technologies companies in 2001, reserve balances need to be adjusted in response to these unusual circumstances. The Companys inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market. Under certain market conditions, estimates and judgments regarding the valuation of inventory are employed by the Company to properly value inventory. Dover Technologies companies tend to experience higher levels of inventory value fluctuations, particularly given the relatively high rate of product obsolescence over relatively short periods of time. During the year, the Company established restructuring reserves at a number of operations. These reserves, for both severance and exit costs, required the use of estimates. Though Dover believes that these estimates accurately reflect the costs of these plans, actual results may be different. Dover has significant tangible and intangible assets on its balance sheet that include goodwill and other intangibles related to acquisitions. The valuation and classification of these assets and the assignment of useful amortization lives involves significant judgments and the use of estimates. The testing of these intangibles under established accounting guidelines for impairment also requires significant use of judgment and assumptions. Dovers assets are tested and reviewed for impairment on an ongoing basis under the established accounting guidelines. Changes in business conditions could potentially require future adjustments to asset valuations. The valuation of Dovers pension and other post retirement plans requires the use of assumptions and estimates that are used to develop actuarial valuations of expenses and assets/liabilities. These assumptions include discount rates, investment returns, projected salary increases and benefits, and mortality rates. The actuarial assumptions used in Dovers pension reporting are reviewed annually and compared with external benchmarks to assure that they accurately account for Dovers future pension obligations. Changes in assumptions and future investment returns could potentially have a material impact on Dovers pension expenses and related funding requirements. Dover has significant amounts of deferred tax assets that are reviewed for recoverability and valued accordingly. These assets are evaluated by using estimates of future taxable income streams and the impact of tax planning strategies. Reserves are also estimated for ongoing audits regarding Federal, state and international issues that are currently unresolved. The Company routinely monitors the potential impact of these situations and believes that it is properly reserved. Valuations related to tax accruals and assets can be impacted by changes to tax codes, changes in statutory tax rates and the companys future taxable income levels. Dover has significant accruals and reserves related to its risk management program. These accruals require the use of estimates and judgment in regards to risk exposure and ultimate liability. The Company estimates losses under these programs using actuarial assumptions, Dover experience, and relevant industry data. Dover considers the current level of accrual and reserves adequately valued relative to current market conditions and Company experience. Dover has established reserves for environmental and legal contingencies at both the operating company and corporate levels. A significant amount of judgment and use of estimates is required to quantify Dovers ultimate exposure in these matters. The valuation of reserves for contingencies is reviewed on a quarterly basis at the operating and corporate levels to assure that Dover is properly reserved. Reserve balances are adjusted to account for changes in circumstances for ongoing issues and the establishment of additional reserves for emerging issues. While Dover believes that the current level of reserves is adequate, changes in the future could impact these determinations. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys current ratio (current assets divided by current liabilities), on a continuing operations basis, increased to 2.02 at December 31, 2001, compared with 1.22 at December 31, 2000. The quick ratio (current assets net of inventories, divided by current liabilities) increased to 1.21 at December 31, 2001, compared with .74 at December 31, 2000. 23 of 59 Table of Contents Under the terms of a Revolving Credit Agreement dated November 13, 2001 with a group of 15 banks, the Company has $750.0 million of bank credit availability. This credit facility was unused during 2001 and at December 31, 2001. The primary purpose of the Revolving Credit Agreement is to act as an alternative avenue of short term financing in the event of a disruption in the commercial paper market. The Company typically finances its short term borrowing requirements, if any, in the commercial paper market. The Companys current short term credit ratings are A 1 (Standard Poors) and P 1 (Moodys). It is expected that in 2002 any funding requirements above cash generated from operations will be met through the issuance of commercial paper, or, depending on market conditions, through the issuance of long term debt. Net debt (notes payable plus long term debt and current maturities of long term debt less cash and equivalents and marketable securities) to total capital ratio decreased to 26.3% ($900.2 million) at December 31, 2001, compared with 34.5% ($1,288.4 million) at December 31, 2000. Long term debt maturities for the four years 2002 to 2005 aggregate $260.6 million. In the fourth quarter of 2000, the Company filed a shelf registration for the issuance of up to $1 billion in senior debt securities and on February 12, 2001 issued $400.0 million of 6.50% Notes due February 15, 2011 under this registration. The proceeds were used to reduce short term commercial paper borrowings. Under the shelf registration up to $600.0 million of debt securities could be issued in 2002 under the existing shelf registration, if such financing was required. The Companys current long term credit rating is A (Standard Poors) and A1 (Moodys). Management is not aware of any potential impairment to the Companys liquidity and, the Company was in compliance with all its long term debt convenants. Minimum future rental commitments for certain facilities and equipment under operating leases having noncancelable lease terms in excess of one year aggregate $151 million as of December 31, 2001. Aggregate payments as of December 31, 2001 are payable as follows (in millions): 2002 $33, 2003 $25; 2004 $19; 2005 $16, and after 2006 and subsequent years $58. During 2001, the Companys entire capital expenditure program ($166.8 million) was financed internally. The Company expects to be able to internally finance capital expenditures in 2002. As indicated by the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for 2001, net cash from operating activities increased to $678.8 million in 2001 from $545.4 million in 2000. This increase was driven primarily by a $282.7 decrease in working capital (principally receivables and inventory) offset by a decline in net earnings of 52% or $271.1 million. Net cash used in investment activities aggregated $427.5 million in 2001 compared with $594.6 million in 2000. The change from year to year was primarily due to decreased acquisition spending. Payments made in early 2002 for acquisition transactions totaled $42.2 million. Net cash used in financing activities was $545.3 million in 2001 compared with net cash from financing activities of $411.0 million in 2000. The principal causes for the swing of $956.3 million were a net decrease of $403.2 million in long term debt and notes payable in 2001 compared to an increase of $554.3 million in 2000, and a $26.3 million increase in the amount spent on stock repurchases. At December 31, 2001, the Companys net property, plant, and equipment amounted to $761.4 million compared with $715.2 million at the end of the preceding year. Intangible assets, net of amortization increased by $146.6 million during 2001 principally as a result of goodwill arising from acquisitions. The aggregate of current and deferred income tax liabilities increased from $109.6 million at the beginning of the year to $214.1 million at year end. This increase resulted primarily from extensions granted for 2001 U.S. estimated tax payments. Retained earnings increased from $3.252 billion at the beginning of 2001 to $3.395 billion at December 31, 2001. The $143 million increase results from 2001 net earnings of $249 million, less cash dividends which aggregated $106 million. Stockholders equity increased from $2.442 billion to $2.520 billion. The $78 million increase results mainly from the $143 million increase in retained earnings offset by treasury stock purchases of $32 million and equity adjustments related to foreign currency fluctuations of $37 million. Dovers consolidated pension benefit obligation increased by $52.7 million in 2001. The increase was due principally to increases in actuarial losses. In addition, plan assets decreased $48.6 million due to losses sustained on plan investments during the year. Due to the decrease in the net funded status of the plans, it is estimated that pension expense will increase approximately $7 million in 2002. The Company does not anticipate having to contribute to its qualified benefit plans in the near term. 24 of 59 Table of Contents In 2001, the Company announced various restructuring programs at selected operating companies. These programs were implemented to reduce the Companys overall cost structure and to eliminate certain non strategic or redundant product lines and facilities. The total continuing restructuring charges related to these programs in 2001 was $20.9 million. The restructuring charges included both employee separation costs and costs associated with exit activities. Employee separation costs of $15.4 million involved approximately 2,500 voluntary and involuntary separations. These reductions were spread out across several geographic regions and employee classes. Facility closings and related charges of $5.5 million were incurred at ten operating locations. These restructuring amounts were charged to either cost of sales or selling and administrative expenses as a component of operating earnings. The Company expects to complete these restructuring programs by the end of fiscal year 2002. The anticipated impact of these programs once fully implemented, is expected to have an incrementally positive, though at this time undetermined, impact on continuing operations. In addition to the restructuring charges discussed above, the Company established inventory, accounts receivable, and other reserves (partially offset by related reductions in performance bonuses) resulting in a total charge to continuing operations in 2001 of $86.8 million, $68.4 million of which related to the third and fourth quarter. These charges were predominately in the Technologies and Diversified segments. Nearly half of the first and second quarter total of $18.4 million related to inventory reserves established at Crenlo, and the bulk of the second half charges were in Technologies. The devaluation of the Argentine Peso had an immaterial impact on the results of the Company in 2001. Other Pronouncements In August 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, which is effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2002. SFAS No. 143 establishes the accounting standards for the recognition and measurement of obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long lived assets. Under SFAS No. 143, the costs of retiring an asset will be recorded as a liability when the retirement obligation arises, and will be amortized over the life of the asset. The Company is still assessing the potential impact of SFAS No. 143 on its consolidated results of operations and financial position. See also Notes 1E, 1K, and 1L to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to recent accounting pronouncements, SFAS No. 133 and SFAS No. 138, SFAS No. 141, SFAS No. 142, and SFAS No. 144. 2000 Compared with 1999 Dover Technologies Dover Technologies 2000 results shot up dramatically compared to 1999 as a huge upturn in the worldwide electronics industry favorably impacted all of Technologies companies. Sales increased 44% to $2,100.0 million, and segment earnings increased 73% to $392.0 million, both new records. With the rapid increase in sales and earnings, which began mid year 1999, all companies significantly ramped up production to meet demand. All eleven companies in the segment had increased sales and earnings in 2000. Technologies five CBAT companies that make production equipment used to assemble and test printed circuit boards and semiconductor devices benefited from worldwide demand for additional production capacity, driven largely by Internet spawned growth in data networking and telecommunications. CBATs sales were up 47% to $1,369.3 million and operating profit was up 72% to $265.2 million. All five companies had record sales and earnings. Universal Instruments, the largest of the CBAT companies experienced a sales increase of 52% as its customers, particularly the electronics manufacturing services customers who have become the largest part of their market, sought to expand quickly to meet booming worldwide demand. As circuit boards have continued to shrink in size, Universals GSM machine has become the world market leader in flexible fine pitch applications. Universal successfully introduced its Polaris machine, which does odd form and light mechanical assembly, automating tasks previously done by hand at the end of an assembly line. Alphasem, a maker of die bonding equipment used to package semiconductors before assembly on a circuit board, thrived after its acquisition by Universal in 1999. DEK Printing Machines became the CBAT groups highest margin company, with earnings nearly tripling. Another strong CBAT performer, Everett Charles, which makes a range of equipment and devices for testing both bare and assembled printed circuit boards and packaged semiconductor components, turned in record results. Vitronics Soltec also had a record year and was highly successful with its new reflow soldering oven, introduced in 1999. In November 2000, Technologies acquired OK International, a California based producer of consumables and hand tools for the professional electronic manufacturers workbench. Operational profits more than doubled to $104.0 million on a 62% increase in sales to $531.1 million for the five SEC companies. These companies provide high value components, precision devices and multifunction assemblies for the data transmission, telecommunications and networking markets often engineered in collaboration with customers for specialized applications. Quadrant, which invested $21 million in plant and equipment to respond to strong demand in the 25 of 59 Table of Contents wired and wireless infrastructure and access markets experienced sales growth of 67% and a doubling in earnings. Novacap acquired Syfer Technology, Ltd. (UK) in July 2000, and both experienced strong demand for their high voltage and safety certified capacitors as sales and earnings more than doubled. DT Magnetics had record sales and earnings increased 200% as it quickly responded to increased demand from DSL and network switch customers. KL Microwave had record sales driven by demand from base station and digital radio customers. Imaje, S.A.s, strong sales and profit gains measured in local currency translated into essentially level results in dollar terms due to the strong U.S. dollar and the modest portion of its business that is in the U.S. Dover Industries Dover Industries sales in 2000 increased 9% to a record level of $1,203.4 million, while continuing earnings increased 13% to $191.0 million. Operating profit margins improved for the fourth year in a row to 15.9% and after tax operating return on investment remained in the high 30s. Heil Environmental followed its star performance in 1999 with even greater earnings growth in 2000, remaining Industries clear sales and earnings leader. Heil Environmental turned in robust sales and profit gains, with heavy shipments of refuse collection vehicles to New York City more than offsetting declining business with major waste management companies, many of which postponed equipment purchases because of consolidation or financial constraints. Rotary Lift, one of Dovers original companies, recorded sales and earnings gains of 16% and benefited from recent acquisitions that boosted Rotarys leading share in its markets. Chief Automotive Systems had an earnings resurgence in 2000 after a weak 1999, although not quite reaching previous highs. In a strategic shift that began in 1999, Chief successfully marketed new models by accepting customers trade ins, which are then refurbished and sold to smaller repair shops. PDQ set new sales and earnings records as customers increasingly viewed service station car washes as potential profit centers. PDQs market position was further enhanced by the mid year acquisition of Kesseltronics, a Canadian based manufacturer of electronic products for this industry. Texas Hydraulics raised sales 12% but earnings declined slightly because of extra expense in expanding capacity at its Tennessee plant. In pursuit of its value adding strategy, during the second quarter Texas Hydraulics acquired Hydromotion Inc., which makes hydraulic swivels used in heavy equipment. Groen and Randell increased their sales slightly and earnings substantially. Groen improved manufacturing productivity in the face of flat markets, and sold its low margin industrial process equipment business, closing its Elk Grove, Illinois factory. Randell improved manufacturing efficiency and benefited from strong sales of mobile food service equipment for golf courses. Marathon Equipment had lower earnings on slightly higher sales after encountering some of the same problems with large, cash constrained waste management customers as Heil Environmental. Tipper Tie/Technopack reported lower sales and earnings due to second half price pressure from the U.S. poultry industry and declining consumption of beef and sausage in Europe related to the mad cow disease scare. Heil Trailer International hit a transportation market downturn in late 1999 that extended throughout 2000. Management reacted strongly to reduce costs and Heil margins recovered as the year progressed. Somero also disappointed after good 1999 results, as its customers, large concrete contractors, experienced an extended downturn that began in late 1999. Triton, though a contributor to overall results, stumbled after being acquired early in 2000, as strong exports were not enough to offset weak U.S. sales. Tritons small footprint cash dispensing machines had been very successful but quality problems with a new product led to market share erosion. Dover Diversified Dover Diversified increased its continuing earnings for a ninth straight year in 2000 to $150.6 million, up 14.1% from 1999, on a 12.2% sales increase to $1,019.3 million. Diversifieds profit margin increased slightly to 14.8%, despite the fact that several companies struggled with flat or depressed markets. As expected, Tranter was the segments largest profit producer again in 2000, maintaining its market share and coming in just above its 1999 sales levels with profit margins also up slightly despite challenging markets. Besides the U.S., Tranter manufactures in Canada, Malaysia, Sweden and Switzerland, and unfavorable exchange rates have masked the strong overseas results of its predominantly international sales. Crenlo, Performance Motorsports, and Sargent performed well in 2000. Crenlo, acquired in October of 1999, improved Diversifieds comparisons to the prior year with higher earnings on solid sales growth. Performance Motorsports, Inc. recorded sharply higher sales and profits, fueled by strong aftermarket demand for its automotive and motorcycle products and a full year of its 1999 acquisition, JE Piston. Dovers only defense/aerospace business, Sargent, increased its sales despite a lower aircraft build rate at Boeing, by increasing sales to Airbus and regional aircraft OEMs, and maintained profitability despite a less than favorable product mix in its bearings business by improving productivity. Sargent also retained its submarine business with the Navy, which is an important contributor to earnings. Industry consolidation affected many of Diversifieds businesses in 2000. Hill Phoenix, Diversifieds largest business, saw a consolidation driven drop in its business with supermarkets, resulting in lower overall sales and a steep profit falloff after 26 of 59 Table of Contents a record 1999. Despite a booming bearings business driven by strong power generation markets, Waukesha Bearings reported flat sales and lower earnings, as its torquing tools business encountered weak demand from its large oil company customers in the North Sea and Gulf of Mexico. Industry consolidation and exchange rates also hurt results, but margins, though lower, remained strong. SWF continued to consolidate the fragmented packaging industry. The company is the result of the acquisition of eight small packaging equipment manufacturers, including two in 2000, which helped push sales up, however, earnings remained flat as integration costs eroded margins. Mark Andy, whose flexographic printing presses for labeling and other applications have faced flat markets for several years, increased sales and earnings partly from restructuring but mainly from the addition of a former stand alone business, Van Dam. In a related field, Graphic Microsystems managed to increase sales moderately and profits strongly, despite its flat markets. Belvac contributed to Diversifieds overall improvement as it returned to strong profitability in 2000 after a weak 1999 performance led to restructuring and workforce reductions. Langbein Engelbracht, a German maker of air handling systems and other environmental control equipment, reported a significant exchange related decline in sales and earnings in dollar terms in flat markets. Dover Resources Dover Resources continuing operating earnings increased 12% to $120.0 million in 2000 on a sales increase of 14.5% to $877.4 million. This performance was led by the Petroleum Equipment Group, OPW Fluid Transfer Group and Tulsa Winch. Buoyed by continuing recovery in the oil patch and internal productivity gains, the Petroleum Equipment Group had its most profitable year since the early 1980s, surpassing its 1997 earnings peak. Benefiting from cost cutting initiatives, investments in capacity and rising demand were the Groups four oil and gas production equipment companies. C. Lee Cook gained both from the improving dynamics upstream in the gas industry and from solid demand from processing plants for its aftermarket components. Quartzdyne benefited from new exploration and development, and from industry emphasis on more complex drilling and production techniques that improve well output. The OPW Fluid Transfer Group increased earnings although its markets weakened as the year progressed. Sales at OPW Engineered Systems, Civacon Knappco and Midland Manufacturing were constrained by a falloff in bulk transportation markets. The 1999 restructuring, which involved closing a factory and shifting production to other facilities, contributed to the earnings increase. Tulsa Winch Consolidated showed substantially improved performance as it continued its successful roll up of profitable, niche companies in the fragmented winch industry. Flat or depressed markets and the downstream impact of soaring oil prices squeezed margins in the hydrocarbon and chemical process industries and at the Dover Resources companies that serve them. Demand growth was constrained for industrial pumps, impacting both Blackmer and Wilden. The strong U.S. dollar hurt Blackmers and Wildens pump exports and eroded the dollar value of profits from Blackmers pump and compressor manufacturing operations in France and the U.K., which were restructured during the fourth quarter. Ronningen Petter faced soft petroleum refining and pulp and paper markets for its filters, but market strength in paints, inks and adhesives somewhat cushioned its cyclicality. OPW Fueling Components experienced slightly lower volume in a soft market, and a somewhat larger percentage reduction in earnings due to product mix unfavorability. However, the company achieved record results internationally, succeeded with new products, and significantly reduced its cost structure. The companys PISCES underground piping systems continued to increase market penetration in spite of weak overall market conditions. Its Petro Vend unit had near record sales and earnings. That portion of Blackmer serving the petroleum retailing market, which has been responsive to new service station construction and regulatory requirements, saw declining demand and a shift toward aftermarket sales. De Sta Co Industries benefited from improved productivity and exceptional strength in its Robohand unit and solid results in its French and German operations. However, weakness in the automotive sector, led to slight earnings declines for the year at both De Sta Co Industries and De Sta Co Manufacturing. Hydro Systems benefited from robust demand for its specialized cleaning chemical dispensing systems. Wittemanns markets for carbon dioxide generation and recovery systems remained weak. Duncan aggressively right sized itself in response to lingering market softness for its parking meter products. 27 of 59 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Interest Rates The Companys exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to the fair value of long term fixed interest rate debt, commercial paper borrowings and investments in cash equivalents. Generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. A 65 basis point increase in interest rates (10% of the Companys long term debt interest rate) would have an immaterial effect on the fair value of the Companys long term debt. Commercial paper borrowings are at variable interest rates, and have maturities of three months or less. A 46 basis point increase in the interest rates (10% of the Companys weighted average commercial paper interest rate) on commercial paper borrowings would have an immaterial impact on the Companys pre tax earnings. All highly liquid investments, including highly liquid debt instruments purchased with an original maturity of three months or less, are considered cash equivalents. The Company places its investments in cash equivalents with high credit quality issuers and limits the amount of exposure to any one issuer. A 64 basis point decrease in interest rates (10% of the Companys weighted average interest rate) would have an immaterial impact on the Companys pre tax earnings. The Company does not enter into derivative financial or derivative commodity instruments for trading or speculative purposes. In 2001, the Company entered into two interest rate swap transactions as detailed in Note 13 in Item 8 of this Form 10 K. A 10% change in the LIBOR rates used in the swap agreements would have an immaterial impact on the Companys pre tax earnings. Foreign Exchange The Company conducts business in various foreign currencies, primarily in Canada, Europe, Japan and other Asian countries. Therefore, changes in the value of the currencies of these countries affect the Companys financial position and cash flows when translated into U.S. Dollars. As of December 31, 2001 the Company had not established a foreign currency hedging program. The Company has mitigated and will continue to mitigate a portion of its currency exposure through operation of decentralized foreign operating companies in which all costs are local currency based. A 10% change in the value of all foreign currencies would have an immaterial effect on the Companys financial position and cash flows. 
 
