ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS SUMMARY Dover Corporation had net earnings from continuing operations for 2002 of $211.1 million or $1.04 diluted earnings per share (DEPS) compared to $181.8 million or $.89 DEPS from continuing operations in 2001. Earnings from continuing operations (net of tax) included inventory, restructuring and other charges of $25.3 million or $.12 DEPS in 2002 and $52.6 million or $.26 DEPS in 2001. For 2002, net earnings before changes in accounting principles were $171.8 million or $.84 DEPS, including $39.4 million or $.20 DEPS in losses from discontinued operations, compared to $248.5 million or $1.22 DEPS in 2001 which included $66.7 million or $.33 DEPS in earnings from discontinued operations which was primarily the result of gains from the sale of AC Compressor and DovaTech businesses. For 2002, the net loss was $121.3 million or $.60 DEPS compared to earnings of $248.5 million or $1.22 DEPS in 2001. 2002 results include the impact of the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (SFAS 142). The adoption resulted in a goodwill impairment charge of $345.1 million ($293.0 million net of tax or $1.44 DEPS) which was recognized as the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle in the first quarter of 2002. The adoption of SFAS 142 also included the discontinuance of the amortization of goodwill, effective January 1, 2002. Goodwill amortization, adjusted for discontinued operations, totaled $42.2 million net of tax or $.21 DEPS for 2001. Sales for 2002 were $4,183.7 million compared to $4,368.4 million last year, a decrease of 4%. Gross profit of $1,360.3 million for the year 2002 was down 2% compared to the prior years comparable amount of $1,386.3 million. This decline was primarily due to the impact on Dover Technologies of the market contraction in demand for its products serving the electronics industry. At the same time, many of the industrial businesses in the other three operating segments were negatively impacted by the slowdown in general economic activity. However, the gross profit margin of 33% for 2002 compared favorably to 32% in 2001. Operating profit of $341.6 million improved 7% compared to $320.3 million in 2001. As a percentage of sales, operating profit in 2002 was 8% compared to 7% in 2001. Comparisons to the prior year benefited from the discontinuation of goodwill amortization in accordance with SFAS No. 142. Segment earnings of $365.4 million improved 2% from $358.0 million in the prior year. Diversifieds earnings of $133.1 million improved 39% compared to the prior year on a 7% sales increase to $1,192.1 million. In the Industries segment earnings increased 4% to $147.6 million on a 3% sales decline to $1,124.0 million. Resources earnings improved 1% to $115.1 million on a 7% sales decrease to $837.4 million. In the Technologies segment a loss for 2002 of $30.3 million compared to 2001 earnings of $5.6 million, and reflected a 13% sales decline to $1,036.5 million. For 2002, Diversified had margins of 11%, up two points and Industries produced margins of 13%, an improvement of one percentage point. Resources margins improved one percentage point to 14%. Technologies negative margins of 3% compared to break even margins in the prior year. Dovers tax rate for continuing operations was 21.7% for 2002 and 29.8% in 2001. The lower effective tax rate in 2002 was attributable to three factors. First, the Company continued to benefit from tax credit programs, such as R & D, foreign tax and the U.S. export program, which have been enhanced in the U.S. and various other jurisdictions over the past two years. Second, the Company implemented a reorganization of various entities. Third, the adverse impact which market conditions have had on the Company, particularly in connection with its adoption of SFAS 142, has provided the Company with the ability to identify and recognize related tax benefits. Interest expense of $70.0 million for the year ended 2002 was down 23% compared to the prior year primarily due to lower levels of commercial paper borrowings throughout 2002. Interest income declined in 2002 compared to the prior year, which included $5.0 million related to a U.S. Federal tax settlement. All other net income or expense declined $20.9 million for 2002 compared to the prior year total, which included an insurance recovery of $6.4 million in the Diversified segment. Foreign exchange losses of $6.3 million for 2002 compared to gains of $1.3 million in the prior year. Current year losses were due to unfavorable exchange rate movements primarily involving the Euro. Restructuring and Inventory Charges In 2002, the Company initiated restructuring programs at selected operating companies with ongoing efforts to reduce costs in the continually challenging business environments in which the Company operates. The total restructuring charges related to these programs in 2002 were $28.7 million. The restructuring charges included both employee separation costs of $11.9 million and costs associated with exit activities of $16.8 million. The restructuring in Technologies took place in the CBAT and SEC groups, in response to the significant declines in the end markets served by these operations. 16 of 79 CBAT recorded $6.6 million for employee separation and $11.2 million for exit activities. The majority of the severance and exit costs were incurred at Universal, Everett Charles and DEK. The facility exit costs are comprised of lease terminations and idle equipment impairments. SEC recorded $2.5 million for employee separation and $3.6 million for facility exit activities, a majority of which costs were incurred at Quadrant and Novacap. Industries recorded restructuring charges of $3.7 million, of which $2.1 million was incurred to exit an under performing product line at Tipper Tie. The remaining $1.6 million was for employee separation and other exit costs. Diversified recorded $1.1 million of restructuring charges to rationalize its SWF business of which $0.8 million was for severance. During 2001, the Company initiated various restructuring programs in response to the downturn in the end markets served within its Technologies segment and to reduce the overall cost structure in the Diversified, Industries and Resources segments. The total restructuring charges related to these programs in 2001 was $17.2 million. The restructuring charges included both employee separation costs of $11.7 million and $5.5 million for exit costs. The Technologies segment recorded restructuring charges in CBAT primarily for costs associated with employee separation of $5.1 million. In addition, as a result of the downturn in the end markets served, CBAT recorded charges of $1.4 million for exit costs. SEC also announced restructuring programs, primarily related to the closure of two European operations that were facing difficult market conditions, for $1.0 million. In addition, SEC recorded charges of $0.9 million for employee separation costs. Imaje also recorded employee separation costs of $1.0 million for certain management employees due to a change in strategic focus. The Diversified segment recorded restructuring charges for employee separation costs of $3.1 million and facility exit costs of $2.4 million related to the closure of two North American facilities that were experiencing declining volume, pricing pressure and excess capacity concerns. The Industries segment recorded charges of $2.0 million to restructure its Rotary Lift European operations and the Resources segment recorded $0.3 million to restructure its De Sta Co operating company. Restructuring charges for continuing operations were primarily recorded as selling and administrative expenses. The employee separation programs for continuing operations announced have involved approximately 3,280 employees, 88% of whom have been terminated as of December 31, 2002. As a result of the severance programs, the Company anticipates annual cost savings of approximately $25 to $35 million. The Company expects to complete the restructuring programs undertaken in 2002 by the end of 2003 and the majority of the 2001 restructuring programs were completed by December 31, 2002. Due to significant declines in the demand for certain products, special inventory reserves of $63.8 million were established in 2001, primarily in the Technologies segment and to a lesser degree in the Diversified and Resources segments. Certain additions to these reserve balances were made in 2002 for approximately $12.0 million in the Technologies and Diversified segments. DOVER DIVERSIFIED Dover Diversifieds earnings increased 39% in 2002 to $133.1 million on a 7% sales increase to $1,192.1 million. Implementation of lean initiatives, operational improvements, and cost reduction efforts helped the earnings increase, as well the absence of $18.1 million in restructuring, inventory, and other charges taken in 2001. The impact of goodwill amortization on earnings for the full year 2001 was $14.4 million. Segment profit margins improved to 11% from 9%. A significant turnaround at Crenlo, strong earnings growth at Hill Phoenix, and PMI gains accounted for a large portion of the earnings improvement, which were somewhat offset by declines at SWF, L&E, Tranter, Mark Andy, Waukesha, and Sargent. Hill Phoenixs financial performance improved significantly in 2002, setting new records in sales, earnings, and cash flow, leading Diversified in each of these three categories. This was accomplished through ongoing market share gain in recent years and benefiting from their largest customers continuing expansion programs. Market share improved to 18% in 2002 from 14% in 2001. This growth was the result of being well positioned with the fastest growing customers as well as securing new key accounts. Aggressive cost reduction initiatives at the Refrigeration Division were a major contributor to the companys margin improvement in 2002. Hill Phoenix enters 2003 looking forward to another positive year as the capital programs of their core customer base are expected to remain strong. Tranter ended 2002 with a weak fourth quarter that left earnings and margins below 2001, despite a record sales and bookings year. Tranter is highly dependent on industrial capital spending, which remained weak in 2002. After years of stable margins, the past two years have seen significant margin erosion. A soft U.S. and European economy reduced total orders in the marketplace, and led to stronger price competition for the orders that were available. Tranters markets are not expected to improve significantly in 2003, and cost reduction actions are planned to better handle periods of declining prices and lower volumes. Tranters three business units, SWEP, Tranter Radiator, and Tranter PHE, will report as independent operating companies of Diversified beginning in 2003. 17 of 79 Crenlo achieved a significant earnings improvement in 2002, turning sizable 2001 losses into a modest profit. The focus at Crenlo in 2002 was a return to profitability through lean manufacturing initiatives, resulting in reduced headcount and improvements in productivity and first pass yield. Cost reduction efforts in the material acquisition area, including value engineering efforts, resulted in savings of over $2 million. Additionally, the inventory reserves taken in 2001 were not repeated in 2002. These cost saving programs fueled the significant earnings improvement with little additional sales volume. The focus in 2003 will be to increase volume with new product introductions and expansion of the specialty enclosure business. In general, the Cab and Commercial markets remain soft with recovery not anticipated until at least the second half of 2003. Sargents 2002 earnings were down consistent with a decrease in sales volume. The weakened commercial aircraft market negatively impacted the companys core business, offset somewhat by the Marine Divisions record earnings year fueled by an active military market. Margins fell in 2002 due largely to a shift in product mix and lower volume. The Sonic business was depressed by airline losses and a 28% reduction in production at their largest customer. 2003 will be another challenging year for Sargent, as the aircraft industry shows no signs of a quick recovery. Growth in repair and overhaul sales to the aftermarket is anticipated, but are not expected to make up for lower shipments to the aircraft OEMs. Mark Andys printing equipment market continued to be weak for most of 2002 and operational earnings decreased. Sales were higher than prior year due mainly to having a full years impact of the March 2001 acquisition of Comco. Improved integration of the Comco product line was a focus in 2002, as a new sales organization was introduced and was successful in gaining orders late in the year. The printing market improved slightly in late 2002, allowing bookings and backlog for label presses in the U.S. to improve in the fourth quarter. However, the printing market is projected to show only gradual improvement throughout 2003. After three years of declining sales and earnings, new management and improved processes/products at Van Dam in the Netherlands resulted in increased earnings in 2002. The GMI division secured preferred partner status with a large press supplier in 2002, as well having their products selected as the standard platform for the future by two of the worlds largest printing companies. The Mark Andy structure will change in 2003 as GMI will report as a separate Diversified operating company. Waukesha Bearings earnings decline of 10% was caused by the collapse of the power generation market for large bearing products. Backlog at year end was significantly down due to low bookings and cancelled orders throughout the year from key customers. Waukeshas two other divisions, Hydratight Sweeney and Central Research Labs, both had modest sales and earnings increases as their markets, oil/gas and nuclear waste cleanup, remained fairly stable throughout 2002. In response to the bearing market decline, the Bearings division shutdown one small facility in the U.K. and consolidated their large bearing production into one plant in the U.S., resulting in a 25% headcount reduction. The lean manufacturing culture was enhanced throughout all operations with expected benefits of increased productivity, plant capacity, and reduced working capital moving into 2003. PMI achieved their sixth consecutive record year in sales and earnings. This accomplishment was made in spite of a weak fourth quarter, as their usual pickup in advance of the 2003 racing season did not occur. Also, the last few years of mild winters in the Midwest hurt their seasonal sales of pistons to the snowmobile market. Investments were made in the U.K. in both a European sales office and a new Technology Center to promote and market their products in this key region of the racing world. Successful integration of past acquisitions has positioned PMI well in the market, increasing product offerings and strengthening their distribution channels. In late December, PMI acquired Chambon S.A. of St. Etienne, France, a manufacturer of premium crankshafts for the Formula 1 market. The addition of Chambon gives PMI the ability to offer a complete rotating assembly to the engine market. SWF had a disappointing year as restructuring costs related to plant consolidations and product rationalization were incurred, in addition to high warranty expense to correct a number of large equipment projects. The weak packaging machinery market continued throughout 2002, and sales for SWF decreased when compared to last year. With under performing assets reduced, the lower cost structure and the implementation of lean manufacturing programs should positively impact margins throughout 2003. Improved project selection and pricing strategies have been implemented to focus on their core business where acceptable profit margins can be attained. Belvac ended the year on a positive trend resulting in their highest annual bookings in five years. As the only independent global supplier of can forming equipment, Belvacs recent success has been in the international market, especially Russia and Eastern Europe, where can manufacturing and consumer demand is growing. A significant part of their business includes spares and retrofits that improve the productivity of their customers equipment. Belvac is well known for their proprietary technology, which provides them with a strong position in the market. Further investment and advancement in their plastic container equipment is beginning to complement their can forming business, and is opening up new opportunities for growth. 18 of 79 Langbein & Engelbracht located in Bochum, Germany, reported a small loss for 2002 on a 12% decline in sales. The largest volume decrease was in the Automotive division where a poor European economy and intense competitive pricing caused negative results. Their focus is on cost control, reduced headcount, and expanded outsourcing of project work to lower cost countries. A new entity was created in China in 2002 to develop opportunities for both outsourcing and new business in this growing market. DOVER INDUSTRIES Dover Industries sales declined 3% to $1,124.0 million, as market weakness seen in 2001 continued in 2002. Heil Environmental, Heil Trailer, Chief and Dovatech experienced the largest sales declines. Earnings of $147.6 million, which were 4% above 2001 levels, were impacted by restructuring charges of $3.7 million related to plant closings and the exiting of certain product lines. Segment margins improved slightly to 13%. The impact of goodwill amortization on earnings for the full year in 2001 was $14.6 million. Heil Environmentals performance declined in 2002 as a soft market, reductions in municipal budgets for refuse collection vehicles, and new engine emission regulations combined to curtail sales. A majority of municipalities redirected funds initially targeted for refuse collection equipment to support security and emergency response infrastructure. In addition, many private, municipal and large retail haulers postponed chassis purchases due to concerns regarding the performance of new engines mandated by the new emission regulations. Countering these negative trends, Environmental introduced a number of new products to address customer needs and downsized their workforce given the lower volumes. A management change was also initiated as a new President was named who had previously been in charge of Rotary Lift. A number of new product introductions, growth in our dump body group and strong European growth should lead to improved performance in 2003. Heil Trailers sales and earnings declined for the third consecutive year. The domestic bulk trailer industry remained slow for the entire year impacted by the slowest petroleum trailer market in the past 7 years. In addition, military sales were negatively impacted by delays in government testing, but should provide a boost in 2003 and beyond. Trailer once again managed to increase share in both the petroleum and dry bulk trailer markets in the face of intense competitive pressures, driven by over capacity and a slow market. A strong focus on global markets resulted in Trailers international businesses contributing almost one quarter of their profits this year. Plans are in place to expand production in Eastern Europe which should further benefit Trailers overseas performance. Rotary Lift, one of Industries largest sales and earnings contributors, again delivered improved sales and earnings. Helped by zero percent financing driving car sales, Rotary capitalized on its ability to provide innovative solutions and nationwide service, and grew its car program business over 20%. Faced with a stagnant market and increasing competition from low cost Asian competitors, Rotary was once again able to grow market share. Rotarys focus on cost reduction allowed it to hold margins in a tough pricing environment. Additionally, its focus on providing productivity based solutions, as evidenced by their inbay(TM) product, has insulated them to some degree from the pricing pressures seen at the commodity end of the business. Marathon entered the year facing a depressed waste management market which continued to slide throughout 2002 and is now down 33% over the last two years. However, Marathon was able to grow market share and increase both sales and earnings while maintaining margins at above historical levels. Leveraging its broad product line enabled them to add new customers and gain additional business, even with an industry that saw an increase in internet auctions and severe pricing pressure. This was made possible through Marathons strong engineering focus, which they have parlayed to develop customer friendly products to meet the individual needs of waste haulage and chain store accounts. Tipper Tie rebounded somewhat from a weak 2001, driven by a strong performance by their overseas subsidiary. Technopack, along with Alpina, a recent European acquisition, enjoyed a record year with sales of equipment, clips and loops all at record levels. This performance improvement was primarily driven by Eastern European demand. Tipper U.S. had a more difficult year as sales of equipment and clips slipped. However, second half results were promising and are expected to continue in 2003, allowing for improvement in the U.S. markets. Late in the year, Tipper decided to eliminate a small product line, which negatively impacted profits in 2002, but will contribute positively to performance in 2003. With the vehicle wash equipment market softening significantly, PDQ saw both investors and corporate oil companies reduce their purchases in 2002. Oil company consolidation took its toll on sales, while the investor market was hurt by a difficulty in obtaining financing. As a result, for the first time since they were purchased by Dover in 1998, PDQ had a down year. Sales and earnings saw declines versus a record 2002, although they were flat compared to 2001. However, PDQ was still able to grow share. In addition, new products along with the implementation of `lean manufacturing initiatives allowed PDQ to hold margins as well. Industry uncertainty and a low backlog will lead to a slow first half, but a stronger second half is expected. 19 of 79 Triton, a company acquired in 2000, improved significantly versus a weak 2001. Although the U.S. market was relatively flat, Tritons share improved behind the successful introduction of their 9100 product, a product focused on the broadest segment of the cash dispenser market. This product contributed more than 50% of unit sales since its mid year introduction. New products introduced into the other segments of the market also contributed. Tritons results internationally were also positive, lead by strong results in the U.K. Overall margins rebounded to 2000 levels behind increased sales and a reduced cost structure. Looking forward, initiatives begun in 2002, such as a focus on recurring revenue, along with market growth overseas and continued new product development, should lead to an even stronger 2003. The DI Foodservice Companies, which include Groen, Randell and Avtec, finished the year with flat sales and earnings. Declining tax receipts in most states and municipalities led to a slowdown in Groens institutional foodservice equipment market while Randells markets were impacted by cutbacks in new foodservice chain start ups. The newly identified DI Foodservice team is currently assessing various consolidation and synergy prospects which should impact favorably on 2003 performance. A change in the way they go to market put in place toward the latter part of 2002 is expected to show dividends as well. Kurz Kasch, which was acquired in 2001, and whose primary products include electromagnetic stators and specialty plastics, saw margins decline (versus record levels in 2001) on relatively flat sales. Increased quality and engineering specifications imposed by customers, along with a weak market, contributed to the margin deterioration. A strong first half is expected in 2003 as the world demand for heavy duty trucks stabilizes along with improvements on the plastics side of the business driven by new business and synergies associated with a recent product line acquisition. Chief had a disappointing year in 2002 as both sales and earnings were down significantly. Softness in the economy coupled with changing insurance industry trends negatively impacted buying decisions. A combination of more cars being totaled and customers foregoing repairs to avoid higher insurance premiums has hurt the industry. Recognizing this market shift, Chief has undergone a number of strategic changes to better serve its markets going forward. These include consolidating domestic channels of distribution, adding an inside sales support function, streamlining product offerings, and revising current approaches to installation, training, and service. Costs associated with these initiatives had a major impact on 2002 performance. Although the market is expected to contract again in 2003, these new initiatives are expected to lead to improved performance. Someros performance suffered from the third year of double digit market declines with non residential building down 17% and industrial construction off 45%. As a result, sales of their primary product, large laser screeds, were down significantly. They successfully introduced the CopperHead in 2002, a new product that primarily serves the upper deck and smaller floor concrete screeding markets. This is expected to open their market to smaller contractors, and partially offset continued weakness expected in the large screed market. Dovatech, which consists of laser and chiller businesses, experienced difficult market conditions leading to double digit sales declines. The chiller businesses are expected to improve in 2003 as the second half of 2002 began to show an upturn, while the laser businesses are counting on a number of new product introductions to contribute, although later in the year. DOVER RESOURCES Dover Resources 2002 sales declined 7% or $60.0 million to $837.4 million primarily driven by declines in the oil and gas production markets served by the Petroleum Equipment Group and C. Lee Cook. Capital spending weakened in most markets and distributors reduced inventories. Earnings increased by 1% or $0.9 million to $115.1 million. Full year results for 2001 included $7.1 million of inventory, restructuring and other charges. No comparable charges were recorded in 2002. Positive operating leverage (increased margins on flat to down sales) at most companies resulted from cost reduction in operating expense and implementation of lean manufacturing programs. The impact of goodwill amortization on earnings for the full year in 2001 was $10.3 million. Operating margins were 14%, up from 13% in 2001. The market for the Petroleum Equipment Group was weak during 2002. Sales were down approximately 21% and earnings were off over 36%. Commodity prices remained high but drilling activity was down significantly as capital spending by oil companies was reduced. The core products of Norris and Alberta Oil Tool (AOT) saw a decline in international sucker rod sales but AOT drive rod sales remained strong. Continued penetration in the sucker rod guide and premium coupling markets should enhance future results as oilfield activity levels increase. Ferguson Beauregards plunger lift and automation products were off from the prior year. Norriseals sales and earnings were also below last year with an unfavorable product mix. 20 of 79 The industrial pump companies (Blackmer and Wilden) recorded a 3% sales increase and a 19% earnings increase driven by a favorable product mix, innovative new products and operational improvements resulting from lean manufacturing initiatives. Blackmer gains were driven by increased sales at government accounts, System One sales, and improved performance in Europe. Blackmer continues to implement lean manufacturing initiatives and consolidated its Oklahoma City compressor operations into its System One facility in Massachusetts. Wilden Pump benefited from improved sales of its new food line and plastic bolted series pumps. Wilden domestic sales were flat but international sales to the Far East were up significantly. Wilden is establishing a wholly owned foreign entity in China that will strengthen their presence in that region. OPW Fueling Components maintained sales in 2002 equal to prior year, primarily as a result of two product line acquisitions made early in the year. Overall, earnings were below prior year levels even though overhead structures were reduced. Sales and earnings increases were achieved in every market outside the U.S. with extremely strong growth in Latin America and Asia Pacific. These increases were not enough to offset the declines caused by reduction in new service station construction in the U.S. markets. Industry consolidation at manufacturers, customers, and distributors accelerated in 2002. The consolidations at major oil companies and financial failure at several major convenience store chains provided an opportunity for customers to buy stations at reduced prices versus building new stations. Brevetti Nettuno, an Italian manufacturer of LPG nozzles, was acquired to broaden product offerings for alternative fuels. The acquisition of the Emco Electronics product line by Petro Vend has moved OPW into a much stronger market position in electronic tank gauging. These units were fully integrated in 2002 and now position Petro Vend to be a much stronger global player in this expanding market. The continued development of products to meet new environmental regulations began to pay dividends in 2002 and these regulations are being adopted by markets outside California. OPW Fluid Transfer Group improved earnings on reduced sales in 2002 as cost reduction initiatives implemented in 2001 produced positive results and improved margins. The depressed bulk cargo tank and railcar markets hampered U.S. growth but European sales set a new record. Although chemical processing markets were down, renewed emphasis was placed on new products to existing customers. OPW Fluid Transfer Group is continuing product development and customer focus initiatives to drive improved results in 2003 despite the current market conditions. De Sta Co Industries leveraged 9% earnings growth on flat sales due to full year results of on going cost reduction initiatives. The automation products demand grew in support of new vehicle model introductions in the automotive market. Industrial market clamps sales are slowly improving as customers implement new tooling programs to reduce set up costs. Electronic market sales remain severely depressed. De Sta Co Industries expanded their Asian operations and now have cost effective facilities operating on all major continents. C. Lee Cook sales and earnings were off significantly as demand from gas compressor OEMs and aftermarket requirements slowed. Service work on existing field products maintained levels similar with last year. A new service center for the West Coast was opened and manufacturing expansions were completed that will support future growth. The Manley valve business had operating results equal to the prior year on slightly reduced sales volume. The longer term outlook for Cook products continues to be very favorable as gas production and processing activity increases. The Tulsa Winch Group was challenged in 2002 by significant declines in construction equipment markets, aerial lift markets, and a slow petroleum market. Strong cost reduction efforts maintained solid operating margins and position the company to benefit as market conditions improve. The military winch business remains strong and is driven by long term contracts. The crane overload protection products are targeting new applications in the higher volume, smaller capacity mobile crane market. Quartzdyne had record sales in 2002, as they gained new customers and increased their applications into the measurement while drilling market. Investments were made to vertically integrate their manufacturing processes. Quartzdyne continues to develop new quartz based sensor technologies to serve the high temperature and high pressure markets that will support future growth. Hydro Systems posted record earnings on slightly reduced sales led by improved earnings at Nova Controls and continued expansion in European markets. The industrial cleaning market served by Hydro was slightly depressed this year due to slower hotel and restaurant business. Hydro has a strong pipeline of new products that is expected to drive future growth. RPA Process Technologies (RPA) experienced significant delays in capital spending from its customer base in 2002. Sales and earnings were both off significantly with its European unit only contributing with major project shipments in the fourth quarter. RPA implemented significant process improvements during the year that should drive better results as markets improve. 21 of 79 De Sta Co Manufacturing had flat sales and earnings with continued pricing pressure from their automotive customer base. Sales slowed during the fourth quarter in their automotive market as well as in their Hydro Cam tool and die business. De Sta Co Manufacturing continues to work on new product initiatives to broaden its exposure to new markets. Duncan Industries had flat sales and earnings increased, and has positioned itself for an upturn by reducing costs internally and through improvement in quality and cost reduction initiatives with outside suppliers. Wittemann was sold in the first quarter of 2003 at a very modest loss. DOVER TECHNOLOGIES Dover Technologies sales decreased 13% from 2001 levels to $1,036.5 million. As a result, Technologies reported a loss of $30.4 million as compared to earnings of $5.6 million for 2001. The impact of goodwill amortization on earnings for the full year 2001 was $12.1 million. Included in the losses for 2002 and 2001 were $35.2 million and $43.3 million of charges, respectively, for restructuring, inventory reserves and other charges. The strengthening of, and the increased focus on, the medical, automotive and military markets were not enough to offset the continued major softness in the computer and industrial electronics market segments. Although, it appeared that a recovery was beginning to take place in the spring of 2002, it became clear that this was not sustainable for the remainder of 2002. Accordingly, the companies serving the communications, computer and industrial electronics industries began to resize their companies for profitability at the sales levels they were experiencing during the second half of the year. By the end of the first quarter 2003, the Circuit Board Assembly and Test (CBAT) businesses and the Specialty Electronics Components (SEC) businesses will have reduced their workforces by 15% and 13%, respectively, from the beginning of 2002. In addition, where warranted, the companies have reduced their capacity needs to adapt to the current market opportunities. The most significant change at substantially all of the CBAT and SEC companies has been the geographic shift in their markets. The year marked the continued shift to Asia (with an emphasis on China) for Electronic Manufacturing Services (EMS) companies, and China was the strongest of the telecommunications equipment markets. By the end of 2003, substantially all of the CBAT companies will be manufacturing in China either at their own facility or through subcontractors. Where the strengths of the markets warrant, the SEC companies will have Asian based sales offices and in certain cases manufacturing facilities. While the American markets reflect stronger automotive, medical and military opportunities, the Asian, and in particular China, markets offer the best opportunity for telecommunication equipment and electronic assembly growth in the near term. CBAT Technologies CBAT businesses recorded a loss of $49.2 million in the year 2002 which included inventory, restructuring and other charges of $25.9 million compared to a loss of $61.8 million in 2001 which included inventory, restructuring and other charges of $33.3 million. Sales for the year were $598.6 million, a decrease of $48.4 million or 7% from full year 2001 results. Universal Instruments experienced a decline in sales of 15% from the prior year, and recorded a slightly smaller loss than in 2001. In the third quarter, Universal undertook an aggressive reorganization, including significant reductions in staff, redefining its sales channels by current market opportunities, tailoring specific products for high volume automotive manufacturing, and opening a 100,000 square foot plant in China (which commenced operation in February 2003). During 2002, the actions Universal took resulted in its ability to maintain and actually increase its market share. Universal continues to invest in significant product development to address future circuit board and component placement needs. DEK, though seeing a similar decrease in sales of 14% over 2001, still maintained a market leadership position. It acquired Acumen, a manufacturer of stencils in North America and Asia, giving DEK a global presence in an increasingly important segment of the process consumables and tooling business. DEK has expanded its capabilities to serve the semiconductor industry and is manufacturing some of its product line in China. Vitronics Soltec was able to maintain its sales at the 2001 level with the release of a Selective Soldering product line, improving their competitive position. Everett Charles Technologies sales increased slightly as its acquisition of MultiTest was held for all of 2002 versus only seven months of 2001. The North American test market remained very weak while customer new product introductions (NPI) were also slow. ECTs probe and fixture business depend to a large degree on customer NPI. ECTs two German bare board test equipment companies maintained their sales levels and increased their profitability. The back end semiconductor test market showed some strengthening in the second half of 2002, up significantly from the second half of 2001. 22 of 79 OK International saw a smaller decline in sales for 2002 compared to 2001 and reported a loss. OK depends to a large part on the overall electronics manufacturing industry and its results reflected the softness in that market. Alphasem reported a slight upturn in sales despite the overall decline in the semiconductor industry. Alphasem manufactures die bonding equipment for the back end of the semiconductor industry. Despite its improved sales efforts, Alphasem still reflected a comparable loss to 2001 as Alphasem tried to meet the demands of new product innovation. Dover Technologies acquired Hover Davis in the fourth quarter of 2002. Hover Davis is the largest independent manufacturer of component feeding, direct die feeding and label printing devices for the circuit board assembly market. It sells its products directly to both OEM (including Universal Instruments) and end users of placement equipment. Since it was acquired in the fourth quarter, it did not have a significant impact on reported sales or earnings. Entering 2003, the CBAT companies plan to operate at sales levels achieved in the last half of 2002 as they believe it is not possible to forecast the timing of an upturn at this point in time. Since the beginning of 2001, all of the CBAT companies have reduced their operating costs significantly and are finding less expensive sources for their materials or manufacturing locations. Their product development is on track for addressing their customers needs. Assuming no further adverse trends, these companies expect to achieve modest levels of profitability in 2003. SEC In Technologies SEC companies, sales for the year were $205.6 million compared to $341.6 million last year, a decrease of 40%. SEC reported a loss of $7.1 million in 2002 which included inventory, restructuring and other charges of $9.9 million compared to earnings of $42.1 million in 2001 which included restructuring and other charges of $10.2 million. The SEC companies produce highly specialized, often custom designed, high end components used in a wide variety of electronic devices. During 2002, all of the SEC companies began to shift their focus from predominantly serving the wired and wireless telecommunications industry, to high reliability medical, space, avionics and military applications. Though there is a greater mix of industries served today, the largest customer base still remains in the telecommunications market. Much of the excess industry inventory built up during 2000 and early 2001 has been depleted. However, the telecom and datacom service providers are still very cautious in their capital equipment spending as their business models are changing and new Federal telecommunications regulations are being developed. Although it is starting to become apparent that the imbedded communications infrastructure systems and equipment are showing the stresses of increased capacity and lack of investment over the past 24 months, it will be necessary for the anticipated Federal regulations to evolve and a rationalization of the business model of these telecom service providers to occur before growth in capital spending will resume. The timing of this impact is unknown. Quadrants sales decreased significantly resulting in an operating loss for 2002. Quadrant, under a new President, began a major restructuring early in the year to consolidate facilities, reorganize the company structure to better address the changes in its customer base and product needs, and to right size its workforce. It also has focused on the Asian market and in growing its high reliability space and military positions. The capacitor companies, Novacap and Dielectric, saw continued decreases in their sales, as they both serve the telecommunications industries. However, their specialty products have avionics, military and medical applications which are showing growth. Novacap and Dielectric reported small losses mostly attributable to write off of excess equipment. K&L Microwave saw a significant decrease in sales but was able to maintain a slight profit. It was hard hit by the telecommunication downturn as it serves the base station deployment customers. K&L has opened a facility in Nanjing, China to provide telecommunication infrastructure products to the growing Chinese and Asian markets. Dow Key Microwave improved its earnings on relatively flat sales. Dow Key has a strong military and space program that continues to see funding for product deployment. While the near term future remains unclear in the telecommunications industry, the SEC companies expect to be modestly profitable at 2002 sales levels, while working to address a broader customer base and be a global supplier of custom, high end component products. MARKING AND CODING Imaje, the French based industrial ink jet printer and ink manufacturer, had full year earnings of $49.8 million, down 7% from last year but still generated the highest earnings of any Dover company. Sales were up 11% or $22.5 million from last year. Imaje continued with the integration of its mid 2001 acquisition of Markpoint, with sales increasing 11%. A new thermal printer line was rolled out to the Imaje marketing channels. Imaje has strong global presence selling direct in the majority of its markets while using distributors to expand its reach to over 90 countries. As a result of a tight industrial market place in Europe and the Americas, and the increasing mix of Markpoint products, which utilizes somewhat less consumables in their marking, margins decreased from 26% to 21%. 23 of 79 In 2002, Imaje opened its new ink plant and research and development center at its headquarters in Valence, France. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES The Companys consolidated financial statements and related public financial information are based on the application of generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America ("GAAP"). GAAP requires the use of estimates, assumptions, judgments and subjective interpretations of accounting principles that have an impact on the assets, liabilities, revenue and expense amounts reported. These estimates can also affect supplemental information contained in the external disclosures of the Company including information regarding contingencies, risk and its financial condition. The Company believes its use of estimates and underlying accounting assumptions adhere to GAAP and are consistently and conservatively applied. Valuations based on estimates are reviewed for reasonableness and conservatism on a consistent basis throughout the Company. Primary areas where financial information of Dover is subject to the use of estimates, assumptions and the application of judgment include the following: Revenue is recognized and earned when all of the following circumstances are satisfied, a) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, b) price is fixed or determinable, c) collectibility is reasonably assured and d) delivery has occurred. In revenue transactions where installation is required, revenue can be recognized when the installation obligation is not essential to the functionality of the delivered products. Revenue transactions involving non essential installation obligations are those which can generally be completed in a short period of time, at insignificant cost and the skills required to complete these installations are not unique to the Company and in many cases can be provided by third parties or the customers. If the installation obligation is essential to the functionality of the delivered product, revenues are deferred until installation is complete. In a limited number of revenue transactions, other post shipment obligations such as training and customer acceptance are required and, accordingly, revenues are deferred until the customer is obligated to pay, or acceptance has been confirmed. Shipping and handling fees are not material and are generally credited to revenue with related costs principally charged to cost of sales. Service revenues are recognized and earned when services are performed and are not significant to any period presented. Allowances for doubtful accounts are estimated at the individual operating companies based on estimates of losses related to customer receivable balances. Estimates are developed by using standard quantitative measures based on historical losses, adjusting for current economic conditions and, in some cases, evaluating specific customer accounts for risk of loss. The establishment of reserves requires the use of judgment and assumptions regarding the potential for losses on receivable balances. Though Dover considers these balances adequate and proper, changes in economic conditions in specific markets in which the Company operates could have a material effect on reserve balances required. In times of rapid market decline, such as affected a number of Dover Technologies companies in 2001 and 2002, reserve balances needed to be adjusted in response to these unusual circumstances. Inventory for the majority of the Companys subsidiaries, including all international subsidiaries and the Dover Technologies segment, are stated at the lower of cost, determined on the first in, first out (FIFO) basis, or market. Other domestic inventory is stated at cost, determined on the last in, first out (LIFO) basis, which is less than market value. Under certain market conditions, estimates and judgments regarding the valuation of inventory are employed by the Company to properly value inventory. Dover Technologies companies tend to experience higher levels of inventory value fluctuations, particularly given the relatively high rate of product obsolescence over relatively short periods of time. During the year, the Company established restructuring reserves at a number of operations. These reserves, for both severance and exit costs, required the use of estimates. Though Dover believes that these estimates accurately reflect the costs of these plans, actual results may be different than the estimated amounts. Dover has significant tangible and intangible assets on its balance sheet that include goodwill and other intangibles related to acquisitions. The valuation and classification of these assets and the assignment of useful depreciation and amortization lives involves significant judgments and the use of estimates. The testing of these intangibles under established accounting guidelines (including the recently adopted SFAS No. 142) for impairment also requires significant use of judgment and assumptions. Dovers assets are tested and reviewed for impairment on an annual basis. Changes in business conditions could potentially require future adjustments to these valuations. The valuation of Dovers pension and other post retirement plans requires the use of assumptions and estimates that are used to develop actuarial valuations of expenses and assets/liabilities. These assumptions include discount rates, investment returns, projected salary increases and benefits, and mortality rates. The actuarial assumptions used in Dovers pension reporting are reviewed annually and compared with external benchmarks to assure that they accurately account for Dovers future pension obligations. Changes in assumptions and 24 of 79 future investment returns could potentially have a material impact on Dovers pension expenses and related funding requirements. Dovers expected long term rate of return on plan assets is reviewed annually based on actual returns and portfolio allocation. Dover has significant amounts of deferred tax assets that are reviewed for recoverability and valued accordingly. These assets are evaluated by using estimates of future taxable income streams and the impact of tax planning strategies. Reserves are also estimated for ongoing audits regarding Federal, state and international issues that are currently unresolved. The Company routinely monitors the potential impact of these situations and believes that it is properly reserved. Valuations related to tax accruals and assets can be impacted by changes to tax codes and rulings, changes in statutory tax rates and the Companys future taxable income levels. Dover has significant accruals and reserves related to its risk management program. These accruals require the use of estimates and judgment in regards to risk exposure and ultimate liability. The Company estimates losses under these programs using actuarial assumptions, Dover experience, and relevant industry data. Dover considers the current level of accrual and reserves adequately valued relative to current market conditions and Company experience. Dover has established reserves for environmental and legal contingencies at both the operating company and corporate levels. A significant amount of judgment and use of estimates is required to quantify Dovers ultimate exposure in these matters. The valuation of reserves for contingencies is reviewed on a quarterly basis at the operating and corporate levels to assure that Dover is properly reserved. Reserve balances are adjusted to account for changes in circumstances for ongoing issues and the establishment of additional reserves for emerging issues. While Dover believes that the current level of reserves is adequate, changes in the future could impact these determinations. The Company from time to time will discontinue certain operations for various reasons. Estimates are used to properly restate the assets and liabilities of discontinued operations to their estimated fair value less costs to sell. These estimates include assumptions relating to the proceeds anticipated as a result of the sale. Changes in business conditions or the inability to sell an operation could potentially require future adjustments to these estimates. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Management assesses the Companys liquidity in terms of its ability to generate cash to fund its operating, investing and financing activities. Significant factors affecting liquidity are: cash flows generated from operating activities, capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividends, stock repurchases, adequacy of available bank lines of credit and the ability to attract long term capital with satisfactory terms. Cash flows from Continuing Operations (in thousands) 2002 2001 Cash flows provided by operating activities $ 394,915 $ 683,280 Cash flows (used in) investing activities $ (184,072) $ (422,619) Cash flows (used in) financing activities $ (140,299) $ (545,006) The decrease in cash provided by operating activities from 2001 of $288.4 million is primarily due to lower decreases in accounts receivable and inventories, which provided cash of $314.1 million in 2001 as compared to only $101.0 million in 2002. In addition, a large estimated 2001 federal tax payment of approximately $40.0 million was made in 2002 and a discretionary $44.0 million cash contribution was made to the Companys pension plans. Lastly, cash outflows associated with restructuring and exit costs also decreased operating cash flows. Cash used in investing activities decreased $238.5 million in 2002 as compared to 2001. Capital expenditures decreased $60.3 million to $102.3 million reflecting reduced need. Capital expenditures for 2003 are budgeted to be approximately $150 million, but the Company expects the actual level to be lower and will internally finance these capital expenditures. During 2002, the Company invested on a net economic basis (defined as the GAAP purchase price adjusted for debt assumed and cash acquired) $100.1 million in acquisitions as compared to $281.8 million in 2001 which is a decrease of $181.7 million or 64%. Acquisition activity in 2003 is expected to approach 2001 levels but is largely dependent upon the availability of appropriate acquisition candidates. Cash used in financing activities was primarily for the cash dividends paid to stockholders of $109.4 million, the repurchase of 511,400 shares of treasury stock at an average price of $27.45 for $14.0 million, and finally the repayment of commercial paper borrowings, offset by $8.4 million in proceeds from the termination of two interest rate swap agreements. The principal cause for the decrease of $404.7 million in 2002 for cash used in financing activities was due 25 of 79 to a net decrease in notes payable and long term debt of $411.2 million in 2001 as compared to only a $21.8 million decrease in 2002. Net Debt and Capitalization (in thousands) 2002 2001 Total debt $ 1,054,060 $ 1,075,257 Less: Cash and cash equivalents 294,448 175,331 Marketable securities 511 997 Net debt 759,101 898,929 Add: Shareholders equity 2,394,623 2,519,281 Total capitalization $ 3,153,724 $ 3,418,210 Total debt to total capitalization 33% 31% Net debt to total capitalization 24% 26% The Company utilizes the total debt and net debt to total capitalization calculations to assess its overall financial leverage. Under the terms of the two new Revolving Credit Agreements dated October 2002 (which replaced the old Revolving Credit Agreement dated November 2001), the Company has $600 million of bank credit availability. The arrangements include a $300 million 364 day facility and a $300 million 3 year facility. The new 364 day facility bears interest at LIBOR plus .23% and the new 3 year facility bears interest at LIBOR plus .21%. The key financial covenant of these facilities requires the Company to maintain an interest coverage ratio of EBITDA to net interest expense of not less than 3.5 to 1. The Company has been in compliance with the covenant and the ratio was 7.8 to 1 as of December 31, 2002. This credit facility was unused during 2002. Under the terms of the old Revolving Credit Agreement dated November 2001, the Company had $750 million of bank credit availability. This credit facility was unused during 2001. The Company chose to decrease the aggregate amount of its Revolving Credit Facility from $750 million to $600 million due to the anticipated reduced need for short term financing. The Company intends to replace the $300 million 364 day Credit Facility on or before its expiration date of October 17, 2003 at equivalent market rates. The Company established a new Canadian Credit Facility in November of 2002. Under the terms of this Credit Agreement, the Company has a Canadian (CAD) $30 million bank credit availability and has the option to borrow in either Canadian Dollars or U.S. Dollars. At December 31, 2002, the outstanding borrowings under this facility were $16.3 million in U.S. dollars. The covenants and interest rates under this facility match those of the primary $600 million Revolving Credit Facilities. The Canadian Credit Facility expires on November 25, 2003. The Company intends to replace the Canadian Credit facility on or before its expiration date at comparable market rates. The primary purpose of these agreements is to act as an alternative for short term financing in the event of a disruption in the commercial paper market which the Company normally accesses for its short term borrowing needs. The Company may, from time to time, enter into interest rate swap agreements to manage its exposure to interest rate changes. Interest rate swaps are agreements to exchange fixed and variable rate payments based on the notional principal amounts. As of December 31, 2001, the Company had two interest rate swap agreements terminating on November 15, 2005 with a total notional amount of $150 million to exchange fixed rate interest for variable. Both swaps were designated as fair value hedges of the $250 million Notes, due November 15, 2005, and the net interest payments or receipts from these agreements, during 2001, were recorded as adjustments to interest expense. There was no hedge ineffectiveness as of December 31, 2001 and the fair value of the interest rate swaps determined through market quotation of $0.5 million was reported in other assets and long term debt. During 2002, both of the interest rate swaps were settled, which resulted in net gains of $8.4 million. These gains were deferred and are being amortized over the balance of the term of the debt, permanently reducing the effective interest rate of the $250 million Notes, due November 15, 2005 from 6.5% to 5.3%. In 2000, the Company filed a shelf registration for the issuance of up to $1 billion in senior debt securities and on February 12, 2001 issued $400.0 million of 6.50% Notes due February 15, 2011 under this registration. The proceeds were used to reduce short term commercial paper borrowings. Under the shelf registration up to $600.0 million of debt securities could be issued currently, if such financing was required. Management is not aware of any potential impairment to the Companys liquidity, and the Company was in compliance with all its long term debt covenants. It is anticipated that in 2003 any funding requirements above cash generated from operations will be met through the issuance of commercial paper or, depending upon market conditions, through the issuance of long term debt or some combination of the two. 26 of 79 The Companys credit ratings are as follows for the years ended December 31: 2002 2001 Short term Long term Short term Long term Moodys P 1 A1 P 1 A1 Standard & Poors A 1 A+ A 1 A+ Fitch F1 A+ F1 A+ A summary of the Companys long term debt maturities and rental commitments as of December 31, 2002 is as follows: (in thousands) Total 2003 2004 2005 2006 Thereafter Long term debt $ 1,033,449 $ 3,150 $ 2,396 $ 250,246 $ 419 $ 777,238 Rental Commitments 152,380 31,871 25,481 21,255 15,983 57,790 Total obligations $ 1,185,829 $ 35,021 $ 27,877 $ 271,501 $ 16,402 $ 835,028 The Company utilizes the current ratio (current assets divided by current liabilities) and the quick ratio (current assets net of inventories divided by current liabilities) to assess its overall ability to meet short term obligations. (in thousands) 2002 2001 Current ratio 2.38 2.01 Quick ratio 1.53 1.19 In 2002, accounts receivable increased $6.0 million to $669.9 million, inventories decreased $43.9 million to $595.1 million and accounts payable decreased $2.4 million to $199.6 million. Decreased inventory levels resulted from declining volumes and reserves recorded in 2002 of approximately $12.0 million to state inventory at the lower of cost or market, primarily in the Technology segment. At December 31, 2002, the Companys net property, plant, and equipment amounted to $704.9 million compared with $738.2 million at the end of the preceding year. Goodwill decreased $253.2 million as a result of the impairment recorded for $345.1 million upon adoption of SFAS 142 offset by goodwill from acquisitions of $43.1 million and the cumulative translation adjustment and other adjustments for $48.9 million. Intangible assets, net of amortization increased $31.6 million during 2002 principally as a result of acquisitions. The aggregate of current and deferred income tax liabilities decreased from $222.3 million at the beginning of the year to $154.6 million at year end. This decrease resulted primarily from the payments of amounts related to extensions granted for 2001 U.S. estimated tax payments in 2002. Retained earnings decreased from $3,395.2 million at the beginning of 2002 to $3,164.6 million at December 31, 2002. The $230.7 million decrease resulted from 2002 net losses of $121.3 million, and cash dividends which aggregated $109.4 million. Stockholders equity decreased from $2,519.3 million to $2,394.6 million. The $124.7 million decrease resulted mainly from the $230.7 million decrease in retained earnings and treasury stock purchases of $14.0 million reduced by equity adjustments related to foreign currency fluctuations of $111.3 million. Dovers consolidated pension benefit obligation increased by $17.1 million in 2002. The increase was due principally to increases in actuarial losses. In addition, plan assets decreased $16.0 million due to losses sustained on plan investments during the year partially offset by contributions of $44.0 million. Due to the decrease in the net funded status of the plans, it is estimated that pension expense will increase approximately $7 million in 2003. The Company anticipates having to contribute to its pension benefit plans in 2003 between $25 million and $45 million. The Company believes that existing sources of liquidity are adequate to meet anticipated funding needs at comparable risk based interest rates for the foreseeable future. Acquisition spending would increase company debt but, management anticipates that the debt to capital ratio will remain generally consistent with historical levels. Operating cash flow and access to capital markets are expected to satisfy the Companys various cash flow requirements, including acquisition spending and pension funding as needed. 27 of 79 NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS In August 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations", which is effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2002. SFAS No. 143 establishes the accounting standards for the recognition and measurement of obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long lived assets. Under SFAS No. 143, the costs of retiring an asset will be recorded as a liability when the retirement obligation arises, and will be amortized over the life of the asset. The effect of the adoption of SFAS No. 143 is expected to be immaterial to the Companys consolidated results of operations and financial position. In April 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 145, "Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44 and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical Corrections", which is effective for certain transactions, fiscal years and financial statements issued on or after May 15, 2002. The effect of the adoption of SFAS No. 145 is immaterial to the Companys consolidated results of operations and financial position. In July 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 146, "Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities", which is effective for disposal activities initiated after December 31, 2002. The standard replaces EITF Issue 94 3 and requires companies to recognize costs associated with exit or disposal activities when they are incurred, as defined in SFAS No. 146, rather than at the date of a commitment to an exit or disposal plan. The provisions of SFAS 146 are to be applied prospectively. The Company is still assessing the potential impact of SFAS No. 146 on its consolidated results of operations and financial position. In November of 2002, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 45 (FIN 45), "Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others, an interpretation of FASB Statements No. 5, 57 and 107 and Rescission of FASB Interpretation No. 34." FIN 45 clarifies the requirements of FASB Statement No. 5., "Accounting for Contingencies", relating to the guarantors accounting for, and disclosure of, the issuance of certain types of guarantees. The disclosure requirements of FIN 45 are effective for financial statements of interim or annual periods that end after December 15, 2002 and have been incorporated into the footnotes. The provisions for initial recognition and measurement are effective on a prospective basis for guarantees that are issued or modified after December 31, 2002, irrespective of the guarantors year end. FIN 45 requires that upon issuance of a guarantee, the entity must recognize a liability for the fair value of the obligation it assumes under that guarantee. The Company has adopted the disclosure requirements of FIN 45 and does not expect the impact to be material. In December of 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 148, "Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure an amendment of SFAS 123" which is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2002 regarding certain disclosure requirements which have been incorporated into the footnotes. This Statement amends FASB Statement No. 123, "Accounting for Stock Based Compensation", to provide alternative methods of transition for an entity that voluntarily changes to the fair value based method of accounting for stock based employee compensation. It also amends the disclosure provisions of that Statement to require prominent disclosure about the effects on reported net income of an entitys accounting policy decisions with respect to stock based employee compensation. Finally, this Statement amends APB Opinion No. 28, "Interim Financial Reporting", to require disclosure about those effects in interim financial information. In January of 2003, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 46 (FIN 46), "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an interpretation of ARB 51", which is effective for certain variable interest entities created and financial statements issued after January 31, 2003. The Company does not have any variable interest entities. Accordingly, FIN 46 will not impact the consolidated results of operations and financial position. 2001 COMPARED WITH 2000 SUMMARY In 2001, Dover Corporation sales declined 14% from 2000 to $4,368.4 million. This decline was primarily due to the dramatic impact on Dover Technologies of the market contraction in demand for its products serving the electronics industry. All of the Dover Technologies businesses were impacted. At the same time, many of the industrial businesses in the other three operating segments were negatively impacted by the slowdown in general economic activity. As a result, segment income from continuing operations totaled $358.0 million in 2001, a decline of 58% from 2000. Record earnings of $384.8 million in Technologies in 2000, a "boom" year, dropped to $5.6 million in 2001. Industries earnings of $191.0 million in 2000, declined 26% to $142.2 million in 2001, the result of weak markets for most companies. Diversifieds earnings declined 36% from $150.6 million in 2000 to $95.9 million in 2001, largely due to operational problems at Crenlo, but also due to weak markets for several businesses. Dover Resources earnings declined 6% from $121.4 million in 2000 to 28 of 79 $114.2 million in 2001, as strength in oil and gas related businesses until late in the year were offset by weakness in industrial markets. As the result of unexpectedly weak market conditions, efforts were made throughout the year, and more intensively as the year progressed, to "right size" by reducing employment levels, eliminating costs, and restructuring operations. DOVER DIVERSIFIED Dover Diversifieds sales increased 9% in 2001 to $1,118.3 million, but earnings declined 36% to $95.9 million. Continuing earnings were reduced $18.1 million by charges for restructurings, inventory, accounts receivable and other reserves. Before these charges, earnings were down 24%. Segment profit margins declined to 9% from 15%. A substantial amount of the decline in earnings related to Crenlo, where strong earnings in 2000 became a significant loss in 2001. This, along with earnings declines at Tranter, Mark Andy and SWF, caused by difficult market conditions, offset gains at Hill Phoenix, Sargent, Waukesha and Performance Motorsports. Hill Phoenixs sales increased dramatically, setting a new record in 2001, easily retaining its number one sales position within Diversified. This was accomplished in a market that declined about 7% during the year. Hill Phoenixs 2001 market share gain should establish it as the strong number two company in its highly competitive marketplace. Market share growth was a function both of being well positioned with the fastest growing customers, and of penetrating new key accounts. Some of these are the large discount chains that are becoming larger competitors of the supermarket operators. Bookings grew and backlog increased all through the year, until the fourth quarter when some spending commitments were delayed into the coming year. Earnings were also sharply higher, as margins were maintained. Both sales and earnings were helped to a degree by the contribution of National Cooler, a walk in cooler case business acquired in September 2000 in an effort to broaden the product line, which was successfully integrated into Hill Phoenix operations. In a year when the competitive landscape was marked by consolidation, particularly in the supermarket industry, the stability and experience of the Hill Phoenix management team and the perceived technical superiority of its product line both contributed to growth in market share. Tranter, one of Diversifieds largest businesses, again captured the distinction of being its largest profit contributor despite significant erosion in profit margin. Tranters trend of steady growth and high, stable margins was broken in a very challenging 2001. Tranter is highly dependent on industrial capital spending, one of the weakest sectors of the economy. In addition, the strength of the U.S. dollar gave foreign based competitors an advantage in the U.S. radiator market, and price competition was severe. Also because of U.S. dollar strength, the profitability of Tranters foreign operations was lower when translated from local currency. Some plant inefficiencies and temporary product line gaps also contributed to the shortfall in earnings. Crenlo had a very disappointing year, as a variety of post acquisition management challenges were further complicated by a weak market for which it was not well prepared. This led to a substantial loss for 2001, in contrast to a highly profitable 2000, the first year after acquisition. Throughout 2000, Crenlo had focused on growing sales by providing a cost effective, quality source of cab enclosures to customers who had often manufactured these internally. During the same period, the market for its electronics enclosures product line was growing dramatically with the electronics market generally. A decision to build a second large, fully integrated plant for cabs was made in early 2000, and by mid 2001 the plant was complete. In early 2001, it became apparent that during this growth oriented period, not only had internal controls over inventory begun to suffer, but also product costs had risen and pricing had eroded while fixed costs had risen substantially faster than the business was growing. A new president was installed and he began the process of dealing with internal controls, and aligning the cost structure more closely to the existing order intake levels. As the year progressed, all served markets began to slow down, and then, late in the year, contract rapidly. Costs added from the new plant added complexity to the management challenge. New managements improvement initiatives were unable to keep pace with the declining market, and losses continued. The focus is on customer satisfaction through on time delivery, quality and value and on regaining Crenlos historically stable profit profile. Sargents 2001 sales, adjusted for operations discontinued in the fourth quarter, were up sharply due to a strong backlog at the beginning of the year and stable conditions in both the aerospace and marine markets for much of the year. However, with the weakening of market conditions after the September 11th terrorist attacks, aerospace order intake, particularly in the profitable aftermarket segment of the business, declined precipitously along with airline 29 of 79 traffic. Earnings for the year were also up to record levels, as margins remained stable, despite heavy investment in new regional jet and marine product development programs. At the end of the year, the Airtomic business, which had been part of C. Lee Cook in the Dover Resources segment, was transferred to Sargent because of very strong synergies in the aerospace aftermarket repair and overhaul sector. The incremental sales will roughly replace those of the discontinued operations, but with much higher margins. Investment in new aerospace programs and in developing new aftermarket service capabilities will continue. Mark Andys printing markets were weak throughout 2001, leading to a substantial drop in profitability. Sales were higher due to the acquisition of Comco at the end of March, but its sales and profitability were substantially below expectations as well. As a result of the weak market, the integration of Comco was accelerated, with more cost cutting at both facilities than had been originally planned. Significant reductions in employment and plant consolidations helped at both businesses, but these actions were not able to restore margins. Mark Andy also consolidated facilities at its Graphics Microsystems business. With the cost reductions completed to date, a renewed emphasis on marketing and new product development, and continued focus on gaining efficiencies, Mark Andy is well positioned for an improvement in the market, but significant improvement in profitability will likely await better market conditions. Waukesha Bearings set an earnings record in 2001 on sharply higher sales. This was driven primarily by continued strength in demand for its large bearing products from the gas turbine market. Demand for electrical power generation capacity was particularly strong, and bookings and backlog remained at high levels throughout the year. However, the likely duration of this markets "boom" period, which had been expected to continue for at least a few more years, has recently been questioned with the decline in electrical usage in the economic downturn, relative to capacity recently added. Waukeshas geographic penetration, technical capabilities, and product offerings were substantially improved with the third quarter acquisition of Federal Mogul RPB, a U.K. based bearing manufacturing company. This acquisition makes Waukesha the clear market leader in its niche. Performance Motorsports Inc. (PMI) had a much stronger sales and earnings performance in 2001 than it did in the prior year and a record performance on both metrics, with consistently high margins. Though this was helped by acquisitions of the Carillo and Perfect Bore businesses in the second half, the core business also performed well for most of the year. Some market weakness was evident in the fourth quarter. Performance improvements were primarily due to investments in manufacturing efficiency and technical capabilities. Tangible improvements in throughput, quality and cost reduction were also due to a successful focus on "lean manufacturing" tools and techniques. The recent acquisitions, though small, have also helped position PMI well in its markets through improved geographic coverage, manufacturing synergies and a broader array of technical capabilities for each of its market segments. SWFs sales increased substantially in 2001 largely due to the full year impact of acquisitions made in 2000, and the contribution of acquisitions made early in 2001. However, earnings declined for two reasons. Externally, the market for SWFs packaging machine products was down an estimated 20%. In this environment, SWF was able to maintain market share. Internally, the management complexity of the acquisition integration process caused some slippage in focus on customers and product cost. Improved internal processes, and the renewed focus on product improvement and internal cost control should help improve margins regardless of market conditions. Belvacs position as the only remaining independent supplier of can forming equipment ties its fortunes to the capital spending cycles and sourcing preferences of its customers, some of whom have competing in house capabilities. Belvac is now structured to perform well even in the cyclical troughs in this market. Thus the weak market experienced in 2001 resulted in a meaningful sales decline but a more modest profit decline, enhancing its profile as a strong cash flow contributor. In 2001, Langbein & Engelbrachts sales increased modestly; however, earnings were flat as competitive pricing pressures held margins down. Improved market segmentation, investment in sales coverage, focus on higher first pass yield, and project bidding with complementary suppliers may lead to more opportunities but anemic economic growth in Europe will be a limiting factor. DOVER INDUSTRIES Dover Industries sales in 2001 declined 4% to $1,160.1 million, as general weakness in its industrial and commercial markets impacted most of its companies. Heil Environmental, Texas Hydraulics, DovaTech and the food service markets of Groen and Randell experienced the largest sales declines. Continuing earnings of $142.2 million were reduced for the year by $4.6 million in charges for restructurings, inventory and other reserves. Without those charges, earnings were down 23%. Segment operating profit margins declined from 16% to 12%. 30 of 79 After Heil Environmentals strongest earning year in its history in 2000, market conditions entering 2001, outside of large municipal markets (such as New York City), were showing signs of softness. As the year progressed, all the negative factors which can make this business cyclical such as capital spending constraints at the large waste haulage companies, higher fuel costs, and the impact of economic uncertainty on spending plans (particularly by the independent smaller operators), were in evidence. The loss of a major portion of one large customers business during the first quarter compounded this problem, as did a slow down in product acceptance in New York City after September 11th. These factors led results for the year to fall below those of the prior two years, both of which were new records at the time. Nonetheless, 2001 represented the third best year in company history and though margins declined, they remained significantly above the average for all Industries companies. Heil Environmental has responded with programs for lowering product cost, both through product redesign and "lean" manufacturing initiatives. Marathon, influenced by many of the same industry dynamics, was plagued not only by a very weak market, but also by fierce competition from a heavily leveraged competitor liquidating inventory at low prices. Marathon has a much broader range of product capability than any of its competitors, and can adapt more readily in such a market and it did receive important new business with large national waste haulage and chain store accounts. However, Marathon typically operates with relatively low backlogs, and the weak economy, particularly since the fourth quarter, has led the company to focus on internal cost containment programs to maintain its still above average margin levels. For Rotary Lift, long one of Industries largest earnings contributors and increasingly so, 2001 was both a very challenging and successful year. The market for automotive lifts was down 12%, after a smaller decline the prior year. However, Rotarys sales in 2001 were flat with the prior year, and it further improved its leading market share position. Rotary successfully continued its track record of using cost reduction to drive price competitiveness in the market, while maintaining margins. Rotary was also able to solidify its position by developing a new product, "In Bay"(TM). Having the most technologically advanced product has helped grow market share, particularly with larger accounts, such as the large auto repair chains. Heil Trailer, one of Industries largest companies measured by sales, endured its second straight year of double digit percentage earnings declines, which in turn followed a year of flat earnings, because of the continuing recession in its markets. Capital spending programs at the major oil companies for petroleum tankers have been hurt by the wave of industry consolidations and the market for dry bulk trailers has remained very weak. A pickup in military orders, particularly at the recently acquired Kalyn/Siebert business, helped later in the year. The decline in the market has intensified competitive pricing pressure. Heil has responded with new products, such as safer low profile petroleum tanker trailers, and a repeatedly demonstrated commitment to cost reductions. Heil has thus been able to stabilize margins, albeit at much lower than traditional levels. Late in the year, Heil suffered currency losses in its Argentine operation due to that countrys currency crisis, but the other small operations in the U.K. and Thailand both showed improved performance. Heil Trailers ability to address global oil companies international product and service needs is a distinct competitive advantage. Texas Hydraulics historical growth in sales and earnings, with very strong margins, has been driven by a product differentiation strategy to provide engineered solutions to customers hydraulic cylinder needs. However, in 2001 all served markets were down substantially, particularly in Texas Hydraulics important aerial lift and utility platform markets. This trend began in 2000 and was driven by consolidation in the rental equipment end markets for these applications. It resulted in a substantial decline in sales and earnings, but a more modest margin deterioration. Texas Hydraulics has responded by re emphasizing penetration in other end markets through new products and new designs, but price competition has been fierce due to excess industry capacity. Thus, significant investment has been made in "lean manufacturing" tools and techniques, leading to higher quality, quicker response time to customers, and lower labor and material cost. PDQ, which joined Dover in mid 1998, turned in yet another full year of substantial sales and earnings growth based on its continued penetration of the vehicle wash equipment market with its innovative "touch less" products. PDQs success is based on successful new market introductions, close attention to competitive pricing, and continual cost reductions. Tipper Tie struggled in 2001 with both internal and external problems that led to flat sales and lower margins. Early in the year, demand for capital equipment from meat processors was severely reduced by the "mad cow" and "hoof and mouth" disease scares, particularly in Europe where roughly 50% of Tipper Ties sales are generated. Though this effect dissipated as the year progressed, margins for new equipment came under pressure as the soft market caused fierce competition. Intense price competition was also seen in the clip market. Miscues in product 31 of 79 introductions further depressed earnings. Entering 2002, cost reductions (particularly in the U.S.), the introduction of proven European products into the U.S. market, and new clip designs are the focus of Tipper Ties still new management team. Triton, which was acquired in early 2000, has under performed initial expectations, and 2001 was a particularly difficult year. Sales were flat, but profits were a fraction of the prior year. Adverse external factors included an industry upheaval caused by the rapid rise and then decline to bankruptcy of Credit Card Center (CCC), an independent sales organization that flooded the market with competitors product. This resulted in a market overloaded with a great many unused ATM machines when CCCs business model proved unviable. That overhang, which has not been fully absorbed by early 2002, is further complicated by slowing domestic market growth, and resultant price competition. Internally, Triton has struggled with delayed new product development and introductions, as well as manufacturing inefficiencies. In the fourth quarter of 2001, Triton executed a major staff reduction, realigned the management structure in marketing and manufacturing, and re invigorated the product pipeline. Somero, acquired in mid 1999, has also failed to meet initial expectations, and sales and earnings have declined significantly since acquisition. The Somero market niche is small and narrow, and its construction markets remain depressed. Chief Automotive has been challenged for three years by the sluggish growth of a maturing market. Chief has responded by focusing on new product introductions and marketing programs geared to induce customers to trade up to new, high end products. Sales and earnings declined in 2001 but Chief is maintaining market leadership and high returns on operating investment. Groens institutional food service equipment market declined in 2001, particularly in the fourth quarter, causing Groens sales and earnings to also decline. A new management team has re invigorated product development and has begun introducing product line extensions and variations and has a new cost conscious business model to grow margins and cash flow. Randells market, concentrated in the restaurant chains, has grown for a number of years as the percentage of meals eaten away from home increased. However, this trend may have slowed. The market, increasingly competitive, now depends more on renovations and less on new construction. For 2001, these trends were amplified in the weak economic environment, and margins suffered. In 2002, Randell expects to renew its focus on new product development as a strategy to gain share, and on operational improvements for competitiveness and margin recovery. After the sale of its main line welding products business in April of 2001, DovaTechs remaining laser and laser cooler business was hit hard by the economic downturn particularly in solid state applications for the telecommunications industry. Machine tool customers also slowed orders as the year progressed. DOVER RESOURCES Dover Resources sales in 2001 increased 6% to a record $897.4 million, largely due to strength in the oil and gas production markets served by Petroleum Equipment Group, C. Lee Cook and Quartzdyne, and due to the full year impact of add on acquisitions in 2000. Earnings of $114.2 million in 2001 were reduced by $7.1 million in charges for restructurings, inventory and other reserves. Without those charges, earnings would have been slightly higher than the prior year. Operating profit margins declined from 14% in 2000 to 13% in 2001, as very difficult conditions in the automotive and transportation markets impacted several Dover Resources companies. Petroleum Equipment Groups ("PEG") 2001 sales and earnings were both about 20% higher than in 2000, reaching a modern record (post early 1980s boom period). Through the first half of the year, demand was strong in the oil and gas production markets served and across all product lines, but particularly for sucker rods used in oil production. After mid year, these markets weakened considerably, and by the end of 2001, PEGs results were comparable to the same period in 2000. Significant investments in production capabilities and business streamlining initiatives since 1998 have resulted in lower product costs, improved flexibility and reduced cycle times. These initiatives have also helped PEG further increase its market penetration. Lower oil prices discouraged new drilling as the year progressed. Declining natural gas prices also reduced spending by natural gas producers. However, all PEG units were able to maintain solid profitability even while demand was weakening. Norriseal has been able to regain market share for its valves and controls through enhanced customer service, Norris and AOT have been successful with their sucker rod guide initiatives, and Ferguson Beauregards plunger lift product line achieved solid success with its new initiative to provide complete control systems to natural gas producers. 32 of 79 C. Lee Cooks record sales and earnings results in 2001 reflected strong demand from the natural gas production and distribution customers (both OEM and aftermarket) for its gas compressor components. Cooks recent investments in improved manufacturing processes, increased capacity, new products, product line extensions, and strong results from the service and repair operations at its Compressor Components unit contributed to the companys ability to capitalize on the strong market. The demand for increased natural gas production evident earlier in 2001 has waned as new production has become available and demand and prices declined in a weaker economy. As a result, C. Lee Cooks sales in the OEM segment of the market will likely decline in 2002, with some possible offset from increased emphasis on aftermarket sales of components and services, new product initiatives and increased penetration in international markets. Quartzdyne also had record sales and earnings in 2001, as high oil prices spurred new oil well drilling and completions in the first half of the year. A result of product development initiatives, Quartzdynes "ruggedized" pressure transducer product line, utilizing enhanced quartz pressure sensor technology and hybrid circuit designs, is being increasingly used in measurement while drilling, permanent pressure measurement and "intelligent completions" applications. In 2001, OPW Fueling Components managed a modest sales increase and maintained flat earnings and margins in a challenging market. New service station construction activity has continued to be slow, as pricing pressure on the major oil companies and convenience store chains have curtailed investment. The only source of significant new retail station growth has been in the "hyper market" segment. Industry consolidation at all levels of the market oil companies, distributors and competitors has been a dampening factor, but has left the company in a comparatively favorable position because of its strong product line and global reach. Replacement demand for OPW Fueling Components broad product line of gasoline nozzles and other service station devices has been more stable. Success continues with the Pisces(TM) line of underground secondary containment systems and with Petro Vends automated fuel management systems. OPW Fueling Components investment for its new line of enhanced vapor recovery products positions it well as environmental compliance expectations increase in all markets. In 2001, OPW Fluid Transfer Group suffered from continued weakness in its petroleum, dry bulk, chemical and petrochemical transportation related businesses. The benefits of a major business restructuring initiative undertaken in 1999, which boosted 2000s results, also helped maintain respectable margins in 2001. Nevertheless, further cost reductions and restructuring actions were undertaken during the year. OPW Fluid Transfer Groups focus in 2002 will be to maintain margins in a weak market, as it continues new product development and customer service initiatives in order to benefit from substantial positive operating leverage when transportation markets recover. As a result of internal and operational improvements, better results from its international sales channels, and successful introduction of a complete line of plastic bolted pumps, Wilden has maintained solid operational profitability in spite of the generally weak industrial and process industry markets it serves. Blackmer experienced a significant profit improvement in 2001, as higher European sales and a more pronounced increase in European margins resulted from the streamlining actions initiated in 2000. With the exception of government related sales, most of Blackmers other served markets industrial, petroleum, chemical and petrochemical, and transportation related were generally weaker than the prior year. The full year impact of acquisitions at Tulsa Winch Group led to record sales and earnings. In the early part of the year, Tulsa Winch benefited from strong demand from its OEM customer base and a very strong market for its oil field winch product line. As the year progressed, the oil field related market weakened and sales to its OEM market slowed dramatically. Further progress is expected in 2002 in achieving synergistic benefits from the four previously independent companies that now comprise the Tulsa Winch Group. In the weak market expected in 2002, these operational improvements and a more focused product offering will help position the company well for market recovery. De Sta Co Industries was challenged in 2001 by low general industrial market demand for its clamping and workplace automation products, particularly because of its sales concentration in the domestic automotive industry. This decline in end user demand was made more pronounced by inventory reduction in distribution channels. International markets were also weak, made worse by the strong U.S. dollar. Sales of robotic equipment in the electronics assembly market also declined severely. The result was a slump in profitability and margin decline. De Sta Co Industries has responded with numerous right sizing actions and a focus on factory productivity solutions. This effort was boosted by the acquisition of CPI (end of robot arm devices) at the beginning of the year. With further market declines expected, De Sta Co Industries will accelerate market penetration efforts and continue tight cost control measures to hold profitability until economic conditions improve. In 2001, De Sta Co Manufacturing maintained profits by reducing costs in the face of severe margin pressure from its automotive customer base, and at the end of the year finalized plans to exit an under performing business segment. In 33 of 79 2002, De Sta Co Manufacturing will focus on its core compressor reed valve and ride control disc customers with a much reduced cost structure. RPA Process Technologies (RPA) had significant improvements in both sales and operating profit as its European unit recovered from a very poor performance in 2000, the year it was acquired. Capital spending in RPAs markets, particularly in the paper industry, was weak throughout 2001, and entering 2002 there are few signs of near term recovery in the global process industry markets that RPA serves. Hydro Systems had a record year for both sales and earnings, as a result of success with new product and market initiatives and progress with cost reduction efforts. The institutional and industrial cleaning market served by Hydro Systems has proven to be relatively recession resistant, although some market weakness is being experienced as Hydro Systems enters 2002. The global market for carbon dioxide generation and recovery equipment supplied by Wittemann remains quite depressed and although Duncan had another difficult year in 2001, improved performance in the second half resulted from a reduced cost structure and increased customer focus. DOVER TECHNOLOGIES Dover Technologies sales in 2001 declined 40% from the prior year to $1,198.1 million due to the well chronicled collapse of the technology sector. Technologies reported earnings of $5.6 million after $43.3 million in charges for restructurings, inventory and other reserves, following record earnings of $384.8 million in 2000, the unprecedented "boom" year for the electronics manufacturing market. The lack of end market demand for electronics equipment caused Technologies Circuit Board Assembly and Test (CBAT) businesses customers to dramatically curtail spending for its predominantly capital equipment products. CBAT sales declined 53% to $647.1 million, and record 2000 earnings of $271.5 million were transformed to a $52.8 million loss. Technologies Specialty Electronics Components (SEC) businesses were similarly affected, particularly given their product focus on the higher technology data communications, telecommunications and networking markets. SEC sales declined 27% to $341.6 million, and record earnings in 2000 of $109.0 million dropped to $45.6 million. Imaje, the French based industrial ink jet printer manufacturer, had another very successful year. CBAT Universal Instruments experienced the largest percentage sales decline from the prior year in this group of companies (a decline so large that Universal is no longer Dovers largest company) and went from record profits to a sizable loss indeed Universal accounted for the majority of the loss at CBAT. Universals high end products were particularly hard hit as large Electronic Manufacturing Services (EMS) and OEM customers stopped adding capacity. A similar thing occurred at Universals Alphasem subsidiary when semiconductor assembly customers stopped expanding. DEK, whose increasingly well positioned, broad line, of circuit board screen printers had a smaller sales decline, as they also have lower priced products that appeal to customers that were not as hard hit by the downturn. Vitronics Soltec had a lower rate of decline than either Universal or DEK as its comprehensive range of soldering machines improved their competitive position. DEK and Vitronics Soltec both have a strong European base, which trailed the U.S. in the downturn, and both companies managed to generate a modest level of profitability. Everett Charles Technologies sales in 2001 declined less dramatically because some of their products are not capital equipment and they acquired Multitest at mid year. Contact spring probes for instance, are not a capital item, and demand depends more on its customers production volumes and new product introduction in electronics end markets. However, these markets which were also slow in 2001. The portion of the business serving the semiconductor test market, including Multitest, though well positioned competitively, saw demand decline to unanticipated low levels, creating an overall loss. OK International, acquired in late 2000, experienced a sales decline similar to DEK and Vitronics Soltec, and reported a small loss in 2001. OKs products are generally shorter lived tools or consumables. Thus OK also depends largely on customers production levels, which were declining entering 2001 and remained at depressed levels all year. This condition persists. Entering 2001, customer demand for the large machines used in circuit board production, which had increasingly been centered with the large EMS customers, had already begun to evaporate, and backlog was little more than half of what it had been at the market peak six months earlier. As bookings and backlog continued to decline, losses mounted, peaking in the third quarter. In the fourth quarter, with some relative stability in demand, albeit at depressed levels, together with the early benefits of substantial cost reductions, losses began to diminish. The reaction to the dramatic downturn was to "right size" the business by reducing employment and eliminating all but critical operating 34 of 79 expenses. At Universal, for instance, near the end of 2001, a complete organizational restructuring accompanied the third major employment reduction for the year. At the end of the year, most remaining demand for larger machines was from smaller EMS companies and some OEMs. Demands for replacement parts to service the installed base, re manufactured machines, other types of assembly machines, and through hole placement equipment were all also down substantially, though not as dramatically as in the core surface mount businesses. At year end the group was still below the breakeven point. Throughout CBAT, product development critical for long term market leadership in this still attractive market was maintained, albeit under close cost benefit scrutiny. Universal has recently introduced a new product, the all linear motor "GSM B" which sets new standards in "flexible fine pitch" applications, a market segment requiring both high speed and extreme placement accuracy. Universals now self sufficient Alphasem offspring also introduced a new product, the leading die sorter and die bonder suitable for the new 300 millimeter wafer technology expected to become predominant in semiconductor manufacturing. At DEK, continued new product development and introduction in the traditional circuit board market are now also being supplemented by "wafer bumping" and "ball attach" applications for semiconductor manufacturers. Vitronics Soltecs new offerings range from redesigned machines for lower end applications to entirely new technologies for "selective" soldering, suitable for mixed component attachment applications. SEC The SEC companies all produce highly specialized, often custom designed, high end components used in a wide variety of electronic devices. The largest served market is the telecommunications industry both wired and wireless primarily for infrastructure applications. This market experienced a rapid ramp up through 2000. Entering 2001, backlogs were still high and much of the customer base remained optimistic that they could maintain reasonable volume levels. However, order intake and market optimism dropped precipitously in the first quarter of 2001, and backlog declined all year. In the wired infrastructure end market, SECs customers were hurt as the collapse of the "dot com bubble" left the market glutted with unused equipment, and demand from end customers could not support the existing expanded capacity. In the wireless market, the much anticipated boom in new markets and applications, such as "3G", failed to materialize, and the high cost of frequency licenses, followed by a contraction of capital availability, caused many carriers to restrict or eliminate spending. Demand in end markets for access devices (cable and DSL modems, telephones and the like) also slowed sharply. In many cases, SECs customers were left with excess component inventory, causing not only low demand, but also cancellations of prior orders. In other cases, customers, new product launches, critical to SECs leading technology orientation, were curtailed. Other markets for SEC, representing roughly one third of sales, include the high reliability oriented, military, satellite, aerospace and industrial markets. The SEC companies saw modest growth in these markets in 2001, as evidenced by the improved earnings at Dow Key Microwave. SEC was somewhat cushioned by its geographic profile, as the market slowdown spread from the U.S., to Europe, and then Asia. Novacap, in particular, which acquired like sized, U.K. based, Syfer in 2000, with complementary technologies and customers, benefited from Syfers relatively stronger demand through the first half of the year. Each SEC company has responded by significantly reducing headcount, restricting unnecessary spending, and lowering product cost. DT Magnetics, for instance, aggressively restructured its business by downsizing higher cost U.S. operations and expanding off shore manufacturing in this case, in the Dominican Republic. K & L Microwave and Quadrant both moved aggressively to expand business opportunities in China. The focus on China sourcing is motivated not only by the desire to lower product cost and retain price competitiveness, but to be closer to a healthy and growing telecom infrastructure market. SEC companies have also responded by enhancing their research, design and development activity. With the market decline, the increased availability of talented technical experts has helped these companies develop the products needed to maintain market leadership. Examples include the development of new application specific integrated circuit (ASIC) designs at Quadrant, and transformer products for customer chip sets at DT Magnetics. Entering 2002 there is no clear evidence that the market will recover soon and the group is operating at about the breakeven level. MARKING AND CODING Imaje, the industrial business in this segment, had a very strong year under a new management team, particularly considering the switch of one large customer account to a different technology. Sales were up due both to the addition of the Markpoint acquisition in June 2001, and to a concentrated market penetration 35 of 79 effort. Earnings declined slightly, due to acquisition integration costs and expenses related to the upgrade of the organization, particularly in the sales network, but margins remained high. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK INTEREST RATES The Companys exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to the fair value of long term fixed interest rate debt, commercial paper borrowings and investments in cash equivalents. Generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. A 65 basis point increase in interest rates (10% of the Companys long term debt interest rate) would have an immaterial effect on the fair value of the Companys long term debt. Commercial paper borrowings are at variable interest rates, and have maturities of three months or less. A 46 basis point increase in the interest rates (10% of the Companys weighted average commercial paper interest rate) on commercial paper borrowings would have an immaterial impact on the Companys pre tax earnings. All highly liquid investments, including highly liquid debt instruments purchased with an original maturity of three months or less, are considered cash equivalents. The Company places its investments in cash equivalents with high credit quality issuers and limits the amount of exposure to any one issuer. A 64 basis point decrease in interest rates (10% of the Companys weighted average interest rate) would have an immaterial impact on the Companys pre tax earnings. The Company does not enter into derivative financial or derivative commodity instruments for trading or speculative purposes. FOREIGN EXCHANGE The Company conducts business in various foreign currencies, primarily in Canada, Europe, Japan and other Asian countries. Therefore, changes in the value of the currencies of these countries affect the Companys financial position and cash flows when translated into U.S. Dollars. As of December 31, 2002 the Company had not established a formal foreign currency hedging program. The Company has mitigated and will continue to mitigate a portion of its currency exposure through operation of decentralized foreign operating companies in which the majority of all costs are local currency based. A 10% change in the value of all foreign currencies would have an immaterial effect on the Companys financial position and cash flows. 36 of 79 
 
