Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information PART III Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers and Corporate Governance Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules SIGNATURES EXHIBIT INDEX EX 10.3: EXECUTIVE OFFICER ANNUAL INCENTIVE PLAN EX 10.4: EXECUTIVE CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT EX 10.6: DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN, AS AMENDED EX 10.7: 2005 EQUITY AND CASH INCENTIVE PLAN, AS AMENDED EX:10.10: SUPPLEMENTAL EXECUTIVE RETIREMENT PLAN EX 21: SUBSIDIARIES EX 23.1: CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM EX 31.1: CERTIFICATION EX 31.2: CERTIFICATION EX 32: CERTIFICATION Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Overview Dover Corporation (Dover or the Company), incorporated in 1947 in the State of Delaware, became a publicly traded company in 1955. The Company owns and operates a global portfolio of manufacturing companies providing innovative components and equipment, specialty systems and support services for a variety of applications in the industrial products, engineered systems, fluid management and electronic technologies markets. Additional information is contained in Items 7 and 8. Operating Structure The Company reports its results in four business segments Industrial Products, Engineered Systems, Fluid Management and Electronic Technologies. Dover discusses its operations at the platform level within the Industrial Products, Engineered Systems, and Fluid Management segments, each of which contains two platforms. Electronic Technologies results are discussed at the segment level. Dover companies within its business segments and platforms design, manufacture, assemble and or service the following: Material handling equipment such as industrial and recreational winches, utility, construction and demolition machinery attachments, hydraulic parts, industrial automation tools, four wheel drive (4WD) and all wheel drive (AWD) power train systems, accessories for off road vehicles and operator cabs and rollover structures. Mobile equipment related products primarily refuse truck bodies, tank trailers, compactors, balers, vehicle service lifts, car wash systems, internal engine components, fluid control assemblies and various aerospace components. Engineered products such as refrigeration systems, refrigeration display cases, walk in coolers, foodservice equipment, commercial kitchen air and ventilation systems, heat transfer equipment, and food and beverage packaging machines. Product identification related products such as industrial marking and coding systems used to code information (i.e. dates and serial numbers) on consumer products, printing products for cartons used in warehouse logistics operations, bar code printers and portable printers. Energy market production and distribution products such as sucker rods, drill bit inserts for oil and gas exploration, gas well production control devices, control valves, piston and seal rings, control instrumentation, remote data collection and transfer devices, and components for compressors, turbo machinery, motors and generators. Fluid solution products including nozzles, swivels and breakaways used to deliver various types of fuel, suction system equipment, unattended fuel management systems, integrated tank monitoring, pumps used in fluid transfer applications, quick disconnect couplings used in a wide variety of biomedical and commercial applications, and chemical proportioning and dispensing systems. Electronic technology equipment and devices/components such as advanced micro component products for the hearing aid and consumer electronics industries, high frequency capacitors, microwave electro magnetic switches, radio frequency and microwave filters, electromagnetic products, frequency control/select components and sophisticated automated assembly and testing equipment. Business Strategy The Company operates with certain fundamental business strategies. First, it seeks to acquire and own businesses that manufacture proprietary engineered industrial products and are leaders in four broad markets: Industrial Products, Engineered Systems, Fluid Management and Electronic Technologies. To ensure success, Dover companies place strong emphasis on new product development to better serve customers and expand into 2 Table of Contents new product and geographic markets. Second, the Companys businesses are committed to operational excellence, and to being market leaders as measured by market share, customer service, innovation, profitability and return on invested capital. Third, the Company is committed to an operating culture with high ethical standards, trust, respect and open communication, to allow individual growth and operational effectiveness. Fourth, the Company seeks to utilize its strong free cash flow in a balanced manner to grow its businesses and to increase shareholder value. Management Philosophy The Companys operating structure of four defined industry segments and six core business platforms drives focused acquisition activity, accelerates opportunities to identify and capture operating synergies, including global sourcing and supply chain integration, and advances the development of Dovers executive talent. The presidents of Dovers operating companies and groups have responsibility for their businesses performance as they are able to serve customers by focusing closely on their products and markets, and by reacting quickly to customer needs. The Companys platform, segment and executive management sets strategic direction and initiatives, provides oversight, allocates and manages capital, is responsible for major acquisitions and provides other services. Portfolio Development Acquisitions Dovers acquisition program has two elements. First, it seeks to acquire value creating add on businesses that broaden its existing companies and their global reach, manufacture innovative components and equipment, specialty systems and or support services, and sell to industrial or commercial users. Second, it will strategically pursue larger, stand alone businesses that have the potential to either complement its existing companies or allow Dover to pursue a new platform. During the period from 2006 through 2008, the Company purchased 18 businesses with an aggregate cost of $1,494.2 million. In 2008, the Company acquired four businesses, all of which were add on businesses, for an aggregate cost of $103.8 million. In 2007, the Company acquired seven businesses, all of which were add on businesses, for an aggregate cost of $273.6 million. In 2006, Dover acquired seven companies (five add ons) for an aggregate cost of $1,116.8 million, the highest annual acquisition investment level in its history. For more details regarding acquisitions completed over the past two years, see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. The Companys future growth depends in large part on finding and acquiring successful businesses, as a substantial number of the Companys current businesses operate in relatively mature markets. While the Company expects to generate annual organic growth of 5 7% over a business cycle, sustained organic growth at these levels for individual businesses is difficult to achieve consistently each year. Divestitures While the Company generally expects to hold businesses that it buys, it continually reviews its portfolio to verify that those businesses continue to be essential contributors to Dovers long term growth strategy. In addition, occasionally Dover might make an opportunistic sale of one of its companies based on specific market conditions and strategic considerations. During the past three years (2006 2008), the Company decided to reduce its exposure to companies that provide capital equipment, particularly electronic assembly equipment, as well as small, lower margin operations, and, accordingly, it discontinued 18 operations and sold 17 operations for an aggregate consideration of approximately $629.6 million, of which $445.9 million was in 2006. For more details, see the Discontinued Operations discussion below and Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Reportable Segments Below is a description of Dovers reportable segments and related platforms. For additional financial information about Dovers reportable segments, see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10 K. 3 Table of Contents Industrial Products The Industrial Products segment provides Material Handling products and services that improve its customers productivity as well as products used in various Mobile Equipment applications primarily in the transportation equipment, vehicle service and solid waste management markets. The segment manages and sells its products and services through two business platforms described below. Material Handling The Material Handling platform primarily serves two global markets infrastructure and industrial automation. The companies in this platform develop and manufacture branded customer productivity enhancing systems. These products are produced in the United States, Mexico, Germany, Belgium, Thailand, India, China, Brazil and France and are marketed globally on a direct basis to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and through a global dealer and distribution network to industrial end users. The Material Handling platform companies in the infrastructure market sell to broad segments of the construction, utility, demolition, recycling, scrap processing, material handling, forestry, energy, military, marine, towing/recovery, refuse and automotive OEM markets. Major products include mobile shears, concrete demolition tools, buckets, backhoes, trenchers, augers, worm gear and planetary winches, and hydraulic lift and electronic control/monitoring systems for mobile and structural cranes, 4WD and AWD power train systems, accessories for off road vehicles and operator cabs and rollover structures. These products are sold to OEMs and extensive dealer networks primarily in North America. Components systems and services are also provided for aerospace, military vehicles, and marine applications. The Material Handling platform companies in the industrial automation market provide a wide range of modular automation components including manual clamps, power clamps, rotary and linear mechanical indexers, conveyors, pick and place units, as well as end of arm robotic grippers, slides and end effectors. These products serve a very broad market including food processing, packaging, paper processing, medical, electronic, automotive, nuclear, and general industrial products. These businesses generate almost half of their revenues outside the U.S. Mobile Equipment The Mobile Equipment platform serves three primary markets transportation equipment, solid waste management and vehicle service. The companies in this platform manufacture tank trailers, specialty trailers, refuse collection bodies (garbage trucks), container lifts, on site waste management and recycling systems, vehicle service lifts, touch free and friction vehicle wash systems, vehicle collision measuring and repair systems, aerospace and submarine related fluid control assemblies, high strength fasteners and bearings, internal jet engine components and accessories, precision components for commercial and military aerospace equipment and sophisticated control valves for submarines. The businesses also provide components for off road sports vehicles and high performance autos. The platform has manufacturing operations in North and South America, Asia and Europe. The businesses in the transportation equipment market manufacture and sell aluminum, stainless steel and steel tank trailers that carry petroleum products, chemical, edible and dry bulk products, as well as specialty trailers focused on the heavy haul, oil field and recovery markets. Trailers are marketed both directly and indirectly through distributors to customers in the construction, trucking, railroad, oilfield and heavy haul industries. These products are also sold to government agencies in the U.S. and globally. The businesses in the solid waste management market provide products and services for the refuse collection industry and for on site processing and compaction of trash and recyclable materials. Products are sold to municipal customers, national accounts and independent waste haulers through a network of distributors and directly in certain geographic areas. The on site waste management and recycling systems include a variety of stationery compactors, wire processing and separation machines, and balers that are manufactured and sold primarily in the U.S. to distribution centers, malls, stadiums, arenas, office complexes, retail stores and recycling centers. The businesses in the vehicle service market provide a wide range of products and services that are utilized in vehicle services, maintenance, repair and modification. Vehicle lifts and collision equipment are sold through equipment distributors and directly to a wide variety of markets, including independent service and repair shops, 4 Table of Contents collision repair shops, national chains and franchised service facilities, new vehicle dealers, and governments. Car wash systems, both touch free and friction, are sold primarily in the U.S. and Canada to major oil companies, convenience store chains and individual investors. These products are sold through a distribution network that installs the equipment and provides after sale service and support. High performance internal combustion engine components, including pistons, connecting rods, crankshafts and accessories, are designed to meet customer specifications for the racing and enthusiast markets in both the motor sports and automotive market segments. These products are sold directly and through distribution networks on a global basis. Engineered Systems The Engineered Systems segment provides products and services for the refrigeration, storage, packaging and preparation of food products, as well as industrial marking and coding systems for various markets. The segment serves its markets by managing these products and services through two business platforms which are described below. Product Identification The Product Identification platform (PI) is a worldwide supplier of industrial marking and coding systems that serves the food, beverage, cosmetic, pharmaceutical, electronic, automotive and other markets where variable marking is required. Its primary printing products are used for marking variable information (such as date codes or serial numbers) on consumer products. PI provides solutions for product marking on primary packaging, secondary packaging such as cartons, and pallet marking for use in warehouse logistics operations. PI also manufactures bar code printers and portable printers used where on demand labels/receipts are required. The PI principal manufacturing facilities are in the United States, France and China with sales operations globally. Engineered Products The Engineered Products platform manufactures refrigeration systems, refrigeration display cases, walk in coolers and freezers, electrical distribution products and engineering services, commercial foodservice equipment, cook chill production systems, custom food storage and preparation products, kitchen ventilation systems, conveyer systems, beverage can making machinery, and packaging machines used for meat, poultry and other food products. In addition, the platform manufactures copper brazed compact heat exchangers, and designs software for heating and cooling substations. The platforms manufacturing facilities and distributing operations are in North America and Europe with additional distribution facilities in South America and Asia. The majority of the systems and machinery that are manufactured or serviced by the Engineered Products platform is used by the supermarket industry, big box retail and convenience stores, the commercial/industrial refrigeration industry, institutional and commercial foodservice markets, and beverage can making industries. The commercial foodservice cooking equipment products serve their markets worldwide through a network of dealers, distributors, national chain accounts, manufacturer representatives, and a direct sales force with the primary market being North America. The heat exchangers are sold via a direct sales force throughout the world for various applications in a wide variety of industries. Fluid Management The Fluid Management segment provides products and services for end to end stewardship of its customers critical fluids including liquids, gases, powders and other solutions that are hazardous, valuable or process critical. The segment provides highly engineered, cost saving technologies that help contain, control, move, measure and monitor these critical fluids. To better serve its end markets, these products and services are channeled through two business platforms described below. Energy The Energy platform serves the oil, gas and power generation industries. Its products promote the efficient and cost effective extraction, storage and movement of oil and gas products, or constitute critical components for power generation equipment. Major products manufactured by companies within this platform include polycrystalline 5 Table of Contents diamond cutters (PDCs) used in drill bits for oil and gas wells; steel sucker rods, plunger lifts, and accessories used in artificial lift applications in oil and gas production; pressure, temperature and flow monitoring equipment used in oil and gas exploration and production applications; and control valves and instrumentation for oil and gas production. In addition, these companies manufacture various compressor parts that are used in the natural gas production, distribution and oil refining markets, as well as bearings and remote condition monitoring systems that are used for rotating machinery applications such as turbo machinery, motors, generators and compressors used in energy, utility, marine and other industries. Sales are made directly to customers and through various distribution channels. Sales are predominantly in North America with international sales directed largely to Europe and South America. Fluid Solutions The Fluid Solutions platform manufactures pumps, compressors, vehicle fuel dispensing products, and products for the transfer, monitoring, measuring and protection of hazardous, liquid and dry bulk commodities. In addition, these companies manufacture quick disconnect couplings and chemical proportioning and dispensing products. The products are manufactured in the United States, South America, Asia and Europe and marketed globally through a network of distributors or via direct channels. Vehicle fuel dispensing products include conventional, vapor recovery, and clean energy (LPG, CNG, and Hydrogen) nozzles, swivels and breakaways, as well as tank pressure management systems. Products manufactured for the transportation, storage and processing of hazardous liquid and dry bulk commodities include relief valves, loading/unloading angle valves, rupture disc devices, actuator systems, level measurement gauges, swivel joints, butterfly valves, lined ball valves, aeration systems, industrial access ports, manholes, hatches, collars, weld rings and fill covers. This platforms pumps and compressors are used to transfer liquid and bulk products and are sold to a wide variety of markets, including the refined fuels, LPG, pulp and paper, wastewater, food/sanitary, military, transportation and chemical process industries. These companies manufacture centrifugal, reciprocating (double diaphragm) and rotary pumps that are used in demanding and specialized fluid transfer process applications. The quick disconnect couplings provide fluid control solutions to the industrial, food handling, life sciences and chemical handling markets. The chemical portioning and dispensing systems are used to dilute and dispense concentrated cleaning chemicals and are sold to the food service, health care, supermarket, institutional, school, building service contractor and industrial markets. Electronic Technologies The Electronic Technologies segment designs and manufactures electronic test, material deposition and manual soldering equipment, advanced micro acoustic components, and specialty electronic components. The products are manufactured primarily in North America, Europe and Asia and are sold throughout the world directly and through a network of distributors. The test equipment products include machines, test fixtures and related products used in testing bare and loaded electronic circuit boards and semiconductors. In addition, the segment manufactures high speed precision material deposition machines and other related tools used in the assembly process for printed circuit boards and other specialty applications as well as precision manual soldering, de soldering and other hand tools. The micro acoustic components manufactured include audio communications components, primarily miniaturized microphones, receivers and electromechanical components for use in hearing aids as well as high performance transducers for use in pro audio devices, high end headsets, medical devices and military headsets. The platform also designs, manufactures and assembles microphones for use in the personal mobile device and communications markets, including mobile phones, PDAs, Bluetooth headsets and laptop computers. The specialty electronic components include frequency control/select components and modules employing quartz technologies, microwave electro mechanical switches, radio frequency and microwave filters, integrated assemblies, multi layer ceramic capacitors and high frequency capacitors. These components are sold to communication, medical, defense, aerospace and automotive manufacturers worldwide. 6 Table of Contents Discontinued Operations Companies that are considered discontinued operations in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, are presented separately in the consolidated statements of operations, balance sheets and cash flows and are not included in continuing operations. Earnings from discontinued operations include charges, when necessary, to reduce these businesses to estimated fair value less costs to sell. Fair value is determined by either using directly observable inputs, such as a negotiated selling price or other valuation techniques that use market assumptions that are reasonable and supportable. All interim and full year reporting periods presented reflect the continuing operations on a comparable basis. Please refer to Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10 K for additional information on discontinued operations. Raw Materials Dovers operating companies use a wide variety of raw materials, primarily metals and semi processed or finished components, which are generally available from a number of sources. As a result, shortages or the loss of any single supplier have not had, and are not likely to have, a material impact on operating profits. While generally available, commodity pricing, until recently, has trended upward over the past few years, particularly for various grades of steel, copper, aluminum and select other commodities, the Company has generally kept pace, or exceeded raw material cost increases, using effective pricing strategies. Over the second half of 2008, the Company has experienced, in general, decreases in commodity prices. Research and Development Dovers operating companies are encouraged to develop new products as well as to upgrade and improve existing products to satisfy customer needs, expand revenue opportunities domestically and internationally, maintain or extend competitive advantages, improve product reliability and reduce production costs. During 2008, $189.2 million of expense was incurred for research and development, including qualified engineering costs, compared with $193.2 million and $168.9 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. For the Product Identification and Electronic Technologies companies, efforts in these areas tend to be particularly significant because the rate of product development by their customers is often quite high. The companies that develop product identification equipment and specialty electronic components for the life sciences, datacom and telecom commercial markets believe that their customers expect a continuing rate of product performance improvement and reduced costs. The result has been that product life cycles in these markets generally average less than five years with meaningful sales price reductions over that time period. Dovers other segments contain many businesses that are also involved in important product improvement initiatives. These businesses also concentrate on working closely with customers on specific applications, expanding product lines and market applications, and continuously improving manufacturing processes. Most of these businesses experience a much more moderate rate of change in their markets and products than is generally experienced by the Product Identification platform and the Electronic Technologies segment. Intellectual Property and Intangible Assets Dover companies own many patents, trademarks, licenses and other forms of intellectual property, which have been acquired over a number of years and, to the extent relevant, expire at various times over a number of years. A large portion of the Dover companies intellectual property consists of patents, unpatented technology and proprietary information constituting trade secrets that the companies seek to protect in various ways, including confidentiality agreements with employees and suppliers where appropriate. In addition, a significant portion of the Companys intangible assets relate to customer relationships. While the Dover companies intellectual property and customer relationships are important to their success, the loss or expiration of any of these rights or relationships, or any groups of related rights or relationships, is not likely to materially affect the Company on a consolidated basis. The Company believes that its companies commitment to continuous engineering improvements, new product development and improved manufacturing techniques, as well as strong sales, marketing and service efforts, are significant to their general leadership position in the niche markets that they serve. 7 Table of Contents Seasonality In general, Dover companies, while not seasonal, tend to have stronger revenue in the second and third quarters, particularly companies serving the consumer electronics, transportation, construction, waste hauling, petroleum, commercial refrigeration and food service markets. Companies serving the major equipment markets, such as power generation, chemical and processing industries, have long lead times geared to seasonal, commercial or consumer demands, and tend to delay or accelerate product ordering and delivery to coincide with those market trends. Customers Dovers companies serve thousands of customers, no one of which accounted for more than 10% of the Companys consolidated revenue in 2008. Within each of the four segments, no customer accounted for more than 10% of that segments revenue in 2008. With respect to the Engineered Systems, Fluid Management and Industrial Products segments, customer concentrations are quite varied. Companies supplying the waste handling, construction, agricultural, defense, energy, automotive and commercial refrigeration industries tend to deal with a few large customers that are significant within those industries. This also tends to be true for companies supplying the power generation, aerospace and chemical industries. In the other markets served, there is usually a much lower concentration of customers, particularly where the companies provide a substantial number of products as well as services applicable to a broad range of end use applications. Certain companies within the Electronic Technologies segment serve the military, space, aerospace, commercial and datacom/telecom infrastructure markets. Their customers include some of the largest operators in these markets. In addition, many of the OEM customers of these companies within the Electronic Technologies segment outsource their manufacturing to Electronic Manufacturing Services (EMS) companies. Other customers include global cell phone and hearing aid manufacturers, many of the largest global EMS companies, particularly in China, and major printed circuit board and semi conductor manufacturers. Backlog Backlog generally is not a significant long term success factor in most of Dovers businesses, as most of the products of Dover companies have relatively short order to delivery periods. It is more relevant to those businesses that produce larger and more sophisticated machines or have long term government contracts, primarily in the Mobile Equipment platform within the Industrial Products segment. Total Company backlog as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 was $1,156.0 million and $1,446.4 million, respectively, which reflected the meaningful decrease in global economic activity experienced during the latter half of 2008, which is expected to continue into 2009. Competition Dovers competitive environment is complex because of the wide diversity of the products its companies manufacture and the markets they serve. In general, most Dover companies are market leaders that compete with only a few companies and the key competitive factors are customer service, product quality and innovation. Dover companies usually have more significant competitors domestically, where their principal markets are, than in non U.S. markets; however, Dover companies are becoming increasingly global where more competitors exist. Certain companies in the Electronic Technologies and Engineered Systems segments compete globally against a variety of companies, primarily operating in Europe and the Far East. International For non U.S. revenue and an allocation of the assets of the Companys continuing operations, see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10 K. 8 Table of Contents Although international operations are subject to certain risks, such as price and exchange rate fluctuations and non U.S. governmental restrictions, Dover continues to increase its expansion into international markets, including South America, Asia and Eastern Europe. Most of Dovers non U.S. subsidiaries and affiliates are based in France, Germany, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Sweden, Switzerland and, with increased emphasis, China, Malaysia, India, Mexico, Brazil and Eastern Europe. Environmental Matters Dover believes its companies operations generally are in substantial compliance with applicable regulations. In a few instances, particular plants and businesses have been the subject of administrative and legal proceedings with governmental agencies or private parties relating to the discharge or potential discharge of regulated substances. Where necessary, these matters have been addressed with specific consent orders to achieve compliance. Dover believes that continued compliance will not have a material impact on the Companys financial position and will not require significant expenditures or adjustments to reserves. Employees The Company had approximately 32,300 employees in continuing operations as of December 31, 2008, which was a decline of approximately 6% from prior year end, reflecting the overall global economic slowdown. Other Information Dover makes available through the Financial Reports link on its Internet website, http://www.dovercorporation.com, the Companys annual reports on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K, and any amendments to these reports. Dover posts each of these reports on the website as soon as reasonably practicable after the report is filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information on the Companys Internet website is not incorporated into this Form 10 K. Item 1A. Risk Factors Dovers business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows can be impacted by a number of factors which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from anticipated future results. The risk factors discussed in this section should be considered together with information included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K and should not be considered the only risks facing the Company. The structure of Dover and the many different markets its companies serve mitigate the possibility that any single risk factor will materially impact Dovers consolidated financial position. In general, Dover is subject to the same general risks and uncertainties that impact many other industrial companies such as general economic, industry and or market conditions and growth rates; the impact of natural disasters, and their effect on global energy markets; continued events in the Middle East and possible future terrorist threats and their effect on the worldwide economy; and changes in laws or accounting rules. The Company has identified the following specific risks and uncertainties that it considers material: The Companys results for 2009 will be impacted by current domestic and international economic conditions and uncertainties. In 2009 Dovers businesses will be adversely affected by disruptions in financial markets or declines in economic activity both domestically and internationally in those countries in which the Company operates. These circumstances will also impact the Companys suppliers and customers in various ways which could have an impact on the Companys business operations, particularly if global credit markets are not operating efficiently and effectively to support industrial commerce. Such negative changes in worldwide economic and capital market conditions are beyond the Companys control, are highly unpredictable, and can have an adverse effect on the Companys revenue, earnings, cash flows and cost of capital. 9 Table of Contents Increasing price and product/service competition by international and domestic competitors including new entrants and the ability of Dover to introduce new and competitive products could cause Dovers businesses to generate lower revenue, operating profits and cash flows. Dovers competitive environment is complex because of the wide diversity of the products that its companies manufacture and the markets they serve. In general, most Dover companies are market leaders that compete with only a few companies. The ability of Dovers companies to compete effectively will depend on how successfully they anticipate and respond to various competitive factors, including new products and services that may be introduced by their competitors, changes in customer preferences, and pricing pressures. If Dovers companies are unable to anticipate their competitors development of new products and services and or identify customer needs and preferences on a timely basis, they could lose customers to competitors. If Dovers companies do not compete effectively or if new products and services fail to gain acceptance in the marketplace, Dover companies may experience lower revenue, operating profits and cash flows. Some of Dovers companies, may not anticipate , adapt or capitalize on technological developments and are subject to the cyclical nature of their industries. These factors could cause these companies to become less competitive and lead to reduced market share, revenue, operating profits and cash flows. Certain Dover companies, particularly in the Electronic Technologies segment, sell their products in industries that are constantly experiencing change as new technologies are developed. In order to grow and remain competitive, the companies in these industries must adapt to future changes in technology to enhance their existing products and introduce new products to address their customers changing demands. Also, a meaningful portion of the Electronic Technologies segments revenue is derived from companies which are subject to unpredictable short term business cycles. The Energy platform in the Fluid Management segment is subject to risk due to the volatility of energy prices, although overall demand is more directly related to depletion rates and global economic conditions and related energy demands. In addition, certain of Dovers businesses manufacture products that are used in or related to residential and commercial construction, which can be adversely affected by a prolonged downturn in new housing starts and other construction markets. As a result of all the above factors, the revenue and operating performance of these companies in any one period are not necessarily predictive of their revenue and operating performance in other periods, and could have a material impact on Dovers consolidated results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Our companies could lose customers or generate lower revenue, operating profits and cash flows if there are significant increases in the cost of energy or raw materials or if they are unable to obtain raw materials. Dovers companies purchase raw materials, subassemblies and components for use in their manufacturing operations, which exposes them to volatility in prices for certain commodities. Significant price increases for these commodities could adversely affect operating profits for certain Dover companies. While Dovers businesses generally attempt to mitigate the impact of increased raw material prices by hedging or passing along the increased costs to customers, there may be a time delay between the increased raw material prices and the ability to increase the prices of products, or they may be unable to increase the prices of products due to a competitors pricing pressure or other factors. In addition, while raw materials are generally available now, the inability to obtain necessary raw materials could affect the ability to meet customer commitments and satisfy market demand for certain products. Consequently, a significant price increase in raw materials, or their unavailability, may result in a loss of customers and adversely impact revenue, operating profits and cash flows. The Companys growth strategy with respect to expansion into new geographic markets could be adversely affected if Dovers companies are unable to manage the associated risks, particularly in markets outside the U.S. Approximately 45% of Dovers revenue is derived outside of the United States and the Company continues to focus on penetrating new global markets as part of its overall growth strategy. This global expansion strategy is subject to, but 10 Table of Contents not limited to, the following risks and uncertainties: political, social and economic instability and disruptions; government embargoes or trade restrictions; the imposition of duties and tariffs and other trade barriers; import and export controls; increased compliance costs; transportation delays and disruptions; and difficulties in staffing and managing multi national organizations. In addition, foreign currency fluctuations, particularly the appreciation of the U.S. Dollar against European currencies, generally has an adverse affect on exports and the related revenue and earnings. As a result, if the Company is unable to successfully mitigate these risks, they could have an adverse affect on the Companys growth strategy as it relates to expanding into new geographic markets and its results of operations and financial position. The Companys operating profits and cash flows could be adversely affected if the Company cannot achieve projected savings and synergies. Dover is continually evaluating its cost structure and seeking ways to capture synergies across its operations. If the Company is unable to reduce costs and expenses through its various programs, it could adversely affect the Companys operating profits and cash flows. The Companys businesses and their profitability and reputation could be adversely affected by domestic and foreign governmental and public policy changes (including environmental regulations and tax policies such as export subsidy programs, RE credits and other similar programs), risks associated with emerging markets, changes in statutory tax rates and unanticipated outcomes with respect to tax audits. Dovers domestic and international sales and operations are subject to risks associated with changes in local government laws (including environmental and export laws), regulations and policies. Failure to comply with any of these laws could result in civil and criminal, monetary and non monetary penalties as well as potential damage to the Companys reputation. In addition, the Company cannot provide assurance that its costs of complying with current or future laws, including environmental protection and health and safety laws, will not exceed its estimates. In addition, Dover has invested in certain countries, including Brazil, Russia, India and China that carry high levels of currency, political, compliance and economic risk. While these risks or the impact of these risks are difficult to predict, any one or more of them could adversely affect Dovers businesses and reputation. Dovers effective tax rate is impacted by changes in the mix among earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation allowance of deferred tax assets or tax laws. The amount of income taxes and other taxes paid can be adversely impacted by changes in statutory tax rates and laws and are subject to ongoing audits by domestic and international authorities. If these audits result in assessments different from amounts estimated, the Companys financial results may be adversely affected by unfavorable tax adjustments. Unforeseen developments in contingencies such as litigation could adversely affect the Companys financial condition. The Company and certain of its subsidiaries are, and from time to time may become, parties to a number of legal proceedings incidental to their businesses involving alleged injuries arising out of the use of their products, exposure to hazardous substances or patent infringement, employment matters and commercial disputes. The defense of these lawsuits may require significant expenses, divert managements attention, and the Company may be required to pay damages that could adversely affect its financial condition. In addition, any insurance or indemnification rights that the Company may have may be insufficient or unavailable to protect it against potential loss exposures. The Companys revenue, operating profits and cash flows could be adversely affected if Dovers companies are unable to protect or obtain patent and other intellectual property rights. Dover companies own patents, trademarks, licenses and other forms of intellectual property related to their products. The Company employs various measures to maintain and protect their intellectual property. These measures may not prevent these items from being challenged, invalidated or circumvented, particularly in countries where intellectual property rights are not highly developed or protected. Unauthorized use of these intellectual 11 Table of Contents property rights could adversely impact the competitive position of Dovers companies and have a negative impact on their revenue, operating profits and cash flows. The Companys growth may be adversely affected if the Company is unsuccessful in its acquisition program. The Company expects to continue its strategy of seeking to acquire value creating add on businesses that broaden its existing companies and their global reach as well as strategically pursuing larger, stand alone businesses that have the potential to either complement our existing companies or allow Dover to pursue a new platform. However, there can be no assurance that the Company will find suitable businesses to purchase, as a substantial number of the Companys current businesses operate in relatively mature markets, or that the associated price would be acceptable. If the Company is unsuccessful in its acquisition efforts, its ability to continue to grow at rates similar to prior years could be adversely affected. In addition, a completed acquisition may underperform relative to expectations, be unable to achieve synergies originally anticipated, or require the payment of additional expenses for assumed liabilities. These factors could potentially have an adverse impact on Dovers operating profits and cash flows. The Companys borrowing costs are impacted by its credit ratings developed by various rating agencies. Three major ratings agencies (Moodys, Standard and Poors and Fitch) evaluate Dovers credit profile on an ongoing basis and have each assigned high ratings for Dovers long term debt as of December 31, 2008 (A2, A, and A, respectively). In January 2009, Fitch reaffirmed its credit rating for Dover with a negative outlook, while the ratings and outlooks from the other agencies remained unchanged. Although the Company does not anticipate a material change in its credit ratings, if the Companys current credit ratings deteriorate, its borrowing costs and access to sources of liquidity may be adversely affected. 2009 Outlook Dover currently anticipates that 2009 revenue will decline 11% 13%, below 2008 levels and currently does not anticipate a recovery in the latter half of 2009 from these demand levels. Based on these assumptions, Dover has projected that its continuing diluted earnings per share for 2009 will be in the range of $2.75 to $3.05, and expects its earnings to follow a traditional seasonal pattern of being lower in the first and fourth quarters, and higher in the second and third quarters. If global or domestic economic conditions deteriorate further, Dovers operating results for 2009 could be materially worse than projected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 2. Properties The number, type, location and size of the Companys properties as of December 31, 2008 are shown on the following charts, by segment: Number and Nature of Facilities Square Footage (000s) Segment Mfg. Warehouse Sales/Service Owned Leased Industrial Products 82 11 25 4,900 2,500 Engineered Systems 36 35 108 2,600 1,500 Fluid Management 67 13 41 2,700 1,200 Electronic Technologies 51 10 60 1,200 1,700 12 Table of Contents Locations Leased Facilities North Expiration Dates (Years) America Europe Asia Other Minimum Maximum Industrial Products 93 15 6 4 1 8 Engineered Systems 41 58 49 10 1 17 Fluid Management 86 12 7 2 1 15 Electronic Technologies 32 24 45 1 1 12 The facilities are generally well maintained and suitable for the operations conducted. During 2008, the Company ceased operations in 19 locations, and has announced plans in 2009 to cease operations in several additional locations, reflecting the current economic climate. These reductions and plant consolidations will not restrict the Companys ability to meet customer needs should economic conditions improve materially late in 2009 and in 2010. Item 3. Legal Proceedings A few of the Companys subsidiaries are involved in legal proceedings relating to the cleanup of waste disposal sites identified under federal and state statutes which provide for the allocation of such costs among potentially responsible parties. In each instance, the extent of the subsidiarys liability appears to be very small in relation to the total projected expenditures and the number of other potentially responsible parties involved and is anticipated to be immaterial to the Company. In addition, a few of the Companys subsidiaries are involved in ongoing remedial activities at certain plant sites, in cooperation with regulatory agencies, and appropriate reserves have been established. The Company and certain of its subsidiaries are, and from time to time may become, parties to a number of other legal proceedings incidental to their businesses. These proceedings primarily involve claims by private parties alleging injury arising out of the use of products of Dover companies, exposure to hazardous substances or patent infringement, employment matters and commercial disputes. Management and legal counsel periodically review the probable outcome of such proceedings, the costs and expenses reasonably expected to be incurred, the availability and extent of insurance coverage, and established reserves. While it is not possible to predict the outcome of these legal actions or any need for additional reserves, in the opinion of management, based on these reviews, it is unlikely that the disposition of the lawsuits and the other matters mentioned above will have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial position, results of operations, cash flows or competitive position. Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders No matter was submitted to a vote of the Companys security holders in the last quarter of 2008. 13 Table of Contents Executive Officers of the Registrant All officers are elected annually at the first meeting of the Board of Directors and are subject to removal at any time by the Board of Directors. The executive officers of Dover as of February 20, 2009, and their positions with the Company (and, where relevant, prior business experience) for the past five years, are as follows: Name Age Positions Held and Prior Business Experience Robert A. Livingston 55 Chief Executive Officer and Director (since December 2008), President (since June 2008) and Chief Operating Officer (from June 2008 December 2008) of Dover; prior thereto Vice President of Dover and President and Chief Executive Officer of Dover Engineered Systems, Inc. (from July 2007 to May 2008); prior thereto Vice President of Dover and President and Chief Executive Officer of Dover Electronics, Inc. (from October 1, 2004). Thomas W. Giacomini 43 Vice President of Dover and President of Material Handling Platform (since October 2007); prior thereto President of Warn Industries, Inc. (from July 2005); prior thereto Chief Operating Officer of Warn Industries, Inc. (from 2000 to July 2005). Paul E. Goldberg 45 Treasurer and Director of Investor Relations of Dover (since February 2006); prior thereto Assistant Treasurer of Dover (from July 2002). Raymond Hoglund 58 Vice President of Dover and President and Chief Executive Officer of Dover Engineered Systems, Inc. (since August 2008); prior thereto President and Chief Executive Officer of Hill Phoenix, Inc. (from February 2005); prior thereto Executive Vice President of Hill Phoenix, Inc. (from July 2004); prior thereto President and Chief Executive Officer of ESAB (a global manufacturer of welding products). Jay Kloosterboer 48 Vice President Human Resources (since January 2009); prior thereto Executive Vice President Business Excellence of AES Corporation (from May 2005); prior thereto Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer of AES Corporation (from May 2003). Robert G. Kuhbach 61 Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer. Raymond T. McKay, Jr. 55 Vice President of Dover (since February 2004), Controller of Dover (since November 2002). David J. Ropp 63 Vice President of Dover and President and Chief Executive Officer of Dover Industrial Products, Inc. (since July 2007); prior thereto Vice President of Dover and President and Chief Executive Officer of Dover Resources, Inc. (from July 2003). Joseph W. Schmidt 62 Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Dover (since January 2003). Stephen R. Sellhausen 50 Vice President, Corporate Development of Dover (since January 2009); prior thereto Vice President, Business Development of Dover (from April 2008); prior thereto investment banker with Citigroup Global Markets. 14 Table of Contents Name Age Positions Held and Prior Business Experience Sivasankaran Somasundaram 43 Vice President of Dover and President of Fluid Solutions Platform (since January 2008); prior thereto President of Gas Equipment Group (from May 2006); prior thereto President of RPA Process Technologies (from March 2004); prior thereto Vice President of Dorr Oliver Eimco (supplier of solid/liquid separation equipment and wholly owned subsidiary of GLV Inc.) (from November 2002 through February 2004). William W. Spurgeon 50 Vice President of Dover and President and Chief Executive Officer of Dover Fluid Management, Inc. (since July 2007); prior thereto Vice President of Dover and President and Chief Executive Officer of Dover Diversified, Inc. (from October 1, 2004); prior thereto Executive Vice President of Dover Diversified, Inc. (from March 2004); prior thereto President of Sargent Controls Aerospace (from October 2001). David Van Loan 60 Vice President of Dover and President and Chief Executive Officer of Dover Electronic Technologies, Inc. (since July 2007); prior thereto Vice President of Dover and President and Chief Executive Officer of Dover Technologies International, Inc. (from January 2006); prior thereto President of Dover Technologies International, Inc. (from July 2005); prior thereto for more than eight years, President and Chief Executive Officer of Everett Charles Technologies, Inc. 15 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market Information and Dividends The principal market in which the Companys common stock is traded is the New York Stock Exchange. Information on the high and low sales prices of such stock, and the frequency and the amount of dividends paid during the last two years, is as follows: 2008 2007 Market Prices Dividends Market Prices Dividends High Low Per Share High Low Per Share First Quarter $ 44.87 $ 33.54 $ 0.20 $ 50.92 $ 46.07 $ 0.185 Second Quarter 54.57 42.22 0.20 53.75 47.41 0.185 Third Quarter 51.99 40.74 0.25 54.59 47.16 0.200 Fourth Quarter 40.50 23.39 0.25 51.58 44.34 0.200 $ 0.90 $ 0.770 Holders The number of holders of record of the Companys Common Stock as of January 31, 2009 was approximately 16,060. This figure includes participants in the Companys 401(k) program. Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans Information regarding securities authorized for issuance under the Companys equity compensation plans is contained in Part III, Item 12 of this Form 10 K. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities None. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The Company did not purchase any shares of its stock during the fourth quarter of 2008. 16 Table of Contents Performance Graph This performance graph does not constitute soliciting material, is not deemed filed with the SEC and is not incorporated by reference in any of the Companys filings under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act of 1934, whether made before or after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10 K and irrespective of any general incorporation language in any such filing, except to the extent the Company specifically incorporates this performance graph by reference therein. Comparison of Five Year Cumulative Total Return* Dover Corporation, SP 500 Index Peer Group Index Total Stockholder Returns Data Source: Hemscott, Inc. * Total return assumes reinvestment of dividends. This graph assumes $100 invested on December 31, 2003 in Dover Corporation common stock, the SP 500 index and a peer group index. In 2008, the Company changed its peer group index to consist of 38 companies whose relative mix of businesses is comparable to the Companys portfolio of companies. In accordance with SEC rules, the graph includes both the previous and new peer group indexes. The peer index used in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10 K for 2007 (labeled the old peer group in the graph) consists of the following public companies selected by the Company based on its assessment of businesses with similar industrial characteristics: 3M Company, Actuant Corporation, Ametek Inc., Carlisle Companies Incorporated, Cooper Industries Ltd., Crane Co., Danaher Corporation, Eaton Corporation, Emerson Electric Co., Federal Signal Corp., Honeywell International, Inc., Hubbell Incorporated, Illinois Tool Works Inc., Ingersoll Rand Company Limited, ITT Corporation, Parker Hannifin Corporation, Pentair Inc., Perkinelmer Inc., Tecumseh Products CL A., Tyco International Ltd. and United Technologies Corporation. The new peer index (labeled the new peer group in the graph) consists of the following public companies selected by the Company: 3M Company, Actuant Corporation, Agco Corporation, Agilent Technologies Inc., Ametek Inc., Cameron International Corporation, Carlisle Companies Incorporated, Cooper Industries Ltd., Crane Co., Danaher Corporation, Deere Company, Eaton Corporation, Emerson Electric Co., Flowserve Corporation, FMC Technologies Inc., Honeywell International, Inc., Hubbell Incorporated, IDEX Corporation, Illinois Tool Works Inc., Ingersoll Rand Company Limited, ITT Corporation, Leggett Platt Incorporated, Masco Corp., Oshkosh Corp., Paccar Inc., Pall Corporation, Parker Hannifin Corporation, Pentair Inc., Precision Castparts Corp., Rockwell Automation, Inc., Roper Industries Inc., SPX Corporation, Terex Corporation, The Manitowoc Co., The Timken Company, Tyco International Ltd., United Technologies Corporation, and Weatherford International Ltd. 17 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Financial Data Selected Dover Corporation financial information for the years 2004 through 2008 is set forth in the following 5 year Consolidated Table. 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 (In thousands, except per share figures) Revenue $ 7,568,888 $ 7,317,270 $ 6,419,528 $ 5,234,355 $ 4,387,553 Earnings from continuing operations 694,758 669,750 595,680 432,516 346,476 Basic earnings (loss) per share: Continuing operations $ 3.69 $ 3.33 $ 2.92 $ 2.13 $ 1.70 Discontinued operations (0.55 ) (0.04 ) (0.17 ) 0.38 0.33 Net earnings 3.13 3.28 2.76 2.51 2.03 Weighted average shares outstanding 188,481 201,330 203,773 202,979 203,275 Diluted earnings (loss) per share: Continuing operations $ 3.67 $ 3.30 $ 2.90 $ 2.12 $ 1.69 Discontinued operations (0.55 ) (0.04 ) (0.16 ) 0.38 0.32 Net earnings 3.12 3.26 2.73 2.50 2.02 Weighted average shares outstanding 189,269 202,918 205,497 204,177 204,786 Dividends per common share $ 0.90 $ 0.77 $ 0.71 $ 0.66 $ 0.62 Capital expenditures $ 175,795 $ 173,653 $ 191,937 $ 127,578 $ 83,414 Depreciation and amortization 261,154 243,776 195,840 151,788 132,151 Total assets 7,867,304 8,068,407 7,626,657 6,580,492 5,777,853 Total debt 2,085,673 2,090,652 1,771,040 1,538,335 1,090,393 All results and data in the table above reflect continuing operations, unless otherwise noted. All periods reflect the impact of certain operations that were discontinued. As a result, the data presented above will not necessarily agree to previously issued financial statements. See Note 8 for additional information on discontinued operations. 18 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Special Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes which appear elsewhere in the Form 10 K. This discussion contains forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The Companys actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward looking statements as a result of various factors, including those discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K, particularly in Item 1A. Risk Factors and in SPECIAL NOTES REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS inside the front cover of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. (1) FINANCIAL CONDITION Liquidity and Capital Resources Management assesses the Companys liquidity in terms of its ability to generate cash to fund its operating, investing and financing activities. Significant factors affecting liquidity are: cash flows generated from operating activities, capital expenditures, acquisitions, dispositions, dividends, repurchases of outstanding shares, adequacy of available commercial paper and bank lines of credit, and the ability to attract long term capital with satisfactory terms. The Company generates substantial cash from operations and remains in a strong financial position, with sufficient liquidity available for reinvestment in existing businesses and strategic acquisitions while managing its capital structure on a short and long term basis. The following table is derived from the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows: Years Ended December 31, Cash Flows from Continuing Operations 2008 2007 (In thousands) Net Cash Flows Provided By (Used In): Operating activities $ 1,010,416 $ 927,693 Investing activities (452,994 ) (332,102 ) Financing activities (560,904 ) (345,673 ) Cash flows provided by operating activities during 2008 increased $82.7 million over the prior year primarily reflecting higher earnings from continuing operations before depreciation and amortization, lower tax payments in 2008 and lower receivables, partially offset by higher pension contributions. Cash used in investing activities during 2008 increased $120.9 million compared to 2007, largely due to the purchase of short term investments, partially offset by lower spending on acquisitions in 2008. Acquisition expenditures in 2008 were $103.8 million compared to $273.6 million in 2007, while proceeds from the disposition of businesses were essentially flat at $92.8 million, up $1.8 million from $91.0 million in 2007. Capital expenditures of $175.8 million were generally consistent with the prior year level of $173.7 million. The Company currently anticipates that any acquisitions made during 2009 will be funded from available cash and internally generated funds and, if necessary, through the issuance of commercial paper, established lines of credit or public debt markets. Capital expenditures for 2009 are expected to be approximately 30% to 40% below 2008 levels. Cash used in financing activities during 2008 increased $215.2 million compared to 2007 reflecting higher repayments of commercial paper and long term debt, partially offset by $594.1 million in proceeds received from the issuance of long term debt and lower cash spent on share repurchases in the 2008 period. Share Repurchases During the twelve months ended December 31, 2008, the Company repurchased 10,000,000 shares of its common stock in the open market at an average price of $46.15 per share. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had completed the purchases of all shares authorized under its $500 million share repurchase program, which was approved by the Board of Directors in the fourth quarter of 2007. 19 Table of Contents During the third and fourth quarters of 2007, the Board of Directors approved two separate share repurchase programs authorizing repurchases of approximately 20,000,000 common shares through the end of 2008. The Company entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement on August 2, 2007 (ASR) under which it purchased 6,000,000 shares of its common stock at an initial purchase price of $51.64 per share. Upon final settlement of this ASR in the fourth quarter of 2007, the final economic purchase price was $48.36 per share, representing an average of the volume weighted average price of the Companys common stock during the outstanding period less a negotiated discount amount. In addition, during 2007, the Company made other open market purchases of its common stock totaling 6.4 million shares at an average price of $46.78 per share. Adjusted Working Capital Adjusted Working Capital (a non GAAP measure calculated as accounts receivable, plus inventory, less accounts payable) decreased from the prior year end by $86.0 million, or 6%, to $1,275.9 million which reflected a decrease in receivables of $91.0 million, a decrease in inventory of $37.8 million and a decrease in accounts payable of $42.8 million. Excluding acquisitions of $18.4 million, dispositions of ($9.6) million and the effects of foreign exchange translation of ($38.5) million, Adjusted Working Capital would have decreased by $56.3 million, or 4%. Average Annual Adjusted Working Capital as a percentage of revenue (a non GAAP measure calculated as the five quarter average balance of accounts receivable, plus inventory, less accounts payable divided by the trailing twelve months of revenue) decreased to 18.3% at December 31, 2008 from 18.9% at December 31, 2007 and inventory turns were 7.1 at December 31, 2008 compared to 6.7 at December 31, 2007. In addition to measuring its cash flow generation and usage based upon the operating, investing and financing classifications included in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, the Company also measures free cash flow (a non GAAP measure). Management believes that free cash flow is an important measure of operating performance because it provides both management and investors a measurement of cash generated from operations that is available to fund acquisitions, pay dividends, repay debt and repurchase Dovers common stock. For further information, see Non GAAP Disclosures at the end of this Item 7. Free cash flow for the year ended December 31, 2008 was $834.6 million or 11.0% of revenue compared to $754.0 million or 10.3% of revenue in the prior year. The 2008 increase in free cash flow reflected higher earnings from continuing operations before depreciation and amortization and lower tax payments in 2008 and lower receivables and inventory, partially offset by higher pension contributions. The following table is a reconciliation of free cash flow to cash flows from operating activities: Years Ended December 31, Free Cash Flow 2008 2007 (In thousands) Cash flow provided by operating activities $ 1,010,416 $ 927,693 Less: Capital expenditures 175,795 173,653 Free cash flow $ 834,621 $ 754,040 Free cash flow as a percentage of revenue 11.0 % 10.3 % At December 31, 2008, the Companys net property, plant, and equipment totaled $872.1 million compared to $892.2 million at the end of 2007. The decrease in net property, plant and equipment reflected depreciation and disposals, partially offset by capital expenditures of $175.8 million, acquisitions of $5.0 million and $17.0 million related to foreign currency fluctuations. The aggregate of current and deferred income tax assets and liabilities decreased from a $241.2 million net liability at the beginning of the year to a net liability of $240.7 million at year end 2008. This resulted primarily from a decrease in deferred tax liabilities related to intangible assets and pension assets, partially offset by a decrease in deferred tax assets related to net operating loss carryforwards and accrued expenses. Dovers consolidated benefit obligation related to defined and supplemental retirement benefits decreased by $16.9 million in 2008. The decrease was due primarily to currency rate changes partially offset by actuarial losses. In 2008, plan assets decreased by $94.7 million primarily due to losses on plan investments and currency fluctuations during 20 Table of Contents the year, partially offset by Company and employee contributions. It is estimated that the Companys defined and supplemental retirement benefits expense will increase from $35.7 million in 2008 to approximately $36.4 million in 2009. The Company utilizes the net debt to total capitalization calculation (a non GAAP measure) to assess its overall financial leverage and capacity and believes the calculation is useful to investors for the same reason. The following table provides a reconciliation of net debt to total capitalization to the most directly comparable GAAP measures: At December 31, At December 31, Net Debt to Total Capitalization Ratio 2008 2007 (In thousands) Current maturities of long term debt $ 32,194 $ 33,175 Commercial paper and other short term debt 192,750 605,474 Long term debt 1,860,729 1,452,003 Total debt 2,085,673 2,090,652 Less: Cash, cash equivalents and short term investments 826,869 606,105 Net debt 1,258,804 1,484,547 Add: Stockholders equity 3,792,866 3,946,173 Total capitalization $ 5,051,670 $ 5,430,720 Net debt to total capitalization 24.9 % 27.3 % The total debt level of $2,085.7 million at December 31, 2008 decreased $5.0 million from December 31, 2007 due to a decrease in commercial paper borrowings partially offset by an increase in long term debt. Net debt at December 31, 2008 decreased $225.7 million as a result of higher cash generated from operations. The percentage decrease in net debt to total capital, after $462 million of share repurchases, reflects strong free cash flow and proceeds from dispositions of $92.8 million. Dovers long term debt instruments had a book value of $1,892.9 million on December 31, 2008 and a fair value of approximately $2,018.5 million. On December 31, 2007, the Companys long term debt instruments had a book value of $1,485.2 million and a fair value of approximately $1,496.0 million. The Company believes that existing sources of liquidity are adequate to meet anticipated funding needs at comparable risk based interest rates for the foreseeable future. Acquisition spending and or share repurchases could potentially increase the Companys debt. However, management anticipates that the net debt to total capitalization ratio will remain generally consistent with historical levels. Operating cash flow and access to capital markets are expected to satisfy the Companys various cash flow requirements, including acquisitions and capital expenditures. Management is not aware of any potential impairment to the Companys liquidity. Under the Companys $1 billion 5 year unsecured revolving credit facility with a syndicate of banks, which expires in November of 2012, the Company is required to maintain an interest coverage ratio of EBITDA to consolidated net interest expense of not less than 3.5 to 1. The Company was in compliance with this covenant and its other long term debt covenants at December 31, 2008 and had a coverage ratio of 13.5 to 1. It is anticipated that in 2009 any funding requirements above cash generated from operations will be met through the issuance of commercial paper. Given the current economic conditions, the Company fully expects to remain in compliance with all of its debt covenants. The Company periodically enters into financial transactions specifically to hedge its exposures to various items, including, but not limited to, interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk. Through various programs, the Company hedges its cash flow exposures to foreign exchange rate risk by entering into foreign exchange forward contracts and collars. The Company does not enter into derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes and does not have a material portfolio of derivative financial instruments. 21 Table of Contents During the first quarter of 2008, Dover entered into several interest rate swaps in anticipation of the debt financing completed on March 14, 2008 which, upon settlement, resulted in a net gain of $1.2 million which was deferred and is being amortized over the lives of the related notes. There is presently one outstanding swap agreement for a total notional amount of $50.0 million, or CHF65.1 million, which swaps the U.S. 6 month LIBOR rate and the Swiss Franc 6 month LIBOR rate. This agreement hedges a portion of the Companys net investment in non U.S. operations and the fair value outstanding at December 31, 2008 was a loss of $12.0 million which was based on quoted market prices for similar instruments (uses Level 2 inputs under the SFAS No. 157 hierarchy). This hedge is effective. During the third quarter of 2008, the Company entered into a foreign currency hedge which was subsequently settled within the quarter in anticipation of a potential acquisition, which did not occur. As a result of terminating the hedge, the Company recorded a gain of $2.4 million in the third quarter ended September 30, 2008. At December 31, 2008, the Company had open foreign exchange forward purchase contracts expiring through December 2009 related to fair value hedges of foreign currency exposures. The fair values of these contracts were based on quoted market prices for identical instruments as of December 31, 2008 (uses Level 1 inputs under the SFAS No. 157 hierarchy). The details of the open contracts as of December 31, 2008 are as follows: US Dollars Sold Expiration From 12/31/08 Less Than 1 Average Forward Currencies Purchased Month 2 3 Months 4 6 Months 7 12 Months Contract Rate (In thousands) Great Britain Pounds $ $ 35,107 $ $ 1.4867 Euros 85,558 1.3885 Singapore Dollars 566 1.5015 Chinese Yuan 2,320 5,200 9,840 21,520 6.6915 Collar Put Call US Dollar Value US Dollar to Euro 1.460 1.526 $ 3,000 Maturities from 3/2009 12/2009 The Companys credit ratings, which are independently developed by the respective rating agencies, are as follows for the years ended December 31: 2008 2007 Short term Long term Short term Long term Moodys P 1 A2 P 1 A2 Standard Poors A 1 A A 1 A Fitch F1 A F1 A 22 Table of Contents A summary of the Companys undiscounted long term debt, commitments and obligations as of December 31, 2008 and the years when these obligations are expected to be due is as follows: Payments Due by Period Less than 1 More than Total Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years 5 Years Other(A) (In thousands) Long term debt $ 1,892,923 $ 32,194 $ 472,281 $ 271 $ 1,388,177 $ Interest expense 1,504,984 105,625 188,500 159,250 1,051,609 Rental commitments 189,665 46,144 64,009 37,788 41,724 Purchase obligations 28,023 27,381 57 585 Capital leases 16,017 2,429 4,666 3,706 5,216 Supplemental post retirement benefits 127,000 34,000 21,000 20,000 52,000 Uncertain tax positions(A) 249,553 22,171 227,382 Other long term obligations 1,234 165 267 218 584 Total obligations $ 4,009,399 $ 270,109 $ 750,780 $ 221,233 $ 2,539,895 $ 227,382 (A) Due to the uncertainty of the potential settlement of future uncertain tax positions, management is unable to estimate the timing of the related payments, if any, that will be made subsequent to 2009. These amounts do not include the potential indirect benefits resulting from deductions or credits for payments made to other jurisdictions. Severance and Exit Reserves From time to time, the Company will initiate various restructuring programs at its operating companies or record severance and exit costs in connection with purchase accounting for acquisitions. During the latter half of 2008, the Company announced plans to increase the amount of restructuring efforts in response to the significant decline in global economic activity. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Company had reserves related to severance and exit activities of $31.0 million and $28.4 million, respectively. During 2008, the Company recorded $27.4 million in additional charges and $5.6 million in purchase accounting reserves related to acquisitions, partially offset by other non cash write downs of $2.3 million and payments of $28.1 million. These costs yielded a savings of approximately $35.0 million in 2008. The Company expects further restructuring plans to occur in 2009 resulting in costs of approximately $40.0 million that the Company expects will yield savings of approximately $75.0 million in 2009. Restructuring charges are recorded primarily in Selling and administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. (2) RESULTS OF OPERATIONS: 2008 COMPARED TO 2007 Consolidated Results of Operations Revenue for the year ended December 31, 2008 increased 3% over 2007, due to increases of $232.0 million at Fluid Management, $52.2 million at Industrial Products and $6.0 million at Electronic Technologies. These revenue increases were due to positive market fundamentals and acquisitions at Fluid Management, while Engineered Systems revenue decreased $41.7 million due to weakness in markets served by the Engineered Products platform. Overall, Dovers organic revenue growth was 1%, net acquisition growth was 1% and the impact from foreign exchange was 1%. Gross profit increased 4% to $2,730.0 million from 2007 while the gross profit margin remained essentially flat at 36.1% and 35.8%, in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Selling and administrative expenses of $1,700.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 increased $86.7 million over the comparable 2007 period, primarily due to increased revenue activity, increased professional fees and restructuring charges. 23 Table of Contents Interest expense, net, increased 7% to $96.0 million for 2008, compared to $89.6 million for 2007 due to higher average outstanding borrowings used to fund purchases of the Companys common stock and higher average commercial paper rates. Other expense (income), net for 2008 and 2007 of ($12.7) million and $3.5 million, respectively, was driven primarily by foreign exchange gains and losses, partially offset by other miscellaneous income. The 2008 and 2007 tax rate for continuing operations was 26.6% in both periods, each favorably impacted by the mix of non U.S. earnings in low taxed overseas jurisdictions. Net earnings for the twelve months ended December 31, 2008 were $590.8 million or $3.12 EPS, which included a loss from discontinued operations of $103.9 million or $0.55 EPS, compared to net earnings of $661.1 million or $3.26 EPS for the same period of 2007, including a loss from discontinued operations of $8.7 million or $0.04 EPS. The losses from discontinued operations in 2008 largely reflect a loss provision for a business expected to be sold in 2009, as well as tax expenses and tax accruals related to ongoing Federal tax settlements and state tax assessments. Refer to Note 8 in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on discontinued operations. Current Economic Environment With few exceptions, Dover experienced lower demand across all of its end markets resulting in lower bookings and backlog in the fourth quarter of 2008. Looking forward to 2009, a continuation of a weak and uncertain global business environment is expected. Though this downturn will have a significant adverse impact on revenue and earnings, Dover remains committed to maintaining margin levels as much as possible on a full year basis, although the Company expects the first quarter to be weak, in part due to significant ongoing restructuring efforts. The structural changes made over the last few years, becoming less dependent on capital goods markets and having greater recurring revenue, together with improved working capital management and strong pricing discipline is expected to mitigate the impact of the economic downturn during 2009. As discussed above in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section, the Company believes that existing sources of liquidity are adequate to meet anticipated funding needs at comparable risk based interest rates. The Companys synergy capture programs and the restructuring initiatives launched during 2008 will continue into 2009. During 2008, Dover reduced its workforce approximately 6% and expects to reduce its workforce further in 2009 by another 5%. During 2009, the Company will monitor business activity across its markets served and adjust capacity as necessary should the economic environment worsen. The Company will also remain focused on working capital levels and expects to generate strong free cash flow during 2009. 24 Table of Contents Segment Results of Operations Industrial Products Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2008 2007 % Change (In thousands) Revenue Material Handling $ 1,136,869 $ 1,145,253 (1 )% Mobile Equipment 1,323,422 1,262,984 5 % Eliminations (786 ) (977 ) $ 2,459,505 $ 2,407,260 2 % Segment earnings $ 299,740 $ 312,486 (4 )% Operating margin 12.2 % 13.0 % Acquisition related depreciation and amortization expense* $ 32,283 $ 27,830 16 % Bookings Material Handling $ 1,109,028 $ 1,141,955 (3 )% Mobile Equipment 1,177,880 1,364,340 (14 )% Eliminations (1,134 ) (1,556 ) $ 2,285,774 $ 2,504,739 (9 )% Backlog Material Handling $ 188,591 $ 213,653 (12 )% Mobile Equipment 387,329 543,776 (29 )% Eliminations (220 ) (195 ) $ 575,700 $ 757,234 (24 )% * Represents the pre tax impact on earnings from the depreciation and amortization of acquisition accounting write ups to reflect the fair value of inventory, property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets. Industrial Products increase in revenue over the prior year was primarily due to strength in the military and solid waste management markets as well as the impact of the December 2007 acquisition of Industrial Motion Control LLC (IMC) and the March 2008 acquisition of Lantec Winch and Gear Inc. Overall, the segment had 2% revenue growth from its core businesses and acquisition growth of 3%, which was partially offset by the sale of a line of business. Earnings declined 4% when compared to the prior year substantially due to weakness in the construction and the North American auto service markets, and restructuring costs. Material Handling revenue decreased 1% while earnings decreased 5% when compared to the prior year. Revenue and earnings growth in the industrial winch business was more than offset by softness in the infrastructure, industrial automation and automotive markets. In addition, the platform incurred additional expenses related to its ongoing cost reduction and integration activities. Mobile Equipment revenue and earnings increased 5% and 2%, respectively, over the prior year. The revenue increase was primarily due to core business growth as the platform continued to experience strength in the aerospace, military and solid waste management markets. Softness in the automotive service and bulk transport end markets partially offset the increases experienced in other markets. 25 Table of Contents Engineered Systems Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2008 2007 % Change (In thousands) Revenue Engineered Products $ 1,085,881 $ 1,139,478 (5 )% Product Identification 924,469 912,580 1 % $ 2,010,350 $ 2,052,058 (2 )% Segment earnings $ 278,553 $ 291,727 (5 )% Operating margin 13.9 % 14.2 % Acquisition related depreciation and amortization expense* $ 24,394 $ 29,262 (17 )% Bookings Engineered Products $ 1,043,873 $ 1,116,638 (7 )% Product Identification 920,712 919,216 % $ 1,964,585 $ 2,035,854 (4 )% Backlog Engineered Products $ 183,821 $ 227,523 (19 )% Product Identification 61,195 68,938 (11 )% $ 245,016 $ 296,461 (17 )% * Represents the pre tax impact on earnings from the depreciation and amortization of acquisition accounting write ups to reflect the fair value of inventory, property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets. Engineered Systems decreases in revenue and earnings over the prior year of 2% and 5%, respectively, were primarily driven by the Engineered Products platform. Overall, the segment had a 4% decline in revenue from its core businesses which was partially offset by the favorable impact of currency rates of 2%. Engineered Products revenue and earnings decreased 5% and 15%, respectively, over the prior year due to weaker sales of retail food equipment and softness in the beverage can equipment business. In addition to the reduction in overall sales volume during the year, the platforms earnings were negatively impacted by currency exchange rates, restructuring and a $6.6 million one time charge primarily related to inventory. Partially offsetting these declines were the results of the heat exchanger and foodservice businesses which experienced continued strength throughout 2008. Product Identification platform revenue and earnings both increased 1% over 2007. The revenue growth was primarily due to the favorable impact of foreign exchange as the core businesses in the platform experienced lower volume. Despite the decline in core business revenue, the platform was able to maintain margins consistent with the prior year due to on going integration activities across the platform. 26 Table of Contents Fluid Management Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2008 2007 % Change (In thousands) Revenue Energy $ 935,414 $ 775,024 21 % Fluid Solutions 778,812 707,113 10 % Eliminations (180 ) (129 ) $ 1,714,046 $ 1,482,008 16 % Segment earnings $ 385,317 $ 304,576 27 % Operating margin 22.5 % 20.6 % Acquisition related depreciation and amortization expense* $ 19,550 $ 15,569 26 % Bookings Energy $ 964,517 $ 785,065 23 % Fluid Solutions 771,359 716,644 8 % Eliminations (178 ) (110 ) $ 1,735,698 $ 1,501,599 16 % Backlog Energy $ 95,532 $ 88,245 8 % Fluid Solutions 64,471 73,713 (13 )% Eliminations (12 ) (14 ) $ 159,991 $ 161,944 (1 )% * Represents the pre tax impact on earnings from the depreciation and amortization of acquisition accounting write ups to reflect the fair value of inventory, property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets. Fluid Management revenue and earnings increased 16% and 27%, respectively, over 2007 due to strength in the oil, gas, and power generation sectors served by the Energy platform as well as the diverse markets served by the Fluid Solutions platform. Overall, the segment had organic revenue growth of 12%, acquisition growth of 3%, with the remainder due to the favorable impact of foreign exchange. The Energy platforms revenue increased 21% while its earnings improved 32%, when compared to 2007, due to strength in the oil and gas markets and increasing power generation demand. Earnings and margin benefited from the higher volume and operational improvements. The Fluid Solutions platform revenue increased 10% and earnings improved 20% due to acquisitions and strength in the markets served by its core businesses. In general, demand remained strong for pumps, dispensing systems, and connectors. Earnings and margins improved due to a favorable business mix and cost savings from the platforms ongoing cost reduction activities. 27 Table of Contents Electronic Technologies Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2008 2007 % Change (In thousands) Revenue $ 1,396,131 $ 1,390,103 % Segment earnings $ 193,641 $ 180,337 7 % Operating margin 13.9 % 13.0 % Acquisition related depreciation and amortization expense* $ 36,481 $ 38,296 (5 )% Bookings 1,342,382 1,378,551 (3 )% Backlog 175,317 232,704 (25 )% * Represents the pre tax impact on earnings from the depreciation and amortization of acquisition accounting write ups to reflect the fair value of inventory, property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets. Electronic Technologies revenue was flat while earnings increased 7% when compared to the prior year. Revenue increases in the micro acoustic component business were offset by a softening in the other markets served by the segment resulting in a 3% decline in core business revenue excluding favorable foreign exchange rates. The segments earnings benefited from the increased volume in the micro acoustic component business, a $7.5 million gain from the sale of a line of business (semi conductor test handling), and cost savings from restructuring activities that were implemented in the first quarter of 2008. 2007 COMPARED TO 2006 Consolidated Results of Operations Revenue for the year ended December 31, 2007 increased 14% over 2006, due to increases of $485.1 million at Engineered Systems, $283.9 million at Industrial Products and $152.4 million at Fluid Management. These revenue increases were due to positive market fundamentals and acquisitions, while Electronic Technologies revenue decreased $21.5 million due to weakness in its markets. Overall, Dovers organic revenue growth was 2.4%, acquisition growth was 9.5% and the impact from foreign exchange was 2.1%. Gross profit increased 14% to $2,619.5 million from 2006 while the gross profit margin remained essentially flat at 35.8% and 35.7% in 2007 and 2006, respectively. Selling and administrative expenses of $1,614.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 increased $224.8 million over the comparable 2006 period, primarily due to increased revenue and increases in compensation and pension benefit costs. Interest expense, net, increased 16% to $89.6 million for 2007, compared to $77.0 million for 2006 due to higher average outstanding borrowings used to fund purchases of the Companys common stock and average commercial paper rates. Other expense (income), net for 2007 and 2006 of $3.5 million and $11.0 million, respectively, was driven primarily by foreign exchange losses, partially offset by other miscellaneous income. The 2007 and 2006 tax rates for continuing operations were 26.6%, and 26.9%, respectively. Both periods were favorably impacted by the mix of non U.S. earnings in low taxed overseas jurisdictions. Earnings from continuing operations for 2007 were $669.8 million or $3.30 EPS compared to $595.7 million or $2.90 EPS in 2006. For 2007, net earnings were $661.1 million, or $3.26 EPS, which included an $8.7 million, or $0.04 EPS, loss from discontinued operations, compared to $561.8 million, or $2.73 EPS for 2006, which included a $33.9 million, or $0.16 EPS, loss from discontinued operations. Refer to Note 8 in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on discontinued operations. 28 Table of Contents Segment Results of Operations Industrial Products Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2007 2006 % Change (In thousands) Revenue Material Handling $ 1,145,253 $ 903,570 27 % Mobile Equipment 1,262,984 1,220,717 3 % Eliminations (977 ) (927 ) $ 2,407,260 $ 2,123,360 13 % Segment earnings $ 312,486 $ 264,232 18 % Operating margin 13.0 % 12.4 % Acquisition related depreciation and amortization expense* $ 27,830 $ 26,336 6 % Bookings Material Handling $ 1,141,955 $ 904,186 26 % Mobile Equipment 1,364,340 1,251,095 9 % Eliminations (1,556 ) (2,799 ) $ 2,504,739 $ 2,152,482 16 % Backlog Material Handling $ 213,653 $ 242,209 (12 )% Mobile Equipment 543,776 429,191 27 % Eliminations (195 ) (165 ) $ 757,234 $ 671,235 13 % * Represents the pre tax impact on earnings from the depreciation and amortization of acquisition accounting write ups to reflect the fair value of inventory, property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets. Industrial Products revenue and earnings increases over the prior year were primarily the result of the acquisition of Paladin in August 2006 and the July 2007 acquisition of Hanmecson International, a Chinese manufacturer of vehicle lifts. For the year, the segment achieved 1% organic growth, while growth from acquisitions and the impact of foreign exchange accounted for 11% and 1%, respectively. Material Handling revenue increased 27% while earnings increased 26% compared to the prior year. The increases were primarily due to the Paladin acquisition and improvements in the heavy winch, recreational vehicle and industrial automation businesses. Margin was impacted by the slowdown in the heavy construction business producing attachments and cylinders. In addition, the platform benefited from new product introductions, plant rationalization and global sourcing during 2007. Mobile Equipment revenue and earnings increased 3% and 8%, respectively, over the prior year. The platforms results benefited from the Hanmecson acquisition and core growth at businesses in the petroleum, crude oil and military markets, as well as a $5.3 million net pre tax gain on the sale of a facility in the second quarter of 2007. However, softness experienced in the automotive service industry and the aerospace service business partially offset these gains. 29 Table of Contents Engineered Systems Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2007 2006 % Change (In thousands) Revenue Engineered Products $ 1,139,478 $ 998,676 14 % Product Identification 912,580 568,303 61 % $ 2,052,058 $ 1,566,979 31 % Segment earnings $ 291,727 $ 234,107 25 % Operating margin 14.2 % 14.9 % Acquisition related depreciation and amortization expense* $ 29,262 $ 13,193 122 % Bookings Engineered Products $ 1,116,638 $ 1,060,404 5 % Product Identification 919,216 562,096 64 % $ 2,035,854 $ 1,622,500 25 % Backlog Engineered Products $ 227,523 $ 249,571 (9 )% Product Identification 68,938 57,706 19 % $ 296,461 $ 307,277 (4 )% * Represents the pre tax impact on earnings from the depreciation and amortization of acquisition accounting write ups to reflect the fair value of inventory, property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets. Engineered Systems revenue and earnings increases over the prior year reflect the December 2006 acquisition of Markem and the May 2006 acquisition of ONeil. Revenue growth due to acquisitions was 20%. However, most core businesses also improved as the segment achieved organic revenue growth of 8%, with the remainder due to the impact of foreign exchange. Engineered Products revenue and earnings increased 14% and 16%, respectively, over the prior year due to strong supermarket and heat exchanger markets. Sequentially, revenue and earnings in the fourth quarter of 2007 were down 9% and 18%, respectively, reflecting normal seasonality and a slowdown in retail food equipment demand, along with reduced orders tied to high customer inventory levels in the heat exchanger business. The Product Identification platform had revenue and earnings increases of 61% and 41%, respectively, during 2007 mostly reflecting the 2006 acquisitions of Markem and ONeil. Overall, the revenue growth due to the 2006 acquisitions was 55%, while organic growth was 3% due to growth in the core direct coding business with the remainder due to foreign exchange. 30 Table of Contents Fluid Management Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2007 2006 % Change (In thousands) Revenue Energy $ 775,024 $ 684,178 13 % Fluid Solutions 707,113 645,399 10 % Eliminations (129 ) 26 $ 1,482,008 $ 1,329,603 11 % Segment earnings $ 304,576 $ 267,377 14 % Operating margin 20.6 % 20.1 % Acquisition related depreciation and amortization expense* $ 15,569 $ 16,183 (4 )% Bookings Energy $ 785,065 $ 693,927 13 % Fluid Solutions 716,644 653,932 10 % Eliminations (110 ) (83 ) $ 1,501,599 $ 1,347,776 11 % Backlog Energy $ 88,245 $ 75,449 17 % Fluid Solutions 73,713 63,565 16 % Eliminations (14 ) (33 ) $ 161,944 $ 138,981 17 % * Represents the pre tax impact on earnings from the depreciation and amortization of acquisition accounting write ups to reflect the fair value of inventory, property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets. Fluid Managements revenue and earnings increases were the result of strength at all businesses in the segment. The segment continued to benefit from strong results from the Energy platform which serves the oil, gas and power generation markets. As a result, the segment achieved organic growth of 9%, with the remainder primarily from foreign exchange. The Energy platforms revenue and earnings increased 13% and 15%, respectively, primarily due to strong oil and gas markets and increased power generation demand throughout 2007. The platforms earnings growth further benefited from higher volume, productivity gains and operational improvements. Fluid Solutions revenue and earnings both increased 10% when compared to the prior year due to improvements at all core businesses in the platform. Throughout 2007, the platform experienced strong demand in the chemical and rail markets. Overall, the platform had organic revenue growth of 6%, growth from acquisitions of 2%, with the remainder due to foreign exchange. 31 Table of Contents Electronic Technologies Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2007 2006 % Change (In thousands) Revenue $ 1,390,103 $ 1,411,564 (2 )% Segment earnings $ 180,337 $ 214,947 (16 )% Operating margin 13.0 % 15.2 % Acquisition related depreciation and amortization expense* $ 38,296 $ 32,914 16 % Bookings 1,378,551 1,410,043 (2 )% Backlog 232,704 200,048 16 % * Represents the pre tax impact on earnings from the depreciation and amortization of acquisition accounting write ups to reflect the fair value of inventory, property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets. Electronic Technologies year over year decreases in revenue and earnings were primarily due to softness in the semi conductor end markets throughout 2007 compared to strong markets experienced in the prior year. The medical and military/space markets were strong throughout the year, while telecom markets remained flat. Overall, the increase in revenue due to acquisitions and foreign exchange were each 3%, while organic revenue decreased 8%. Critical Accounting Policies The Companys consolidated financial statements and related public financial information are based on the application of generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (GAAP). GAAP requires the use of estimates, assumptions, judgments and subjective interpretations of accounting principles that have an impact on the assets, liabilities, revenue and expense amounts reported. These estimates can also affect supplemental information contained in the public disclosures of the Company, including information regarding contingencies, risk and its financial condition. The Company believes its use of estimates and underlying accounting assumptions conform to GAAP and are consistently applied. Valuations based on estimates are reviewed for reasonableness on a consistent basis throughout the Company. Primary areas where the financial information of Dover is subject to the use of estimates, assumptions and the application of judgment include the following areas: Revenue is recognized when all of the following circumstances are satisfied: a) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, b) price is fixed or determinable, c) collectability is reasonably assured, and d) delivery has occurred. In revenue transactions where installation is required, revenue can be recognized when the installation obligation is not essential to the functionality of the delivered products. Revenue transactions involving non essential installation obligations are those which can generally be completed in a short period of time at insignificant cost and the skills required to complete these installations are not unique to the Company and in many cases can be provided by third parties or the customers. If the installation obligation is essential to the functionality of the delivered product, revenue recognition is deferred until installation is complete. In addition, when it is determined that there are multiple deliverables to a sales arrangement, the Company will allocate consideration received to the separate deliverables based on their relative fair values and recognize revenue based on the appropriate criteria for each deliverable identified. In a limited number of revenue transactions, other post shipment obligations such as training and customer acceptance are required and, accordingly, revenue recognition is deferred until the customer is obligated to pay, or acceptance has been confirmed. Service revenue is recognized and earned when services are performed. Allowances for doubtful accounts are estimated at the individual operating companies based on estimates of losses related to customer receivable balances. Estimates are developed by using standard quantitative measures based on historical losses, adjusting for current economic conditions and, in some cases, evaluating specific customer accounts for risk of loss. The establishment of reserves requires the use of judgment and assumptions regarding the potential for losses on receivable balances. Due to the fact that Dover operates in many different markets, changes in economic conditions in specific markets generally should not have a material effect on reserve balances required. 32 Table of Contents Inventory for the majority of the Companys subsidiaries, including all international subsidiaries, are stated at the lower of cost, determined on the first in, first out (FIFO) basis, or market. Other domestic inventory is stated at cost, determined on the last in, first out (LIFO) basis, which is less than market value. Under certain market conditions, estimates and judgments regarding the valuation of inventory are employed by the Company to properly value inventory. The Electronic Technologies companies tend to experience somewhat higher levels of inventory value fluctuations, particularly given the relatively high rate of product obsolescence over relatively short periods of time. Occasionally, the Company will establish restructuring reserves at an operation in accordance with appropriate accounting principles. These reserves, for both severance and exit costs, require the use of estimates. Though Dover believes that these estimates accurately reflect the anticipated costs, actual results may be different than the estimated amounts. Dover has significant tangible and intangible assets on its balance sheet that include goodwill and other intangibles related to acquisitions. The valuation and classification of these assets and the assignment of useful depreciation and amortization lives involve significant judgments and the use of estimates. The testing of these intangibles under established accounting guidelines (including SFAS No. 142) for impairment also requires significant use of judgment and assumptions, particularly as it relates to the identification of reporting units and the determination of fair market value. Dovers assets and reporting units are tested and reviewed for impairment on an annual basis during the fourth quarter or when indicators of impairment exist, such as a significant sustained change in the business climate, during the interim periods. The Company believes that its use of estimates and assumptions are reasonable and comply with generally accepted accounting principles. Changes in business conditions could potentially require adjustments to the valuations. The valuation of Dovers pension and other post retirement plans requires the use of assumptions and estimates that are used to develop actuarial valuations of expenses and assets/liabilities. These assumptions include discount rates, investment returns, projected salary increases and benefits, and mortality rates. The actuarial assumptions used in Dovers pension reporting are reviewed annually and are compared with external benchmarks to assure that they accurately account for Dovers future pension obligations. Changes in assumptions and future investment returns could potentially have a material impact on Dovers pension expenses and related funding requirements. Dovers expected long term rate of return on plan assets is reviewed annually based on actual returns, economic trends and portfolio allocation. Dovers discount rate assumption is determined by developing a yield curve based on high quality corporate bonds with maturities matching the plans expected benefit payment streams. The plans expected cash flows are then discounted by the resulting year by year spot rates. Dover has significant amounts of deferred tax assets that are reviewed for recoverability and valued accordingly. These assets are evaluated by using estimates of future taxable income streams and the impact of tax planning strategies. Reserves are also estimated, using a more likely than not criteria, for ongoing audits regarding federal, state and international issues that are currently unresolved. The Company routinely monitors the potential impact of these situations and believes that it is properly reserved. Valuations related to tax accruals and assets can be impacted by changes in accounting regulations, changes in tax codes and rulings, changes in statutory tax rates, and the Companys future taxable income levels. Dover has significant accruals and reserves related to the self insured portion of its risk management program. These accruals require the use of estimates and judgment with regard to risk exposure and ultimate liability. The Company estimates losses under these programs using actuarial assumptions, Dovers experience, and relevant industry data. Dover reviews these factors quarterly and considers the current level of accruals and reserves adequate relative to current market conditions and Company experience. Dover has established reserves for environmental and legal contingencies at both the operating company and corporate levels. A significant amount of judgment and use of estimates is required to quantify Dovers ultimate exposure in these matters. The valuation of reserves for contingencies is reviewed on a quarterly basis at the operating and corporate levels to ensure that Dover is properly reserved. Reserve balances are adjusted to account for changes in circumstances for ongoing issues and the establishment of additional 33 Table of Contents reserves for emerging issues. While Dover believes that the current level of reserves is adequate, future changes in circumstances could impact these determinations. The Company from time to time will discontinue certain operations for various reasons. Estimates are used to adjust, if necessary, the assets and liabilities of discontinued operations to their estimated fair market value less costs to sell. These estimates include assumptions relating to the proceeds anticipated as a result of the sale. The adjustments to fair market value of these operations provide the basis for the gain or loss when sold. Changes in business conditions or the inability to sell an operation could potentially require future adjustments to these estimates. The Company uses the Black Scholes valuation model to estimate the fair value of its Stock Appreciation Rights (SARs) and stock options that are granted to employees. The model requires management to estimate the expected life of the SAR or option, expected forfeitures and the volatility of Dovers stock using historical data. For additional information related to the assumptions used, see Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10 K. Adoption of New Accounting Standards 2008 Pensions Effective December 31, 2006, Dover adopted SFAS No. 158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an Amendment of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R) (SFAS No. 158). SFAS No. 158 requires companies to report the funded status of their defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans on their balance sheets as a net liability or asset. Upon adoption at December 31, 2006, Dover recorded a net reduction to stockholders equity of $123.5 million, net of tax. In addition, effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2008, the new standard requires companies to measure benefit obligations and plan assets as of a Companys fiscal year end (December 31, 2008 for Dover), using one of the methods prescribed in the standard. Dover adopted the new valuation date requirements using the 15 month alternative, as prescribed in the standard, which resulted in a charge of approximately $5.8 million, net of tax, to retained earnings during the fourth quarter of 2008. Fair Value In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (SFAS No. 157), which defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. For financial assets and liabilities, this statement is effective for fiscal periods beginning after November 15, 2007 and does not require any new fair value measurements. In February 2008, the FASB Staff Position No. 157 2 was issued which delayed the effective date of FASB Statement No. 157 to fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008 for nonfinancial assets and liabilities, except for items that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis (at least annually). The adoption of SFAS No. 157 did not have a material effect on Dovers consolidated financial statements. In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115. This statement permits entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value. This statement is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, including interim periods within that fiscal year. The Company did not elect the fair value option for any of its existing financial instruments as of December 31, 2008 and the Company has not determined whether or not it will elect this option for financial instruments it may acquire in the future. 2007 Effective January 1, 2007, the Company adopted FASB Interpretation No. 48 (FIN 48) which specifies the way companies are to account for uncertainty in income tax reporting, and prescribes a methodology for 34 Table of Contents recognizing, reversing and measuring the tax benefits of a tax position taken, or expected to be taken, in a tax return. As a result of adopting the new standard, the Company recorded a $58.2 million increase to reserves as a cumulative effect decrease to opening retained earnings as of January 1, 2007, of which $53.4 million was included in continuing operations. Including this cumulative effect adjustment, the Company had unrecognized tax benefits, net of indirect benefits and deposits, of $190.5 million at January 1, 2007, of which $35.4 million related to accrued interest and penalties. The portion of the unrecognized tax benefits at January 1, 2007 included in continuing operations totaled $147.6 million, of which $28.0 million related to accrued interest and penalties. 2006 Effective January, 1 2006, Dover adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 123(R), Share Based Payment (SFAS No. 123(R)), which no longer permits the use of the intrinsic value method under APB No. 25. The Company used the modified prospective method to adopt SFAS No. 123(R), which requires compensation expense to be recorded for all stock based compensation granted on or after January 1, 2006, as well as the unvested portion of previously granted options. The Company records stock based compensation expense on a straight line basis, generally over the explicit service period of three years (except for retirement eligible employees and retirees). Awards granted to retirement eligible employees are expensed immediately and the Company shortens the vesting period for any employee who will become eligible to retire within the three year explicit service period. Expense for these employees is be recorded over the period from the date of grant through the date the employee first becomes eligible to retire and is no longer required to provide service. Recent Accounting Standards In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), Business Combinations (SFAS No. 141(R)). SFAS No. 141(R) retains the fundamental requirements in Statement 141 that the acquisition method of accounting (which Statement 141 called the purchase method) be used for all business combinations and for an acquirer to be identified for each business combination. In general, the statement 1) broadens the guidance of SFAS No. 141, extending its applicability to all events where one entity obtains control over one or more other businesses, 2) broadens the use of fair value measurements used to recognize the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, 3) changes the accounting for acquisition related fees and restructuring costs incurred in connection with an acquisition, and 4) increases required disclosures. The Company will apply the provisions of this statement prospectively to business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after January 1, 2009 and can only assess the impact of the standard once an acquisition is consummated. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements an amendment of ARB No. 51 (SFAS 160). SFAS 160 requires that a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary be reported as equity and the amount of consolidated net income specifically attributable to the noncontrolling interest be identified in the consolidated financial statements. It also requires consistency in the manner of reporting changes in the parents ownership interest and requires fair value measurement of any noncontrolling equity investment retained in a deconsolidation. The Company will apply the provisions of this statement prospectively, as required, beginning on January 1, 2009 and does not expect the adoption of SFAS 160 to have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements. In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133 (SFAS No. 161). SFAS No. 161 amends and expands the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 133 with the intent to provide users of financial statements with an enhanced understanding of: 1) How and why an entity uses derivative instruments; 2) How derivative instruments and related hedged items are accounted for under SFAS No. 133 and its related interpretations; and 3) How derivative instruments and related hedged items affect an entitys financial position, financial performance and cash flows. This statement is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after November 15, 2008, with early application encouraged. The Company does not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 161 to have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. In May 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 162, The Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. This statement identifies the sources of accounting principles and the framework for selecting the principles to be 35 Table of Contents used in the preparation of financial statements of nongovernmental entities that are presented in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the United States (the GAAP hierarchy). This Statement is effective 60 days following the SECs approval of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board amendments to AU Section 411, The Meaning of Present Fairly in Conformity With Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. The adoption of this statement did not have a material effect on the Companys consolidated financial statements. In April 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. 142 3 Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets (FSP No. 142 3) to improve the consistency between the useful life of a recognized intangible asset (under SFAS No. 142) and the period of expected cash flows used to measure the fair value of the intangible asset (under SFAS No. 141(R)). FSP No. 142 3 amends the factors to be considered when developing renewal or extension assumptions that are used to estimate an intangible assets useful life under SFAS No. 142. The guidance in the new staff position is to be applied prospectively to intangible assets acquired after December 31, 2008. In addition, FSP No. 142 3 increases the disclosure requirements related to renewal or extension assumptions. Non GAAP Disclosures In an effort to provide investors with additional information regarding the Companys results as determined by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the Company also discloses non GAAP information which management believes provides useful information to investors. Free cash flow, net debt, total debt, total capitalization, adjusted working capital, average annual adjusted working capital, revenues excluding the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and organic revenue growth are not financial measures under GAAP and should not be considered as a substitute for cash flows from operating activities, debt or equity, revenue and working capital as determined in accordance with GAAP, and they may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Management believes the (1) net debt to total capitalization ratio and (2) free cash flow are important measures of operating performance and liquidity. Net debt to total capitalization is helpful in evaluating the Companys capital structure and the amount of leverage it employs. Free cash flow provides both management and investors a measurement of cash generated from operations that is available to fund acquisitions, pay dividends, repay debt and repurchase the Companys common stock. Reconciliations of free cash flow, total debt and net debt can be found above in this Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis. Management believes that reporting adjusted working capital (also sometimes called working capital), which is calculated as accounts receivable, plus inventory, less accounts payable, provides a meaningful measure of the Companys operational results by showing the changes caused solely by revenue. Management believes that reporting adjusted working capital and revenues at constant currency, which excludes the positive or negative impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, provides a meaningful measure of the Companys operational changes, given the global nature of Dovers businesses. Management believes that reporting organic revenue growth, which excludes the impact of foreign currency exchange rates and the impact of acquisitions, provides a useful comparison of the Companys revenue performance and trends between periods. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Interest Rates The Companys exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to the fair value of long term fixed interest rate debt, interest rate swaps attached thereto, commercial paper borrowings and investments in cash equivalents. Generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. A 54 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates (10% of the Companys weighted average long term debt interest rate) would have an immaterial effect on the fair value of the Companys long term debt. Commercial paper borrowings are at variable interest rates, and have maturities of three months or less. A 25 basis point increase or decrease in the interest rates (10% of the Companys weighted average commercial paper interest rate) on commercial paper borrowings would have an immaterial impact on the Companys pre tax earnings. 36 Table of Contents All highly liquid investments, including highly liquid debt instruments purchased with an original maturity of three months or less, are considered cash equivalents. The Company places its investments in cash equivalents with high credit quality issuers and limits the amount of exposure to any one issuer. A 15 basis point decrease or increase in interest rates (10% of the Companys weighted average interest rate) would have an immaterial impact on the Companys pre tax income. Short term investments consist of bank term deposits that have maturity dates that range from five to nine months. A 50 basis point decrease or increase in interest rates (10% of the Companys weighted average interest rate) would have an immaterial impact on the Companys pre tax income. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had one interest rate swap outstanding, as discussed in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company does not enter into derivative financial or derivative commodity instruments for trading or speculative purposes. Foreign Exchange The Company conducts business in various non U.S. countries, primarily in Canada, Mexico, substantially all of the European countries, Brazil, Argentina, Malaysia, China, India and other Asian countries. Therefore, changes in the value of the currencies of these countries affect the Companys financial position and cash flows when translated into U.S. Dollars. The Company has generally accepted the exposure to exchange rate movements relative to its investment in non U.S. operations. The Company may, from time to time, for a specific exposure, enter into fair value hedges. Certain individual operating companies that have foreign exchange exposure have established formal policies to mitigate risk in this area by using fair value and or cash flow hedging. The Company has mitigated and will continue to mitigate a portion of its currency exposure through operation of non U.S. operating companies in which the majority of all costs are local currency based. A change of 10% or less in the value of all foreign currencies would not have a material effect on the Companys financial position and cash flows. 37 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Special Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes which appear elsewhere in the Form 10 K. This discussion contains forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The Companys actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward looking statements as a result of various factors, including those discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K, particularly in Item 1A. Risk Factors and in SPECIAL NOTES REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS inside the front cover of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. (1) FINANCIAL CONDITION Liquidity and Capital Resources Management assesses the Companys liquidity in terms of its ability to generate cash to fund its operating, investing and financing activities. Significant factors affecting liquidity are: cash flows generated from operating activities, capital expenditures, acquisitions, dispositions, dividends, repurchases of outstanding shares, adequacy of available commercial paper and bank lines of credit, and the ability to attract long term capital with satisfactory terms. The Company generates substantial cash from operations and remains in a strong financial position, with sufficient liquidity available for reinvestment in existing businesses and strategic acquisitions while managing its capital structure on a short and long term basis. The following table is derived from the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows: Years Ended December 31, Cash Flows from Continuing Operations 2008 2007 (In thousands) Net Cash Flows Provided By (Used In): Operating activities $ 1,010,416 $ 927,693 Investing activities (452,994 ) (332,102 ) Financing activities (560,904 ) (345,673 ) Cash flows provided by operating activities during 2008 increased $82.7 million over the prior year primarily reflecting higher earnings from continuing operations before depreciation and amortization, lower tax payments in 2008 and lower receivables, partially offset by higher pension contributions. Cash used in investing activities during 2008 increased $120.9 million compared to 2007, largely due to the purchase of short term investments, partially offset by lower spending on acquisitions in 2008. Acquisition expenditures in 2008 were $103.8 million compared to $273.6 million in 2007, while proceeds from the disposition of businesses were essentially flat at $92.8 million, up $1.8 million from $91.0 million in 2007. Capital expenditures of $175.8 million were generally consistent with the prior year level of $173.7 million. The Company currently anticipates that any acquisitions made during 2009 will be funded from available cash and internally generated funds and, if necessary, through the issuance of commercial paper, established lines of credit or public debt markets. Capital expenditures for 2009 are expected to be approximately 30% to 40% below 2008 levels. Cash used in financing activities during 2008 increased $215.2 million compared to 2007 reflecting higher repayments of commercial paper and long term debt, partially offset by $594.1 million in proceeds received from the issuance of long term debt and lower cash spent on share repurchases in the 2008 period. Share Repurchases During the twelve months ended December 31, 2008, the Company repurchased 10,000,000 shares of its common stock in the open market at an average price of $46.15 per share. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had completed the purchases of all shares authorized under its $500 million share repurchase program, which was approved by the Board of Directors in the fourth quarter of 2007. 19 Table of Contents During the third and fourth quarters of 2007, the Board of Directors approved two separate share repurchase programs authorizing repurchases of approximately 20,000,000 common shares through the end of 2008. The Company entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement on August 2, 2007 (ASR) under which it purchased 6,000,000 shares of its common stock at an initial purchase price of $51.64 per share. Upon final settlement of this ASR in the fourth quarter of 2007, the final economic purchase price was $48.36 per share, representing an average of the volume weighted average price of the Companys common stock during the outstanding period less a negotiated discount amount. In addition, during 2007, the Company made other open market purchases of its common stock totaling 6.4 million shares at an average price of $46.78 per share. Adjusted Working Capital Adjusted Working Capital (a non GAAP measure calculated as accounts receivable, plus inventory, less accounts payable) decreased from the prior year end by $86.0 million, or 6%, to $1,275.9 million which reflected a decrease in receivables of $91.0 million, a decrease in inventory of $37.8 million and a decrease in accounts payable of $42.8 million. Excluding acquisitions of $18.4 million, dispositions of ($9.6) million and the effects of foreign exchange translation of ($38.5) million, Adjusted Working Capital would have decreased by $56.3 million, or 4%. Average Annual Adjusted Working Capital as a percentage of revenue (a non GAAP measure calculated as the five quarter average balance of accounts receivable, plus inventory, less accounts payable divided by the trailing twelve months of revenue) decreased to 18.3% at December 31, 2008 from 18.9% at December 31, 2007 and inventory turns were 7.1 at December 31, 2008 compared to 6.7 at December 31, 2007. In addition to measuring its cash flow generation and usage based upon the operating, investing and financing classifications included in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, the Company also measures free cash flow (a non GAAP measure). Management believes that free cash flow is an important measure of operating performance because it provides both management and investors a measurement of cash generated from operations that is available to fund acquisitions, pay dividends, repay debt and repurchase Dovers common stock. For further information, see Non GAAP Disclosures at the end of this Item 7. Free cash flow for the year ended December 31, 2008 was $834.6 million or 11.0% of revenue compared to $754.0 million or 10.3% of revenue in the prior year. The 2008 increase in free cash flow reflected higher earnings from continuing operations before depreciation and amortization and lower tax payments in 2008 and lower receivables and inventory, partially offset by higher pension contributions. The following table is a reconciliation of free cash flow to cash flows from operating activities: Years Ended December 31, Free Cash Flow 2008 2007 (In thousands) Cash flow provided by operating activities $ 1,010,416 $ 927,693 Less: Capital expenditures 175,795 173,653 Free cash flow $ 834,621 $ 754,040 Free cash flow as a percentage of revenue 11.0 % 10.3 % At December 31, 2008, the Companys net property, plant, and equipment totaled $872.1 million compared to $892.2 million at the end of 2007. The decrease in net property, plant and equipment reflected depreciation and disposals, partially offset by capital expenditures of $175.8 million, acquisitions of $5.0 million and $17.0 million related to foreign currency fluctuations. The aggregate of current and deferred income tax assets and liabilities decreased from a $241.2 million net liability at the beginning of the year to a net liability of $240.7 million at year end 2008. This resulted primarily from a decrease in deferred tax liabilities related to intangible assets and pension assets, partially offset by a decrease in deferred tax assets related to net operating loss carryforwards and accrued expenses. Dovers consolidated benefit obligation related to defined and supplemental retirement benefits decreased by $16.9 million in 2008. The decrease was due primarily to currency rate changes partially offset by actuarial losses. In 2008, plan assets decreased by $94.7 million primarily due to losses on plan investments and currency fluctuations during 20 Table of Contents the year, partially offset by Company and employee contributions. It is estimated that the Companys defined and supplemental retirement benefits expense will increase from $35.7 million in 2008 to approximately $36.4 million in 2009. The Company utilizes the net debt to total capitalization calculation (a non GAAP measure) to assess its overall financial leverage and capacity and believes the calculation is useful to investors for the same reason. The following table provides a reconciliation of net debt to total capitalization to the most directly comparable GAAP measures: At December 31, At December 31, Net Debt to Total Capitalization Ratio 2008 2007 (In thousands) Current maturities of long term debt $ 32,194 $ 33,175 Commercial paper and other short term debt 192,750 605,474 Long term debt 1,860,729 1,452,003 Total debt 2,085,673 2,090,652 Less: Cash, cash equivalents and short term investments 826,869 606,105 Net debt 1,258,804 1,484,547 Add: Stockholders equity 3,792,866 3,946,173 Total capitalization $ 5,051,670 $ 5,430,720 Net debt to total capitalization 24.9 % 27.3 % The total debt level of $2,085.7 million at December 31, 2008 decreased $5.0 million from December 31, 2007 due to a decrease in commercial paper borrowings partially offset by an increase in long term debt. Net debt at December 31, 2008 decreased $225.7 million as a result of higher cash generated from operations. The percentage decrease in net debt to total capital, after $462 million of share repurchases, reflects strong free cash flow and proceeds from dispositions of $92.8 million. Dovers long term debt instruments had a book value of $1,892.9 million on December 31, 2008 and a fair value of approximately $2,018.5 million. On December 31, 2007, the Companys long term debt instruments had a book value of $1,485.2 million and a fair value of approximately $1,496.0 million. The Company believes that existing sources of liquidity are adequate to meet anticipated funding needs at comparable risk based interest rates for the foreseeable future. Acquisition spending and or share repurchases could potentially increase the Companys debt. However, management anticipates that the net debt to total capitalization ratio will remain generally consistent with historical levels. Operating cash flow and access to capital markets are expected to satisfy the Companys various cash flow requirements, including acquisitions and capital expenditures. Management is not aware of any potential impairment to the Companys liquidity. Under the Companys $1 billion 5 year unsecured revolving credit facility with a syndicate of banks, which expires in November of 2012, the Company is required to maintain an interest coverage ratio of EBITDA to consolidated net interest expense of not less than 3.5 to 1. The Company was in compliance with this covenant and its other long term debt covenants at December 31, 2008 and had a coverage ratio of 13.5 to 1. It is anticipated that in 2009 any funding requirements above cash generated from operations will be met through the issuance of commercial paper. Given the current economic conditions, the Company fully expects to remain in compliance with all of its debt covenants. The Company periodically enters into financial transactions specifically to hedge its exposures to various items, including, but not limited to, interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk. Through various programs, the Company hedges its cash flow exposures to foreign exchange rate risk by entering into foreign exchange forward contracts and collars. The Company does not enter into derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes and does not have a material portfolio of derivative financial instruments. 21 Table of Contents During the first quarter of 2008, Dover entered into several interest rate swaps in anticipation of the debt financing completed on March 14, 2008 which, upon settlement, resulted in a net gain of $1.2 million which was deferred and is being amortized over the lives of the related notes. There is presently one outstanding swap agreement for a total notional amount of $50.0 million, or CHF65.1 million, which swaps the U.S. 6 month LIBOR rate and the Swiss Franc 6 month LIBOR rate. This agreement hedges a portion of the Companys net investment in non U.S. operations and the fair value outstanding at December 31, 2008 was a loss of $12.0 million which was based on quoted market prices for similar instruments (uses Level 2 inputs under the SFAS No. 157 hierarchy). This hedge is effective. During the third quarter of 2008, the Company entered into a foreign currency hedge which was subsequently settled within the quarter in anticipation of a potential acquisition, which did not occur. As a result of terminating the hedge, the Company recorded a gain of $2.4 million in the third quarter ended September 30, 2008. At December 31, 2008, the Company had open foreign exchange forward purchase contracts expiring through December 2009 related to fair value hedges of foreign currency exposures. The fair values of these contracts were based on quoted market prices for identical instruments as of December 31, 2008 (uses Level 1 inputs under the SFAS No. 157 hierarchy). The details of the open contracts as of December 31, 2008 are as follows: US Dollars Sold Expiration From 12/31/08 Less Than 1 Average Forward Currencies Purchased Month 2 3 Months 4 6 Months 7 12 Months Contract Rate (In thousands) Great Britain Pounds $ $ 35,107 $ $ 1.4867 Euros 85,558 1.3885 Singapore Dollars 566 1.5015 Chinese Yuan 2,320 5,200 9,840 21,520 6.6915 Collar Put Call US Dollar Value US Dollar to Euro 1.460 1.526 $ 3,000 Maturities from 3/2009 12/2009 The Companys credit ratings, which are independently developed by the respective rating agencies, are as follows for the years ended December 31: 2008 2007 Short term Long term Short term Long term Moodys P 1 A2 P 1 A2 Standard Poors A 1 A A 1 A Fitch F1 A F1 A 22 Table of Contents A summary of the Companys undiscounted long term debt, commitments and obligations as of December 31, 2008 and the years when these obligations are expected to be due is as follows: Payments Due by Period Less than 1 More than Total Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years 5 Years Other(A) (In thousands) Long term debt $ 1,892,923 $ 32,194 $ 472,281 $ 271 $ 1,388,177 $ Interest expense 1,504,984 105,625 188,500 159,250 1,051,609 Rental commitments 189,665 46,144 64,009 37,788 41,724 Purchase obligations 28,023 27,381 57 585 Capital leases 16,017 2,429 4,666 3,706 5,216 Supplemental post retirement benefits 127,000 34,000 21,000 20,000 52,000 Uncertain tax positions(A) 249,553 22,171 227,382 Other long term obligations 1,234 165 267 218 584 Total obligations $ 4,009,399 $ 270,109 $ 750,780 $ 221,233 $ 2,539,895 $ 227,382 (A) Due to the uncertainty of the potential settlement of future uncertain tax positions, management is unable to estimate the timing of the related payments, if any, that will be made subsequent to 2009. These amounts do not include the potential indirect benefits resulting from deductions or credits for payments made to other jurisdictions. Severance and Exit Reserves From time to time, the Company will initiate various restructuring programs at its operating companies or record severance and exit costs in connection with purchase accounting for acquisitions. During the latter half of 2008, the Company announced plans to increase the amount of restructuring efforts in response to the significant decline in global economic activity. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Company had reserves related to severance and exit activities of $31.0 million and $28.4 million, respectively. During 2008, the Company recorded $27.4 million in additional charges and $5.6 million in purchase accounting reserves related to acquisitions, partially offset by other non cash write downs of $2.3 million and payments of $28.1 million. These costs yielded a savings of approximately $35.0 million in 2008. The Company expects further restructuring plans to occur in 2009 resulting in costs of approximately $40.0 million that the Company expects will yield savings of approximately $75.0 million in 2009. Restructuring charges are recorded primarily in Selling and administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. (2) RESULTS OF OPERATIONS: 2008 COMPARED TO 2007 Consolidated Results of Operations Revenue for the year ended December 31, 2008 increased 3% over 2007, due to increases of $232.0 million at Fluid Management, $52.2 million at Industrial Products and $6.0 million at Electronic Technologies. These revenue increases were due to positive market fundamentals and acquisitions at Fluid Management, while Engineered Systems revenue decreased $41.7 million due to weakness in markets served by the Engineered Products platform. Overall, Dovers organic revenue growth was 1%, net acquisition growth was 1% and the impact from foreign exchange was 1%. Gross profit increased 4% to $2,730.0 million from 2007 while the gross profit margin remained essentially flat at 36.1% and 35.8%, in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Selling and administrative expenses of $1,700.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 increased $86.7 million over the comparable 2007 period, primarily due to increased revenue activity, increased professional fees and restructuring charges. 23 Table of Contents Interest expense, net, increased 7% to $96.0 million for 2008, compared to $89.6 million for 2007 due to higher average outstanding borrowings used to fund purchases of the Companys common stock and higher average commercial paper rates. Other expense (income), net for 2008 and 2007 of ($12.7) million and $3.5 million, respectively, was driven primarily by foreign exchange gains and losses, partially offset by other miscellaneous income. The 2008 and 2007 tax rate for continuing operations was 26.6% in both periods, each favorably impacted by the mix of non U.S. earnings in low taxed overseas jurisdictions. Net earnings for the twelve months ended December 31, 2008 were $590.8 million or $3.12 EPS, which included a loss from discontinued operations of $103.9 million or $0.55 EPS, compared to net earnings of $661.1 million or $3.26 EPS for the same period of 2007, including a loss from discontinued operations of $8.7 million or $0.04 EPS. The losses from discontinued operations in 2008 largely reflect a loss provision for a business expected to be sold in 2009, as well as tax expenses and tax accruals related to ongoing Federal tax settlements and state tax assessments. Refer to Note 8 in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on discontinued operations. Current Economic Environment With few exceptions, Dover experienced lower demand across all of its end markets resulting in lower bookings and backlog in the fourth quarter of 2008. Looking forward to 2009, a continuation of a weak and uncertain global business environment is expected. Though this downturn will have a significant adverse impact on revenue and earnings, Dover remains committed to maintaining margin levels as much as possible on a full year basis, although the Company expects the first quarter to be weak, in part due to significant ongoing restructuring efforts. The structural changes made over the last few years, becoming less dependent on capital goods markets and having greater recurring revenue, together with improved working capital management and strong pricing discipline is expected to mitigate the impact of the economic downturn during 2009. As discussed above in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section, the Company believes that existing sources of liquidity are adequate to meet anticipated funding needs at comparable risk based interest rates. The Companys synergy capture programs and the restructuring initiatives launched during 2008 will continue into 2009. During 2008, Dover reduced its workforce approximately 6% and expects to reduce its workforce further in 2009 by another 5%. During 2009, the Company will monitor business activity across its markets served and adjust capacity as necessary should the economic environment worsen. The Company will also remain focused on working capital levels and expects to generate strong free cash flow during 2009. 24 Table of Contents Segment Results of Operations Industrial Products Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2008 2007 % Change (In thousands) Revenue Material Handling $ 1,136,869 $ 1,145,253 (1 )% Mobile Equipment 1,323,422 1,262,984 5 % Eliminations (786 ) (977 ) $ 2,459,505 $ 2,407,260 2 % Segment earnings $ 299,740 $ 312,486 (4 )% Operating margin 12.2 % 13.0 % Acquisition related depreciation and amortization expense* $ 32,283 $ 27,830 16 % Bookings Material Handling $ 1,109,028 $ 1,141,955 (3 )% Mobile Equipment 1,177,880 1,364,340 (14 )% Eliminations (1,134 ) (1,556 ) $ 2,285,774 $ 2,504,739 (9 )% Backlog Material Handling $ 188,591 $ 213,653 (12 )% Mobile Equipment 387,329 543,776 (29 )% Eliminations (220 ) (195 ) $ 575,700 $ 757,234 (24 )% * Represents the pre tax impact on earnings from the depreciation and amortization of acquisition accounting write ups to reflect the fair value of inventory, property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets. Industrial Products increase in revenue over the prior year was primarily due to strength in the military and solid waste management markets as well as the impact of the December 2007 acquisition of Industrial Motion Control LLC (IMC) and the March 2008 acquisition of Lantec Winch and Gear Inc. Overall, the segment had 2% revenue growth from its core businesses and acquisition growth of 3%, which was partially offset by the sale of a line of business. Earnings declined 4% when compared to the prior year substantially due to weakness in the construction and the North American auto service markets, and restructuring costs. Material Handling revenue decreased 1% while earnings decreased 5% when compared to the prior year. Revenue and earnings growth in the industrial winch business was more than offset by softness in the infrastructure, industrial automation and automotive markets. In addition, the platform incurred additional expenses related to its ongoing cost reduction and integration activities. Mobile Equipment revenue and earnings increased 5% and 2%, respectively, over the prior year. The revenue increase was primarily due to core business growth as the platform continued to experience strength in the aerospace, military and solid waste management markets. Softness in the automotive service and bulk transport end markets partially offset the increases experienced in other markets. 25 Table of Contents Engineered Systems Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2008 2007 % Change (In thousands) Revenue Engineered Products $ 1,085,881 $ 1,139,478 (5 )% Product Identification 924,469 912,580 1 % $ 2,010,350 $ 2,052,058 (2 )% Segment earnings $ 278,553 $ 291,727 (5 )% Operating margin 13.9 % 14.2 % Acquisition related depreciation and amortization expense* $ 24,394 $ 29,262 (17 )% Bookings Engineered Products $ 1,043,873 $ 1,116,638 (7 )% Product Identification 920,712 919,216 % $ 1,964,585 $ 2,035,854 (4 )% Backlog Engineered Products $ 183,821 $ 227,523 (19 )% Product Identification 61,195 68,938 (11 )% $ 245,016 $ 296,461 (17 )% * Represents the pre tax impact on earnings from the depreciation and amortization of acquisition accounting write ups to reflect the fair value of inventory, property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets. Engineered Systems decreases in revenue and earnings over the prior year of 2% and 5%, respectively, were primarily driven by the Engineered Products platform. Overall, the segment had a 4% decline in revenue from its core businesses which was partially offset by the favorable impact of currency rates of 2%. Engineered Products revenue and earnings decreased 5% and 15%, respectively, over the prior year due to weaker sales of retail food equipment and softness in the beverage can equipment business. In addition to the reduction in overall sales volume during the year, the platforms earnings were negatively impacted by currency exchange rates, restructuring and a $6.6 million one time charge primarily related to inventory. Partially offsetting these declines were the results of the heat exchanger and foodservice businesses which experienced continued strength throughout 2008. Product Identification platform revenue and earnings both increased 1% over 2007. The revenue growth was primarily due to the favorable impact of foreign exchange as the core businesses in the platform experienced lower volume. Despite the decline in core business revenue, the platform was able to maintain margins consistent with the prior year due to on going integration activities across the platform. 26 Table of Contents Fluid Management Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2008 2007 % Change (In thousands) Revenue Energy $ 935,414 $ 775,024 21 % Fluid Solutions 778,812 707,113 10 % Eliminations (180 ) (129 ) $ 1,714,046 $ 1,482,008 16 % Segment earnings $ 385,317 $ 304,576 27 % Operating margin 22.5 % 20.6 % Acquisition related depreciation and amortization expense* $ 19,550 $ 15,569 26 % Bookings Energy $ 964,517 $ 785,065 23 % Fluid Solutions 771,359 716,644 8 % Eliminations (178 ) (110 ) $ 1,735,698 $ 1,501,599 16 % Backlog Energy $ 95,532 $ 88,245 8 % Fluid Solutions 64,471 73,713 (13 )% Eliminations (12 ) (14 ) $ 159,991 $ 161,944 (1 )% * Represents the pre tax impact on earnings from the depreciation and amortization of acquisition accounting write ups to reflect the fair value of inventory, property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets. Fluid Management revenue and earnings increased 16% and 27%, respectively, over 2007 due to strength in the oil, gas, and power generation sectors served by the Energy platform as well as the diverse markets served by the Fluid Solutions platform. Overall, the segment had organic revenue growth of 12%, acquisition growth of 3%, with the remainder due to the favorable impact of foreign exchange. The Energy platforms revenue increased 21% while its earnings improved 32%, when compared to 2007, due to strength in the oil and gas markets and increasing power generation demand. Earnings and margin benefited from the higher volume and operational improvements. The Fluid Solutions platform revenue increased 10% and earnings improved 20% due to acquisitions and strength in the markets served by its core businesses. In general, demand remained strong for pumps, dispensing systems, and connectors. Earnings and margins improved due to a favorable business mix and cost savings from the platforms ongoing cost reduction activities. 27 Table of Contents Electronic Technologies Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2008 2007 % Change (In thousands) Revenue $ 1,396,131 $ 1,390,103 % Segment earnings $ 193,641 $ 180,337 7 % Operating margin 13.9 % 13.0 % Acquisition related depreciation and amortization expense* $ 36,481 $ 38,296 (5 )% Bookings 1,342,382 1,378,551 (3 )% Backlog 175,317 232,704 (25 )% * Represents the pre tax impact on earnings from the depreciation and amortization of acquisition accounting write ups to reflect the fair value of inventory, property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets. Electronic Technologies revenue was flat while earnings increased 7% when compared to the prior year. Revenue increases in the micro acoustic component business were offset by a softening in the other markets served by the segment resulting in a 3% decline in core business revenue excluding favorable foreign exchange rates. The segments earnings benefited from the increased volume in the micro acoustic component business, a $7.5 million gain from the sale of a line of business (semi conductor test handling), and cost savings from restructuring activities that were implemented in the first quarter of 2008. 2007 COMPARED TO 2006 Consolidated Results of Operations Revenue for the year ended December 31, 2007 increased 14% over 2006, due to increases of $485.1 million at Engineered Systems, $283.9 million at Industrial Products and $152.4 million at Fluid Management. These revenue increases were due to positive market fundamentals and acquisitions, while Electronic Technologies revenue decreased $21.5 million due to weakness in its markets. Overall, Dovers organic revenue growth was 2.4%, acquisition growth was 9.5% and the impact from foreign exchange was 2.1%. Gross profit increased 14% to $2,619.5 million from 2006 while the gross profit margin remained essentially flat at 35.8% and 35.7% in 2007 and 2006, respectively. Selling and administrative expenses of $1,614.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 increased $224.8 million over the comparable 2006 period, primarily due to increased revenue and increases in compensation and pension benefit costs. Interest expense, net, increased 16% to $89.6 million for 2007, compared to $77.0 million for 2006 due to higher average outstanding borrowings used to fund purchases of the Companys common stock and average commercial paper rates. Other expense (income), net for 2007 and 2006 of $3.5 million and $11.0 million, respectively, was driven primarily by foreign exchange losses, partially offset by other miscellaneous income. The 2007 and 2006 tax rates for continuing operations were 26.6%, and 26.9%, respectively. Both periods were favorably impacted by the mix of non U.S. earnings in low taxed overseas jurisdictions. Earnings from continuing operations for 2007 were $669.8 million or $3.30 EPS compared to $595.7 million or $2.90 EPS in 2006. For 2007, net earnings were $661.1 million, or $3.26 EPS, which included an $8.7 million, or $0.04 EPS, loss from discontinued operations, compared to $561.8 million, or $2.73 EPS for 2006, which included a $33.9 million, or $0.16 EPS, loss from discontinued operations. Refer to Note 8 in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on discontinued operations. 28 Table of Contents Segment Results of Operations Industrial Products Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2007 2006 % Change (In thousands) Revenue Material Handling $ 1,145,253 $ 903,570 27 % Mobile Equipment 1,262,984 1,220,717 3 % Eliminations (977 ) (927 ) $ 2,407,260 $ 2,123,360 13 % Segment earnings $ 312,486 $ 264,232 18 % Operating margin 13.0 % 12.4 % Acquisition related depreciation and amortization expense* $ 27,830 $ 26,336 6 % Bookings Material Handling $ 1,141,955 $ 904,186 26 % Mobile Equipment 1,364,340 1,251,095 9 % Eliminations (1,556 ) (2,799 ) $ 2,504,739 $ 2,152,482 16 % Backlog Material Handling $ 213,653 $ 242,209 (12 )% Mobile Equipment 543,776 429,191 27 % Eliminations (195 ) (165 ) $ 757,234 $ 671,235 13 % * Represents the pre tax impact on earnings from the depreciation and amortization of acquisition accounting write ups to reflect the fair value of inventory, property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets. Industrial Products revenue and earnings increases over the prior year were primarily the result of the acquisition of Paladin in August 2006 and the July 2007 acquisition of Hanmecson International, a Chinese manufacturer of vehicle lifts. For the year, the segment achieved 1% organic growth, while growth from acquisitions and the impact of foreign exchange accounted for 11% and 1%, respectively. Material Handling revenue increased 27% while earnings increased 26% compared to the prior year. The increases were primarily due to the Paladin acquisition and improvements in the heavy winch, recreational vehicle and industrial automation businesses. Margin was impacted by the slowdown in the heavy construction business producing attachments and cylinders. In addition, the platform benefited from new product introductions, plant rationalization and global sourcing during 2007. Mobile Equipment revenue and earnings increased 3% and 8%, respectively, over the prior year. The platforms results benefited from the Hanmecson acquisition and core growth at businesses in the petroleum, crude oil and military markets, as well as a $5.3 million net pre tax gain on the sale of a facility in the second quarter of 2007. However, softness experienced in the automotive service industry and the aerospace service business partially offset these gains. 29 Table of Contents Engineered Systems Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2007 2006 % Change (In thousands) Revenue Engineered Products $ 1,139,478 $ 998,676 14 % Product Identification 912,580 568,303 61 % $ 2,052,058 $ 1,566,979 31 % Segment earnings $ 291,727 $ 234,107 25 % Operating margin 14.2 % 14.9 % Acquisition related depreciation and amortization expense* $ 29,262 $ 13,193 122 % Bookings Engineered Products $ 1,116,638 $ 1,060,404 5 % Product Identification 919,216 562,096 64 % $ 2,035,854 $ 1,622,500 25 % Backlog Engineered Products $ 227,523 $ 249,571 (9 )% Product Identification 68,938 57,706 19 % $ 296,461 $ 307,277 (4 )% * Represents the pre tax impact on earnings from the depreciation and amortization of acquisition accounting write ups to reflect the fair value of inventory, property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets. Engineered Systems revenue and earnings increases over the prior year reflect the December 2006 acquisition of Markem and the May 2006 acquisition of ONeil. Revenue growth due to acquisitions was 20%. However, most core businesses also improved as the segment achieved organic revenue growth of 8%, with the remainder due to the impact of foreign exchange. Engineered Products revenue and earnings increased 14% and 16%, respectively, over the prior year due to strong supermarket and heat exchanger markets. Sequentially, revenue and earnings in the fourth quarter of 2007 were down 9% and 18%, respectively, reflecting normal seasonality and a slowdown in retail food equipment demand, along with reduced orders tied to high customer inventory levels in the heat exchanger business. The Product Identification platform had revenue and earnings increases of 61% and 41%, respectively, during 2007 mostly reflecting the 2006 acquisitions of Markem and ONeil. Overall, the revenue growth due to the 2006 acquisitions was 55%, while organic growth was 3% due to growth in the core direct coding business with the remainder due to foreign exchange. 30 Table of Contents Fluid Management Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2007 2006 % Change (In thousands) Revenue Energy $ 775,024 $ 684,178 13 % Fluid Solutions 707,113 645,399 10 % Eliminations (129 ) 26 $ 1,482,008 $ 1,329,603 11 % Segment earnings $ 304,576 $ 267,377 14 % Operating margin 20.6 % 20.1 % Acquisition related depreciation and amortization expense* $ 15,569 $ 16,183 (4 )% Bookings Energy $ 785,065 $ 693,927 13 % Fluid Solutions 716,644 653,932 10 % Eliminations (110 ) (83 ) $ 1,501,599 $ 1,347,776 11 % Backlog Energy $ 88,245 $ 75,449 17 % Fluid Solutions 73,713 63,565 16 % Eliminations (14 ) (33 ) $ 161,944 $ 138,981 17 % * Represents the pre tax impact on earnings from the depreciation and amortization of acquisition accounting write ups to reflect the fair value of inventory, property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets. Fluid Managements revenue and earnings increases were the result of strength at all businesses in the segment. The segment continued to benefit from strong results from the Energy platform which serves the oil, gas and power generation markets. As a result, the segment achieved organic growth of 9%, with the remainder primarily from foreign exchange. The Energy platforms revenue and earnings increased 13% and 15%, respectively, primarily due to strong oil and gas markets and increased power generation demand throughout 2007. The platforms earnings growth further benefited from higher volume, productivity gains and operational improvements. Fluid Solutions revenue and earnings both increased 10% when compared to the prior year due to improvements at all core businesses in the platform. Throughout 2007, the platform experienced strong demand in the chemical and rail markets. Overall, the platform had organic revenue growth of 6%, growth from acquisitions of 2%, with the remainder due to foreign exchange. 31 Table of Contents Electronic Technologies Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2007 2006 % Change (In thousands) Revenue $ 1,390,103 $ 1,411,564 (2 )% Segment earnings $ 180,337 $ 214,947 (16 )% Operating margin 13.0 % 15.2 % Acquisition related depreciation and amortization expense* $ 38,296 $ 32,914 16 % Bookings 1,378,551 1,410,043 (2 )% Backlog 232,704 200,048 16 % * Represents the pre tax impact on earnings from the depreciation and amortization of acquisition accounting write ups to reflect the fair value of inventory, property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets. Electronic Technologies year over year decreases in revenue and earnings were primarily due to softness in the semi conductor end markets throughout 2007 compared to strong markets experienced in the prior year. The medical and military/space markets were strong throughout the year, while telecom markets remained flat. Overall, the increase in revenue due to acquisitions and foreign exchange were each 3%, while organic revenue decreased 8%. Critical Accounting Policies The Companys consolidated financial statements and related public financial information are based on the application of generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (GAAP). GAAP requires the use of estimates, assumptions, judgments and subjective interpretations of accounting principles that have an impact on the assets, liabilities, revenue and expense amounts reported. These estimates can also affect supplemental information contained in the public disclosures of the Company, including information regarding contingencies, risk and its financial condition. The Company believes its use of estimates and underlying accounting assumptions conform to GAAP and are consistently applied. Valuations based on estimates are reviewed for reasonableness on a consistent basis throughout the Company. Primary areas where the financial information of Dover is subject to the use of estimates, assumptions and the application of judgment include the following areas: Revenue is recognized when all of the following circumstances are satisfied: a) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, b) price is fixed or determinable, c) collectability is reasonably assured, and d) delivery has occurred. In revenue transactions where installation is required, revenue can be recognized when the installation obligation is not essential to the functionality of the delivered products. Revenue transactions involving non essential installation obligations are those which can generally be completed in a short period of time at insignificant cost and the skills required to complete these installations are not unique to the Company and in many cases can be provided by third parties or the customers. If the installation obligation is essential to the functionality of the delivered product, revenue recognition is deferred until installation is complete. In addition, when it is determined that there are multiple deliverables to a sales arrangement, the Company will allocate consideration received to the separate deliverables based on their relative fair values and recognize revenue based on the appropriate criteria for each deliverable identified. In a limited number of revenue transactions, other post shipment obligations such as training and customer acceptance are required and, accordingly, revenue recognition is deferred until the customer is obligated to pay, or acceptance has been confirmed. Service revenue is recognized and earned when services are performed. Allowances for doubtful accounts are estimated at the individual operating companies based on estimates of losses related to customer receivable balances. Estimates are developed by using standard quantitative measures based on historical losses, adjusting for current economic conditions and, in some cases, evaluating specific customer accounts for risk of loss. The establishment of reserves requires the use of judgment and assumptions regarding the potential for losses on receivable balances. Due to the fact that Dover operates in many different markets, changes in economic conditions in specific markets generally should not have a material effect on reserve balances required. 32 Table of Contents Inventory for the majority of the Companys subsidiaries, including all international subsidiaries, are stated at the lower of cost, determined on the first in, first out (FIFO) basis, or market. Other domestic inventory is stated at cost, determined on the last in, first out (LIFO) basis, which is less than market value. Under certain market conditions, estimates and judgments regarding the valuation of inventory are employed by the Company to properly value inventory. The Electronic Technologies companies tend to experience somewhat higher levels of inventory value fluctuations, particularly given the relatively high rate of product obsolescence over relatively short periods of time. Occasionally, the Company will establish restructuring reserves at an operation in accordance with appropriate accounting principles. These reserves, for both severance and exit costs, require the use of estimates. Though Dover believes that these estimates accurately reflect the anticipated costs, actual results may be different than the estimated amounts. Dover has significant tangible and intangible assets on its balance sheet that include goodwill and other intangibles related to acquisitions. The valuation and classification of these assets and the assignment of useful depreciation and amortization lives involve significant judgments and the use of estimates. The testing of these intangibles under established accounting guidelines (including SFAS No. 142) for impairment also requires significant use of judgment and assumptions, particularly as it relates to the identification of reporting units and the determination of fair market value. Dovers assets and reporting units are tested and reviewed for impairment on an annual basis during the fourth quarter or when indicators of impairment exist, such as a significant sustained change in the business climate, during the interim periods. The Company believes that its use of estimates and assumptions are reasonable and comply with generally accepted accounting principles. Changes in business conditions could potentially require adjustments to the valuations. The valuation of Dovers pension and other post retirement plans requires the use of assumptions and estimates that are used to develop actuarial valuations of expenses and assets/liabilities. These assumptions include discount rates, investment returns, projected salary increases and benefits, and mortality rates. The actuarial assumptions used in Dovers pension reporting are reviewed annually and are compared with external benchmarks to assure that they accurately account for Dovers future pension obligations. Changes in assumptions and future investment returns could potentially have a material impact on Dovers pension expenses and related funding requirements. Dovers expected long term rate of return on plan assets is reviewed annually based on actual returns, economic trends and portfolio allocation. Dovers discount rate assumption is determined by developing a yield curve based on high quality corporate bonds with maturities matching the plans expected benefit payment streams. The plans expected cash flows are then discounted by the resulting year by year spot rates. Dover has significant amounts of deferred tax assets that are reviewed for recoverability and valued accordingly. These assets are evaluated by using estimates of future taxable income streams and the impact of tax planning strategies. Reserves are also estimated, using a more likely than not criteria, for ongoing audits regarding federal, state and international issues that are currently unresolved. The Company routinely monitors the potential impact of these situations and believes that it is properly reserved. Valuations related to tax accruals and assets can be impacted by changes in accounting regulations, changes in tax codes and rulings, changes in statutory tax rates, and the Companys future taxable income levels. Dover has significant accruals and reserves related to the self insured portion of its risk management program. These accruals require the use of estimates and judgment with regard to risk exposure and ultimate liability. The Company estimates losses under these programs using actuarial assumptions, Dovers experience, and relevant industry data. Dover reviews these factors quarterly and considers the current level of accruals and reserves adequate relative to current market conditions and Company experience. Dover has established reserves for environmental and legal contingencies at both the operating company and corporate levels. A significant amount of judgment and use of estimates is required to quantify Dovers ultimate exposure in these matters. The valuation of reserves for contingencies is reviewed on a quarterly basis at the operating and corporate levels to ensure that Dover is properly reserved. Reserve balances are adjusted to account for changes in circumstances for ongoing issues and the establishment of additional 33 Table of Contents reserves for emerging issues. While Dover believes that the current level of reserves is adequate, future changes in circumstances could impact these determinations. The Company from time to time will discontinue certain operations for various reasons. Estimates are used to adjust, if necessary, the assets and liabilities of discontinued operations to their estimated fair market value less costs to sell. These estimates include assumptions relating to the proceeds anticipated as a result of the sale. The adjustments to fair market value of these operations provide the basis for the gain or loss when sold. Changes in business conditions or the inability to sell an operation could potentially require future adjustments to these estimates. The Company uses the Black Scholes valuation model to estimate the fair value of its Stock Appreciation Rights (SARs) and stock options that are granted to employees. The model requires management to estimate the expected life of the SAR or option, expected forfeitures and the volatility of Dovers stock using historical data. For additional information related to the assumptions used, see Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10 K. Adoption of New Accounting Standards 2008 Pensions Effective December 31, 2006, Dover adopted SFAS No. 158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an Amendment of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R) (SFAS No. 158). SFAS No. 158 requires companies to report the funded status of their defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans on their balance sheets as a net liability or asset. Upon adoption at December 31, 2006, Dover recorded a net reduction to stockholders equity of $123.5 million, net of tax. In addition, effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2008, the new standard requires companies to measure benefit obligations and plan assets as of a Companys fiscal year end (December 31, 2008 for Dover), using one of the methods prescribed in the standard. Dover adopted the new valuation date requirements using the 15 month alternative, as prescribed in the standard, which resulted in a charge of approximately $5.8 million, net of tax, to retained earnings during the fourth quarter of 2008. Fair Value In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (SFAS No. 157), which defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. For financial assets and liabilities, this statement is effective for fiscal periods beginning after November 15, 2007 and does not require any new fair value measurements. In February 2008, the FASB Staff Position No. 157 2 was issued which delayed the effective date of FASB Statement No. 157 to fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008 for nonfinancial assets and liabilities, except for items that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis (at least annually). The adoption of SFAS No. 157 did not have a material effect on Dovers consolidated financial statements. In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115. This statement permits entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value. This statement is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, including interim periods within that fiscal year. The Company did not elect the fair value option for any of its existing financial instruments as of December 31, 2008 and the Company has not determined whether or not it will elect this option for financial instruments it may acquire in the future. 2007 Effective January 1, 2007, the Company adopted FASB Interpretation No. 48 (FIN 48) which specifies the way companies are to account for uncertainty in income tax reporting, and prescribes a methodology for 34 Table of Contents recognizing, reversing and measuring the tax benefits of a tax position taken, or expected to be taken, in a tax return. As a result of adopting the new standard, the Company recorded a $58.2 million increase to reserves as a cumulative effect decrease to opening retained earnings as of January 1, 2007, of which $53.4 million was included in continuing operations. Including this cumulative effect adjustment, the Company had unrecognized tax benefits, net of indirect benefits and deposits, of $190.5 million at January 1, 2007, of which $35.4 million related to accrued interest and penalties. The portion of the unrecognized tax benefits at January 1, 2007 included in continuing operations totaled $147.6 million, of which $28.0 million related to accrued interest and penalties. 2006 Effective January, 1 2006, Dover adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 123(R), Share Based Payment (SFAS No. 123(R)), which no longer permits the use of the intrinsic value method under APB No. 25. The Company used the modified prospective method to adopt SFAS No. 123(R), which requires compensation expense to be recorded for all stock based compensation granted on or after January 1, 2006, as well as the unvested portion of previously granted options. The Company records stock based compensation expense on a straight line basis, generally over the explicit service period of three years (except for retirement eligible employees and retirees). Awards granted to retirement eligible employees are expensed immediately and the Company shortens the vesting period for any employee who will become eligible to retire within the three year explicit service period. Expense for these employees is be recorded over the period from the date of grant through the date the employee first becomes eligible to retire and is no longer required to provide service. Recent Accounting Standards In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), Business Combinations (SFAS No. 141(R)). SFAS No. 141(R) retains the fundamental requirements in Statement 141 that the acquisition method of accounting (which Statement 141 called the purchase method) be used for all business combinations and for an acquirer to be identified for each business combination. In general, the statement 1) broadens the guidance of SFAS No. 141, extending its applicability to all events where one entity obtains control over one or more other businesses, 2) broadens the use of fair value measurements used to recognize the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, 3) changes the accounting for acquisition related fees and restructuring costs incurred in connection with an acquisition, and 4) increases required disclosures. The Company will apply the provisions of this statement prospectively to business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after January 1, 2009 and can only assess the impact of the standard once an acquisition is consummated. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements an amendment of ARB No. 51 (SFAS 160). SFAS 160 requires that a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary be reported as equity and the amount of consolidated net income specifically attributable to the noncontrolling interest be identified in the consolidated financial statements. It also requires consistency in the manner of reporting changes in the parents ownership interest and requires fair value measurement of any noncontrolling equity investment retained in a deconsolidation. The Company will apply the provisions of this statement prospectively, as required, beginning on January 1, 2009 and does not expect the adoption of SFAS 160 to have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements. In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133 (SFAS No. 161). SFAS No. 161 amends and expands the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 133 with the intent to provide users of financial statements with an enhanced understanding of: 1) How and why an entity uses derivative instruments; 2) How derivative instruments and related hedged items are accounted for under SFAS No. 133 and its related interpretations; and 3) How derivative instruments and related hedged items affect an entitys financial position, financial performance and cash flows. This statement is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after November 15, 2008, with early application encouraged. The Company does not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 161 to have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. In May 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 162, The Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. This statement identifies the sources of accounting principles and the framework for selecting the principles to be 35 Table of Contents used in the preparation of financial statements of nongovernmental entities that are presented in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the United States (the GAAP hierarchy). This Statement is effective 60 days following the SECs approval of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board amendments to AU Section 411, The Meaning of Present Fairly in Conformity With Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. The adoption of this statement did not have a material effect on the Companys consolidated financial statements. In April 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. 142 3 Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets (FSP No. 142 3) to improve the consistency between the useful life of a recognized intangible asset (under SFAS No. 142) and the period of expected cash flows used to measure the fair value of the intangible asset (under SFAS No. 141(R)). FSP No. 142 3 amends the factors to be considered when developing renewal or extension assumptions that are used to estimate an intangible assets useful life under SFAS No. 142. The guidance in the new staff position is to be applied prospectively to intangible assets acquired after December 31, 2008. In addition, FSP No. 142 3 increases the disclosure requirements related to renewal or extension assumptions. Non GAAP Disclosures In an effort to provide investors with additional information regarding the Companys results as determined by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the Company also discloses non GAAP information which management believes provides useful information to investors. Free cash flow, net debt, total debt, total capitalization, adjusted working capital, average annual adjusted working capital, revenues excluding the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and organic revenue growth are not financial measures under GAAP and should not be considered as a substitute for cash flows from operating activities, debt or equity, revenue and working capital as determined in accordance with GAAP, and they may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Management believes the (1) net debt to total capitalization ratio and (2) free cash flow are important measures of operating performance and liquidity. Net debt to total capitalization is helpful in evaluating the Companys capital structure and the amount of leverage it employs. Free cash flow provides both management and investors a measurement of cash generated from operations that is available to fund acquisitions, pay dividends, repay debt and repurchase the Companys common stock. Reconciliations of free cash flow, total debt and net debt can be found above in this Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis. Management believes that reporting adjusted working capital (also sometimes called working capital), which is calculated as accounts receivable, plus inventory, less accounts payable, provides a meaningful measure of the Companys operational results by showing the changes caused solely by revenue. Management believes that reporting adjusted working capital and revenues at constant currency, which excludes the positive or negative impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, provides a meaningful measure of the Companys operational changes, given the global nature of Dovers businesses. Management believes that reporting organic revenue growth, which excludes the impact of foreign currency exchange rates and the impact of acquisitions, provides a useful comparison of the Companys revenue performance and trends between periods. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Interest Rates The Companys exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to the fair value of long term fixed interest rate debt, interest rate swaps attached thereto, commercial paper borrowings and investments in cash equivalents. Generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. A 54 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates (10% of the Companys weighted average long term debt interest rate) would have an immaterial effect on the fair value of the Companys long term debt. Commercial paper borrowings are at variable interest rates, and have maturities of three months or less. A 25 basis point increase or decrease in the interest rates (10% of the Companys weighted average commercial paper interest rate) on commercial paper borrowings would have an immaterial impact on the Companys pre tax earnings. 36 Table of Contents All highly liquid investments, including highly liquid debt instruments purchased with an original maturity of three months or less, are considered cash equivalents. The Company places its investments in cash equivalents with high credit quality issuers and limits the amount of exposure to any one issuer. A 15 basis point decrease or increase in interest rates (10% of the Companys weighted average interest rate) would have an immaterial impact on the Companys pre tax income. Short term investments consist of bank term deposits that have maturity dates that range from five to nine months. A 50 basis point decrease or increase in interest rates (10% of the Companys weighted average interest rate) would have an immaterial impact on the Companys pre tax income. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had one interest rate swap outstanding, as discussed in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company does not enter into derivative financial or derivative commodity instruments for trading or speculative purposes. Foreign Exchange The Company conducts business in various non U.S. countries, primarily in Canada, Mexico, substantially all of the European countries, Brazil, Argentina, Malaysia, China, India and other Asian countries. Therefore, changes in the value of the currencies of these countries affect the Companys financial position and cash flows when translated into U.S. Dollars. The Company has generally accepted the exposure to exchange rate movements relative to its investment in non U.S. operations. The Company may, from time to time, for a specific exposure, enter into fair value hedges. Certain individual operating companies that have foreign exchange exposure have established formal policies to mitigate risk in this area by using fair value and or cash flow hedging. The Company has mitigated and will continue to mitigate a portion of its currency exposure through operation of non U.S. operating companies in which the majority of all costs are local currency based. A change of 10% or less in the value of all foreign currencies would not have a material effect on the Companys financial position and cash flows. 37 Table of Contents 
 
