FILE:ICE/ICE-8K-20061211174236.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrants under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
x
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
Item 8.01. Other Events
On December 11, 2006, IntercontinentalExchange, Inc. ("ICE") issued a press release announcing the certified results of the Board of Trade of the City of New York, Inc. ("NYBOT") member vote on the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of September 14, 2006, as amended on October 30, 2006, by and among ICE, NYBOT and CFC Acquisition Co., which is the merger subsidiary. A copy of the press release is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits
     The following exhibit is filed as part of this Report on Form 8-K:
     99.1      Press release dated December 11, 2006.
Forward-Looking Statements  Certain statements in this Form 8-K may contain forward-looking information regarding IntercontinentalExchange, Inc., the New York Board of Trade, and the combined company after the completion of the merger that are intended to be covered by the safe harbor for "forward-looking statements" provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include, but are not limited to, the benefits of the merger transaction involving ICE and NYBOT, including future strategic and financial benefits, the plans, objective, expectations and intentions of ICE following the completion of the merger, and other statements that are not historical facts. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.
The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ from those as set forth in the forward-looking statements: the ability to obtain governmental approvals and rulings on or regarding the transaction on the proposed terms and schedule; the risk that the businesses will not be integrated successfully; the risk that the revenue opportunities, cost savings and other anticipated synergies from the merger may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; disruption from the merger making it difficult to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers; competition and its effect on pricing, spending and third-party relationships and revenues; litigation; social and political conditions such as war, political unrest or terrorism; general economic conditions and normal business uncertainty. Additional risks and factors are identified in ICE's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including ICE's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2006 and ICE's Registration Statement on Form S-4 (File No. 333-138312), as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 16, 2006.
You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release. Except for any obligations to disclosure material information under the Federal securities laws, ICE undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this press release.
Important Merger Information
In connection with the proposed merger, ICE has filed a Registration Statement on Form S-4 with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) containing a prospectus/proxy statement regarding the proposed transaction. The SEC declared the Registration Statement on Form S-4 effective on November 17, 2006. INVESTORS ARE URGED TO READ THE PROSPECTUS/PROXY STATEMENT BECAUSE IT CONTAINS IMPORTANT INFORMATION REGARDING THE PROPOSED MERGER.
This Form 8-K shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities, nor shall there be any sale of securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction. No offering of securities shall be made except by means of a prospectus meeting the requirements of Section 10 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
(December 11, 2006) IntercontinentalExchange (NYSE: ICE), the leading electronic energy marketplace, and the New York Board of Trade (NYBOT), the leading soft commodity exchange, today announced that NYBOT members overwhelmingly approved the proposed merger transaction in a special member meeting held today.
ATLANTA and NEW YORK
The transaction required that NYBOT members vote to approve and adopt the Agreement and Plan of Merger by a two-thirds majority of the votes cast at the special meeting. Of the votes cast, 93% voted in favor of the transaction. Corporate Election Services served as the Inspector of Election and certified the voting results.
"We are one very important step closer to consummating this historic merger," said ICE Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey C. Sprecher. "We believe this is the strongest indication that the NYBOT membership shares our vision and drive to create the premier global commodity marketplace. Together, we will continue with our commitment to bringing innovation, breadth of product, superior trading and clearing technology and true efficiencies in this dynamic environment. Importantly, we believe the acquisition will provide significant value for our customers and shareholders."
"Today's vote is a major event in the history of our exchange, as our members choose to embrace the future," said Frederick W. Schoenhut, Chairman of the NYBOT. "IntercontinentalExchange is the perfect partner for NYBOT, as we both complement each others' strengths and long-term strategic goals. Together we will offer customers around the globe the ability to trade a broad array of energy, agriculture, and financial derivative and OTC products. We believe our members and our customers will benefit from this merger."
"It is vital to the future of NYBOT that we partner with a dynamic global exchange, and today we are close to seeing this vision become a reality," said C. Harry Falk, NYBOT President and CEO. "We believe this transaction makes both exchanges more competitive and better equipped to compete globally. The ICE electronic marketplace is an excellent complement to the vibrancy and liquidity of our trading floor, and it will allow us to continue our record growth by offering our products on this dynamic platform."
NYBOT and ICE are working toward the launch of electronic trading of NYBOT's products. NYBOT recently entered into a licensing agreement for the ICE trading platform to offer
 
electronic trading of NYBOT products, for the first time in NYBOT's history. ICE maintains and develops its technology, which has been tailored to serve the global commodity markets. Today, thousands of commodity market participants in 44 jurisdictions rely on ICE's liquid and Internet-accessible trading platform to trade contracts on crude oil and refined products, natural gas and power.
The transaction consideration will comprise approximately 10.297 million shares of ICE common stock and $400 million in cash. Upon closing, NYBOT will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of ICE and will be a for-profit corporation. The companies announced the merger agreement on September 14, 2006, and the transaction is expected to close in early 2007.
In connection with the proposed merger, ICE has filed a Registration Statement on Form S-4 with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) containing a prospectus/proxy statement regarding the proposed transaction. The SEC declared the Registration Statement on Form S-4 effective on November 17, 2006. INVESTORS ARE URGED TO READ THE PROSPECTUS/PROXY STATEMENT BECAUSE IT CONTAINS IMPORTANT INFORMATION REGARDING THE PROPOSED MERGER.
Important Acquisition Information
This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities, nor shall there be any sale of securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction. No offering of securities shall be made except by means of a prospectus meeting the requirements of Section 10 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
IntercontinentalExchange (NYSE: ICE) operates the leading global, electronic marketplace for trading both futures and OTC energy contracts. ICE offers a range of contracts based on crude oil and refined products, natural gas, power and emissions. ICE conducts its futures markets through its regulated London-based subsidiary, ICE Futures, Europe's leading energy exchange. ICE Futures offers liquid markets in the world's leading oil benchmarks: Brent Crude futures and West Texas Intermediate (WTI) Crude futures, as well as the leading heating oil futures contract by traded volume. ICE introduced the concept of cleared OTC energy contracts and today offers the most liquid and transparent electronic OTC market in North America. ICE also offers a range of risk management and trading support services, including customized energy market data offerings through its ICE Data business unit and electronic trade confirmations. ICE was added to the Russell 1000 Index on June 30, 2006. Headquartered in Atlanta, ICE also has offices in Calgary, Chicago, Houston, London, New York and Singapore, with regional telecommunications hubs in Chicago, New York, London and Singapore. For more information, please visit .
About IntercontinentalExchange
www.theice.com
The New York Board of Trade (NYBOT) is New York's original futures exchange, where the world trades food, fiber and financial products. For well over a century, the New York Board of Trade has provided reliability, integrity and security in a global marketplace for cocoa, coffee, cotton, ethanol, orange juice, wood pulp and sugar, as well as currency and index futures and options. Information about the New York Board of Trade can be found at and . To learn more about New York Board of Trade Futures & Options for Kids, the Exchange's non-profit group, please go to .
About NYBOT
www.nybot.com
www.nybotlive.com
www.futuresandoptionsforkids.org
- Statements in this press release regarding IntercontinentalExchange's business that are not historical facts are "forward-looking statements" that involve risks and uncertainties. For a discussion of such risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements, see the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including, but not limited to, the risk factors in the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2006 and the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-4 (File No. 333-138312), as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 16, 2006.
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
2


