FILE:ICE/ICE-8K-20060914214725.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrants under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events
IntercontinentalExchange, Inc. ("ICE") and The New York Board of Trade, Inc. (the "NYBOT") issued a joint press release announcing that ICE and NYBOT entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger on September 14, 2006. A copy of the joint press release is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. ICE and the NYBOT will host an investor call and presentation on Friday, September 15 at 8:00 a.m. Eastern time. The presentation is available on ICE's website and additional details regarding the call and presentation are available in the attached joint press release. The presentation is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.2. ICE intends to file an additional report on Form 8-K under which it will make the disclosures required by Item 1.01 relating to the proposed merger with the NYBOT.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits
     The following exhibits are filed as part of this Report on Form 8-K:
Forward-Looking Statements
 Certain statements in this Form 8-K may contain forward-looking information regarding IntercontinentalExchange, Inc., the New York Board of Trade, and the combined company after the completion of the merger that are intended to be covered by the safe harbor for "forward-looking statements" provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include, but are not limited to, the benefits of the merger transaction involving ICE and NYBOT, including future strategic and financial benefits, the plans, objective, expectations and intentions of ICE following the completion of the merger, and other statements that are not historical facts. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of ICE's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.
The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ from those as set forth in the forward-looking statements: the ability to obtain governmental approvals and rulings on or regarding the transaction on the proposed terms and schedule; the failure of NYBOT members to approve the merger; the risk that the businesses will not be integrated successfully; the risk that the revenue opportunities, cost savings and other anticipated synergies from the merger may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; disruption from the merger making it difficult to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers; competition and its effect on pricing, spending and third-party relationships and revenues; social and political conditions such as war, political unrest or terrorism; general economic conditions and normal business uncertainty. Additional risks and factors are identified in ICE's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including ICE's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2006.
You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release. Except for any obligations to disclosure material information under the Federal securities laws, ICE undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this press release.
Important Merger Information
In connection with the proposed merger, ICE intends to file relevant materials with the SEC, including a prospectus regarding the proposed transaction. Such documents, however, are not currently available. INVESTORS ARE URGED TO READ THE PROSPECTUS REGARDING THE TRANSACTION WHEN IT BECOMES AVAILABLE BECAUSE IT WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION. Investors will be able to obtain a free copy of the prospectus, as well as other filings containing information about ICE and the NYBOT without charge, at the SEC's website (http: // ) once such documents are filed with the SEC. Copies of the prospectus will also be available, without charge, once they are filed with the SEC by directing a request to ICE at 2100 RiverEdge Parkway, Suite 500, Atlanta, Georgia, 30328, Attention: Investor Relations; or by emailing a request to .
www.sec.gov
ir@theice.com
 
This communication shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy the securities, not shall there be any sale of securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction. No offering of securities shall be made except by means of a prospectus meeting the requirements of Section 10 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: September 14, 2006
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
Filed by IntercontinentalExchange, Inc. (Commission File No. 001-32671) Pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended Subject Company: The New York Board of Trade, Inc. Date: September 14, 2006
(September 14, 2006) IntercontinentalExchange (NYSE: ICE), the leading electronic energy marketplace, today announced that it has entered into a definitive merger agreement to acquire the New York Board of Trade (NYBOT), the world's leading soft commodity exchange, for consideration of approximately $1 billion. The transaction consideration will comprise 10.297 million shares of ICE common stock and $400 million in cash. Upon consummation, NYBOT will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of ICE.
ATLANTA, GA
"The combination of two global and rapidly growing commodity marketplaces, together with a highly respected clearinghouse, allows us to expand ICE's offerings for market participants, as well as create long-term shareholder value," said ICE's Chairman and CEO Jeffrey C. Sprecher. "We believe NYBOT's strong heritage, diverse range of products and rapidly growing markets, combined with ICE's proven innovation, global reach and ability to successfully integrate acquisitions, will create a premier global derivatives exchange. We look forward to working together with the floor community to expand NYBOT's product offering and customer base."
Prior to consummation of the merger, ICE has agreed to make its widely distributed commodity trading platform available to NYBOT on reasonable commercial terms for the electronic trading of its products. ICE maintains and develops its technology, which has been tailored for commodity markets. Today, thousands of commodity market participants in 44 jurisdictions rely on ICE's liquid electronic markets to trade contracts on crude oil and refined products, natural gas and power.
"This historic step ensures that the leading soft commodities exchange maintains its global leadership in its markets and its course for continued expansion," said Frederick W. Schoenhut, Chairman of the NYBOT. "The NYBOT and its membership believe this combination is an exceptional opportunity to capitalize on the strength of each partner to create and participate in an unparalleled commodity marketplace. We are excited about
 
joining our unique and valuable range of liquid benchmark products with ICE's robust marketplace, strong management team and public company structure."
"It was essential for our future growth to partner with a rapidly expanding exchange such as ICE," said C. Harry Falk, NYBOT President and CEO. "While we considered a number of qualified potential partners, we feel this agreement with ICE is the best fit for our exchange and our long-term goals. This merger provides our unique traditional markets the resources necessary to provide greater access and a higher level of service to our global users. It will allow us to continue using open-outcry trading, while providing a state-of-the-art electronic trading capability, thus giving our market participants a choice in how they wish to trade."
ICE expects the transaction to be accretive within 12 to 18 months of closing, as full run-rate synergies are achieved. Based on recent results and fully realized synergies, ICE estimates that the transaction could yield over $50 million in total pretax synergies, consisting of a combination of pre-tax clearing synergies of approximately $41 million, potential pre-tax income from electronic trading opportunities in excess of $6 million and potential annual expense synergies of $10 million. These synergies are described in more detail below and in the supplemental information posted on ICE's website at www.theice.com. The merger is expected to close in the first half of 2007.
Strategic and financial benefits expected to result from the merger include:
2
 
Agreement Terms and Structure
Under terms of the merger agreement, NYBOT, a member-owned, not-for-profit entity in New York, would be merged into a Delaware for-profit corporation and become a subsidiary of ICE. ICE will finance the cash portion of the merger consideration with cash on hand and borrowings. The number of shares of ICE common stock expected to be issued pursuant to the merger agreement will represent approximately 15% of the issued and outstanding share capital of ICE following the consummation of the merger.
The transaction is subject to approval by members of NYBOT, the receipt of required government approvals, the expiration of the applicable Hart-Scott-Rodino waiting period and receipt of all required Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) approvals. Two directors from the current NYBOT board will join the ICE board.
NYBOT members and member firms must retain 30% of the ICE stock received for each seat to remain a member with floor trading rights, and to maintain privileges and fee discounts.
After the closing of the transaction, ICE expects to operate under various regulatory regimes. The combined business will include a U.S. futures exchange under U.S. CFTC regulation, in addition to ICE's existing U.K.-based futures exchange, ICE Futures, which is regulated by the Financial Services Authority. ICE's transparent OTC marketplace will continue to operate as an Exempt Commercial Market under the Commodity Exchange Act.
Evercore Group L.L.C. is serving as the exclusive financial advisor to ICE on the transaction, and Brown Brothers Harriman is serving as the exclusive financial advisor to the NYBOT on the transaction. Houlihan Lokey Howard & Zukin is providing a fairness opinion to NYBOT.
ICE will host an investor call and presentation on Friday, September 15 at 8:00 a.m. Eastern Time. A live audio webcast of the call will be available on the Investor Relations section of the company's website, www.theice.com. The presentation will be available on the ICE website. Those wishing to listen to the live conference via telephone should dial-in at least 10 minutes before the call begins.
ICE Investor PresentationFriday, September 15 at 8:00 a.m. ET
For B-roll footage, please contact ICE and/or NYBOT media relations. ICE: . NYBOT: .
Note to media:
kelly.loeffler@theice.com
gtaylor@nybot.com
IntercontinentalExchange (NYSE: ICE) operates the leading global, electronic marketplace for trading both futures and OTC energy contracts. ICE offers a range of contracts based on crude oil and refined products, natural gas, power and emissions. ICE conducts its futures markets through its regulated London-based subsidiary, ICE Futures, Europe's leading energy exchange. ICE Futures offers liquid markets in the world's leading oil benchmarks: Brent Crude futures and West Texas Intermediate (WTI) Crude futures, as well as the leading heating oil futures contract by traded volume. ICE introduced the concept of cleared OTC energy contracts and today offers the most liquid and transparent electronic OTC market in North America. ICE also offers a range of risk management and trading support services, including customized energy market data offerings through its ICE Data business unit and
About IntercontinentalExchange
3
 
electronic trade confirmations. ICE was added to the Russell 1000 Index on June 30, 2006. Headquartered in Atlanta, ICE also has offices in Calgary, Chicago, Houston, London, New York and Singapore, with regional telecommunications hubs in Chicago, New York, London and Singapore. For more information, please visit www.theice.com.
The New York Board of Trade (NYBOT) is New York's original futures exchange, where the world trades food, fiber and financial products. For well over a century, the New York Board of Trade has provided reliability, integrity and security in a global marketplace for cocoa, coffee, cotton, ethanol, orange juice, wood pulp and sugar, as well as currency and index futures and options. Information about the New York Board of Trade can be found at and . To learn more about New York Board of Trade Futures & Options for Kids, the Exchange's non-profit group, please go to .
About NYBOT
www.nybot.com
www.nybotlive.com
www.futuresandoptionsforkids.org
Forward-Looking Statements
 Certain statements in this press release may contain forward-looking information regarding IntercontinentalExchange, Inc., the New York Board of Trade, and the combined company after the completion of the merger that are intended to be covered by the safe harbor for "forward-looking statements" provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include, but are not limited to, the benefits of the merger transaction involving ICE and NYBOT, including future strategic and financial benefits, the plans, objectives, expectations and intentions of ICE following the completion of the merger, and other statements that are not historical facts. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of ICE's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.
The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ from those as set forth in the forward-looking statements: the ability to obtain governmental approvals and rulings on or regarding the transaction on the proposed terms and schedule; the failure of NYBOT members to approve the merger; the risk that the businesses will not be integrated successfully; the risk that the revenue opportunities, cost savings and other anticipated synergies from the merger may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; disruption from the merger making it difficult to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers; competition and its effect on pricing, spending and third-party relationships and revenues; social and political conditions such as war, political unrest or terrorism; general economic conditions and normal business uncertainty. Additional risks and factors are identified in ICE's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including ICE's Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended June 30, 2006.
You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release. Except for any obligations to disclosure material information under the Federal securities laws, ICE undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this press release.
Important Merger Information
In connection with the proposed merger, ICE intends to file relevant materials with the SEC, including a prospectus regarding the proposed transaction. Such documents, however, are not currently available. INVESTORS ARE URGED TO READ THE PROSPECTUS REGARDING THE TRANSACTION WHEN IT BECOMES AVAILABLE BECAUSE IT WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION. Investors will be able to obtain a free copy of the prospectus, as well as other filings containing information about ICE and NYBOT without charge, at the SEC's website (http: // ) once such documents are filed with the SEC. Copies of the prospectus will also be available, without charge, once they are filed with the SEC by directing a request to ICE at 2100 RiverEdge Parkway, Suite 500, Atlanta, Georgia, 30328. Attention: Investor Relations or by emailing a request to .
www.sec.gov
ir@theice.com
4
 
This communication shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy the securities, nor shall there be any sale of securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction. No offering of securities shall be made except by means of a prospectus meeting the requirements of Section 10 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
5

 
 Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


