FILE:ICE/ICE-8K-20070502071629.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrants under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On May 2, 2007, IntercontinentalExchange, Inc. ("ICE") announced its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2007. A copy of ICE's press release announcing such financial results is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
     The information contained herein, including the attached press release, is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 except as may be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
     (b) On May 2, 2007, ICE announced that Richard V. Spencer has been appointed to the newly-created position of non-executive Vice Chairman of ICE, effective May 14, 2007, and will resign as Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer of ICE, effective May 14, 2007. Recently, Mr. Spencer was appointed Vice Chairman of the New York Board of Trade, ICE's wholly-owned subsidiary. Mr. Spencer will remain with ICE as Vice Chairman through the end of 2007 to facilitate the transition of his responsibilities to his successor as Chief Financial Officer, as well as serving as a strategic financial advisor to ICE. Mr. Spencer will continue to work on a full-time basis through June 15, 2007 and thereafter will work a reduced schedule through the end of 2007. Under the terms of his new agreement, all outstanding equity awards held by Mr. Spencer will continue to vest for the duration of his term of his employment unless he voluntarily resigns or is terminated for cause. Mr. Spencer has served as ICE's Chief Financial Officer since 2001.
     (c) On May 2, 2007, ICE announced that Scott A. Hill has been named as its new Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, effective May 14, 2007. Mr. Hill, age 39, joined ICE from IBM Corporation. Mr. Hill joined IBM in 1991 and has held various accounting and financial positions in the U.S., Europe and Japan. Prior to joining ICE, he was Assistant Controller, Financial Forecasts and Measurements at IBM from 2005-2007, where he oversaw IBM's worldwide financial performance, working with all global business units and geographic regions. From 2003-2005, Mr. Hill served as Vice-President and Controller of IBM Japan's multi-billion dollar business, where he was responsible for financial planning and measurements, accounting, pricing and business controls for the IBM Japan business operation. From 2002-2003, he served as Assistant Controller, Financial Strategy and Budgets, where he was responsible for developing and refining IBM's financial model and leading the annual and strategic planning cycles. Mr. Hill earned his Bachelor's of Business Administration from The University of Texas. He completed his Master's of Business Administration at New York University's Stern School of Business.
     Mr. Hill has entered into an Employment Agreement with ICE dated April 30, 2007, which is effective May 14, 2007. The initial term of the agreement is two years ending on May 14, 2009. Under the Employment Agreement, Mr. Hill's base annual salary will be $390,000 per year and he will receive a signing bonus of $150,000. Mr. Hill's target bonus will be 55% of his annual salary.
 
     There are no arrangements or understandings between Mr. Hill and any other person pursuant to which Mr. Hill was appointed Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer nor is there a family relationship between any director or executive officer and Mr. Hill. Mr. Hill has not entered into any related party transactions with ICE that are required to be disclosed pursuant to Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
     A copy of Mr. Hill's Employment Agreement is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference. A copy of ICE's press release relating to Mr. Hill's appointment and Mr. Spencer's resignation as Chief Financial Officer is being furnished as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
     The following exhibits are filed as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Current Report on Form 8-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: May 2, 2007
 

 
Exhibit 10.1
     This is an Employment Agreement entered into between IntercontinentalExchange, Inc., a Delaware corporation, or "ICE", and Scott A. Hill, or "Executive", the terms and conditions of which are as follows:
 1. TERM OF EMPLOYMENT
     1.1. . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this Employment Agreement, ICE agrees to employ Executive and Executive agrees to be employed by ICE for an initial term of two (2) years, which initial term shall start on May 14, 2007 and shall end on the second anniversary of such date. ICE and Executive further agree that such initial term shall be subject to extensions in accordance with the rules set forth in  1.2.
Initial Term
     1.2. .
Extensions
          (a) . The initial term of this Employment Agreement as set forth in  1.1 shall be extended every six (6) months so that the remaining term of this Employment Agreement is never more than two (2) years or less than one and one half (1 1/2) years unless ICE or Executive delivers written notice to the other before the effective date of any such extension that there will be no such extension, in which event there will be no extension and no further extensions of such initial term.
General Rule
(b) .
Effective Date for Extensions
(1) . The first effective date for an extension described in  1.2(a) shall be November 14, 2007.
First Effective Date
(2) . The second effective date for an extension described in  1.2(a) shall be May 14, 2008.
Second Effective Date
(3) . Starting with the second effective date for an extension described in  1.2(a) there shall be two effective dates for extensions in each year, one of which shall be the second effective date for extensions or an anniversary of such date and the other of which shall be an anniversary of the first effective date for extensions.
Subsequent Effective Dates
          (c) . If the initial term is extended on the effective date for an extension under  1.2(b), the extension shall be for period required to extend the remaining term of this Employment Agreement to two (2) years.
Extensions
 
     1.3. . The initial term described in  1.1 plus any extension of such initial term under  1.2 shall be referred to in this Employment Agreement as the "Term".
Term
 2. TITLE, DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES AND POWERS AND WORK SITE
     2.1. . Executive's title initially shall be Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer.
Title
     2.2. . Executive's duties and responsibilities and powers shall be those commensurate with Executive's position that are set from time to time by ICE's Chief Executive Officer or his or her delegate. Executive shall undertake to perform all Executive's duties and responsibilities and exercise all Executive's powers in good faith and on a full-time basis during ICE's normal work week for senior executives and shall at all times act in the course of Executive's employment under this Employment Agreement in the best interest of ICE.
Duties and Responsibilities and Powers
     2.3. . Executive's primary work site for the Term shall be at ICE's office in Atlanta, Georgia. However, Executive shall undertake such travel away from Executive's primary work site and shall work from such temporary work sites as necessary or appropriate to fulfill Executive's duties and responsibilities and exercise Executive's powers under the terms of this Employment Agreement.
Primary Work Site
     2.4. . Executive shall have the right to continue to serve on the board of directors of those business, civic and charitable organizations on which Executive is serving on May 14, 2007 as long as doing so has no significant and adverse affect on the performance of Executive's duties and responsibilities or the exercise of Executive's powers under this Employment Agreement. Executive shall not serve on any other boards of directors and shall not provide services (whether as an employee or independent contractor) to any for-profit organization on or after May 14, 2007 absent the written consent of ICE's Chief Executive Officer or his or her delegate.
Outside Activities
 3. COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS
     3.1. . Executive's initial base salary shall be $390,000 per year, which base salary shall be payable in accordance with ICE's standard payroll practices and policies for senior executives and shall be subject to such withholdings as required by law or as otherwise permissible under such practices or policies. Executive's base salary shall be subject to annual review and periodic increases as determined by the Compensation Committee of ICE's Board of Directors, or at the direction of such committee, ICE's Chief Executive Officer or his or her delegate.
Base Salary
     3.2. . Executive during the Term shall be eligible to receive an annual bonus each year, and such bonus, if any, shall be determined in accordance with a plan adopted and approved by the Compensation Committee of ICE's Board of Directors, or at the direction of such committee, ICE's Chief Executive Officer or his or her delegate. Each such bonus shall be reasonable in light of the contribution made by Executive for such year in relation to the contributions made and bonuses paid other senior ICE executives for such year.
Annual Bonus
 
     3.3. .
Equity Compensation
(a) . Executive shall be eligible for grants of options to purchase common stock of ICE and other forms of ICE equity or equity based grants in accordance with an ICE equity compensation plan. The number of shares subject to or related to each such grant shall be reasonable in light of the contribution made, or expected to be made, by Executive for the period for which such grant is made in relation to the number of shares subject to or related to the grants made to other senior ICE executives based on the contributions made, or expected to made, by such other senior ICE executives for such period.
General
     (b) . When Executive commences employment, the Compensation Committee of ICE's Board of Directors shall grant to Executive under an ICE equity compensation plan (1) restricted stock units which have a nominal value of $566,666.67 (based on the value of ICE common stock on the date of grant as determined under such plan) which shall become non-forfeitable in equal increments on the first, second and third anniversary of the date of the grant if Executive remains employed by ICE on such anniversary date and (2) a stock option to purchase shares of ICE common stock which has a value of $283,333.33 (based on the value of ICE common stock on the actual date of grant and ICE's Black-Scholes model assumptions), where the option price shall be the fair market value of ICE common stock on the actual date of grant (as determined under such plan) and where Executive's right to exercise the option shall vest in increments over three years in accordance with the Company's standard stock option vesting schedule if Executive remains employed by ICE on such vesting dates. The grants described in this  3.3(b) shall be made subject to the terms of the ICE equity compensation plan under which these grants are made.
Special Employment Grants
     3.4. . Executive shall be eligible to participate in the employee benefit plans, programs and policies maintained by ICE for similarly situated senior executives in accordance with the terms and conditions to participate in such plans, programs and policies as in effect from time to time.
Employee Benefit Plans, Programs and Policies
     3.5. . Executive shall accrue at least four (4) weeks of vacation during each successive one year period in the Term, which vacation time shall be taken subject to such terms and conditions as set forth in ICE's executive vacation policy as in effect from time to time. Executive in addition shall have such paid holidays, sick leave and personal and other time off as called for under ICE's standard policies and practices for executives with respect to paid holidays, sick leave and personal and other time off.
Vacation and Other Similar Benefits
     3.6. . Executive shall have a right to be reimbursed for Executive's reasonable and appropriate business expenses which Executive actually incurs in connection with the performance of Executive's duties and responsibilities
Business Expenses
 
under this Employment Agreement in accordance with ICE's expense reimbursement policies and procedures for its senior executives.
     3.7. . If Executive signs this Employment Agreement, ICE shall pay Executive the following one-time bonus payments (subject to applicable withholdings) as soon as practicable after his first day at work for ICE; provided, however, (a) Executive shall (subject to 3.7(b)) repay such bonus payments in full to ICE within 10 business days after Executive's employment with ICE terminates if his employment terminates before the end of the one (1) year term described in  1.1 unless such termination is a result of his death or his "Disability" or he resigns for "Good Reason" or he is terminated by ICE without "Cause" (as the terms "Disability", "Good Reason" and "Cause" are defined in this Employment Agreement) and (b) Executive's repayment obligation under  3.7(a) shall be reduced by $29,166.67 for each full month that he remains employed by ICE during one (1) year term described in  1.1. These one-time bonus amounts consist of the following:
Signing and Relocation Bonus
     (a)  $150,000; and
Signing bonus:
     (b)  $200,000.
Relocation bonus:
 4. TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT
     4.1. . ICE shall have the right to terminate Executive's employment at any time, and Executive shall have the right to resign at any time. However, any notice to the effect that there will be no extension of this Employment Agreement pursuant to  1.2 shall not constitute a termination of Executive's employment or a resignation by Executive under  4 of this Employment Agreement.
General
     4.2. .
Termination By ICE Other Than For Cause Or Disability Or By Executive For Good Reason
     (a) . If ICE terminates Executive's employment other than for Cause (as defined in  4.2(c)) or a Disability (as defined in  4.2(d)) before the Effective Date (as defined in  4.2(e)(1)) of a Change in Control (as defined in  4.2(e)(2)) or Executive resigns for Good Reason (as defined in  4.2(f)) before such an Effective Date, ICE (in lieu of any severance pay under any severance pay plans, programs or policies) shall (subject to applicable withholdings)
Before a Change in Control
     (1) continue to pay Executive's base salary as in effect on the date Executive's employment terminates for the remainder of the Term in accordance with  3.1,
     (2) pay Executive an annual bonus in cash as if Executive had remained employed until the end of the Term in accordance with ICE's annual bonus payment practices in effect before Executive's termination of employment, which annual bonus shall equal Executive's target bonus for
 
the year in which Executive's employment terminates or the last annual bonus paid to Executive by ICE or its affiliates, whichever is greater,
     (3) with respect to options to purchase ICE stock or other equity or equity based grants made to Executive on or after May 14, 2007, (a) accelerate Executive's right to exercise 100% of such options and vest in 100% of such equity grants so that Executive has the right to exercise 100% of such options and receive such equity grants on the date Executive's employment terminates and (b) treat Executive as if Executive had remained employed by ICE until the end of the Term so that the time period over which Executive has the right to exercise such options shall be the same as if there had been no termination of Executive's employment until the end of the Term,
     (4) (a) continue to make available coverage under the plans, programs and policies described in  3.4 which provide healthcare, life insurance and accidental death and dismemberment benefits under which Executive was covered immediately before Executive's employment terminated as if Executive had remained employed by ICE for the Welfare Benefit Continuation Period (as defined in  4.2(a)(4)(c)) or, if ICE determines that continuing such coverage would be impracticable or undesirable, reimburse Executive for purchasing comparable coverage or, at Executive's election, pay Executive an allowance for the remainder of the Welfare Benefit Continuation Period in lieu of reimbursing Executive for purchasing comparable coverage if Executive determines that purchasing comparable coverage would be impracticable or undesirable, and
          (b) (1) make available to Executive at the end of the Welfare Benefit Continuation Period whatever health care continuation coverage ICE would have been required under applicable law to make available to Executive with respect to such plans, programs and policies for the period which would have been required under applicable law if Executive actually had remained employed by ICE until the end of the Welfare Benefit Continuation Period or (2) either (A) reimburse Executive for Executive's cost to purchase comparable health care coverage for such period to the extent that such cost exceeds the premium then charged by ICE for the health care continuation coverage described in  4.2(a)(4)(b)(1) if ICE determines that making such continuation coverage available for such period would be impracticable or undesirable or, at Executive's election, (B) pay Executive an allowance for such period in lieu of reimbursing Executive for purchasing comparable coverage for such period if Executive determines that purchasing comparable coverage would be impracticable or undesirable, where
          (c) the term "Welfare Benefit Continuation Period" means the one and one half (1 1/2) year period which starts on the date Executive's
 
employment terminates under this Employment Agreement or the period which starts on the date Executive's employment terminates under this Employment Agreement and ends on the last day of the Term, whichever period is shorter, and
     (5) make one, or if necessary, more than one Gross Up Payment (as described in and paid in accordance with  4.2(g) to Executive.
     (b) . If Executive resigns for Good Reason after the Effective Date of a Change in Control or ICE terminates Executive's employment (other than for Cause or a Disability) after the Effective Date of a Change of Control, ICE (in lieu of any severance pay under any severance pay plans, programs or policies) shall (subject to applicable withholdings)
After a Change of Control
     (1) make a lump sum cash payment to Executive equal to two (2) times Executive's base salary as in effect on the date Executive's employment terminates,
     (2) make a lump sum cash payment to Executive equal to two (2) times the target bonus set for Executive for the year in which Executive's employment terminates or, if greater, the last annual bonus paid to Executive by ICE,
     (3) (a) accelerate Executive's right to exercise 100% of the options granted to Executive at any time on or after May 14, 2007 and vest Executive 100% in any other equity or equity based grants made to Executive so that Executive has the right to exercise 100% of such options and receive upon his termination of employment 100% of any other equity or equity based grants, and
          (b) treat Executive as if Executive had remained employed by ICE until the end of the two (2) year period which starts on the date Executive's employment terminates so that the time period over which Executive has the right to exercise such options shall be the same as if there had been no termination of Executive's employment until the end of such two (2) year period,
     (4) (a) continue to make available coverage under the plans, programs and policies described in  3.4 which provide healthcare, life insurance and accidental death and dismemberment benefits under which Executive was covered immediately before Executive's employment terminated as if Executive had remained employed by ICE until the end of the Welfare Benefit Continuation Period (as defined in  4.2(a)(4)(c)) or, if ICE determines that continuing such coverage would be impracticable or undesirable, reimburse Executive for purchasing comparable coverage or, at Executive's election, pay Executive an allowance for the remainder of
 
the Welfare Benefit Continuation Period in lieu of reimbursing Executive for purchasing comparable coverage if Executive determines that purchasing comparable coverage would be impracticable or undesirable, and
          (b) (1) make available to Executive at the end of the Welfare Benefit Continuation Period whatever health care continuation coverage ICE would have been required under applicable law to make available to Executive with respect to such plans, programs and policies for the period which would have been required under applicable law if Executive actually had remained employed by ICE until the end of the Welfare Benefit Continuation Period or (2) either (A) reimburse Executive for Executive's cost to purchase comparable health care coverage for such period to the extent that such cost exceeds the premium then charged by ICE for the health care continuation coverage described in  4.2(b)(4)(b)(1) if ICE determines that making such continuation coverage available for such period would be impracticable or undesirable or, at Executive's election, (B) pay Executive an allowance for such period in lieu of reimbursing Executive for purchasing comparable coverage for such period if Executive determines that purchasing comparable coverage would be impracticable or undesirable, and
     (5) make one or, if necessary, more than one, Gross Up Payment (as described in and paid in accordance with  4.2(g)) to Executive; provided, however
     (6) Executive shall have a right (in lieu of any payments and benefits called for under  4.2(a)) to all the payments and benefits called for under this  4.2(b) if Executive resigns for Good Reason or ICE terminates Executive's employment (other than for Cause or a Disability) during the ninety (90) day period ending on the Effective Date of a Change of Control.
     (c) . The term "Cause" as used in this Employment Agreement shall (subject to  4.2(c)(5)) mean:
Cause
     (1) Executive is convicted of, pleads guilty to, or confesses or otherwise admits to any felony or any act of fraud, misappropriation or embezzlement;
     (2) Executive knowingly engages in any act or course of conduct or knowingly fails to engage in any act or course of conduct (a) which is reasonably likely to adversely affect ICE's or its affiliates' right or qualification under applicable laws, rules or regulations to serve as an exchange or other form of a marketplace for trading commodities or other listed products, or (b) which violates the rules of any exchange or market on which ICE or its affiliates effects trades (or at such time is actively
 
contemplating effecting trades) and which is reasonably likely to lead to a denial of ICE's or its affiliates' right or qualification to effect trades on such exchange or market;
     (3) There is any act or omission by Executive involving malfeasance or gross negligence in the performance of Executive's duties and responsibilities under  2 or the exercise of Executive's powers under  2 to the material detriment of ICE or its affiliates; or
     (4) (a) Executive breaches any of the provisions of  5 or (b) Executive violates any provision of any code of conduct adopted by ICE which applies to Executive and any other ICE employees if the consequence to such violation for any employee subject to such code of conduct ordinarily would be a termination of his or her employment by ICE; provided, however,
     (5) No such act or omission or event shall be treated as "Cause" under this Employment Agreement unless (a) Executive has been provided a detailed, written statement of the basis for ICE's belief such act or omission or event constitutes "Cause" and an opportunity to meet with the Compensation Committee of ICE's Board of Directors (together with Executive's counsel if Executive chooses to have Executive's counsel present at such meeting) after Executive has had a reasonable period in which to review such statement and, if the act or omission or event is one which can be cured by Executive, Executive has had at least a thirty (30) day period to take corrective action and (b) a majority of the Compensation Committee of ICE's Board of Directors after such meeting (if Executive exercises Executive's right to have a meeting) and after the end of such thirty (30) day correction period (if applicable) determines reasonably and in good faith that "Cause" does exist under this Employment Agreement.
     (d) . The term "Disability" as used in this Employment Agreement means any physical or mental condition which renders Executive unable even with reasonable accommodation by ICE to perform the essential functions of Executive's job for at least a one hundred and eighty (180) consecutive day period and which makes Executive eligible to receive benefits under ICE's long term disability plan as of the date that Executive's employment terminates.
Disability
     (e) .
Effective Date and Change in Control
(1) The term "Effective Date" as used in this Employment Agreement means either the date which includes the "closing" (as such term is commonly understood in the United States) of the transaction which makes a Change in Control effective if the Change in Control is made effective through a transaction which has such a "closing" or the earliest
 
date a Change in Control is reported in accordance with any applicable law, regulation, rule or common practice as effective to any government or any agency of any government or to any exchange or market in which ICE or its affiliates effects any trades if the Change in Control is made effective other than through a transaction which has such a "closing".
(2) The term "Change in Control" as used in this Employment Agreement means the occurrence of any of the following events:
(A) any "person" (as that term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d)(2) of the 1934 Act), is or becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the 1934 Act), directly or indirectly, of securities representing 30% or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding securities of ICE eligible to vote for the election of the members of ICE's Board of Directors unless (1) such person is ICE or any subsidiary of ICE, (2) such person is an employee benefit plan (or a trust which is a part of such a plan) which provides benefits exclusively to, or on behalf of, employees or former employees of ICE or a subsidiary of ICE, (3) such person is an underwriter temporarily holding such securities pursuant to an offering of such securities, (4) such person is Executive, an entity controlled by Executive or a group which includes Executive or (5) such person acquired such securities in a Non-Qualifying Transaction (as defined in  4.2(e)(2)(D));
(B) during any period of two consecutive years or less beginning after the closing date of the initial public offering of the common stock of ICE, individuals who at the beginning of such period constitute the Board of Directors of ICE cease, for any reason, to constitute at least a majority of such Board of Directors, unless the election or nomination for election of each new director was approved by at least two-thirds of the directors then still in office who were directors at the beginning of the period (either by a specific vote of such directors or by the approval of the ICE proxy statement in which each such individual is named as a nominee for a director without written objection to such nomination by such directors); , , that no individual initially elected or nominated as a director of ICE as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to directors or as a result of any other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of any person other than the Board of Directors of ICE shall be deemed to be approved;
provided
however
(C) any dissolution or liquidation of ICE or any sale or the disposition of 50% or more of the assets or business of ICE, or
 
(D) the consummation of any reorganization, merger, consolidation or share exchange or similar form of corporate transaction involving ICE unless (1) the persons who were the beneficial owners of the outstanding securities eligible to vote for the election of the members of ICE's Board of Directors immediately before the consummation of such transaction hold more than 60% of the voting power of the securities eligible to vote for the members of the board of directors of the successor or survivor corporation in such transaction immediately following the consummation of such transaction and (2) the number of the securities of such successor or survivor corporation representing the voting power described in  4.2(e)(2)(D)(1) held by the persons described in  4.2(e)(2)(D)(1) immediately following the consummation of such transaction is beneficially owned by each such person in substantially the same proportion that each such person had beneficially owned the outstanding securities eligible to vote for the election of the members of ICE's Board of Directors immediately before the consummation of such transaction, provided (3) the percentage described in  4.2(e)(2)(D)(1) of the securities of the successor or survivor corporation and the number described in  4.2(e)(2)(D)(2) of the securities of the successor or survivor corporation shall be determined exclusively by reference to the securities of the successor or survivor corporation which result from the beneficial ownership of shares of common stock of ICE by the persons described in  4.2(e)(2)(D)(1) immediately before the consummation of such transaction (any transaction which satisfies all of the criteria specified in (1), (2) and (3) above shall be deemed to be a "Non-Qualifying Transaction");
     (f) . The term "Good Reason" as used in this Employment Agreement shall (subject to  4.2(f)(6)) mean:
Good Reason
     (1) there is a material reduction or, after the Effective Date of a Change in Control, any reduction in Executive's base salary under  3.1 or there is a material reduction or, after the Effective Date of a Change in Control, any reduction in Executive's opportunity to receive any annual bonus and equity grants without Executive's express written consent;
     (2) there is a material reduction or, after the Effective Date of a Change in Control, any reduction in the scope, importance or prestige of Executive's duties, responsibilities or powers at ICE or Executive's reporting relationships with respect to who reports to Executive and whom Executive reports to at ICE without Executive's express written consent;
     (3) ICE transfers Executive's primary work site from Executive's primary work site on May 14, 2007 or, if Executive subsequently consents in writing to such a transfer under this Employment Agreement, from the primary
 
work site which was the subject of such consent, to a new primary work site which is more than 30 miles (measured along a straight line) from Executive's then current primary work site unless such new primary work site is closer (measured along a straight line) to Executive's primary residence than Executive's then current primary work site;
     (4) ICE after the Effective Date of a Change in Control changes Executive's job title or fails to continue to make available to Executive the same or equivalent plans, programs and policies pursuant to  3.4 as made available before such Effective Date absent Executive's express written consent;
     (5) there is a material breach or, after the Effective Date of a Change in Control, any breach of this Employment Agreement by ICE; provided, however,
     (6) No such act or omission shall be treated as "Good Reason" under this Agreement unless
     (a) (1) Executive delivers to the Chairman of the Compensation Committee of ICE's Board of Directors a detailed, written statement of the basis for Executive's belief that such act or omission constitutes Good Reason, (2) Executive delivers such statement before the later of (A) the end of the ninety (90) day period which starts on the date there is an act or omission which forms the basis for Executive's belief that Good Reason exists or (B) the end of the period mutually agreed upon for purposes of this  4.2(f)(6)(a)(2)(B) in writing by Executive and the Chairman of the Compensation Committee of ICE's Board of Directors, (3) Executive gives the Compensation Committee of ICE's Board of Directors a thirty (30) day period after the delivery of such statement to cure the basis for such belief and (4) Executive actually submits Executive's written resignation to the Chairman of the Compensation Committee of ICE's Board of Directors during the sixty (60) day period which begins immediately after the end of such thirty (30) day period if Executive reasonably and in good faith determines that Good Reason continues to exist after the end of such thirty (30) day period, or
     (b) ICE states in writing to Executive that Executive has the right to treat any such act or omission as Good Reason under this Employment Agreement and Executive resigns during the sixty (60) day period which starts on the date such statement is actually delivered to Executive; and
     (7) If Executive consents in writing to any reduction described in  4.2(f)(1) or  4.2(f)(2), to any transfer described in  4.2(f)(3) or to any change or failure described in  4.2(f)(4) in lieu of exercising Executive's right to resign for Good Reason and delivers such consent to the Chairman of the Compensation Committee of ICE's Board of Directors, the date such consent is so delivered thereafter shall be treated under this definition as the Effective Date of a Change in Control for purposes of determining whether Executive
 
subsequently has Good Reason under this Employment Agreement to resign as a result of any such subsequent reduction, transfer or change or failure.
     (g) . The term "Gross Up Payment" as used in this Employment Agreement shall mean a payment to or on behalf of Executive which shall be sufficient to pay (1) 100% of any excise tax described in this 4.2(g), (2) 100% of any federal, state and local income tax and social security and other employment tax on the payment made to pay such excise tax as well as any additional taxes on such payment and (3) 100% of any interest or penalties assessed by the Internal Revenue Service on Executive which are related to the timely payment of such excise tax (unless such interest or penalties are attributable to Executive's willful misconduct or gross negligence with respect to such timely payment). A Gross Up Payment shall be made by ICE promptly after either ICE or ICE's independent accountants determine that any payments and benefits called for under this Employment Agreement together with any other payments and benefits made available to Executive by ICE and any other person will result in Executive's being subject to an excise tax under  4999 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (which shall be referred to in this  4.2(g) as the "Code") or such an excise tax is assessed against Executive as a result of any such payments and other benefits if Executive takes such action (other than waiving Executive's right to any payments or benefits in excess of the payments or benefits which Executive has expressly agreed to waive under this  4.2(g)) as ICE reasonably requests under the circumstances to mitigate or challenge such excise tax; provided, however, if ICE or ICE's independent accountants make the determination described in this  4.2(g) and, further, determine that Executive will not be subject to any such excise tax if Executive waives Executive's right to receive a part of such payments or benefits and such part does not exceed $15,000, Executive shall irrevocably waive Executive's right to receive such part if an independent accountant or lawyer retained by Executive and paid by ICE agrees with the determination made by ICE or ICE's independent accountants with respect to the effect of such reduction in payments or benefits. Any determinations under this 4.2(g) shall be made in accordance with  280G of the Code and any applicable related regulations (whether proposed, temporary or final) and any related Internal Revenue Service rulings and any related case law and, if ICE reasonably requests that Executive take action to mitigate or challenge, or to mitigate and challenge, any such tax or assessment (other than waiving Executive's right to any payments or benefits in excess of the payments or benefits which Executive has expressly agreed to waive under this 4.2(g)) and Executive complies with such request, ICE shall provide Executive with such information and such expert advice and assistance from ICE's independent accountants, lawyers and other advisors as Executive may reasonably request and shall pay for all expenses incurred in effecting such compliance and any related fines, penalties, interest and other assessments.
Gross Up Payment
     4.3. . If ICE terminates Executive's employment for Cause or Executive resigns other than for Good Reason, ICE's only obligation to Executive under this Employment Agreement shall (subject to applicable withholdings) be to pay Executive's base salary and annual bonus, if any, which were due and payable on the date Executive's employment terminated and to reimburse Executive for expenses Executive had already
Termination By ICE For Cause or By Executive Other Than For Good Reason
 
incurred and which would have otherwise been reimbursed but for such termination of employment.
     4.4. .
Termination for Disability or Death
     (a) . ICE shall have the right to terminate Executive's employment on or after the date Executive has a Disability, and Executive's employment shall terminate at Executive's death.
General
     (b) . If Executive's employment terminates under this  4.4, ICE's only obligation under this Employment Agreement shall (subject to applicable withholdings) be (1) to pay Executive or, if Executive dies, Executive's estate the base salary and annual bonus, if any, which were due and payable on the date Executive's employment terminated and (2) to reimburse Executive or, if Executive dies, Executive's estate for any expenses which Executive had already incurred and which would have otherwise been reimbursed but for such termination of employment.
Base Salary and Bonus
     4.5. . Executive upon Executive's termination of employment shall have the right to receive any benefits payable under ICE's employee benefit plans, programs and policies which Executive otherwise has a nonforfeitable right to receive under the terms of such plans, programs and policies independent of Executive's rights under this Employment Agreement; however, if a payment is made to Executive under  4.2(a) or  4.2(b), such payment shall be in lieu of any severance pay under any severance pay plan, program or policy.
Benefits at Termination of Employment
     4.6. . ICE and Executive agree that ICE shall take such action as ICE acting in good faith deems necessary or appropriate to delay the payments and the benefits described in this 4 to avoid reporting such payments or benefits to the IRS as subject to tax under 409A of the Code, including but not limited to delaying such payments and benefits for six months and one day after Executive terminates employment.
409A
 5. COVENANTS BY EXECUTIVE
     5.1. .
ICE and Affiliates Property
     (a) . Executive upon the termination of Executive's employment for any reason or, if earlier, upon ICE's request shall promptly return all Property (as defined in  5.1(b)) which had been entrusted or made available to Executive by ICE and each of its Affiliates and, if any copy of any such Property was made by, or for, Executive, each and every copy of such Property.
General
     (b) . The term "Property" means records, files, memoranda, tapes, computer disks, reports, price lists, customer lists, drawings, plans, sketches, keys, computer hardware and software, cellular telephones, credit cards, access cards, identification cards, personal data assistants and the like, company cars and other tangible personal property of any kind or description.
Property
 
5.2. .
Trade Secrets
     (a) . Executive agrees that Executive will hold in a fiduciary capacity for the benefit of ICE and each of its affiliates, and will not directly or indirectly use or disclose to any person not authorized by ICE, any Trade Secret (as defined in  5.2(b)) of ICE or its affiliates that Executive may have acquired (whether or not developed or compiled by Executive and whether or not Executive is authorized to have access to such information) during the term of, and in the course of, or as a result of Executive's employment by ICE or its affiliates for so long as such information remains a Trade Secret.
General
     (b) . The term "Trade Secret" for purposes of this Employment Agreement means information, including, but not limited to, technical or nontechnical data, a formula, a pattern, a compilation, a program, a device, a method, a technique, a drawing, a process, financial data, financial plans, product plans, or a list of actual or potential customers or suppliers that (a) derives economic value, actual or potential, from not being generally known to, and not being generally readily ascertainable by proper means by, other persons who can obtain economic value from its disclosure or use and (b) is the subject of reasonable efforts by ICE and its affiliates to maintain its secrecy.
Trade Secret
     (c) . This  5.2 is intended to provide rights to ICE and its affiliates which are in addition to, not in lieu of, those rights ICE and its affiliates have under the common law or applicable statutes for the protection of trade secrets.
Additional Rights
5.3. .
Confidential Information
     (a) . Executive while employed under this Employment Agreement and thereafter during the Restricted Period (as defined in  5.4) shall hold in a fiduciary capacity for the benefit of ICE and its affiliates, and shall not directly or indirectly use or disclose to any person not authorized by ICE, any Confidential Information (as defined in  5.3(b)) of ICE or its affiliates that Executive may have acquired (whether or not developed or compiled by Executive and whether or not Executive is authorized to have access to such information) during the term of, and in the course of, or as a result of Executive's employment by ICE or its affiliates.
General
     (b) . The term "Confidential Information" for purposes of this Employment Agreement means any secret, confidential or proprietary information possessed by ICE or its affiliates relating to their businesses, including, without limitation, customer lists, details of client or consultant contracts, current and anticipated customer requirements, pricing policies, price lists, market studies, business plans, operational methods, marketing plans or strategies, product development techniques or flaws, computer software programs (including object codes and source codes), data and documentation, data, base technologies, systems, structures and
Confidential Information
 
architectures, inventions and ideas, past, current and planned research and development, compilations, devices, methods, techniques, processes, future business plans, licensing strategies, advertising campaigns, financial information and data, business acquisition plans and new personnel acquisition plans (not otherwise included in the definition of a Trade Secret under this Employment Agreement) that has not become generally available to the public by the act of one who has the right to disclose such information without violating any right of ICE or its affiliates.
     (c) . This  5.3 is intended to provide rights to ICE and its affiliates which are in addition to, not in lieu of, those rights ICE and its affiliates have under the common law or applicable statutes for the protection of confidential information.
Additional Rights
     5.4. . The term "Restricted Period" for purposes of this Employment Agreement shall mean the remainder of the Term without regard to the reason for Executive's termination of employment.
Restricted Period
     5.5.
Nonsolicitation of Customers or Employees.
     (a) . Executive, while employed under this Employment Agreement and thereafter during the Restricted Period, shall not, on Executive's own behalf or on behalf of any person, firm partnership, association, corporation or business organization, entity or enterprise, call on or solicit for the purpose of competing with ICE or its affiliates any customers of ICE or its affiliates with whom Executive had contact, knowledge, or association at any time during Executive's employment with ICE or its affiliates, or with respect to the Restricted Period, at any time during the twenty-four (24) month period immediately preceding the beginning of the Restricted Period.
Customers
     (b) . Executive, while employed under this Employment Agreement and thereafter during the Restricted Period, shall not, either directly or indirectly, call on, solicit or attempt to induce any other officer, employee or independent contractor of ICE or its affiliates with whom Executive had contact, knowledge of, or association at any time during Executive's employment with ICE or its affiliates, or with respect to the Restricted Period, at any time during the twelve (12) month period immediately preceding the beginning of the Restricted Period, to terminate his or her employment or business relationship with ICE or its or its affiliates and shall not assist any other person or entity in such a solicitation.
Employees
     5.6. . Executive hereby unconditionally and irrevocably assigns to ICE all of Executive's right, title and interest in any ideas, inventions, trademarks, copyrights, developments and improvements that Executive conceives, alone or with others, during the Term, whether or not conceived during working hours, which are within the scope of ICE's business operations or relate to any of ICE's work, projects or research activities, all of which shall be referred to as
Intellectual Property Rights
 
"Intellectual Property", and Executive shall assist ICE, at ICE's expense, in obtaining patents, copyright and trademark registrations for Intellectual Property, execute and deliver all documents and do any and all things necessary and proper on Executive's part to obtain such patents and copyright and trademark registrations and execute specific assignments and other documents for such Intellectual Property as may be considered necessary or appropriate by ICE at any time during Executive's employment. This  5.6 shall not apply to any invention that Executive develops entirely on Executive's own time without using the equipment, supplies, facilities, or trade secret information of ICE or its affiliates. Executive agrees not to place Intellectual Property in the public domain or to disclose any inventions to third parties without the prior written consent of ICE.
     5.7. . Executive and ICE agree that (a) ICE and its affiliates are engaged in a business-to-business electronic exchange for trading commodities and related contracts, which shall be referred to as the "Business", (b) the Business can be and is conducted anywhere there is access to the internet, (c) the Business can be and is available to any person or entity who or which has access to the internet and desires to trade, or to monitor the trading of, commodities, (d) the Business consequently has no geographic boundary or limitation and will have none during the Term, (e) Executive is, and is expected to continue to be during the Term, intimately involved in the Business wherever it operates, (f) any covenant by Executive not to compete with ICE and its affiliates which is restricted to a specific area or territory, including an area in which ICE or its affiliates has offices or equipment or from which trades have been initiated, would thus provide no meaningful protection to ICE and its affiliates and (g) this  5.7 is intended to provide fair and reasonable protection to ICE and its affiliates in light of the unique circumstances of the Business. Executive therefore agrees that Executive shall not during the Term or, if less, for the one (1) year period which starts on the date Executive's employment terminates under this Employment Agreement assume or perform, directly or indirectly, whether as an owner, partner, employee, agent, consultant, advisor, contractor, salesman, stockholder, investor, officer or director, any managerial or supervisory responsibilities and duties that are substantially the same as those Executive performs for ICE on the date Executive executes this Employment Agreement for or on behalf of any other corporation, partnership, venture, or other business entity that engages in any business-to-business electronic exchange for trading commodities and related contracts if any site of any of the offices or equipment of such competitive business is in the United States, Canada, Mexico, Central America, South America or in any country which is a member of the European Union; provided, however, Executive may own up to five percent (5%) of the stock of a publicly traded company that engages in such competitive business so long as Executive is only a passive investor and is not actively involved in such company in any way.
Non-Compete
     5.8. . Executive agrees that Executive's obligations under this  5 are obligations which will continue beyond the date Executive's employment terminates and that such obligations are reasonable and necessary to protect ICE's and its affiliates' legitimate business interests. ICE in
Reasonable and Continuing Obligations
 
addition shall have the right to take such other action as ICE deems necessary or appropriate to compel compliance with the provisions of this
 5.
     5.9. . Executive agrees that the remedies at law of ICE for any actual or threatened breach by Executive of the covenants in this  5 would be inadequate and that ICE shall be entitled to specific performance of the covenants in this  5, including entry of an ex parte, temporary restraining order in state or federal court, preliminary and permanent injunctive relief against activities in violation of this  5, or both, or other appropriate judicial remedy, writ or order, in addition to any damages and legal expenses which ICE may be legally entitled to recover. Executive acknowledges and agrees that the covenants in this  5 shall be construed as agreements independent of any other provision of this or any other agreement between ICE and Executive, and that the existence of any claim or cause of action by Executive against ICE, whether predicated upon this Employment Agreement or any other agreement, shall not constitute a defense to the enforcement by ICE of such covenants.
Remedy for Breach
 6. MISCELLANEOUS
     6.1. . Notices and all other communications shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given when personally delivered or when mailed by United States registered or certified mail. Notices to ICE shall be sent to 2100 RiverEdge Parkway, Fifth Floor, Atlanta, Georgia 30328, Attention: Corporate Secretary. Notices and communications to Executive shall be sent to the address Executive most recently provided to ICE.
Notices
     6.2. . Except for the notice described in  6.1, no failure by either ICE or Executive at any time to give notice of any breach by the other of, or to require compliance with, any condition or provision of this Employment Agreement shall be deemed a waiver of any provisions or conditions of this Employment Agreement.
No Waiver
     6.3. . This Employment Agreement shall be governed by Georgia law (except to the extent that its choice of law provisions would call for the application of the law of another jurisdiction), and (subject to  6.8) any action that may be brought by either ICE or Executive involving the enforcement of this Employment Agreement or any rights, duties, or obligations under this Employment Agreement, shall be brought exclusively in the state or federal courts sitting in Atlanta, Georgia, and Executive consents and waives any objection to personal jurisdiction and venue in these courts for any such action.
Choice of Law and Courts
     6.4. . This Employment Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of ICE and any successor to all or substantially all of the business or assets of ICE. ICE may assign this Employment Agreement to any affiliate or successor, and no such assignment shall be treated as a termination of Executive's employment under this Employment Agreement. Executive's rights and obligations under this Employment Agreement are personal and shall not be assigned or transferred. Any such assignment or attempted assignment by Executive shall be null, void, and of no legal effect.
Assignment and Binding Effect
 
     6.5. . This Employment Agreement replaces and merges any and all previous agreements and understandings regarding all the terms and conditions of Executive's employment relationship with ICE, and this Employment Agreement constitutes the entire agreement of ICE and Executive with respect to such terms and conditions.
Other Agreements
     6.6. . Except as provided in  6.7, no amendment or modification to this Employment Agreement shall be effective unless it is in writing and signed by ICE and by Executive.
Amendment
     6.7. . If any provision of this Employment Agreement shall be found invalid or unenforceable, in whole or in part, then such provision shall be deemed to be modified or restricted to the extent and in the manner necessary to render such provision valid and enforceable, or shall be deemed excised from this Employment Agreement, as may be required under applicable law, and this Employment Agreement shall be construed and enforced to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, as if such provision had been originally incorporated in this Employment Agreement as so modified or restricted, or as if such provision had not been originally incorporated in this Employment Agreement, as the case may be.
Severability
     6.8 . ICE shall have the right to obtain an injunction or other equitable relief arising out of the Executive's breach of the provisions of  5 of this Employment Agreement. However, any other controversy or claim arising out of or relating to this Employment Agreement or any alleged breach of this Employment Agreement shall be settled by binding arbitration in Atlanta, Georgia in accordance with the rules of the American Arbitration Association then applicable to employment-related disputes and any judgment upon any award, which may include an award of damages, may be entered in the highest state or federal court having jurisdiction over such award. In the event of the termination of Executive's employment, Executive's sole remedy shall be arbitration under this  6.8 and any award of damages shall be limited to recovery of lost compensation and benefits provided for in this Employment Agreement. No punitive damages may be awarded to Executive. ICE shall be responsible for paying all reasonable fees of the arbitrator.
Arbitration
     6.9 .
Executive's Legal Fees and Expenses
     (a) . ICE shall reimburse Executive for Executive's reasonable legal fees and expenses which Executive incurs in connection with the review and negotiation of this Employment Agreement subject to a cap of $2,000. Any such reimbursement shall be made subject to applicable withholdings.
Negotiation of this Employment Agreement
     (b) . ICE shall have no obligation under the terms of this Employment Agreement to reimburse Executive for any of Executive's legal fees and expenses for any claims under this Employment Agreement except (i) with respect to his rights under  4.2(a)(5) to
Claims Unrelated to a Change in Control
 
one or, if necessary, more than one Gross Up Payment (as described in and paid in accordance with  4.2(g)), or (ii) as provided in  6.9(c).
     (c) . ICE shall reimburse Executive for all Executive's reasonable legal fees and expenses which Executive incurs in connection with any claim made with respect to Executive's rights under  4.2(b), including his rights under  4.2(b)(5) to one or, if necessary, more than one, Gross Up Payment (as described in and paid in accordance with  4.2(g)). Any such reimbursement shall be made subject to applicable withholdings.
Claims Related to a Change in Control
     6.10 . As a condition to ICE's making any payments to Executive after Executive's termination of employment under this Employment Agreement (other than the compensation earned before such termination and the benefits due under ICE's employee benefit plans without regard to the terms of this Employment Agreement), Executive or, if Executive is deceased, Executive's estate shall execute a release in the form of the release attached to this Employment Agreement as Exhibit A, or in such other form as is acceptable to ICE and Executive.
Release
     6.11 . This Employment Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which will be deemed an original, but all of which together will constitute one and the same Employment Agreement.
Counterparts
     6.12 . The headings and captions used in this Employment Agreement are used for convenience only and are not to be considered in construing or interpreting this Employment Agreement. Any reference to a section () shall be to a section () of this Employment Agreement absent an express statement to the contrary in this Employment Agreement.
Headings; References
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, ICE and Executive have executed this Employment Agreement in multiple originals to be effective on May 14, 2007.

 
PRESS RELEASE
Filed by IntercontinentalExchange, Inc. Pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and deemed filed pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended
Subject Company: CBOT Holdings, Inc. (Commission File No. 001- 32650)
(May 2, 2007) IntercontinentalExchange, Inc. (NYSE: ICE) reported record quarterly consolidated net income for the first quarter of 2007 of $55.6 million, an increase in quarterly earnings of 183% compared to $19.7 million in net income for the first quarter of 2006. Consolidated revenues in the quarter increased 152% to a record $126.6 million, from $50.3 million in the first quarter of 2006. Diluted earnings per share in the first quarter of 2007 were $0.80, a 142% increase compared to $0.33 in the same period in 2006. ICE completed the acquisition of the Board of Trade of the City of New York, Inc. (NYBOT) on January 12, 2007, when it became a wholly-owned subsidiary of ICE. The first quarter of 2007 represents the first quarter that NYBOT is included in ICE's financial results. NYBOT will be reported as a separate business segment in the company's consolidated financial statements.
ATLANTA, GA
The record financial results were driven by strong volume during the quarter at ICE Futures, the company's U.K. futures business segment; at NYBOT, ICE's U.S. futures business segment; in ICE's global over-the-counter (OTC) business segment; and in the company's market data business segment, which now includes the NYBOT market data business. ICE's total average daily volume (ADV) for its electronically-traded energy contracts in ICE's global futures and OTC markets exceeded the one-million contract mark for the first time, with ADV of 1.2 million contracts in the first quarter of 2007, representing a 96% increase compared to ADV of 603,000 contracts in the prior year's first quarter.
"This marks our fifth consecutive record quarter, and these results were achieved amid continued rapid expansion of our markets while we executed on many key initiatives in our core
1
 
commodities business," said ICE Chairman and CEO Jeffrey C. Sprecher. "In a highly competitive environment, ICE continues to demonstrate its ability to innovate and to serve customers around the globe, while maintaining its lead in the electronic energy markets and successfully adding new products, customers and markets."
Sprecher added: "During the quarter, we completed our acquisition of NYBOT, successfully launched electronic trading in NYBOT's soft commodity contracts and integrated the NYBOT operations smoothly and ahead of schedule. At the same time, we extended our reach into the energy markets, including our technology and settlement alliance with NGX to expand even further into Canadian markets, our purchase of the NGI indexes, and our continued work on new products including the ICE Middle East Sour Crude futures contract. In addition, we were granted 60/40 tax treatment for qualified U.S.-based ICE Futures customers, began developing a world-class clearing solution, and introduced our new matching engine in our key OTC markets. Finally, we offered what we believe is a superior proposal to merge with the Chicago Board of Trade, with a 13.4%, or $1.1 billion premium for CBOT shareholders."
In the first quarter of 2007, ICE's consolidated revenues increased 152% to $126.6 million compared to $50.3 million of revenues in the first quarter of 2006. Consolidated transaction fee revenues increased 153% to $109.3 million in the first quarter of 2007, from $43.2 million in the first quarter of 2006. Growth in transaction revenue was driven primarily by record trading volume in both the U.K. futures and OTC business segments during the quarter, by new participants in ICE's markets, and the addition of NYBOT. Excluding the NYBOT segment, ICE's first quarter consolidated revenues more than doubled, rising 105% over the prior first quarter.
First Quarter Results
Transaction fee revenues at ICE Futures totaled $44.1 million in the first quarter of 2007, an increase of 133% over $19.0 million in the same period in 2006. In the first quarter of 2007, average daily volume for ICE Futures rose 89% to a record 531,000 contracts, compared to 281,000 contracts per day in the first quarter of 2006. The increased adoption of electronic trading in the global energy futures markets and strong performance of ICE Futures' global oil complex contributed to the solid growth in volume. Rate per contract (RPC) for ICE Futures was $1.29 in the first quarter of 2007, compared to $1.13 in the first quarter of 2006.
Transaction fee revenues at NYBOT totaled $17.9 million in the first quarter of 2007, and exclude the first 12 days of January prior to the closing of the transaction. ICE introduced electronic trading of NYBOT's soft commodity futures contracts on February 2, 2007, which led to several new volume and open interest records, including an exchange-wide monthly volume record in April. NYBOT volume in the first quarter of 2007 totaled a record 11.3 million contracts. RPC in all NYBOT soft commodity products totaled $1.59 in the first quarter of 2007.
First quarter 2007 transaction fee revenues in the OTC business segment increased 95% to $47.3 million, compared to $24.3 million in the same period in 2006. First quarter average daily commissions for ICE's OTC segment increased 98% to a record $755,000, compared to $381,000 per day in the first quarter of 2006. Average daily commissions reflect daily trading activity in the company's OTC markets. ICE's OTC contract volume nearly doubled, to 39.8 million contracts compared to 20.0 million contracts in the first quarter of the prior year.
Consolidated market data fee revenues in the market data business segment increased 133% during the first quarter of 2007 to $14.0 million compared to $6.0 million in the same period in 2006. Consolidated other revenues increased 217% during the first quarter to $3.2 million from $1.0 million in the same period in 2006.
2
 
Consolidated operating expenses for the first quarter of 2007 were $47.0 million, an increase of 108% compared to $22.6 million in the same period of 2006. The primary driver of the increase in operating expenses was the result of expenses attributable to NYBOT following the acquisition. In addition, ICE recorded a 72% increase in non-cash compensation expense of $3.8 million during the first quarter, compared to $2.2 million in the same period in 2006. Finally, ICE incurred a 68% increase in royalty expense relating to the Wagner patent resulting from the growth in futures volume, to $1.7 million in the first quarter compared to $1.0 million in the same period in 2006. On February 20, the Wagner patent expired, resulting in the termination of the patent royalty expense going forward.
First quarter 2007 consolidated operating income was $79.6 million, up 188% compared to $27.7 million in the same period in 2006. This produced an operating margin of 63% for the first quarter of 2007, compared to an operating margin of 55% for the same period in 2006.
In August 2006, ICE Futures entered into an agreement with a third party to sell its former disaster recovery site in London. The sale was completed in February 2007, and ICE recognized a pre-tax gain on disposal of an asset of $9.3 million, which was recognized as other income in the first quarter of 2007. This asset sale resulted in earnings per diluted share of $0.08 for the first quarter of 2007, based on the after-tax gain of $5.8 million.
The effective tax rate for the first quarter of 2007 was 36.7%, as compared to 31.6% for the first quarter of 2006. The higher tax rate was primarily due to NYBOT's operations, for which the effective tax rate is higher than ICE's historical effective tax rate.
Consolidated net income in the first quarter of 2007 was $55.6 million, up 183% compared to $19.7 million in the same period in 2006. Earnings per diluted share were $0.80, an increase of 142% compared to $0.33 in the first quarter of 2006.
Capital expenditures in the first quarter of 2007 totaled $10.2 million compared to $1.9 million in the same period of 2006. The increase in capital expenditures primarily relates to hardware purchases to enhance the electronic trading and clearing platforms. Capitalized software development costs totaled $2.6 million in the first quarter, up from $1.5 million in the first quarter of 2006. Unrestricted cash and investments were $177.3 million as of March 31, 2007. ICE ended the first quarter with $250.0 million in debt as a result of the NYBOT acquisition on January 12, 2007, which included a $415.0 million cash payment for merger consideration and merger related expenses, of which $250.0 million was funded through a credit facility established on January 12, 2007.
On Monday, ICE announced its clearing strategy including plans to establish a U.K. clearing house under the name ICE Clear Europe to complement ICE's U.S. clearing business by leveraging common technology and clearing infrastructure. The New York Clearing Corp. (NYCC) will be renamed ICE Clear US. ICE Clear will comprise two clearing houses; ICE Clear US under the applicable regulatory oversight of the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, and ICE Clear Europe under the oversight of the U.K. Financial Services Authority. In its April 30 press release, ICE updated its clearing revenue and expense expectations for its clearing operations which are expected to begin July 1, 2008.
ICE Clearing and NYBOT Integration Update
sm
sm
In addition, ICE has updated its synergy estimates relating to the acquisition of NYBOT.
3
 
Other information
ICE will hold a conference call today, May 2, at 8:30 a.m. ET to review its first quarter financial results. The call will be broadcast live over the Internet via the Investor Relations page of ICE's website at www.theice.com. A slideshow will be available on the website in conjunction with the
Earnings Conference Call Information
4
 
earnings call. The call will be temporarily archived on the website. Participants may also listen via telephone by dialing (888) 202-2422 if calling from the United States, or (913) 981-5592 if calling from outside of the United States. The passcode for all callers is 4260061. For participants on the telephone, please place your call ten minutes prior to the start of the conference call.
Historical futures volume and OTC commission data can be found at:
www.theice.com/marketdata/recordsAndVolumes/volumes2007.jsp
Volume and open interest information on NYBOT can be found at:
https://www.theice.com/nybot_volumes.jhtml
IntercontinentalExchange (NYSE: ICE) operates the leading global, electronic marketplace for trading both futures and OTC energy contracts and the leading soft commodity exchange. ICE's markets offer access to a range of contracts based on crude oil and refined products, natural gas, power and emissions, as well as agricultural commodities including cocoa, coffee, cotton, ethanol, orange juice, wood pulp and sugar, in addition to currency and index futures and options. ICEconducts its energy futures markets through its U.K. regulated London-based subsidiary, ICE Futures, Europe's leading energy exchange. ICE Futures offers liquid markets in the world's leading oil benchmarks, Brent Crude futures and West Texas Intermediate (WTI) Crude futures, trading nearly half of the world's global crude futures by volume of commodity traded. ICE conducts its agricultural commodity futures and options markets through its U.S. regulated subsidiary, the New York Board of Trade. For more than a century, the NYBOT has provided global markets for food, fiber and financial products. ICE was added to the Russell 1000 Index on June 30, 2006. Headquartered in Atlanta, ICE also has offices in Calgary, Chicago, Houston, London, New York and Singapore. For more information, please visit www.theice.com and www.nybot.com.
About IntercontinentalExchange
C
Forward-Looking Statements
ertain statements in this Press Release may contain forward-looking information, including information regarding IntercontinentalExchange, Inc., CBOT Holdings, Inc., and the combined company after the completion of the possible merger, that are intended to be covered by the safe harbor for "forward-looking statements" provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include, but are not limited to, statements about our business environment; increasing competition; technological developments, including clearing developments; accuracy of our cost estimates and expectations, adjustments to exchange fees or commission rates; our belief that cash flows will be sufficient to fund our working capital needs and capital expenditures at least through the end of 2008; our ability to increase the connectivity to our marketplace; development of new products and services; pursuit of strategic acquisitions and alliances on a timely, cost-effective basis; maintaining existing market participants and attracting new ones; protection of our intellectual property rights and our ability to not violate the intellectual property rights of others; changes in domestic and foreign regulations or government policy; adverse litigation results; our belief in our electronic platform and disaster recovery system technologies and the ability to gain access to comparable products and services if our key technology contracts were terminated; the benefits of the merger involving ICE and the New York Board of Trade, or NYBOT; and the risk that the businesses will not be integrated successfully or the revenue opportunities, cost savings and other anticipated synergies from the merger may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected. In addition, statements about the possible merger between ICE and CBOT, including future strategic and financial benefits, the plans, objectives, expectations and intentions of ICE following the completion of the merger, and other statements that are not historical facts are forward looking statements. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of ICE's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.
The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements regarding the success of the proposed transaction: the failure of CBOT to accept ICE's proposal and enter into definitive agreements to effect the transaction, the risk that the revenue opportunities, cost savings and other anticipated synergies from the merger may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; superior offers by third parties; the ability to obtain governmental approvals and rulings on or regarding the transaction on the proposed terms and schedule; the failure of ICE or CBOT stockholders to approve the merger; the risk that the businesses will not be integrated successfully; disruption from the merger making it difficult to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers; competition and its effect on pricing, spending and third-party relationships and revenues; social and political conditions such as war, political unrest or terrorism; general economic conditions and normal business uncertainty. Additional risks and factors are identified in ICE's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), including ICE's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, as filed with the SEC on February 26, 2007.
5
 
You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Press Release. Except for any obligations to disclose material information under the Federal securities laws, ICE undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Press Release.
In connection with the proposed transaction, and assuming the merger proposal is accepted by CBOT, ICE intends to file relevant materials with the SEC, including a proxy statement/prospectus regarding the proposed transaction. Such documents, however, are not currently available. INVESTORS ARE URGED TO READ THE PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS AND ALL SUCH OTHER RELEVANT MATERIALS REGARDING THE PROPOSED TRANSACTION WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION. Investors will be able to obtain a free copy of the proxy statement/prospectus, if and when such document becomes available, and related documents filed by ICE or CBOT without charge, at the SEC's website (http://). Copies of the final proxy statement/prospectus, if and when such document becomes available, may be obtained, without charge, from ICE by directing a request to ICE at 2100 RiverEdge Parkway, Suite 500, Atlanta, Georgia, 30328, Attention: Investor Relations; or by emailing a request to .
Important Merger Information
www.sec.gov
ir@theice.com
This communication shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy the securities, nor shall there be any sale of securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction. No offering of securities shall be made except by means of a prospectus meeting the requirements of Section 10 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
ICE and its directors, executive officers and other employees may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in respect of the proposed transaction. You can find information about ICE's executive officers and directors in ICE's Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the SEC on February 26, 2007 and in ICE's proxy statement for its 2007 annual meeting of stockholders, dated March 30, 2007. Additional information about the interests of potential participants will be included in the prospectus/proxy statement, if and when it becomes available, and the other relevant documents filed with the SEC.
6
 
Consolidated Unaudited Financial Statements
7
 
8

 
Exhibit 99.2
          
PRESS RELEASE
(May 2, 2007)  IntercontinentalExchange (NYSE: ICE), the leading electronic energy marketplace and soft commodity exchange, today announced the appointment of Scott A. Hill as Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer of ICE. A 16-year international finance executive for IBM, Hill will become the CFO of ICE effective May 14, 2007. Richard V. Spencer, ICE Senior Vice President and CFO since December 2001 was recently appointed Vice Chairman of the New York Board of Trade, and has been named to the newly created post of Vice Chairman of ICE.
ATLANTA, GA
"We are thrilled to bring Scott into our rapidly expanding organization and believe his range of practical experience in accounting, corporate finance and strategic planning and execution, as well as in mergers, acquisitions, and business integrations will be invaluable," said ICE Chairman and CEO Jeffrey C. Sprecher. "Scott's talent and track record, including challenging assignments in the U.S., Europe and Asia, will make him a valuable addition to our management team as we pursue a wide range of corporate and strategic initiatives to build long-term value for shareholders."
"I look forward to joining the highly-regarded ICE management team and contributing to the continued growth of the company," said Hill. "The opportunity to be a part of the most dynamic, global and entrepreneurial company within the derivatives sector is truly exciting. Coming from a blue-chip diversified technology company, I was impressed by ICE's business model, level of technology sophistication and platform for growth."
Spencer will serve as Vice Chairman of ICE and NYBOT, as well as a member of the NYBOT Board of Directors. Spencer will remain Vice Chairman through the end of 2007 to facilitate the transition of the CFO responsibilities to Hill, and he will serve as a strategic financial advisor to ICE.
Sprecher added: "Richard has played a valuable role on the management team since he joined us in 2001. We are grateful for his contributions to date, including overseeing the process of our IPO in 2005, our secondary offering and the acquisition of the NYBOT, as well as his leadership in the successful integration of the NYBOT. We are pleased to have the benefit of Richard's counsel in his role as Vice Chairman of ICE and as he supports Scott in his transition to the CFO role."
"It has been truly gratifying to be a member of the ICE management team and to build on our successes as an organization over the past five years," said Richard Spencer. "I am pleased to be able to assist with
 
the transition and continue to work with Jeff, Scott and the ICE and NYBOT boards as we execute on the opportunities ahead."
Hill served as Vice President and Controller of IBM Japan's multi-billion dollar business operation from 2003 through 2005. Most recently, he returned to the corporate office in New York to oversee IBM's worldwide financial forecasts and measurements, working alongside the CFO of IBM and working with all of the company's global business units.
Joining IBM in 1991 as an accounting analyst, Hill was promoted through a number of finance roles until he was named Manager of Financial Consolidation and Pricing in 1998. He moved to Paris in 2000 to serve as Financial Controller of IBM's multi-billion European Technology Services business. In 2002, he returned to IBM's headquarters to work with the IBM CFO. He soon became Assistant Controller and Head of Financial Strategy and Budgets for IBM, working on financial modeling and capital structure.
A native of Texas, Hill earned a BBA in Finance with high honors from the University of Texas in Austin and an MBA from New York University, where he was recognized as a Stern Scholar.
Spencer joined ICE from Crossroads Investment Advisers, L.P., a private equity investment firm, where he served as President from 1998 to 2001. Previously, he was a Senior Vice President with the Private Funds Group of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette and a director with the Private Equity Group of Merrill Lynch in Atlanta. From 1990 to 1994, Spencer oversaw the Canadian operations of First Chicago. He has also worked in corporate finance, marketing and underwriting roles for Bear, Stearns and Co., Inc. and Goldman, Sachs & Co.
About IntercontinentalExchange
IntercontinentalExchange (NYSE: ICE) operates the leading global, electronic marketplace for trading both futures and OTC energy contracts and the leading soft commodity exchange. ICE's markets offer access to a range of contracts based on crude oil and refined products, natural gas, power and emissions, as well as agricultural commodities including cocoa, coffee, cotton, ethanol, orange juice, wood pulp and sugar, in addition to currency and index futures and options. ICEconducts its energy futures markets through its U.K. regulated London-based subsidiary, ICE Futures, Europe's leading energy exchange. ICE Futures offers liquid markets in the world's leading oil benchmarks, Brent Crude futures and West Texas Intermediate (WTI) Crude futures, trading nearly half of the world's global crude futures by volume of commodity traded. ICE conducts its agricultural commodity futures and options markets through its U.S. regulated subsidiary, the New York Board of Trade. For more than a century, the NYBOT has provided global markets for food, fiber and financial products. ICE was added to the Russell 1000 Index on June 30, 2006. Headquartered in Atlanta, ICE also has offices in Calgary, Chicago, Houston, London, New York and Singapore. For more information, please visit and .
www.theice.com
www.nybot.com
- Statements in this press release regarding IntercontinentalExchange's business that are not historical facts are "forward-looking statements" that involve risks and uncertainties. For a discussion of such risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements, see the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including, but not limited to, the risk factors in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 26, 2007.
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995


