FILE:ICE/ICE-8K-20070830170031.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrants under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.03. CREATION OF A DIRECT FINANCIAL OBLIGATION OR AN OBLIGATION UNDER AN OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENT OF A REGISTRANT
On August 24, 2007, IntercontinentalExchange, Inc. ("ICE") entered into the First Amendment (the "Amendment") to the Credit Agreement (the "Agreement") by and between ICE and Wachovia Bank, National Association, as Administrative Agent, Bank of America, N.A., as Syndication Agent, and the lenders named therein. The Amendment revises the conditions for permitted acquisitions and investments under the Agreement, as well as correcting the calculation for the interest coverage ratio. None of the terms for financing or amount of funds available to ICE were altered or revised. The foregoing descriptions of the Agreement and Amendment do not purport to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to ICE's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on January 12, 2007 with respect to the Agreement and to Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K with respect to the Amendment.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibit
     The following exhibit is filed as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K:
Forward-Looking Statements
 Certain statements in this Current Report on Form 8-K may contain forward-looking information regarding IntercontinentalExchange's business that are intended to be covered by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties and actual results may differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statement. For a discussion of such risks and uncertainties, see the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including, but not limited to, the risk factors in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, and the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2007 and June 30, 2007, each as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 26, 2007, May 4, 2007 and July 26, 2007, respectively.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 10.1
     , dated as of the 24 day of August, 2007 (this ""), is entered into among IntercontinentalExchange, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), the Lenders (as defined in the hereinafter defined Credit Agreement) party hereto, Wachovia Bank, National Association, as Administrative Agent for the Lenders (""), and Bank of America, N.A., as Syndication Agent for the Lenders ("").
THIS FIRST AMENDMENT TO CREDIT AGREEMENT
th
Amendment
Borrower
Wachovia
BofA
     A. The Borrower, the Lenders, Wachovia and BofA are parties to that certain Credit Agreement (the ""), dated as of January 12, 2007, providing for a term loan facility in the aggregate principal amount of $250,000,000 and a revolving credit facility in the aggregate principal amount of $250,000,000. Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement.
Credit Agreement
     B. The Borrower has requested certain amendments to the Credit Agreement and the Administrative Agent and the Lenders have agreed to make such amendments on the terms and conditions set forth herein.
     , in consideration of the foregoing and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
     1.1 .
Amendments to Section 1.1 (Defined Terms)
     (a) The following definitions are hereby added to Section 1.1 of the Credit Agreement in appropriate alphabetical order:
     "" shall mean the First Amendment to Credit Agreement, dated as of August 24, 2007, among the Borrower, the Lenders party thereto, and the Administrative Agent.
First Amendment
     "" shall mean the date upon which the conditions to the effectiveness of the First Amendment set forth in Article II thereof are satisfied or waived in accordance with their terms.
First Amendment Effective Date
 
     (b) Section 1.1 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by deleting, in its entirety, clause (viii) of the definition of "."
Permitted Acquisitions
     1.2 . Section 5.2 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by inserting the following proviso at the conclusion of clause (d):
Amendments to Section 5.2 (Other Business and Financial Information)
     1.3 .
Amendments to Section 7.5 (Investments)
     (a) Section 7.5(x) of the Credit Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:
     (b) Section 7.5(xiii) of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the amount "$2,000,000" at the beginning of clause (y) thereof, and replacing it with an amount of "$5,000,000", and deleting the amount "$10,000,000" at the beginning of clause (z) thereof and replacing it with the amount of "$25,000,000."
     1.4 .
Amendments to Exhibit C (Form of Compliance Certificate)
     (a) Exhibit C of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended as follows by deleting the reference to "Line C(5)" in the first row of the calculation for Interest Coverage Ratio in Section B of Attachment A and replacing it with "Line C(7)."
     (b) Exhibit C of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by inserting the following items below the current last row for the calculation for Consolidated EBITDA in Section C of Attachment A:
     "(6) Reductions from Consolidated EBITDA
 
     (7) Adjustments to Consolidated EBITDA:
     1.5 . Schedule 4.5 to the Credit Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the schedule attached hereto at .
Amendment to Schedule 4.5
Exhibit A
     This First Amendment shall become effective as of the date (the "") when, and only when, each of the following conditions precedent shall have been satisfied:
First Amendment Effective Date
     (a) The Administrative Agent shall have received, dated as of the First Amendment Effective Date, an executed counterpart hereof from each of the Borrower and the Required Lenders.
     (b) Since December 31, 2006, there has not occurred (i) any Material Adverse Effect, or (ii) any event, condition or state of facts that could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
     (c) The Borrower shall have paid to the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of each Lender who approves this Amendment, a fee in the amount of .05% of each such approving Lender's aggregate Commitment.
     (d) The Borrower shall have paid all reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses of the Administrative Agent in connection with the preparation, negotiation, execution and delivery of this First Amendment (including, without limitation, the reasonable fees and out-of-pocket expenses of counsel for the Administrative Agent with respect thereto).
     The Borrower hereby represents and warrants, on and as of the First Amendment Effective Date, that (i) the representations and warranties contained in the Credit Agreement and the other Credit Documents are true and correct in all material respects on and as of such date, both immediately before and after giving effect to the First Amendment (except to the extent any such representation or warranty is expressly stated to have been made as of a specific date, in which case such representation or warranty shall be true and correct in all material respects as of such date), (ii) this First Amendment has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Borrower and constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Borrower enforceable against it in accordance with its terms and (iii) no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing on the First Amendment Effective Date, both immediately before and after giving effect to the First Amendment.
 
     The Borrower hereby confirms and agrees that, after giving effect to this First Amendment, the Credit Agreement and the other Credit Documents remain in full force and effect and enforceable against the Borrower in accordance with their respective terms and shall not be discharged, diminished, limited or otherwise affected in any respect, and represents and warrants to the Lenders that it has no knowledge of any claims, counterclaims, offsets, or defenses to or with respect to its obligations under the Credit Documents, or if the Borrower has any such claims, counterclaims, offsets, or defenses to the Credit Documents or any transaction related to the Credit Documents, the same are hereby waived, relinquished, and released in consideration of the execution of this First Amendment. This acknowledgement and confirmation by the Borrower is made and delivered to induce the Administrative Agent and the Lenders to enter into this First Amendment, and the Borrower acknowledges that the Administrative Agent and the Lenders would not enter into this First Amendment in the absence of the acknowledgement and confirmation contained herein.
     5.1 . This First Amendment shall be governed by and construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law
     5.2 . Except as expressly amended hereby, the Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and effect in accordance with the provisions thereof on the date hereof. As used in the Credit Agreement, "hereinafter," "hereto," "hereof," and words of similar import shall, unless the context otherwise requires, mean the Credit Agreement after amendment by this First Amendment. Any reference to the Credit Agreement or any of the other Credit Documents herein or in any such documents shall refer to the Credit Agreement and Credit Documents as amended hereby. This First Amendment is limited as specified and shall not constitute or be deemed to constitute an amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of the Credit Agreement except as expressly set forth herein. This First Amendment shall constitute a Credit Document under the terms of the Credit Agreement.
Full Force and Effect
     5.3 . The Borrower agrees on demand (i) to pay all reasonable fees and expenses of counsel to the Administrative Agent, and (ii) to reimburse the Administrative Agent for all reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses, in each case, in connection with the preparation, negotiation, execution and delivery of this First Amendment and the other Credit Documents delivered in connection herewith.
Expenses
     5.4 . To the extent any provision of this First Amendment is prohibited by or invalid under the applicable law of any jurisdiction, such provision shall be ineffective only to the extent of such prohibition or invalidity and only in any such jurisdiction, without prohibiting or invalidating such provision in any other jurisdiction or the remaining provisions of this First Amendment in any jurisdiction.
Severability
 
     5.5 . This First Amendment shall be binding upon, inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the respective successors and permitted assigns of the parties hereto.
Successors and Assigns
     5.6 . The headings of the various sections and subsections of this First Amendment have been inserted for convenience only and shall not in any way affect the meaning or construction of any of the provisions hereof.
Construction
     5.7 . This First Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto on separate counterparts, each of which when so executed and delivered shall be an original, but all of which shall together constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
 
     , the parties hereto have caused this First Amendment to be executed by their duly authorized officers as of the date first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
INTERCONTINENTALEXCHANGE, INC.
/s/ Scott A. Hill Scott A. Hill Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer


