FILE:ICE/ICE-8K-20070201160040.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrants under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Item 5.02. DEPARTURE OF DIRECTORS OR CERTAIN OFFICERS; ELECTION OF DIRECTORS; APPOINTMENT OF CERTAIN OFFICERS; COMPENSATORY ARRANGEMENTS OF CERTAIN OFFICERS.
(c) Appointment of Officer.
On January 29, 2007, IntercontinentalExchange, Inc. ("ICE") and the Board of Trade of the City of New York ("NYBOT") announced that Thomas W. Farley, age 31, has been appointed as the President and Chief Operating Officer of NYBOT, effective February 20, 2007. Previously, from July 2005 to January 2007, Mr. Farley was President of SunGard's Kiodex business unit. From October 2000 to July 2005, Mr. Farley served as Kiodex's Chief Financial Officer and he also served as Kiodex's Chief Operating Officer from January 2003 to July 2005. Mr. Farley will also join NYBOT's board of directors. NYBOT intends to enter into a one-year employment agreement with Mr. Farley in the near future.
Mr. Farley has no family relationships with any executive officer, director or other employee of ICE or NYBOT. Mr. Farley has no material interest in any transaction or proposed transactions of ICE or NYBOT.
A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, and the information contained in the press release is incorporated in this Item 5.02(c) by reference.
Item 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(d) Exhibits
     The following exhibits are filed as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Current Report on Form 8-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
(January 29, 2007)  IntercontinentalExchange (NYSE: ICE), the leading electronic energy marketplace and soft commodities exchange, and its regulated subsidiary, the New York Board of Trade (NYBOT), announced today that Thomas W. Farley has been appointed President and Chief Operating Officer of the NYBOT, effective February 20, 2007.
ATLANTA and NEW YORK
Farley was previously President of SunGard's Kiodex business unit. During his time at Kiodex, he also held the positions of Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer. Farley will join the NYBOT Board of Directors.
"Tom brings leadership skills and an entrepreneurial background, and we are pleased to welcome him as a member of our dedicated management team," said ICE Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey C. Sprecher. "Tom's experience in financial services includes his key role in building and managing a rapidly growing, leading energy and commodity risk management business."
"I am excited to join the team at this important time in NYBOT's 136-year history as NYBOT and ICE combine their strengths," said Farley. "There are many opportunities to continue to expand NYBOT's food, fiber and financial products markets, and I look forward to working with the ICE and NYBOT teams to help achieve the aggressive plans for growth."
IntercontinentalExchange (NYSE: ICE) operates the leading global, electronic marketplace for trading both futures and OTC energy contracts and the leading soft commodity exchange. ICE's markets offer access to a range of contracts based on crude oil and refined products, natural gas, power and emissions, as well as soft commodities including cocoa, coffee, cotton, ethanol, orange juice, wood pulp and sugar, in addition to currency and index futures and options. ICEconducts its energy futures markets through its U.K. regulated London-based subsidiary, ICE Futures, Europe's leading energy exchange. ICE Futures offers liquid markets in the world's leading oil benchmarks, Brent Crude futures and West Texas Intermediate (WTI) Crude futures, trading nearly half of the world's global crude futures by volume of commodity traded. ICE conducts its soft commodity futures and options markets through its U.S. regulated subsidiary, the New York Board of Trade. For more than a century, the NYBOT has provided global markets for food, fiber and financial products. ICE was added to the Russell 1000 Index on June 30, 2006. Headquartered in Atlanta, ICE also has offices in Calgary, Chicago, Houston, London, New York and Singapore. For more information, please visit and .
About IntercontinentalExchange
www.theice.com
www.nybot.com
 
- Statements in this press release regarding IntercontinentalExchange's business that are not historical facts are "forward-looking statements" that involve risks and uncertainties. For a discussion of such risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements, see the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including, but not limited to, the risk factors in the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2006 and the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-4 (File No. 333-138312), as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 16, 2006.
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995


