FILE:ICE/ICE-8K-20070326083006.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrants under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events
IntercontinentalExchange, Inc. ("ICE") issued a press release today announcing that UBS Investment Bank and Socit Gnrale Corporate & Investment Banking have joined Morgan Stanley as co-advisors to ICE on its proposal to combine with the Chicago Board of Trade. A copy of the press release is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. ICE will host an investor call and presentation on Monday, March 26, at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time to provide additional information regarding its proposed merger with CBOT. The presentation is available on ICE's website and additional details regarding the call are available in the attached press release. The presentation is also attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.2.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Forward-Looking Statements
 Certain statements in this Current Report on Form 8-K may contain forward-looking information regarding IntercontinentalExchange, Inc., CBOT Holdings, Inc., and the combined company after the completion of the possible merger that are intended to be covered by the safe harbor for "forward-looking statements" provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include, but are not limited to, statements about the benefits of the merger transaction involving ICE and CBOT, including future strategic and financial benefits, the plans, objectives, expectations and intentions of ICE following the completion of the merger, and other statements that are not historical facts. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of ICE's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.
The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements regarding the success of the proposed transaction: the failure of CBOT to accept ICE's proposal and enter into definitive agreements to effect the transaction, the risk that the revenue opportunities, cost savings and other anticipated synergies from the merger may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; superior offers by third parties; the ability to obtain governmental approvals and rulings on or regarding the transaction on the proposed terms and schedule; the failure of ICE or CBOT stockholders to approve the merger; the risk that the businesses will not be integrated successfully; disruption from the merger making it difficult to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers; competition and its effect on pricing, spending and third-party relationships and revenues; social and political conditions such as war, political unrest or terrorism; general economic conditions and normal business uncertainty. Additional risks and factors are identified in ICE's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), including ICE's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, as filed with the SEC on February 26, 2007.
You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Current Report on Form 8-K. Except for any obligations to disclosure material information under the Federal securities laws, ICE undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Important Merger Information
In connection with the proposed transaction, and assuming the merger proposal is accepted by CBOT, ICE intends to file relevant materials with the SEC, including a proxy statement/prospectus regarding the proposed transaction. Such documents, however, are not currently available. INVESTORS ARE URGED TO READ THE PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS REGARDING THE PROPOSED TRANSACTION, IF AND WHEN IT BECOMES AVAILABLE, BECAUSE IT WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION. Investors will be able to obtain a free copy of the proxy statement/prospectus, if and when such document becomes available, and related documents filed by ICE or CBOT without charge, at the SEC's website (http://). Copies of the final proxy
www.sec.gov
 
statement/prospectus, if and when such document becomes available, may be obtained, without charge, from ICE by directing a request to ICE at 2100 RiverEdge Parkway, Suite 500, Atlanta, Georgia, 30328, Attention: Investor Relations; or by emailing a request to .
ir@theice.com
This communication shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy the securities, nor shall there be any sale of securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction. No offering of securities shall be made except by means of a prospectus meeting the requirements of Section 10 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
ICE and its directors, executive officers and other employees may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in respect of the proposed transaction. You can find information about ICE's executive officers and directors in ICE's Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the SEC on February 26, 2007 and in ICE's proxy statement for its 2006 annual meeting of stockholders, dated April 3, 2006. Additional information about the interests of potential participants will be included in the prospectus/proxy statement, if and when it becomes available, and the other relevant documents filed with the SEC.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: March 26, 2007
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
Filed by IntercontinentalExchange, Inc. Pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and deemed filed pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended Subject Company: CBOT Holdings, Inc. (Commission File No. 001- 32650)
Atlanta, GA (March 26, 2007)  IntercontinentalExchange, Inc. (NYSE: ICE) today announced that UBS Investment Bank and Socit Gnrale Corporate & Investment Banking have joined Morgan Stanley as co-advisors to ICE on its proposal to combine with the Chicago Board of Trade (NYSE: BOT).
"UBS and Socit Gnrale are two of the leading players in the global commodities business and we are very pleased to have them on our team," said Jeffrey C. Sprecher, Chairman and CEO of ICE. "Their involvement indicates their support for our pro-competitive proposal to combine ICE and CBOT and the many benefits it would bring to participants throughout the global derivatives marketplace."
Francois-Xavier Saint-Macary, Global Head of Commodities Markets for Socit Gnrale, said, "As a founding shareholder, a business partner, a user of  and major contributor to  their services, Socit Gnrale has been a strong supporter of ICE's business model and growth strategy since the creation of the company."
Dennis Scurletis, Head of Morgan Stanley's Futures Division, said, "As a participant in the futures market, we would welcome any development that fosters greater competition. As a Firm, we have a long-standing relationship with ICE and continue to be a shareholder in the company."
UBS, Socit Gnrale and Morgan Stanley are all ranked in the top 10 for Futures Commission Merchant (FCM) operations, based on U.S. customer segregated funds.
Investor Conference Call
ICE will hold a conference call today at 8:30 a.m. EDT for the investment community to provide additional information regarding its proposed merger with CBOT. Participants may listen via telephone by dialing (888) 459-5609 if calling from the United States, or (973) 321-1024 if dialing from outside of the United States. The passcode for all callers is 8621835. For participants on the telephone, please dial in 10 minutes prior to the start of the call. A live audio webcast of the call also will be available on the company's website at www.theice.com under About ICE/Investor Resources and on www.theicecbot.com under Webcasts & Presentations.
 
The call will be archived on ICE's website for replay. A telephone replay will also be available at (877) 519-4471 for callers within the United States and at (973) 341-3081 for callers outside of the United States. The replay passcode is 8621835.
Additional Information
More information about the ICE proposal is available on the ICE website at www.theice.com under About ICE/Investor Resources and at .
www.theicecbot.com
About IntercontinentalExchange
IntercontinentalExchange (NYSE: ICE) operates the leading global, electronic marketplace for trading both futures and OTC energy contracts and the leading soft commodity exchange. ICE's markets offer access to a range of contracts based on crude oil and refined products, natural gas, power and emissions, as well as agricultural commodities including cocoa, coffee, cotton, ethanol, orange juice, wood pulp and sugar, in addition to currency and index futures and options. ICEconducts its energy futures markets through its U.K. regulated London-based subsidiary, ICE Futures, Europe's leading energy exchange. ICE Futures offers liquid markets in the world's leading oil benchmarks, Brent Crude futures and West Texas Intermediate (WTI) Crude futures, trading nearly half of the world's global crude futures by volume of commodity traded. ICE conducts its agricultural commodity futures and options markets through its U.S. regulated subsidiary, the New York Board of Trade. For more than a century, the NYBOT has provided global markets for food, fiber and financial products. ICE was added to the Russell 1000 Index on June 30, 2006. Headquartered in Atlanta, ICE also has offices in Calgary, Chicago, Houston, London, New York and Singapore. For more information, please visit and .
www.theice.com
www.nybot.com
Forward-Looking Statements
 Certain statements in this press release may contain forward-looking information regarding IntercontinentalExchange, Inc., CBOT Holdings, Inc., and the combined company after the completion of the possible merger that are intended to be covered by the safe harbor for "forward-looking statements" provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include, but are not limited to, statements about the benefits of the merger transaction involving ICE and CBOT, including future strategic and financial benefits, the plans, objectives, expectations and intentions of ICE following the completion of the merger, and other statements that are not historical facts. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of ICE's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.
The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements regarding the success of the proposed transaction: the failure of CBOT to accept ICE's proposal and enter into definitive agreements to effect the transaction, the risk that the revenue opportunities, cost savings and other anticipated synergies from the merger may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; superior offers by third parties; the ability to obtain governmental approvals and rulings on or regarding the transaction on the
 
proposed terms and schedule; the failure of ICE or CBOT stockholders to approve the merger; the risk that the businesses will not be integrated successfully; disruption from the merger making it difficult to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers; competition and its effect on pricing, spending and third-party relationships and revenues; social and political conditions such as war, political unrest or terrorism; general economic conditions and normal business uncertainty. Additional risks and factors are identified in ICE's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), including ICE's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, as filed with the SEC on February 26, 2007.
You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release. Except for any obligations to disclosure material information under the Federal securities laws, ICE undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this press release.
Important Merger Information
In connection with the proposed transaction, and assuming the merger proposal is accepted by CBOT, ICE intends to file relevant materials with the SEC, including a proxy statement/prospectus regarding the proposed transaction. Such documents, however, are not currently available. INVESTORS ARE URGED TO READ THE PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS AND ALL SUCH OTHER RELEVANT MATERIALS REGARDING THE PROPOSED TRANSACTION WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION. Investors will be able to obtain a free copy of the proxy statement/prospectus, if and when such document becomes available, and related documents filed by ICE or CBOT without charge, at the SEC's website (http://). Copies of the final proxy statement/prospectus, if and when such document becomes available, may be obtained, without charge, from ICE by directing a request to ICE at 2100 RiverEdge Parkway, Suite 500, Atlanta, Georgia, 30328, Attention: Investor Relations; or by emailing a request to .
www.sec.gov
ir@theice.com
This communication shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy the securities, nor shall there be any sale of securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction. No offering of securities shall be made except by means of a prospectus meeting the requirements of Section 10 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
ICE and its directors, executive officers and other employees may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in respect of the proposed transaction. You can find information about ICE's executive officers and directors in ICE's Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the SEC on February 26, 2007 and in ICE's proxy statement for its 2006 annual meeting of stockholders, dated April 3, 2006. Additional information about the interests of potential participants will be included in the prospectus/proxy statement, if and when it becomes available, and the other relevant documents filed with the SEC.
IntercontinentalExchange Kelly Loeffler VP, Investor Relations and Corporate Communications (770) 857-4726 kelly.loeffler@theice.com
Contact:
Sard Verbinnen & Co Jim Barron/Kara Findlay (212) 687-8080 Brad Wilks (312) 895-4700
Crystal Clear Communications Ellen G. Resnick (773) 929-9292; (312) 399-9295 (c) eresnick@crystalclearPR.com

 
EXHIBIT 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


