FILE:ICE/ICE-8K-20091001083049.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrants under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02.     DEPARTURE OF DIRECTORS OR CERTAIN OFFICERS; ELECTION OF DIRECTORS; APPOINTMENT OF CERTAIN OFFICERS; COMPENSATORY ARRANGEMENTS OF CERTAIN OFFICERS.
(d)           Director Appointment.
Effective October 1, 2009, the Board of Directors of IntercontinentalExchange, Inc. (ICE) appointed Sir Callum McCarthy as a director of ICE to fill the vacant position on the ICE Board of Directors.  Sir Callum McCarthy will serve as a director until his successor is duly elected and qualified or until his earlier resignation, removal or death.
Sir Callum McCarthy served as Chairman of the Financial Services Authority (the FSA) from 2003 to 2008.  The FSA is the integrated regulator for financial activities in the United Kingdom.  Prior to his service at the FSA, Sir Callum McCarthy was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Ofgem, which is the Office of the Gas and Electricity Markets in Britain. From 1996 to 1998, Sir Callum McCarthy served as Chief Executive Officer of Barclays Bank, North America, and from 1993 to 1996, as Chief Executive Officer of Barclays Bank, Japan.
 
After review with counsel, the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and the Board of Directors have determined that Sir Callum McCarthy qualifies as an independent director and meets the applicable independence requirements of ICE, the New York Stock Exchange and the Securities and Exchange Commission (the Commission).  Further, there are no arrangements or understandings pursuant to which Sir Callum McCarthy was appointed as a director of ICE and he has no relationships or related transactions with ICE that would require disclosure pursuant to the Commissions requirements under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.  As of the time of the filing of this Current Report on Form 8-K, Sir Callum McCarthy has not been appointed to any committees of the Board of Directors of ICE and ICE had not determined to which committees, if any, Sir Callum McCarthy may be appointed.
Sir Callum McCarthy will participate in ICEs non-employee director compensation arrangements, which provide for the following compensation: (1) an annual retainer of $45,000, (2) an annual grant of $175,000 in the form of restricted stock units that vest one year from the date of grant with the number of units calculated at the time of grant by dividing the annual grant value by the closing price of ICEs common stock on the date of grant and (3) an initial one-time grant to new non-employee directors of $100,000 in the form of restricted stock units that vest in equal annual installments over three years from the date of grant with the number of units calculated at the time of grant by dividing the annual grant value by the closing price of ICEs common stock on the date of grant.  If Sir Callum McCarthy is appointed to serve on a committee of the Board of Directors, he will be entitled to additional cash compensation in connection with such additional service.  Sir Callum McCarthy will also be reimbursed for reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with attending meetings of the Board of Directors.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)           Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Current Report on Form 8-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date:           October 1, 2009

Exhibit 99.1
 
PRESS RELEASE
Investor Contacts:
Kelly Loeffler, VP, Investor Relations & Corp. Communications
IntercontinentalExchange
770-857-4726
kelly.loeffler@theice.com
Sarah Stashak, Director, Investor & Public Relations
IntercontinentalExchange
770-857-0340
sarah.stashak@theice.com
(October 1, 2009)  (NYSE: ICE), a leading operator of regulated global futures exchanges, clearing houses and over-the-counter (OTC) markets, today announced that Sir Callum McCarthy has joined the IntercontinentalExchange Board of Directors, effective today. Sir Callums appointment fills a vacant seat on the Board of Directors.
ATLANTA, GA
IntercontinentalExchange
Sir Callum served as Chairman of the Financial Services Authority (FSA), which is the United Kingdoms financial regulator, from 2003 to 2008.  Prior to his service at the FSA, Sir Callum was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Britains Office of the Gas and Electricity Markets, or Ofgem. From 1996 to 1998, Sir Callum served as Chief Executive Officer of Barclays Bank, North America, and from 1993 to 1996, as Chief Executive Officer of Barclays Bank, Japan.
Said Jeffrey C. Sprecher, ICEs Chairman and Chief Executive Officer: We are very pleased to welcome Sir Callum as a member of the ICE Board of Directors. Sir Callum has tremendous managerial experience from banking and energy, to his leadership of the FSA. Our Board and management team look forward to benefitting from his perspectives and expertise.
About IntercontinentalExchange
IntercontinentalExchange (NYSE: ICE) operates leading regulated exchanges, trading platforms and clearing houses serving the global markets for agricultural, credit, currency, emissions, energy and equity index markets.  ICE Futures Europe hosts trade in half of the worlds crude and refined oil futures. ICE Futures U.S. and ICE Futures Canada list agricultural, currency and Russell Index markets. ICE offers trade execution and processing for the credit derivatives markets through Creditex and ICE Link, respectively, and CDS clearing through ICE Trust and ICE Clear Europe. A component of the Russell 1000 and S&P 500 indexes, ICE serves customers in more than 50 countries and is headquartered in Atlanta, with offices in New York, London, Chicago, Winnipeg, Calgary, Houston and Singapore. 
TM
TM
www.theice.com
- Statements in this press release regarding IntercontinentalExchanges business that are not historical facts are "forward-looking statements" that involve risks and uncertainties. For a discussion of additional risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements, see ICEs Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings, including, but not limited to, the risk factors in ICEs Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, as filed with the SEC on February 11, 2009.
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995


