FILE:ICE/ICE-8K-20100505073614.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On May 5, 2010, IntercontinentalExchange, Inc. (the "Company") announced its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2010. A copy of the Company's press release announcing such financial results is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
The information in this Item 2.02, including the attached press release, is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 except as may be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On May 5, 2010, the Company filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission a supplement (the "Supplement") to the definitive proxy statement (the "Proxy Statement") of the Board of Directors of the Company dated April 5, 2010 relating to the annual meeting of stockholders of the Company to be held on Friday, May 21, 2010 at 8:30 a.m., local time, at The Ritz Carlton Buckhead, 3434 Peachtree Road, NE, Atlanta, Georgia 30326. The purpose of the Supplement is to provide additional information with respect to director nominees who are members of the Company's Audit Committee. Except as described in the Supplement, the information disclosed in the Proxy Statement continues to apply. Information about the Company's 2010 annual meeting of stockholders, scheduled for May 21, 2010, and the director nominees for election are set forth in the Proxy Statement, which is supplemented by the Supplement to reflect the information set forth below.
If an Audit Committee member simultaneously serves on the audit committees of more than three public companies, the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") listing standards and the Company's Audit Committee charter require the Company's Board of Directors to determine that such simultaneous service does not impair the ability of such member to effectively serve on the Company's Audit Committee and to disclose such determination in its annual proxy statement. Mr. Martell does not serve on any other public company audit committee, Ms. Sprieser currently serves on one other public company audit committee, and Mr. Salerno currently serves on four other public company audit committees. In accordance with the NYSE listing standards and the Company's Audit Committee charter, the Company's Board of Directors has determined that Mr. Salerno's service on these other public company audit committees does not impair his ability to serve effectively on the Company's Audit Committee or as Chairman of the Audit Committee. This determination is based on his experience as the former chief financial officer of a major public company, his experience as Chairman of the Company's Audit Committee, his experience as a member of audit
Service on the Audit Committees of Other Public Companies.
committees of other public companies and the fact that he is retired from full-time employment, thereby allowing him to devote sufficient time to his responsibilities as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Proxy Statement, together with the Supplement, have been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and are also available for viewing at the website maintained for the annual meeting at (as well as on the Company's website at ). The Company will furnish a copy of the Supplement to any stockholder by mail upon written or verbal request to the Company at IntercontinentalExchange, Inc., 2100 RiverEdge Parkway, Suite 500, Atlanta, Georgia 30328, Attn: Investor Relations, telephone: 770-857-4700, .
www.proxyvote.com
www.theice.com
e-mail:
ir@theice.com
Stockholders who have already submitted proxies for this meeting may revoke them, or if they wish to change their vote they may do so by (i) filling out the electronic proxy card at , (ii) calling the toll-free number for telephone voting that can be found on your proxy card (800-690-6903), (iii) requesting a new proxy card from the Company at IntercontinentalExchange, Inc., 2100 RiverEdge Parkway, Suite 500, Atlanta, Georgia 30328, Attn: Investor Relations, telephone: 770-857-4700, , and mailing the proxy card as instructed in the Proxy Statement, or (iv) by attending the annual meeting in person. To be valid, your vote by Internet, telephone or mail must be received by 11:59 p.m., Eastern Daylight Time, on May 20, 2010.
www.proxyvote.com
e-mail:
ir@theice.com
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: May 5, 2010

Exhibit 99.1
EARNINGS RELEASE
Media & Investor Contacts:
Kelly Loeffler, VP, Investor Relations & Corp. Communications
IntercontinentalExchange
770-857-4726
kelly.loeffler@theice.com
Sarah Stashak, Director, Investor & Public Relations
IntercontinentalExchange
770-857-0340
sarah.stashak@theice.com
 
 
 
 
IntercontinentalExchange, Inc. (NYSE: ICE), a leading operator of regulated global exchanges and over-the-counter (OTC) markets, today reported record financial results for the first quarter of 2010, including consolidated revenues of $282 million, an increase of 22% over first quarter 2009 revenues of $232 million. First quarter 2010 consolidated net income attributable to ICE was a record $101 million, a 40% increase from first quarter 2009 net income of $72 million. Diluted earnings per share (EPS) in the first quarter rose 39% to $1.36, compared to first quarter 2009 EPS of $0.98. Adjusted net income attributable to ICE and adjusted diluted EPS increased 26% and 25%, respectively, excluding $13 million in pre-tax acquisition and restructuring charges incurred during the first quarter of 2009. For further details, please refer to the reconciliation of first quarter 2009 non-GAAP financial measures included in this press release.
ATLANTA, GA (May 5, 2010) 
Said ICE Chairman and CEO Jeffrey C. Sprecher: "ICE once again achieved solid growth on top of the industry-leading performance we delivered throughout the difficult market environment of the past two years. We have positioned the company to serve the needs of the OTC and futures markets globally, and we remain intensely focused on building our business for our customers and shareholders. Our successful expansion into new markets, clearing and continued product innovation demonstrates our leadership in delivering industry solutions. Against a backdrop of increasing demand for transparency and clearing, We believe ICE is well positioned to continue to outperform its peers."
 
ICE CFO Scott Hill added: "With our strong start to 2010, we have built upon our track record of consistently delivering solid financial results and increasing shareholder value. Our strategy is to leverage our industry leading technology, depth of OTC execution, processing and clearing capabilities, diverse product and geographic profile and strong financial position. As a result, we have consistently delivered revenue and profit growth, margin expansion and industry leading returns on capital. The successful execution of our strategy is enabled by a disciplined approach to expense management and a focus on efficient capital deployment."
First Quarter 2010 Results
Consolidated revenues in the first quarter of 2010 increased 22% to $282 million, compared to $232 million in the first quarter of 2009. Consolidated transaction and clearing revenues increased 23% to $251 million, from $203 million during the same period in 2009. The increase in transaction and clearing revenue was driven primarily by growth in commodity trading volume in ICE's futures and OTC markets.
Transaction and clearing revenues in ICE's futures segment totaled $123 million in the first quarter of 2010, a 25% increase from $98 million in the same period of 2009. Consolidated average daily volume in ICE's futures segment in the first quarter of 2010 was 1,289,160 contracts, up 28% from the same period of 2009. This growth was primarily driven by ICE Brent Crude and ICE Gasoil futures, as well as increases in sugar and cotton futures and options contract volume.
First quarter 2010 transaction and clearing revenues in ICE's global OTC segment increased 22% to $128 million, compared to $105 million for the same period in 2009. Average daily commissions (ADC) for ICE's OTC energy business were a record $1.4 million in the first quarter of 2010, an increase of 27% from $1.1 million in the first quarter of 2009. Cleared energy contracts accounted for 97% of OTC energy contract volume during the first quarter of 2010, compared to 96% in the prior first quarter. Revenues from ICE's credit default swap (CDS) trade execution and clearing business totaled $43 million, including $12 million from CDS clearing in the first quarter of 2010, up 13% from the first quarter of 2009, and up 8% from the fourth quarter of 2009.
Consolidated market data revenues increased 3% during the first quarter of 2010 to $27 million, compared to $26 million in the same period in 2009. Consolidated other revenues were $4 million during the first quarter of 2010, compared to $2 million in the prior first quarter.
First quarter 2010 consolidated operating expenses were $118 million, in line with the first quarter of 2009, which included $13 million in pre-tax acquisition and restructuring charges, as detailed in the non-GAAP reconciliation table in this press release.
First quarter 2010 consolidated operating income rose 44% from the prior first quarter to $164 million. First quarter 2010 operating margin rose to 58%, compared to 49% for the same period in 2009.
The effective tax rate was 34% in the first quarter of 2010 and the prior first quarter.
Consolidated cash flow from operations increased 50% from the first quarter of 2009 to $102 million in the first quarter of 2010. Capital expenditures were $5 million and capitalized software development costs totaled $6 million in the first quarter of 2010.
 
Unrestricted cash and short-term investments were $614 million as of March 31, 2010. At the end of the quarter, ICE had $285 million in outstanding debt.
Financial and Operating Guidance
 
 
Earnings Conference Call Information
ICE will hold a conference call today, May 5, at 8:30 a.m. ET to review its first quarter 2010 financial results. A live audio webcast of the earnings call will be available on the company's website at www.theice.com under . Participants may also listen via telephone by dialing 888-312-3047 if calling from the United States, or +1 719-457-2607 if dialing from outside of the United States. For participants on the telephone, please place your call ten minutes prior to the start of the call.
About ICE/Investors & Media
The earnings call and related materials will be archived on the company's website for replay. A telephone replay of the earnings call will also be available at 888-203-1112 for callers within the United States and at 719-457-0820 for callers outside of the United States. The passcode for the replay is 4405766.
Historical futures volume, rate per contract and OTC commission data can be found at:
http://ir.theice.com/supplemental.cfm
About IntercontinentalExchange
IntercontinentalExchange (NYSE: ICE) is a leading operator of regulated futures exchanges and over-the-counter markets for agricultural, credit, currency, emissions, energy and equity index contracts. ICE Futures Europe hosts trade in half of the world's crude and refined oil futures. ICE Futures U.S. and ICE Futures Canada list agricultural, currencies and Russell Index markets. ICE is also a leading operator of central clearing services for the futures and over-the-counter markets, with five regulated clearing houses across North America and Europe. ICE serves customers in more than 55 countries. 
www.theice.com
The following are trademarks of IntercontinentalExchange, Inc. and/or its affiliated companies: IntercontinentalExchange, IntercontinentalExchange & Design, ICE, ICE and block design, ICE Futures Canada, ICE Futures Europe, ICE Futures U.S., ICE Trust, ICE Clear Europe, ICE Clear U.S., ICE Clear Canada, The Clearing Corporation, U.S. Dollar Index, ICE Link and Creditex. All other trademarks are the property of their respective ownersFor more information regarding registered trademarks owned by IntercontinentalExchange, Inc. and/or its affiliated companies, see
.
https://www.theice.com/terms.jhtml
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release may contain "forward-looking statements" made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements regarding IntercontinentalExchange's business that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or implied in any forward-looking statement. The factors that might affect our performance include, but are not limited to: our business environment; conditions in global financial markets; domestic and international economic conditions; volatility in commodity prices; our ability to identify and effectively pursue acquisitions and strategic alliances and successfully integrate the companies we acquire on a cost-effective basis; changes in domestic and foreign laws, regulations or government policy; increasing competition and consolidation in our industry; our ability to minimize the risks associated with operating multiple clearing houses in multiple jurisdictions; the success of our initiative to clear credit default swaps transactions; the success of our global clearing strategy; technological developments, including clearing developments; the accuracy of our cost estimates and expectations, including, without limitation, those set forth in this press release under "Financial and Operating Guidance"; our belief that cash flows will be sufficient to service our debt and fund our working capital needs and capital expenditures at least through the end of 2011; our ability to increase the connectivity to our marketplace; maintaining existing market participants and attracting new ones; our ability to develop new products and services; protecting our intellectual property rights; not violating the intellectual property rights of others; potential adverse litigation results; our belief in our electronic platform and disaster recovery system technologies; and our ability to gain access to comparable products and services if our key technology contracts were terminated. For a discussion of such risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements, see ICE's Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings, including, but not limited to, the risk factors in ICE's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, which was filed with the SEC on February 10, 2010. These filings are also available in the Investors & Media section of our website. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release. Except for any obligations to disclose material information under the Federal securities laws, ICE undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this press release.
 
Consolidated Unaudited Financial Statements
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Reconciliation
ICE presents adjusted net income attributable to ICE and adjusted earnings per share attributable to ICE as additional information regarding our operating results. These measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative to, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, and may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. Investors should not rely on any single financial measure when evaluating our business. ICE strongly recommends that investors review the GAAP financial measures included in this press release and its Annual Report on Form 10-K, and Form 10-Q, including ICE's consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto.
When viewed in conjunction with ICE's GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliation, ICE believes these adjusted measures provide greater transparency and a more complete understanding of factors affecting our business than GAAP measures alone. ICE management uses these measures to evaluate operating performance and management decisions made during the reporting period by excluding certain items that the company believes have less significance on, or do not impact, the day-to-day performance of the business. ICE's internal budgets are based on adjusted net income attributable to ICE and adjusted earnings per share attributable to ICE, and the company periodically reports these measures to its Board of Directors. In addition, adjusted net income attributable to ICE is one of the criteria considered in determining performance-based compensation. ICE uses these adjusted measures because they more clearly highlight trends in the business that may not otherwise be apparent when relying solely on GAAP financial measures, since they eliminate from the company's results specific financial items that have less bearing on ICE's operating performance.
The following table reconciles our net income attributable to ICE to adjusted net income attributable to ICE and calculates adjusted earnings per common share attributable to ICE for the periods presented below.
 
 
 


