FILE:ICE/ICE-8K-20110803073520.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On August 3, 2011, IntercontinentalExchange, Inc. (ICE) announced its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2011.  A copy of ICEs press release announcing such financial results is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
The information contained herein, including the attached press release, is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 except as may be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)  Exhibits
 
 
2
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
3

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
EARNINGS RELEASE
Investor and Media Contacts:
Kelly Loeffler, VP, Investor Relations & Corp. Communications
IntercontinentalExchange
770-857-4726
kelly.loeffler@theice.com
Melanie Shale, Director of Investor & Public Relations
IntercontinentalExchange
770-857-2532
melanie.shale@theice.com
, Inc. (NYSE: ICE), a leading operator of regulated global exchanges, clearing houses and over-the-counter (OTC) markets,today reported financial results for the second quarter of 2011. Consolidated revenues increased 10% to $325 million. Consolidated net income attributable to ICE was $121 million, up 19% versus the second quarter of 2010. Diluted earnings per share (EPS) increased 21% to $1.64.
ATLANTA, GA (August 3, 2011) --
IntercontinentalExchange
 
Second quarter 2011 adjusted consolidated net income attributable to ICE, which excludes acquisition-related transaction costs during the quarter, grew 11% to $125 million and adjusted diluted EPS increased 12% to $1.69. Please refer to the reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures included in this press release for more information on adjusted net income attributable to ICE and adjusted diluted EPS.
Said ICE Chairman and CEO Jeffrey C. Sprecher: ICEs second quarter results in an uncertain economic and regulatory environment demonstrate our strong position in global energy, agricultural and financial markets. Our continued progress in clearing, new product development and technology has produced a diverse and innovative business model that effectively serves the ongoing risk-management needs of our customers around the world.
ICE SVP and CFO Scott Hill added: We continue to deliver consistently strong financial results, extending our multi-year track record of double-digit top- and bottom-line growth. ICE remains focused on delivering consistent growth and long-term customer and shareholder value by executing our strategic plan, investing prudently and managing expense in a disciplined manner.
Second Quarter 2011 Results
Second quarter 2011 consolidated revenues increased 10% from the second quarter of 2010 to $325 million. Consolidated transaction and clearing revenues increased 9% to $289 million. The increase in transaction and clearing revenue was driven primarily by record trading volume in ICEs Brent crude and Gasoil futures and options contracts, as well as solid OTC energy volumes.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Transaction and clearing revenues in ICEs futures segment grew 15% to $149 million in the second quarter. Average daily volume (ADV) in ICEs futures segment was 1.5 million contracts, up 5% from the prior-year second quarter.
Transaction and clearing revenues in ICE'sglobal OTC segment grew 3% to $140 million in the second quarter of 2011. Average daily commissions (ADC) for ICEs OTC energy business increased 7% to $1.5 million. Revenues from ICEs credit default swap (CDS) trade execution and clearing business totaled $41 million in the second quarter of 2011, including $17 million from CDS clearing.
 
Consolidated market data revenues were a record $31 million in the second quarter of 2011, up 13% from the prior second quarter. Consolidated other revenues were $6 million.
Consolidated operating expenses were $134 million in the quarter, an increase of 14% from the second quarter of 2010. This increase was primarily attributable to an increase in amortization expenses relating to the addition of intangible assets associated with the acquisition of Climate Exchange plc in the third quarter of 2010, and transaction costs associated with the proposed acquisition of NYSE Euronext during the quarter.
Consolidated operating income increased 7% to $191 million in the quarter. Operating margin was 59% in the second quarter of 2011.
The effective tax rate for the second quarter of 2011 was 32% compared to 34% for the prior second quarter.
First Half 2011 Results
Consolidated revenues in the first half of 2011 grew 14% to $659 million. First half futures volumes increased 15% to 191 million contracts, driving futures transaction and clearing revenue growth to $306 million, up 21% from the first half of 2010. ADV in the first half of the year was 1.5 million contracts, up 14% from the first six months of 2010.
Global OTC segment transaction and clearing revenues were $281 million in the first half of the year, up 7% from the first half of 2010. ADC in ICEs OTC energy markets were $1.6 million in the first half of 2011, up 13% from the same period of 2010. Consolidated market data revenues increased 11% to $60 million and consolidated operating margin was 60% for the first half of 2011.
Cash flows from operations totaled $321 million in the first half of 2011, up 24% year-over-year. Capital expenditures during the first half of 2011 were $14 million and capitalized software development costs totaled $16 million.
 
 
Unrestricted cash and investments were $757 million as of June 30, 2011. At the end of the second quarter, ICE had $457 million in outstanding debt.
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Guidance and Additional Information
Earnings Conference Call Information
ICE will hold a conference call today, August 3, at 8:30 a.m. ET to review its second quarter 2011 financial results. A live audio webcast of the earnings call will be available on the company's website at www.theice.com under . Participants may also listen via telephone by dialing 877-674-6420 from the United States, or 708-290-1370 from outside the United States. Telephone participants should dial in ten minutes prior to the start of the call. The call will be archived on the company's website for replay.
About ICE/Investors & Media
Historical futures volume and OTC commission data can be found at:
http://ir.theice.com/supplemental.cfm
About IntercontinentalExchange
IntercontinentalExchange (NYSE: ICE) is a leading operator of regulated futures exchanges and over-the-counter markets for agricultural, credit, currency, emissions, energy and equity index contracts. ICE Futures Europe hosts trade in half of the worlds crude and refined oil futures. ICE Futures U.S. and ICE Futures Canada list agricultural, currencies and Russell Index markets. ICE is also a leading operator of central clearing services for the futures and over-the-counter markets, with five regulated clearing houses across North America and Europe. ICE serves customers in more than 70 countries.   
www.theice.com
The following are trademarks of IntercontinentalExchange, Inc. and/or its affiliated companies: IntercontinentalExchange, IntercontinentalExchange & Design, ICE, ICE and block design, ICE Futures Canada, ICE Futures Europe, ICE Futures U.S., ICE Trust, ICE Clear Europe, ICE Clear U.S., ICE Clear Canada, The Clearing Corporation, U.S. Dollar Index, ICE Link and Creditex. All other trademarks are the property of their respective ownersFor more information regarding registered trademarks owned by IntercontinentalExchange, Inc. and/or its affiliated companies, see .
.
https://www.theice.com/terms.jhtml
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release may contain "forward-looking statements" made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements regarding IntercontinentalExchange's business that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or implied in any forward-looking statement. The factors that might affect our performance include, but are not limited to: our business environment and industry trends; conditions in global financial markets; domestic and international economic conditions, including the U.S. governments negotiations to increase the U.S. debt ceiling; volatility in commodity prices; changes in laws and regulations; increasing competition and consolidation in our industry; our ability to identify and effectively pursue acquisitions and strategic alliances and successfully integrate the companies we acquire on a cost-effective basis; the success of our clearing houses and our ability to minimize the risks associated with operating multiple clearing houses in multiple jurisdictions; technological developments, including clearing developments; the accuracy of our cost estimates and expectations, including, without limitation, those set forth in this press release under "Financial Guidance and Additional Information"; our belief that cash flows will be sufficient to service our debt and fund our working capital needs and capital expenditures at least through the end of 2012; our ability to develop new products and services; protecting our intellectual property rights; not violating the intellectual property rights of others; potential adverse litigation results; our belief in our electronic platform and disaster recovery system technologies; identification of trends and how they will impact our business; and our ability to gain access to comparable products and services if our key technology contracts were terminated. For a discussion of such risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements, see ICE's Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings, including, but not limited to, the risk factors in ICE's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, which was filed with the SEC on February 9, 2011, and ICEs Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q that is expected to be filed on or around August 3, 2011.  These filings are also available in the Investors & Media section of our website. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release. Except for any obligations to disclose material information under the Federal securities laws, ICE undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this press release
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Reconciliation
 
Below we provide adjusted net income attributable to ICE and adjusted earnings per share attributable to ICE common shareholders as additional information regarding our operating results. We use these non-GAAP measures internally to evaluate our performance and in making financial and operational decisions. When viewed in conjunction with our U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) results, and the accompanying reconciliation, we believe that our presentation of these measures provides investors with greater transparency and supplemental data relating to our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we believe the presentation of these measures is useful to investors for period-to-period comparison of results because the items described below are not part of our core business. These measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative to, GAAP, and may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. Investors should not rely on any single financial measure when evaluating our business. We strongly recommend that investors review the GAAP financial measures included in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2011, including our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto.
 
During the six months and three months ended June 30, 2011 and 2010, we recognized acquisition-related transaction costs as we continued to explore acquisitions and other strategic opportunities to strengthen our competitive position and support our growth, including transaction costs relating to the potential acquisition of NYSE Euronext that we incurred during the six and three months ended June 30, 2011 and transaction costs relating to the acquisition of CLE that we incurred during the six and three months ended June 30, 2010. During the six and three months ended June 30, 2010, we incurred a $14.3 million loss on a currency hedge that was purchased at the time of the CLE transaction announcement. The tax effects of these items are calculated by applying specific legal entity and jurisdictional marginal tax rates. Adjusted net income attributable to ICE for the periods presented below is calculated by adding net income attributable to ICE, the acquisition-related transaction costs and the loss on the hedge related to the CLE acquisition, which costs are not part of our core business, and their related income tax effect.
 
The following table reconciles net income attributable to ICE to adjusted net income attributable to ICE and calculates adjusted earnings per share attributable to ICE common shareholders as follows for the following periods (in thousands, except per share amounts):
 
ICE-CORP
 


