FILE:ICE/ICE-8K-20110307133019.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
 
 Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
 
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
 
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
(d) Director Appointment
 
Effective March 3, 2011, the Board of Directors (the Board) of ICE appointed Senator Judd A. Gregg as a director of ICE in conjunction with ICEs Board of Directors increasing the total number of directors constituting the Board of Directors from 10 to 11 directors.
 
Senator Gregg has spent over three decades in public office, most recently serving as the United States Senator from the State of New Hampshire from January 1993 until January 2011.  During his tenure in the Senate, Senator Gregg served on a number of key Senate Committees including Budget; Appropriations; Government Affairs; Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs; Commerce, Science and Transportation; Foreign Relations; and Health, Education, Labor and Pensions.  He has served as the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee and the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Budget Committee as well as chairman of various sub-committees.  From 1989 to 1992, Senator Gregg was the Governor of New Hampshire and prior to that was a U.S. Representative from 1981 to 1989.
 
After review with counsel, the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and the Board of Directors have determined that Senator Gregg qualifies as an independent director and meets the applicable independence requirements of ICE, the New York Stock Exchange and the Securities and Exchange Commission.  As of the time of the filing of this Current Report on Form 8-K, Senator Gregg has not been appointed to any committees of the Board of Directors of ICE and ICE had not determined to which committees, if any, he may be appointed.
 
Senator Gregg will participate in ICEs non-employee director compensation arrangements, which provide for the following compensation: (1) an annual retainer of $45,000, (2) an annual grant of $175,000 in the form of restricted stock units that vest one year from the date of grant with the number of units calculated at the time of grant by dividing the annual grant value by the closing price of ICEs common stock on the date of grant and (3) an initial one-time grant to new non-employee directors of $100,000 in the form of restricted stock units that vest in equal annual installments over three years from the date of grant with the number of units calculated at the time of grant by dividing the annual grant value by the closing price of ICEs common stock on the date of grant.  If Senator Gregg is appointed to serve on a committee of the Board of Directors, he will be entitled to additional cash compensation in connection with such additional service.  Senator Gregg will also be reimbursed for reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with attending meetings of the Board of Directors.
 
 
 
 
 
 
A copy of the related press release is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits
 
The following exhibit is filed as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
PRESS RELEASE
 
 
Contact:
Kelly Loeffler, VP, Investor Relations & Corp. Communications
IntercontinentalExchange
+1 770 857 4726
Kelly.Loeffler@theice.com
, (NYSE: ICE), a leading operator of regulated global futures exchanges, clearing houses and over-the-counter (OTC) markets today announced that former U.S. Senator Judd A. Gregg has joined the IntercontinentalExchange Board of Directors. Greggs appointment is effective immediately.
ATLANTA, March 7, 2011
IntercontinentalExchange
Senator Gregg has spent over three decades in public office, most recently serving as the United States Senator from the State of New Hampshire for three terms, completing his service in January 2011.  Beginning in 2005, he chaired the U.S Senate Committee on Budget, and in 2008 served on the Congressional Oversight Panel overseeing the implementation of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act.  Gregg also was a member of the Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs, the Committee on Appropriations and Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions. Prior to the Senate, he served two terms as Governor of New Hampshire, from 1989 to 1992. He also completed four terms in the U.S. House of Representatives, from 1981 to 1989. Prior to public service, Senator Gregg was an attorney and businessman.
Said Jeffrey C. Sprecher, ICE's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer: "We are pleased to welcome Senator Gregg as a member of the ICE Board of Directors. His deep understanding of financial markets, as well as his extensive public policy and business experience, is extremely valuable as we expand our global marketplace. Our Board and our company will benefit from his leadership and insight.
I am very pleased to join the IntercontinentalExchange Board and to be a part of a global market leader and a catalyst for transparency, said Senator Gregg. The companys growth and ability to innovate in delivering vital solutions amid the rapid evolution of market structure make this an exciting time to join ICE, and I look forward to working with my colleagues on the Board.
About IntercontinentalExchange
IntercontinentalExchange (NYSE: ICE) is a leading operator of regulated futures exchanges and over-the-counter markets for agricultural, credit, currency, emissions, energy and equity index contracts. ICE Futures Europe hosts trade in half of the worlds crude and refined oil futures. ICE Futures U.S. and ICE Futures Canada list agricultural, currencies and Russell Index markets. ICE is also a leading operator of central clearing services for the futures and over-the-counter markets, with five regulated clearing houses across North America and Europe. ICE serves customers in more than 70 countries.
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following are trademarks of IntercontinentalExchange, Inc. and/or its affiliated companies: IntercontinentalExchange, IntercontinentalExchange & Design, ICE, ICE and block design. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. For more information regarding registered trademarks owned by IntercontinentalExchange, Inc. and/or its affiliated companies, see:
www.theice.com/terms
- Statements in this press release regarding IntercontinentalExchanges business that are not historical facts are "forward-looking statements" that involve risks and uncertainties. For a discussion of additional risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements, see ICEs Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings, including, but not limited to, the risk factors in ICEs Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, as filed with the SEC on February 9, 2011.
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995


