FILE:ICE/ICE-8K-20110315100410.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
 Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
On March 14, 2011, IntercontinentalExchange, Inc., a Delaware corporation (ICE), entered into Amendment No. 2 to a License Agreement For Index-Related Derivative Products (the Amendment) between ICE and the Frank Russell Company (Russell) to extend the duration of the term and renegotiate the royalties due under the License Agreement between ICE and Russell for Index-Related Derivate Products, which was entered into on June 15, 2007 and amended on February 1, 2008 (the Original Agreement). Under the Original Agreement, Russell granted ICE the exclusive rights to list futures contracts and options on futures based on the full range of Russells benchmark U.S. equity indexes. ICE Futures U.S., ICEs U.S. regulated futures exchange, currently trades futures and options on futures on the Russell 1000, Russell 2000 and Russell 3000, including certain mini and full-size contracts, as well as the Russell 1000 Growth and Russell 1000 Value Indexes and the Russell 2000 Growth and Russell 2000 Value Indexes.
 
Pursuant to the Amendment, ICE and its affiliates will continue to have the exclusive right to list one or more financial products derived from the Russell U.S. indexes.  The Amendment extends the Original Agreements term through June 30, 2017 and the Original Agreement will automatically renew for successive one (1) year periods unless terminated by either party with at least 90 days prior written notice.  ICE will pay Russell annual royalty payments based on the annual volume of contracts traded, subject to certain minimum annual royalty payments as set forth in the Amendment.  Additionally, ICE and its affiliates will have the option to launch on an exclusive basis any new futures financial products derived in whole or in part from, or otherwise associated with, the Russell Global Indexes, so long as ICE satisfies a launch deadline, maintains a minimum average trading volume and pays fees as set forth in the Amendment.  This Amendment supersedes the prior amendment.
 
The Amendment is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 10.1 and a copy of the related press release is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1, both of which are incorporated herein by reference. The foregoing description of the Amendment or of the Original Agreement is not purported to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, and should be read in conjunction with, the text of the Amendment and Original Agreement.
 
 
2
 
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits
 
The following exhibit is filed as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
 
 Certain statements in this Current Report on Form 8-K may contain forward-looking information regarding IntercontinentalExchanges business that are intended to be covered by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties and actual results may differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statement. For a discussion of such risks and uncertainties, see the Companys Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including, but not limited to, the risk factors in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 9, 2011.
Forward-Looking Statements
 
 
3
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
4

Exhibit 10.1
 
[Certain information in this agreement has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Confidential treatment has been requested with respect to the omitted portions.]
This Amendment No. 2 to the LICENSE AGREEMENT FOR INDEX-RELATED DERIVATIVE PRODUCTS by and between the Frank Russell Company (Russell) and IntercontinentalExchange, Inc. (Licensee) dated June 15, 2007, as amended by Amendment No. 1 on February 1, 2008 (the Agreement), is made this 14th day of March 2011 (Amendment 2 Effective Date) by and between Russell and Licensee.
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Agreement, Russell granted to Licensee an exclusive license to engage in certain activities involving certain Derivative Products as expressly provided in the Agreement;
 
WHEREAS, Russell and Licensee have agreed to formally amend the Initial Term set forth in Section 3 of the Agreement, and Exhibit D of the Agreement, as described in detail below; and
 
WHEREAS, Russell has agreed to grant to Licensee a right of first refusal to Issue and List one or more Licensed Derivative Products based on one or more global, non-U.S. Russell indexes as listed on Exhibit B to the Agreement (Russell Global Indexes), on an exclusive basis and according to the terms and conditions set forth in this Amendment No. 2 and the Agreement.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and conditions set forth herein, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, and intending to be legally bound hereby, Russell and Licensee agree as follows:
           Section 3 of the Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:
1.
3.           Term.
Licensees rights under this Agreement shall commence on the Effective Date and shall continue, unless terminated as provided herein, through June 30, 2017 (the Initial Term).  Following the expiration of the Initial Term, Licensees rights under this Agreement, including exclusivity, shall be automatically renewed for successive one (1) year periods (each a Renewal Term) unless either party provides the other party with at least ninety (90) days prior written notice before the end of the Initial Term or any Renewal Term of its intent to not renew the Agreement.  The Initial Term and the Renewal Terms (if any) shall together constitute the Term under this Agreement.
 
 
 
 
           Exhibit D of the Agreement, as amended via Amendment No. 1 dated February 1, 2008, is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the Exhibit D attached hereto.
2.
           Section 10.6 and Exhibit E of the Agreement are hereby deleted in their entirety.
3.
           The following new Section 22 is hereby incorporated into the Agreement:
4.
           .
22.
Global Index Licensed Derivative Products
(a) Russell may, from time to time, desire to permit the Issuance and Listing of one or more new Licensed Derivative Products based on the Russell Global Indexes (each of such Licensed Derivative Products referred to herein as a Global Index Future).  In the event that Russell desires or otherwise agrees to permit the Issuance and Listing of such Global Index Future, Russell shall first provide Licensee with a written proposal of the same, including all material terms and conditions thereof (Global Index Future Proposal).  For fifteen (15) business days following receipt of the Global Index Future Proposal, Licensee shall have the option to agree to Issue and List the Global Index Future on an exclusive basis according to the terms and conditions set forth in the Global Index Future Proposal.
(b) In the event that Licensee elects to Issue and List the Global Index Future, Licensee shall provide written notice of its election to Russell (the Licensee Confirmation), which shall include a confirmation that the proposed Global Index Future shall be Issued within six (6) months of the date of the Licensee Confirmation (the Issue Deadline).  Upon providing the Licensee Confirmation, Licensee shall retain the exclusive rights to Issue and List the Global Index Future during the Term of the Agreement so long as (i) Licensee satisfies the Issue Deadline, (ii) Licensee pays the fees set forth in Exhibit D, Section 2.II of the Agreement with respect to the Global Index Future, pursuant to the provisions set forth in Section 9 of the Agreement, and (iii) Licensee maintains an average daily trading volume of at least (A) [**] contracts over a rolling three month period beginning one year after the Global Index Future subject to the specific Licensee Confirmation begins trading, (B) [**] contracts over a rolling three month period beginning two years after the Global Index Future subject to the specific Licensee Confirmation begins trading and (C) [**] contracts over a rolling three month period beginning three years after the Global Index Future subject to the specific Licensee Confirmation begins trading.In the event the conditions of this Section 22(b) are met, the relevant Russell Global Index shall be included in Russell Indexes, as defined in the Agreement, and the Global Index Future shall be deemed a Licensed Derivative Product under the terms and conditions of the Agreement. In the event that the obligations set forth in (i)  (iii) above are not met, Russell may, in its sole discretion, elect to (i) allow the relevant Global Index Future to continue to be licensed to Licensee on a non-exclusive basis or (ii) terminate Licensees rights to such Global Index Future.  Upon such termination, Russell may license a third party, on an exclusive or non-exclusive basis, rights similar to the rights previously granted to Licensee with respect to such Global Index Future.
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
(c) If Licensee does not elect to Issue and List the Global Index Future or fails to provide the Licensee Confirmation within fifteen (15) business days of receiving the Global Index Future Proposal (Licensees Refusal), the parties shall have no further obligations with respect to the specific Global Index Future referenced in the Global Index Future Proposal and Russell shall be entitled to create such Global Index Future as originally offered to Licensee by themselves or via any third party.  If, however, Russell fails to take (or a third party authorized by Russell fails to take) the action(s) described in the Global Index Future Proposal within nine (9) months of Licensees Refusal or of the date of the Global Index Future Proposal, whichever occurs later, the right of first refusal, commencing with a new fifteen (15) business day option period as described in this Section 22, begins anew with respect to the Global Index Future described in the Global Index Future Proposal.
(d) For purposes of clarification, Russell may restrict the portions of the Russell Global Indexes that are eligible for the Issuance and Listing of Global Index Futures.  As of the date hereof, no Global Index Future shall be based on the Canadian or the developed European component, or any subcomponent thereof (including without means of limitation any country or sector subcomponent), of any of the Russell Global Indexes and Russell reserves the right to further limit what portions of the Russell Global Indexes are eligible for Issuance and Listing as Global Index Futures (the foregoing restrictions referred to herein as Restricted Indices).  
Russell may, on an exclusive or non-exclusive basis, grant a third party the right to Issue and List Derivative Products based on any Russell Global Index, including the Restricted Indices, not expressly made part of this Agreement.
 
 
3
 
 
.           Exhibit B, the Licensed Derivative Products, in hereby amended to add the following additional section:
5
Subject to the terms of Section 22, Cash settled futures and options on futures on the following global, non-U.S. Russell Indexes:
Russell Global 1000 Index
Russell Global 2000 Index
Russell Global 3000 Index
 
Any other existing or developed in the future global index that (i) includes more than one continent, (ii) is owned solely by Russell, and (iii) is not created, developed or distributed in cooperation with an independent third party.
           All capitalized terms used in this Amendment No. 2 that are not otherwise defined herein shall have the same meaning ascribed to such capitalized terms in the Agreement.
6.
.           Except as expressly amended hereby, all of the provisions of the Agreement shall remain unaffected and in full force and effect, and, as amended hereby, the Agreement is in all respects agreed to, ratified and confirmed by the parties hereto.
7
.           If any provision of this Amendment No. 2 shall be declared by any court of competent jurisdiction to be illegal, void or unenforceable, all other provisions of this Amendment No. 2 shall not be affected and shall remain in full force and effect.
8
           This Amendment No. 2 may be executed in counterparts, all of which taken together, shall constitute the Amendment No. 2.
9.
 
 
4
 
 
Contract royalties with respect to each fiscal year beginning July 1, 2007 during the Initial Term shall be the greater of (i) the minimum set forth in Section 3 of this Exhibit D for such period or (ii) the sum of all contract royalties based on actual contracts traded as set forth below in this Section 2.
Minimum contract royalties as specified in Section 3 of this Exhibit D for each twelve month period will be invoiced and payable by Licensee to RUSSELL within 30 days following the end of each fiscal quarter (i.e., in an amount equal to 25% of the minimum annual contract royalties as set forth in Section 3 of Exhibit D).  Any contract royalties accruing above the minimum amount shall be reconciled, invoiced and payable within 30 days after the end of the fourth quarter of each one year period as set forth in Section 3.
Contract royalties with respect to any Term following June 30, 2017 shall be equal to the sum of all contract royalties based on actual contracts traded as described below in this Section 2.
From the Effective Date of this Amendment No. 2 through June 30, 2014, Russell 1000 Index contract royalties will be calculated according to the following tiered schedule for contracts traded on the Licensed Exchange:
A.           With respect to the first 0 to 100,000 contracts:
(i)           Each contract traded with a multiplier between one dollar ($1) and one hundred dollars ($100.00)  the royalty shall be $[**]per contract;
 
(ii)          Each contract traded with a multiplier between one hundred and one dollars ($101.00) and five hundred dollars ($500.00)  the royalty shall be $[**] per contract; and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(iii)         Each contract traded with a multiplier greater than five hundred dollars ($500.00)  the royalty shall be $[**] per $500 of the multipliers value (e.g., if the multiplier is $1,000, the royalty would be $[**]per contract).
B.           With respect to contract 100,001 and above:
(i)           Each contract traded with a multiplier between one dollar ($1) and one hundred dollars ($100.00)  the royalty shall be $[**] per contract;
(ii)          Each contract traded with a multiplier between one hundred and one dollars ($101.00) and five hundred dollars ($500.00)  the royalty shall be $[**] per contract; and
(iii)         Each contract traded with a multiplier greater than five hundred dollars ($500.00)  the royalty shall be $[**] per $500 of the multipliers value (e.g., if the multiplier is $1,000, the royalty would be $[**] per contract).
From July 1, 2014 through the termination of the Agreement, Russell 1000 Index contract royalties will be calculated according to the following tiered schedule for contracts traded on the Licensed Exchange:
(i)           Each contract traded with a multiplier between one dollar ($1) and one hundred dollars ($100.00)  the royalty shall be $[**] per contract;
(ii)          Each contract traded with a multiplier between one hundred and one dollars ($101.00) and five hundred dollars ($500.00)  the royalty shall be $[**] per contract; and
(iii)         Each contract traded with a multiplier greater than five hundred dollars ($500.00)  the royalty shall be $[**] per $500 of the multipliers value (e.g., if the multiplier is $1,000, the royalty would be $[**] per contract).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
From the Effective Date of this Amendment No. 2 through June 30, 2014, for all contracts other than Russell 1000 Index contracts, royalties will be calculated according to the following tiered schedule for contracts traded on the Licensed Exchange:
A.           With respect to the first 0 to 100,000 contracts:
(i)           Each contract traded with a multiplier between one dollar ($1) and one hundred dollars ($100.00)  the royalty shall be $[**] per contract;
(ii)          Each contract traded with a multiplier between one hundred and one dollars ($101.00) and five hundred dollars ($500.00)  the royalty shall be $[**] per contract; and
(iii)         Each contract traded with a multiplier greater than five hundred dollars ($500.00)  the royalty shall be $[**] per $500 of the multipliers value (e.g., if the multiplier is $1,000, the royalty would be $[**] per contract).
B.           With respect to contract 100,001 and above:
(i)           Each contract traded with a multiplier between one dollar ($1) and one hundred dollars ($100.00)  the royalty shall be $[**] per contract;
(ii)          Each contract traded with a multiplier between one hundred and one dollars ($101.00) and five hundred dollars ($500.00)  the royalty shall be $[**] per contract; and
(iii)         Each contract traded with a multiplier greater than five hundred dollars ($500.00)  the royalty shall be $[**] per $500 of the multipliers value (e.g., if the multiplier is $1,000, the royalty would be $[**] per contract).
From July 1, 2014 through the Term of the Agreement for all contracts other than Russell 1000 Index contracts, royalties will be calculated according to the following tiered schedule for contracts traded on the Licensed Exchange:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(i)           Each contract traded with a multiplier between one dollar ($1) and one hundred dollars ($100.00)  the royalty shall be $[**] per contract;
(ii)          Each contract traded with a multiplier between one hundred and one dollars ($101.00) and five hundred dollars ($500.00)  the royalty shall be $[**] per contract; and
(iii)         Each contract traded with a multiplier greater than five hundred dollars ($500.00)  the royalty shall be $[**] per $500 of the multipliers value (e.g., if the multiplier is $1,000, the royalty would be $[**] per contract).
 
           For the period July 1, 2007 through June 30, 2014, and with respect to contracts traded in any twelve month period, the contract royalty rates stated in paragraph 2 above shall be reduced by a discount of thirty percent (30%) for the aggregate amount of contracts (if any) traded during a twelve month period in excess of the volume of trades in that twelve month period required to reach the minimum annual contract royalties stated in paragraph 3 above for that twelve month period (i.e., if in the first twelve months following the Effective Date, the aggregate amount of contracts traded results in payments to RUSSELL of greater than $[**] (which is the minimum annual contract royalty), the amount of contract royalties Licensee owes RUSSELL for each contract above the contract volume that exceeded the payment of $[**] will be discounted by 30%.  Beginning July 1, 2014, the terms and conditions of this Section 4 shall not be applicable.
4.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
PRESS RELEASE
 
 
Media Contact:
Brookly McLaughlin, Corporate Communications
+1 312 836 6728
Brookly.McLaughlin@theice.com
Investor Contact:
Kelly Loeffler, VP, Investor Relations & Corp. Communications
+1 770 857 4726
Kelly.Loeffler@theice.com
(March 15, 2011)  (NYSE: ICE), a leading operator of regulated global futures exchanges, clearing houses and over-the-counter (OTC) markets today announced it has extended the duration of its agreement to exclusively offer futures and options contracts based on industry leading US stock indexes including the , as well as expanded the agreement to cover the exclusive listing of futures and options on Russells international indexes. The agreement has been extended by three years and now runs through June 2017.
ATLANTA
IntercontinentalExchange
Russell 2000
Index and Russell 1000
Index
Russells reliability, transparency, and market-driven weighting have made it the benchmark of choice for investors, said David Goone, ICE SVP and Chief Strategic Officer. The lower trading costs and variety of trading strategies available with the comprehensive suite of Russell Index futures and options we list will continue to provide opportunity for investors as the equity markets continue to recover and inflows to funds improve.
Said Kurt Zyla, regional director for listed derivatives at Russell Investments: We are pleased to extend our agreement with IntercontinentalExchange. Their commitment to building Russells presence in exchange traded derivatives across the U.S. and global index complex is an important component of our business strategy.  As a leader in index design, we believe working with an innovative exchange like ICE ensures our future success.
As a result of the agreement, ICE has updated its financial guidance for depreciation and amortization expense and for interest expense.  For 2011, ICE expects depreciation and amortization expense in the range of $126 million to $132 million, with the majority of the expense reduction being realized after the first quarter of 2011. ICE also expects interest expense in the range of $7 million to $9 million per quarter for 2011, with quarterly interest expense trending down throughout the year.
Since gaining exclusivity on the Russell index futures license, ICE has introduced new features and products to meet customer demand, including Trade at Settlement (TAS) pricing and enhanced options trading functionality. ICE Futures U.S. lists mini-sized futures and options on futures on the Russell 1000 and Russell 2000, as well as futures on the Russell 1000 Growth and the Russell 1000 Value indexes.  ICE secured the exclusive rights to list contracts based on the full range of Russell's benchmark U.S. equity indexes in July 2007 and the exclusivity period began in September 2008.
 
 
 
 
Since 1984 Russell's innovative methodology has helped their indexes become the benchmarks most used by institutional investors. Because Russell indexes can be used across portfolios for comprehensive coverage between market segments, Russells benchmarks are used more often than any other equity index family. Of the ten most-used U.S. equity benchmarks for institutional assets, nine come from Russell.
The combined market capitalization of stocks in the broad-market Russell 3000 Index, which reflects about 98% of the investable U.S. equity universe, totals $14.5 trillion. The Russell 2000 index consists of 2,000 small-cap companies, and the Russell 1000 is a large-cap index representing the largest one-third of the Russell 3000 components.
About IntercontinentalExchange
IntercontinentalExchange (NYSE: ICE) is a leading operator of regulated futures exchanges and over-the-counter markets for agricultural, credit, currency, emissions, energy and equity index contracts. ICE Futures Europe hosts trade in half of the worlds crude and refined oil futures. ICE Futures U.S. and ICE Futures Canada list agricultural, currencies and Russell Index markets. ICE is also a leading operator of central clearing services for the futures and over-the-counter markets, with five regulated clearing houses across North America and Europe. ICE serves customers in more than 70 countries.
The following are trademarks of IntercontinentalExchange, Inc. and/or its affiliated companies: IntercontinentalExchange, IntercontinentalExchange & Design, ICE, ICE and block design, and ICE Futures U.S. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. For more information regarding registered trademarks owned by IntercontinentalExchange, Inc. and/or its affiliated companies, see:
www.theice.com/terms
- Statements in this press release regarding IntercontinentalExchanges business that are not historical facts are "forward-looking statements" that involve risks and uncertainties. For a discussion of additional risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements, see ICEs Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings, including, but not limited to, the risk factors in ICEs Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, as filed with the SEC on February 9, 2011.
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
 
ICE-IXFX
 


