FILE:ICE/ICE-8K-20120801073028.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On August 1, 2012, IntercontinentalExchange, Inc. (ICE) announced its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2012.  A copy of ICEs press release announcing such financial results is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
The information contained herein, including the attached press release, is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 except as may be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
3

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
EARNINGS RELEASE
Investor and Media Contacts:
Kelly Loeffler, VP, Investor Relations & Corp. Communications
IntercontinentalExchange
770-857-4726
kelly.loeffler@theice.com
Melanie Shale, Director of Investor & Public Relations
IntercontinentalExchange
770-857-2532
melanie.shale@theice.com
 
 
, Inc. (NYSE: ICE), a leading operator of regulated global exchanges, clearing houses and over-the-counter (OTC) markets,today reported financial results for the second quarter of 2012. Consolidated revenues increased 8% compared to the second quarter of 2011 to $351 million. Consolidated net income attributable to ICE was $143 million, up 18% versus the second quarter of 2011. Diluted earnings per share (EPS) increased 19% from the prior second quarter to $1.95.
ATLANTA, GA (August 1, 2012) --
IntercontinentalExchange
 
Said ICE Chairman and CEO Jeffrey C. Sprecher: By continuing to execute across our business amid challenging economic conditions, ICE once again delivered double digit earnings growth for the quarter. We continue to lead in providing solutions for clients to comply with new requirements under financial reform and believe that proactively serving the needs of our customers will continue to distinguish our performance.
ICE SVP and CFO Scott Hill added: Our companys focus on both growth and efficiency drives our industry-leading results, even as we invest prudently for the future. We continue to work closely with customers and regulators to ensure the integrity of our markets while expanding on key strategic initiatives in clearing, execution and other opportunities to serve markets globally.
Second Quarter 2012 Results
Second quarter 2012 consolidated revenues were $351 million, up 8% from the prior second quarter. Consolidated transaction and clearing revenues increased 6% to $307 million. The increase in transaction and clearing revenues was driven primarily by strong trading volumes in ICEs energy futures markets.
 
 
 
 
 
Second quarter transaction and clearing revenues in ICEs futures segment grew 14% to $169 million. Average daily volume (ADV) in ICEs futures segment was a record 1.6 million contracts, up 11% from the prior-year second quarter.
Transaction and clearing revenues in ICE'sglobal OTC segment was $137 million, down 2% compared to the prior second quarter. Average daily commissions (ADC) for ICEs OTC energy business increased 3% to $1.6 million. Revenues from ICEs credit default swap (CDS) trade execution and clearing business totaled $36 million in the second quarter of 2011, including $15 million from CDS clearing.
 
Consolidated market data revenues in the second quarter increased 21% over the prior second quarter to a record $37 million. Consolidated other revenues were $7 million.
Consolidated operating expenses were $136 million in the second quarter of 2012, up 1% compared to the year-ago quarter. Consolidated operating income grew 13% to $215 million in the quarter. Operating margin improved to 61% in the second quarter of 2012, up 2 points from the prior second quarter.
The effective tax rate for the second quarter of 2012 was 30% compared to 32% in the previous second quarter.
First Half 2012 Results
Consolidated revenues in the first half of 2012 grew 9% to $716 million. Futures volumes in the first six months of the year increased 4% to 199 million contracts, driving futures transaction and clearing revenue of $329 million, up 7% from the first half of 2011. ADV in the first half of the year was 1.6 million contracts, up 4% from the first six months of 2011.
Global OTC segment transaction and clearing revenues were $300 million in the first half of the year, up 7% from the first half of 2011. ADC in ICEs OTC energy markets were $1.8 million in the first half of 2012, up 12% from the same period of 2011. Consolidated market data revenues increased 22% to $74 million and consolidated operating margin was 62% for the first half of 2012.
Cash flows from operations were $366 million in the first half of 2012, up 14% year-over-year. Capital expenditures during the first half of 2012 were $16 million and capitalized software development costs totaled $17 million.
 
Unrestricted cash was $1.1 billion as of June 30, 2012. At the end of the second quarter, ICE had $863 million in outstanding debt.
Financial Guidance and Additional Information
 
 
 
Earnings Conference Call Information
ICE will hold a conference call today, August 1, at 8:30 a.m. ET to review its second quarter 2012 financial results. A live audio webcast of the earnings call will be available on the company's website at www.theice.com under . Participants may also listen via telephone by dialing 877-674-6420 if calling from the United States, or 708-290-1370 if dialing from outside of the United States. Telephone participants should call 10 minutes prior to the start of the call. The call will be archived on the company's website for replay.
About ICE/Investors & Media
Historical futures volume and OTC commission data can be found at:
http://ir.theice.com/supplemental.cfm
About IntercontinentalExchange
IntercontinentalExchange (NYSE: ICE) is a leading operator of regulated futures exchanges and over-the-counter markets for agricultural, credit, currency, emissions, energy and equity index contracts. ICE Futures Europe hosts trade in half of the worlds crude and refined oil futures. ICE Futures U.S. and ICE Futures Canada list agricultural, currencies and Russell Index markets. ICE is also a leading operator of central clearing services for the futures and over-the-counter markets, with five regulated clearing houses across North America and Europe. ICE serves customers in more than 70 countries. 
www.theice.com
 
The following are trademarks of IntercontinentalExchange, Inc. and/or its affiliated companies: IntercontinentalExchange, IntercontinentalExchange & Design, ICE, ICE and block design, ICE Futures Canada, ICE Futures Europe, ICE Futures U.S., ICE Clear Credit, ICE Clear Europe, ICE Clear U.S., ICE Clear Canada, The Clearing Corporation, U.S. Dollar Index, ICE Link and Creditex. All other trademarks are the property of their respective ownersFor more information regarding registered trademarks owned by IntercontinentalExchange, Inc. and/or its affiliated companies, see .
.
https://www.theice.com/terms.jhtml
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release may contain "forward-looking statements" made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements regarding IntercontinentalExchange's business that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or implied in any forward-looking statement. The factors that might affect our performance include, but are not limited to: our business environment and industry trends; conditions in global financial markets; domestic and international economic conditions; volatility in commodity prices; changes in laws and regulations; increasing competition and consolidation in our industry; our ability to identify and effectively pursue acquisitions and strategic alliances and successfully integrate the companies we acquire on a cost-effective basis; the success of our clearing houses and our ability to minimize the risks associated with operating multiple clearing houses in multiple jurisdictions; technological developments, including ensuring that the technology we utilize is not vulnerable to security risks; the accuracy of our cost estimates and expectations, including, without limitation, those set forth in this press release under "Guidance and Additional Information"; our belief that cash flows will be sufficient to service our debt and fund our working capital needs and capital expenditures for the foreseeable future; our ability to develop new products and services on a timely and cost-effective basis; leveraging our risk management capabilities; maintaining existing market participants and attracting new ones; protecting our intellectual property rights; not violating the intellectual property rights of others; potential adverse litigation results; our belief in our electronic platform and disaster recovery system technologies; and identification of trends and how they will impact our business. For a discussion of such risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements, see ICEs Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings, including, but not limited to, the risk factors in ICEs most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, as filed with the SEC on February 8, 2012, and ICEs Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2012, as filed with the SEC on August 1, 2012. These filings are also available in the Investors & Media section of our website. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release. Except for any obligations to disclose material information under the Federal securities laws, ICE undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this press release.
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Unaudited Financial Statements
 
 
 
 
 
ICE-CORP


