FILE:UNM/UNM-8K-20040505203543.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As part of the press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto, UnumProvident Corporation announced its expectation to raise approximately $300 million of additional capital through the sale of adjustable rate conversion units to institutional investors in a private placement. Such announcement was provided in accordance with Rule 135c under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Act"). Pursuant to the requirements of Rule 135c under the Act, paragraph 7 of the press release, and only such paragraph, is deemed filed and incorporated by reference into this Item 5.
 
 
 
 
 
On May 5, 2004, UnumProvident Corporation issued a press release reporting its results for the quarter ended March 31, 2004 and certain other matters, a copy of which is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Also on May 5, 2004, UnumProvident Corporation, released its Statistical Supplement relating to its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2004. A copy of the Statistical Supplement is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
In accordance with General Instruction B.6 of Form 8-K, the information included or incorporated in this Item 12, including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall such information and exhibits[s] be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chattanooga, TN  UnumProvident Corporation (NYSE: UNM) announced today its results for the first quarter of 2004, which are in line with consensus estimates and which include the restructuring of its closed block of individual income protection business. The closed block consists of individual income protection policies sold generally before significant changes in product design, underwriting and distribution were introduced during the mid 1990s. The restructuring of the closed block is intended to meet the Company's objectives of helping to effectively manage this business, provide greater reporting transparency, strengthen the balance sheet associated with this block of business, and minimize the exposure to potential future adverse morbidity trends in this closed block of business. The restructuring will have no effect on the existing policyholders of the closed block business.
 
Thomas R. Watjen, UnumProvident's President and Chief Executive Officer, said, "The actions we announced today represent the final significant financial restructuring step we believe necessary to position our Company for the future and restore the focus to the parts of our business which we believe
are capable of producing good value for our shareholders and our other constituents over the long term. This final step follows a thorough review of a number of alternatives for this closed disability block, and although we could have successfully proceeded without these actions, we believe the steps we are taking help close an important chapter in our restructuring. As the new CEO and with the full support of our Board of Directors, I have set an aggressive agenda to take the appropriate actions to ensure the long-term financial strength of the Company, and I am very pleased with the results."
 
"As important as the restructuring is, I am also very pleased with our first quarter operating results. With the restructuring we will have accomplished our financial restructuring objectives while also improving the performance of our underlying operations. I am encouraged by our operating and investment performance and that our statutory results recovered significantly over the first quarter of 2003."
 
"Over the past twelve months we believe we have delivered on our commitments to strengthen the financial position of the Company and focus more closely on our core operations. While there is still work to be done, I am pleased with our progress."
 
Specifically, the restructuring actions being taken by the Company concerning this closed block of business include:
 
 
 
The separation of the closed block into a discrete reporting segment resulted in the write-off of the intangible assets associated with the closed block due to the impairment testing for goodwill and loss recognition testing for the recoverability of value of business acquired (VOBA) and deferred acquisition costs (DAC) for this block as a stand-alone segment. In addition, the discount rate was lowered for claim reserves in the closed block, primarily to reflect the segmentation of assets between the recently issued and closed block, resulting in a claim reserve strengthening in the new segment.
 
As a part of the restructuring, the Company expects to raise approximately $300 million of additional capital through the sale of adjustable conversion-rate equity security units to institutional investors in a private placement, which the Company anticipates to complete in May 2004. The securities to be placed have not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933 and may not be offered or sold in
the United States absent registration or an acceptable exemption from registration. The proceeds from the capital raise are intended to restore the Company's insurance subsidiaries' risk-based capital to the approximate overall level that existed prior to the reinsurance transaction, reduce outstanding holding company debt, and retain additional liquidity at the holding company.
 
Finally, separate from the restructuring but also effective with the first quarter of 2004, the Company updated its analysis of costs associated with the acquisition of new business for its group long-term and short-term income protection products, as well as group life and accidental death and dismemberment products. As a result, the amount capitalized will be decreased accordingly, and management expects that the amount of policy acquisition costs the Company will be amortizing for its group products will generally be equal to or greater than the aggregate amount capitalized in future periods, resulting in a DAC balance for its group products that will remain stable or reduce over time and decline in relation to the growth of the premium base. This has no effect on the existing DAC on the balance sheet for group products as the Company's recoverability tests validate the existing DAC balance under a wide range of possible scenarios.
 
UnumProvident today reported a net loss of $562.3 million ($1.91 per diluted common share) for the first quarter of 2004, compared to a net loss of $246.4 million ($1.02 per diluted common share) for the first quarter of 2003. The loss from continuing operations was $569.3 million ($1.93 per diluted common share) for the first quarter of 2004, compared to a loss of $249.0 million ($1.03 per diluted common share) for the first quarter of 2003.
 
These results for the first quarter of 2004, as noted above, include the closed block individual income protection claim reserve strengthening of $110.6 million before tax, or $71.9 million after tax, and the impact of the write-off of the intangible assets associated with the closed block, totaling $856.4 million before tax, or $629.1 million after tax. The reserve strengthening and write-off of intangible assets had no impact on statutory reserves, statutory surplus, or risk-based capital of the Company's insurance subsidiaries.
 
The results for the first quarter of 2003 included an increase in the Company's group long-term income protection reserves of $454.0 million before tax, or $295.1 million after tax.
 
Also included in the loss from continuing operations are net realized investment gains of $25.4 million before tax, or $16.1 million after tax in the first quarter of 2004 ($0.05 per diluted common share), compared to losses of $85.1 million before tax, or $55.6 million after tax ($0.23 per diluted common share) in the first quarter of 2003.
A non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance that excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). In evaluating the Company's first quarter 2004 performance, management believes it is important to exclude the first quarter 2004 impairment of intangible assets and reserve strengthening to evaluate the financial performance of the Company's operations. This measure of earnings, although a non-GAAP financial measure, reflects ongoing performance trends and is important in understanding the Company's underlying profitability drivers.
 
Presented below is a reconciliation of this measure to net loss.
 
 
Results by Segment
 
In the following discussions of the Company's segment operating results, "operating revenue" excludes net realized investment gains and losses. "Operating income" or "operating loss" excludes income tax, net realized investment gains and losses, and results of discontinued operations. These are considered non-GAAP financial measures. The Company measures segment performance excluding realized investment gains and losses because management believes that this performance measure is a better indicator of the ongoing businesses and the underlying trends in the businesses.
 
Because the Canadian branch is now reported as discontinued operations, its results are not included in the current and prior period results in the segment information below. Additionally, the results of the Company's closed block individual income protection line of business are now being reported as a separate segment. These results had previously been included in the Income Protection segment.
 
The segment reported operating income of $74.3 million in the first quarter of 2004, compared to an operating loss of $375.5 million in the first quarter of 2003. The results for the first
Income Protection
 
quarter of 2003 include the previously mentioned increase in the Company's group long-term income protection GAAP reserves of $454.0 million before tax.
 
Within the segment, the group income protection line reported operating income of $30.3 million in the first quarter of 2004 compared to an operating loss of $423.4 million in the prior year first quarter, or operating income of $30.6 million excluding the reserve strengthening, essentially flat year over year. The benefit ratio for the group income protection line improved to 89.4% from 91.4% one year ago, excluding the reserve strengthening. Paid incidence in the Company's group long-term income protection line was marginally lower than the first quarter of 2003 and claim recovery experience was generally higher. The impact of the update to DAC capitalization in the first quarter of 2004 reduced income by $6.3 million.
 
Also within this segment, the recently issued individual income protection line of business reported operating income of $29.3 million in the first quarter of 2004, compared to operating income of $38.2 million in the first quarter of 2003. An improvement in the benefit ratio, reflecting lower claim incidence trends and stable claim management results, was offset by higher operating expenses and lower net investment income.
 
The long-term care line, which includes the results of both the group and individual long-term care lines, reported operating income of $11.0 million in the first quarter of 2004, compared to $5.8 million in the first quarter of 2003. Finally, the disability services line of business reported operating income of $3.7 million in the first quarter of 2004, compared to $3.9 million in the first quarter of 2003.
 
Premium income for the Income Protection segment increased 7.7 percent to $1,025.1 million in the first quarter of 2004, compared to $951.6 million in the first quarter of 2003. Within this segment, premium income for the group income protection line increased 7.6 percent to $786.9 million in the first quarter of 2004 from $731.6 million in the first quarter of 2003. Premium income for the recently issued individual income protection line increased 3.9 percent to $129.8 million in the first quarter of 2004 from $124.9 million in the first quarter of 2003. Finally within this segment, premium income for the long-term care line increased 14.0 percent to $108.4 million in the first quarter of 2004 from $95.1 million in the first quarter of 2003.
 
New annualized sales (submitted date basis) for group long-term income protection fully insured products declined 0.9 percent to $65.1 million in the first quarter of 2004, from $65.7 million in the first quarter of 2003. The slight decline includes a decline in sales of large-case business (over 2,000 covered lives) but was offset by increased sales of core market sales (under 2,000 covered lives) and continued strong sales in the Company's Unum Limited operation in the United Kingdom. New annualized sales
 
(submitted date basis) for group short-term income protection fully insured products declined 4.1 percent to $25.7 million in the first quarter of 2004, from $26.8 million in the first quarter of 2003. New annualized sales (paid for basis) for recently issued individual income protection declined 12.5 percent to $29.4 million in the first quarter of 2004 from $33.6 million in the first quarter of 2003.
 
Premium persistency in the Company's U.S. group long-term income protection block was 83.5 percent for the first quarter of 2004, compared to 87.2 percent for full year 2003. This decline is consistent with the Company's efforts to re-price portions of its in-force business in order to improve its profitability. Persistency in the Company's group short-term income protection line of business was 81.1 percent for the first quarter of 2004 compared to 84.5 percent for full year 2003.
 
The segment reported operating income of $56.9 million in the first quarter of 2004, compared to $62.8 million in the first quarter of 2003. The decline relative to the year ago quarter was driven by lower earnings in both group life and accidental death & dismemberment (AD&D). Claim incidence, which is seasonally higher in the first quarter for these lines, was higher than a year ago for group life and AD&D, but improved in the voluntary lines of business. The impact of the update to DAC capitalization in the first quarter of 2004 reduced income by $3.9 million.
Life and Accident
 
Premium income in this segment increased 4.2 percent to $490.1 million in the first quarter of 2004, compared to $470.5 million in the first quarter of 2003. New annualized sales (submitted date basis) in the group life line totaled $39.6 million in the first quarter of 2004, compared to $54.0 million in the first quarter of 2003. New annualized sales in the AD&D line of business totaled $2.5 million in the first quarter of 2004, compared to $6.6 million in the year ago quarter. New annualized sales in the brokerage voluntary life and other lines totaled $35.6 million in the first quarter of 2004 compared to $34.9 million in the first quarter of 2003.
 
Premium persistency in the Company's U.S. group life line of business was 84.0 percent for the first quarter of 2004 compared to 83.2 percent for full year 2003.
 
The segment reported operating income of $36.6 million in the first quarter of 2004, compared to $35.2 million in the first quarter of 2003. The benefit ratio for this segment improved to 55.5 percent in the first quarter of 2004 compared to 56.3 percent in the first quarter of 2003, reflecting the completion in 2003 of the exit of the under-performing group long-term income protection block within Colonial's operations. Premium income for this segment increased 6.2 percent to $181.1 million in the first quarter of 2004, compared to $170.6 million in the first quarter of 2003. New annualized sales in this segment increased 3.5 percent to $61.7 million in the first quarter of 2004, from $59.6 million in the first quarter of 2003.
Colonial
 
As mentioned, the is now reported as a separate segment. This segment reported an operating loss of $923.8 million in the first quarter of 2004 compared to income of $15.8 million in the first quarter of 2003. The loss this quarter includes the write-down of intangible assets of $856.4 million and the reserve strengthening of $110.6 million. Excluding the write-downs and the reserve strengthening, operating earnings would have been $43.2 million in the first quarter of 2004. The elimination of the amortization of the value of business acquired and deferred acquisition costs as of January 1, 2004, benefited income in this segment by $16.1 million in the first quarter of 2004. Incidence trends remained relatively flat with the levels experienced in 2003 while recovery trends improved relative to the first quarter of 2003. Premium income for this segment declined 6.4 percent to $251.3 million from $268.6 million in the first quarter of 2003.
Individual Income Protection  Closed Block
 
The change in the Company's reporting segments required the Company to perform, separately for the individual income protection  closed block business and individual income protection  recently issued business, impairment testing for goodwill and loss recognition testing for the recoverability of deferred policy acquisition costs and value of business acquired. As required under GAAP, prior to the change in reporting segments, these tests were performed for the individual income protection line of business on a combined basis. The testing indicated impairment of the individual income protection  closed block deferred policy acquisition costs of $282.2 million, value of business acquired of $367.1 million, and goodwill of $207.1 million.
 
Also in conjunction with the restructuring, the Company analyzed the assumptions related to its individual income protection  closed block reserves as a stand-alone segment. Previously these reserves were analyzed for the individual income protection line of business on a combined basis. Included in the analysis was a review of morbidity assumptions, primarily claim resolution rates, and claim reserve discount rate assumptions. Based upon this analysis, the Company lowered the claim reserve discount rate to reflect the segmentation of assets between the individual income protection  recently issued business and the individual income protection  closed block business, the change in the Company's investment portfolio yield rates during the first quarter of 2004, the Company's expectation of future investment portfolio yield rates, and the Company's desire to maintain the relationship between the claim reserve discount rate and the investment portfolio yield rate for the individual income protection  closed block at the Company's long-term objective. This approach is intended to better reflect the current investment environment. The strengthening represented a 1.2 percent increase in total net individual income protection  closed block reserves as of March 31, 2004, which equaled $9.53 billion prior to this increase.
 
In order to provide further protection against potential adverse development in the closed block, the Company has arrangements to reinsure approximately 60 percent of potential future loss deterioration that may occur beyond the Company's current retention limit, which equals approximately 90 percent of reserves, net of existing reinsurance, for the individual income protection  closed block. If losses to the reinsurer exceed a specific aggregate limit, any future losses will revert back to the Company. These reinsurance transactions, which are expected to close during the second quarter of 2004 following regulatory review, will be effective as of April 1, 2004. The Company anticipates that it will transfer cash of approximately $707.0 million, including ceded reserves of approximately $522.0 million, and establish a $185.0 million prepaid cost of insurance asset which will be amortized into earnings over the expected claim payment period covered under the Company's retention limit. The expected amortization of the prepaid cost is approximately $3.8 million for 2004 and $5.0 million annually thereafter. The Company believes that this coverage is an important step toward reducing its exposure to potential adverse development in this block.
 
The segment, which includes results from products no longer actively marketed, reported operating income of $7.1 million in the first quarter of 2004, compared to income of $11.7 million in the first quarter of 2003.
Other
 
The segment which includes investment earnings on corporate assets not specifically allocated to a line of business, corporate interest expense, and certain other corporate expenses, reported a loss of $46.7 million in the first quarter of 2004, compared to a loss of $54.4 million in the first quarter of 2003.
Corporate
,
 
During the second quarter of 2003, the Company issued a total of 52,877,000 shares of common stock and 23,000,000 8.25% adjustable conversion-rate equity security units in a public offering. As a result, the weighted average number of shares used to calculate the per diluted common share results increased from 241,619,379 for the first quarter of 2003 to 294,989,771 for the first quarter of 2004. The actual number of shares outstanding as of March 31, 2004 was 296,291,201 compared to 241,644,012 at March 31, 2003.
 
Book value per common share at March 31, 2004 was $24.08, compared to $27.09 at March 31, 2003.
 
UnumProvident Corporation senior management will host a conference call on Thursday, May 6 at 9:00 a.m. (eastern) to discuss the results of operations for the first quarter and may include forward-looking information, such as guidance on future results or trends in operations, as well as other material information. The dial-in number is (913) 981-5572. Alternatively, a live webcast of the call will be
 
available at in a listen-only mode. About fifteen minutes prior to the start of the call, you should access the "Investor and Shareholder Information" section of our website. A replay of the call will be available by telephone and on our website through Wednesday, May 12.
www.unumprovident.com
 
UnumProvident is the largest provider of group and individual disability income protection insurance in the United States and United Kingdom. Through its subsidiaries, UnumProvident insures more than 25 million people and provided $5.7 billion in total benefits to customers in 2003. With primary offices in Chattanooga, Tennessee, and Portland, Maine, the Company employs more than 13,000 people worldwide. For more information, visit .
www.unumprovident.com
 
A "safe harbor" is provided for "forward-looking statements" under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements in this press release, which are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include such general matters as general economic or business conditions; events or consequences relating to terrorism and acts of war; competitive factors, including pricing pressures; legislative, regulatory, or tax changes; and the interest rate environment. More specifically, they include fluctuations in insurance reserve liabilities, projected new sales and renewals, persistency rates, incidence and recovery rates, pricing and underwriting projections and experience, retained risks in reinsurance operations, availability and cost of reinsurance, level and results of litigation, rating agency actions, regulatory actions, negative media attention, the level of pension benefit costs and funding, investment results, including credit deterioration of investments, and effectiveness of product and customer support. For further information of risks and uncertainties that could affect actual results, see the sections entitled "Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" and "Risk Factors" in the Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003. The forward-looking statements are being made as of the date of this press release and the Company expressly disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statement contained herein.
 
 
($ in millions, except share data)
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.2
 
STATISTICAL SUPPLEMENT
First Quarter 2004
 
 
 
 
Throughout this supplement, operating revenue and operating income (loss) before income taxes exclude realized investment gains and losses.
 
N.M. = not a meaningful percentage
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Allocated stockholders' equity is determined on the basis of an internal allocation formula that reflects the volume and risk components of the business and aligns with the Company's target capital levels for regulatory and rating agency purposes. This formula is modified periodically to recognize changes in the views of capital requirements.
 
 
 
Allocated stockholders' equity is determined on the basis of an internal allocation formula that reflects the volume and risk components of the business and aligns with the Company's target capital levels for regulatory and rating agency purposes. This formula is modified periodically to recognize changes in the views of capital requirements.
 
Amounts previously reported have been reclassified to conform to current period reporting.
 
 
 
 
 
Note: See "Notes to Statistical Supplement" on page 15 for information.
 
 
 
 
 
Note: See "Notes to Statistical Supplement" on page 15 for information.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2004 Other Items
 
1
st
Quarter
 
In the first quarter of 2004, the Company restructured its individual income protection  closed block business wherein three of its insurance subsidiaries will enter into reinsurance agreements with National Indemnity Company, a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway, to reinsure approximately 66.7 percent of potential future losses that occur above a specified retention limit. The individual income protection  closed block reserves in these three subsidiaries comprise approximately 90 percent of the Company's overall retained risk in the closed block of individual income protection. The reinsurance agreements effectively provide approximately 60 percent reinsurance coverage for the Company's overall consolidated risk above the retention limit, which equals approximately $8.0 billion in existing statutory reserves. The maximum risk limit for the reinsurer is approximately $2.6 billion, after which any further losses will revert back to the Company. These reinsurance transactions, which are expected to close during the second quarter of 2004 following the receipt of regulatory approval, will be effective as of April 1, 2004. The Company anticipates that it will transfer cash of approximately $707.0 million, including ceded reserves of approximately $522.0 million in the Individual Income Protection  Closed Block segment, and establish a $185.0 million prepaid cost of insurance asset which will be amortized into earnings over the expected claim payment period covered under the Company's retention limit.
 
In conjunction with the restructuring of the individual income protection  closed block business, effective January 1, 2004, the Company modified its reporting segments to include a separate segment for this business. The reporting, monitoring, and management of the closed block of individual income protection business as a discrete segment is consistent with the Company's financial restructuring and separation of this business from the lines of business which actively market new products. In the past, this business had been reported in the Income Protection segment. Prior to 2004, detailed separate financial metrics and models were unavailable to appropriately manage this block of business separately from the recently issued individual income protection block of business.
 
The change in the Company's reporting segments required the Company to perform, separately for the individual income protection  closed block business and individual income protection  recently issued business, impairment testing for goodwill and loss recognition testing for the recoverability of deferred policy acquisition costs and value of business acquired. As required under GAAP, prior to the change in reporting segments, these tests were performed for the individual income protection line of business on a combined basis. The testing indicated impairment of the individual income protection  closed block deferred policy acquisition costs, value of business acquired, and goodwill balances of $282.2 million, $367.1 million, and $207.1 million, respectively. These impairment charges, $856.4 million before tax and $629.1 million after tax, are included in the net loss reported for the first quarter of 2004.
 
Also as part of the restructuring, the Company analyzed the reserve assumptions related to its individual income protection  closed block reserves as a stand-alone segment. Previously these reserves were analyzed for the individual income protection line of business on a combined basis. Included in the analysis was a review of morbidity assumptions, primarily claim resolution rates, and claim reserve discount rate assumptions. Based upon this analysis, the Company lowered the claim reserve discount rate to reflect the segmentation of assets between the individual income protection  recently issued business and the individual income protection  closed block business, the change in the Company's investment portfolio yield rates during the first quarter of 2004, the Company's expectation of future investment portfolio yield rates, and the Company's desire to maintain the relationship between the claim reserve discount rate and the investment portfolio yield rate for the individual income protection  closed block at the Company's long-term objective. The segmentation of the investment portfolio was necessary to ensure appropriate matching of the duration of the assets and the related policy liabilities. Based on this analysis, in the first quarter of 2004 the Company increased its individual income protection  closed block claim reserves by $110.6 million before tax, or $71.9 million after tax, to reflect its current estimate of future benefit obligations. The first quarter 2004 change represented a 1.2 percent increase in total net individual income protection  closed block reserves as of March 31, 2004, which for continuing operations equaled $9.530 billion prior to this increase.
 
(continued on next page)
 
2003 Accounting Principle Changes
 
4th Quarter
 
Effective October 1, 2003, the Company adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133 Implementation Issue B36 (DIG Issue B36), DIG Issue B36 addresses financial accounting and reporting for embedded derivatives in modified coinsurance contracts that incorporate credit risk exposure unrelated to the credit risk of the counterparty to the reinsurance contract and requires the bifurcation of any such derivative from the host reinsurance contract. The Company has two reinsurance contracts for which DIG Issue B36 is applicable. The adoption of DIG Issue B36 resulted in an increase in fixed maturity securities of $61.3 million to record the fair value of the embedded derivatives and a $39.9 million cumulative effect of accounting principle change, net of $21.4 million in tax.
Embedded Derivatives: Modified Coinsurance Arrangements and Debt Instruments That Incorporate Credit Risk Exposure That Are Unrelated or Only Partially Related to the Creditworthiness of the Obligor Under Those Instruments.
 
Effective December 31, 2003, the Company adopted the provisions of Interpretation No. 46 (Interpretation 46), . Interpretation 46 expands upon ARB No. 51, , to address financial accounting and reporting for certain entities in which a controlling financial interest cannot be identified based on an evaluation of voting interests. Transition to the provisions of Interpretation 46 required the Company to consolidate four special purpose entities whose purposes are to support the Company's investment objectives. Prior to December 31, 2003, these entities were accounted for as fixed maturity securities in the available for sale portfolio and carried at fair value which was derived from the fair value of the underlying assets. For these four entities, the adoption of Interpretation 46 had no impact on the fair value of total invested assets reported in the Company's consolidated statement of financial condition.
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of Accounting Research Bulletin (ARB) No. 51
Consolidated Financial Statements
 
Adoption of Interpretation 46 also resulted in the de-consolidation of a trust that currently holds $300.0 million of junior subordinated debt securities of the Company and has issued a similar amount of mandatorily redeemable preferred securities. The impact of the de-consolidation was the elimination of the company-obligated mandatorily redeemable preferred securities of subsidiary trust holding solely junior subordinated debt securities of the company included in the consolidated statement of financial condition and an increase of $300.0 million in long-term debt.
 
Effective January 1, 2003, the Company adopted the fair value recognition provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, , and selected the prospective method of adoption allowed under the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 148, . The adoption decreased after tax results for 2003 approximately $0.6 million.
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation  Transition and Disclosure
 
(continued on next page)
 
2003 Public Offerings
 
In the second quarter of 2003, the Company issued a total of 52,877,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.10 per share, related to a public offering. In addition, the Company issued a total of 23,000,000 8.25% adjustable conversion-rate equity security units (units) related to a public offering. The Company received approximately $547.7 million in proceeds from the sale of the shares of common stock and $557.8 million in proceeds from the sale of the units after deducting underwriting discounts. Each unit has a stated amount of $25 and will initially consist of (a) a contract pursuant to which the holder agrees to purchase, for $25, shares of the Company's common stock on May 15, 2006 and (b) a 1/40, or 2.5%, ownership interest in a senior note issued by the Company due May 15, 2008 with a principal amount of $1,000. The purchase contract element of the units contributes to the number of weighted average common shares, assuming dilution, when the average market price of the Company's common stock is greater than the threshold appreciation price of $13.27 per share and the Company has income from continuing operations. When such occurs, the impact of the purchase contract element of the units on the number of weighted average common shares, assuming dilution, at various quarterly average stock price levels is as follows:
 
 
2003 Other Items
 
4th Quarter
 
Included in the fourth quarter of 2003 results is an after tax increase in group income protection reserves of $286.0 million, or $440.0 million before tax. In January 2004, the Company completed its annual review of claim reserves to ensure that its claim reserves make adequate and reasonable provision for future benefits and expenses. Approximately $300.0 million of the reserve strengthening reflects implementation of a lower discount rate for its group income protection claim reserves. The discount rate was lowered to reflect the Company's expectation of future investment portfolio yield rates and the Company's new discount rate management approach of maintaining a wider spread between its group income protection portfolio investment yield rate and its average discount rate. The Company's new discount rate management approach is intended to better reflect the current investment environment and position the Company to be more responsive with discounts rates on new incurred claims as changes to the investment environment emerge. Approximately $140.0 million of the reserve increase relates to a strengthening of the morbidity assumptions to reflect the impact of the continuing weak economic cycle on claim incidence and severity. Claim incidence in the second half of 2003 was 8 percent higher than the first half of the year and 5 percent above the second half of 2002. Increased claim incidence is expected to continue at an elevated level for several quarters as the early indications of a recovering economy are not yet reflected in improved consumer confidence or job creation. The reserve increase represents a 5.4 percent increase in total net group income protection reserves as of December 31, 2003, which were $8.186 billion prior to this increase.
 
During the fourth quarter of 2003, the Company entered into an agreement to sell its Canadian branch and expects the transaction to close during the first half of 2004. The Canadian branch is accounted for as "held for sale" at December 31, 2003 and also meets the accounting criteria for being reported as a discontinued operation in the consolidated financial statements. In conjunction with the classification of the Canadian branch as held for sale, the Company tested the goodwill related to the Canadian branch for impairment and determined that the balance of $190.9 million was impaired. The Company also recognized a loss of $9.3 million before tax and $6.0 million after tax to write down the value of bonds in the Canadian branch investment portfolio to market value. These two charges, $200.2 million before and $196.9 million after tax, are included in the loss from discontinued operations.
 
(continued on next page)
 
Additionally, during the fourth quarter of 2003, the Company recognized losses of $14.7 million before tax and $5.3 million after tax related to its Japan and Argentina operations, which are accounted for as "held for sale" assets and as such must be reported at the lower of the carrying value or fair value less cost to sell. Because the Company intends to have a continuing presence in each of these operations, they are not considered discontinued operations.
 
1st Quarter
 
Included in the net loss for the first quarter of 2003 is an increase in the Company's group long-term income protection GAAP reserves of $454.0 million before tax, or $295.1 million after tax. In April of 2003, the Company completed an analysis of its assumptions related to its group long-term income protection claim reserves. This analysis was initiated based on a trend in lower net claim recovery rates observed during the first quarter of 2003. The claim recovery rates during the first quarter were below expected levels and were lower than those experienced in the past three years. The analysis of emerging net claim recovery rates and the reasons driving the changes resulted in a reduction in the Company's long-term expectations. Based on the analysis noted above, the Company increased its group long-term income protection claim reserves as of March 31, 2003 to reflect its current estimate of future benefit obligations. The analysis indicated not only a decrease in overall claim recovery rates, but a change in claim recovery rates by claim duration.
 
2002 Cumulative Effect of Accounting Principle Change
 
1st Quarter
 
Effective January 1, 2002, the Company adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142 (SFAS 142), The cumulative effect of adopting SFAS 142 was a decrease to net income of $7.1 million, net of a tax benefit of $3.9 million.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.
 
2001 Extraordinary Loss and Subsequent Reclassification
 
4th Quarter
 
In 2001 the Company redeemed its $172.5 million par value 8.8% monthly income debt securities (junior subordinated debt), which were due in 2025 but callable at par in 2000 and thereafter. This early extinguishment of debt resulted in a write off of the remaining deferred debt cost of $4.5 million associated with the issuance of the securities. Prior to 2003, the write off was reported as an extraordinary loss of $2.9 million, net of a $1.6 million tax benefit, in accordance with then current Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 4, . In 2003, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 145 (SFAS 145), The effect of the adoption was the reporting reclassification of the extraordinary loss of $4.5 million to operating expense and the corresponding tax benefit of $1.6 million to income tax. The adoption of SFAS 145 had no effect on the Company's financial position or net income.
Reporting Gains and Losses from Extinguishment of Debt
Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44, and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical Corrections.
 
2001 Other Items
 
4th Quarter
 
The Company wrote off the remaining goodwill balance related to its operations in Argentina, resulting in a decrease in before-tax and after-tax operating income of $5.4 million.
 
3rd Quarter
 
The tragedy on September 11, 2001 resulted in a before-tax charge of $24.0 million, or $15.6 million after tax. This charge includes estimated gross ultimate losses from reported and unreported claims of $71.0 million less an estimated $47.0 million recoverable from the Company's reinsurers.
 
1st Quarter
 
A tax benefit of $35.2 million related to the Company's investment in its foreign reinsurance operations increased after-tax operating income $35.2 million.
 


