FILE:UNM/UNM-8K-20050224181100.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
On February 18, 2005, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of UnumProvident approved grants to its named executive officers, Messrs. Watjen, Best, Copeland, Greving, and McCarthy, and to Messrs. Foley, Edgren and Madeja who also are executive officers, of restricted stock under the Company's Stock Plan of 1999. The restricted stock awards vest on the second anniversary of the date of grant, provided, however, that the restrictions will lapse immediately upon (i) the executive's termination of employment by reason of death, disability or retirement, or (ii) the occurrence of a change in control (as such terms are defined in his employment agreement or change in control agreement, as the case may be). The Stock Plan of 1999 and the form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement granted to such officers on February 18, 2005 are filed as Exhibit 10.1 and Exhibit 10.2 to this Report, and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
Also on February 18, 2005, the Compensation Committee certified achievement of performance goals for fiscal year 2004 and authorized payments to participants under the Management Incentive Compensation Plan of 2004. The goals for fiscal year 2004 were based on return on equity, expense ratio and earned premium. Target awards were established and communicated to the participants in February 2004, with the maximum bonus opportunity for an executive of 200% of his or her target award. Pursuant to the Plan the Committee disregarded the effect on ROE of two unusual and non-recurring charges and one unusual and non-recurring item related to the transaction involving the Company's individual income protection closed block and the multistate market conduct examination settlement agreement, and the effect of a judgment obtained in certain refund litigation and settlements of certain IRS examinations. Payments were approved for the Company's named executive officers, Messrs. Watjen, Best, Copeland, Greving and McCarthy, and to Messrs. Edgren, Foley and Madeja who also are executive officers.
 
The Compensation Committee approved the increase of the salaries of its named executive officers, Messrs. Watjen, Best, and McCarthy and to Messrs. Foley and Madeja who also are executive officers The increase in salaries ranged from 1.4% to 13.6% of current annual base salary. The increase will be effective March 1, 2005.
 
On February 18, 2005, the Board approved the Amended and Restated Non-Employee Director Compensation Plan of 2004 ("Director Plan") a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 10.3 to this Report and incorporated herein by reference. Under the Director Plan, the Company pays its non-employee directors an annual retainer of $80,000, chairs of the standing committees, with the exception of the Executive Committee, receive an additional retainer of $7,500, and all directors receive a fee of $2,000 for each regular and special meeting of the Board and committees, including special committees, on which a director participates in person. The fee for each board or committee meeting attended by teleconference is $500. Employees of the Company are not participants in the Director Plan. The Plan as amended allows each director to elect to receive retainers and fees in the form of cash and/or deferred share rights. Previously, meeting fees were paid only in cash. The amendments to the Director Plan also include technical amendments to bring the Director Plan into compliance with new Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 as amended, including revised definitions of disability and hardship, and the timing of elections.
 
 
(c) Exhibits. The following exhibits are filed with this Report:
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
1.1 General. The purpose of the UnumProvident Stock Plan of 1999 (the "Plan") is to promote the success, and enhance the value, of UnumProvident Corporation (the "Corporation"), by linking the personal interests of its employees, officers, producers and directors to those of Corporation stockholders and by providing such persons with an incentive for outstanding performance. The Plan is further intended to provide flexibility to the Corporation in its ability to motivate, attract, and retain the services of employees, officers, producers and directors upon whose judgment, interest, and special effort the successful conduct of the Corporation's operation is largely dependent. Accordingly, the Plan permits the grant of incentive awards from time to time to selected employees, officers, producers and directors.
 
 
 
2.1 Effective Date. The Plan was effective as of January 1, 1999 (the "Effective Date") and has most recently been amended by the Board on February 17, 2004.
 
2.2 Termination of Plan. No Awards may be granted under the Plan after the ten-year anniversary of the Effective Date, but the Plan shall remain in effect as long as any Awards under it are outstanding.
 
 
 
3.1 Definitions. When a word or phrase appears in this Plan with the initial letter capitalized, and the word or phrase does not commence a sentence, the word or phrase shall generally be given the meaning ascribed to it in this Section or in Section 1.1 unless a clearly different meaning is required by the context. The following words and phrases shall have the following meanings:
 
(a) "Award" means any Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Restricted Stock Award, or Dividend Equivalent Award, or any other right or interest relating to Stock or cash, granted to a Participant under the Plan.
 
(b) "Award Agreement" means any written agreement, contract, or other instrument or document evidencing an Award.
 
(c) "Board" means the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
(d) "Change in Control" means and includes the occurrence of any of the following events:
 
(i) during any period of two consecutive years, individuals who, at the beginning or such period, constitute the Board (the "Incumbent Directors") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board, provided that any person becoming a director and whose election or nomination for election was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the Incumbent Directors then on the Board (either by a specific vote or by approval of the proxy statement of the Company in which such person is named as a nominee for director, without written objection to such nomination) shall be an Incumbent Director; , , that no individual initially elected or nominated as a director of the Company as a result of an actual or threatened election contest (as described in Rule 14a-11 under the Act) ("Election Contest") or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of any "person" (as such term is defined in Section 3(a)(9) of the Act and as used in Sections 13(d)(3) and 14(d)(2) of the Act) other than the Board ("Proxy Contest"), including by reason of any agreement intended to avoid or settle any Election or Contest or Proxy Contest, shall be deemed an Incumbent Director;
provided
however
 
(ii) any person is or becomes a "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities eligible to vote for the election of the Board (the "Company Voting Securities"); , , that the event described in this paragraph (ii) shall not be deemed to be a Change in Control of the Company by virtue of any of the following acquisitions: (A) by the Company of any subsidiary, (B) by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any subsidiary, (C) by an underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities, (D) pursuant to a Non-Qualifying Transaction (as defined in paragraph (iii), or (E) a transaction (other than one described in (iii) below) in which Company Voting Securities are acquired from the Company, if a majority of the Incumbent Directors approve a resolution providing expressly that the acquisition pursuant to this clause (E) does not constitute a Change in Control of the Company under this paragraph (ii);
provided
however
 
(iii) the consummation of a merger, consolidation, statutory share exchange or similar form of corporate transaction involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries that requires the approval of the Company's stockholders, whether for such transaction or the issuance of securities in the transaction (a "Reorganization"), or sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the Company's assets to an entity that is not an affiliate of the Company (a "Sale"), unless immediately following such Reorganization or Sale: (A) more than 50% of the total voting power of (x) the corporation resulting from such Reorganization or the corporation which has acquired all or substantially all of the assets of the Company (in either case, the "Surviving Corporation"), or (y) if applicable, the ultimate parent corporation that directly or indirectly has beneficial ownership of 100% of the voting securities eligible to elect directors of the Surviving Corporation (the "Parent Corporation"), is represented by the Company Voting Securities that were outstanding immediately prior to such Reorganization or Sale (or, if applicable, is represented by shares into which such Company Voting Securities were converted pursuant to such Reorganization or Sale), and such voting power among the holders thereof is in substantially the same proportion as the voting power of such Company Voting Securities among the holders thereof immediately prior to the Reorganization or Sale, (B) no person (other than any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Surviving Corporation or the Parent Corporation) is or becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of 20% or more of the total voting power of the outstanding voting securities eligible to elect directors of the Parent Corporation (or, if there is no Parent Corporation, the Surviving Corporation) and (C) at least a
majority of the members of the board of directors of the Parent Corporation (or, if there is no Parent Corporation, the Surviving Corporation) following the consummation of the Reorganization or Sale were Incumbent Directors at the time of the Board's approval of the execution of the initial agreement providing for such Reorganization or Sale (any Reorganization or Sale which satisfies all of the criteria specified in (A), (B) and (C) above shall be deemed to be a "Non-Qualifying Transaction"); or
 
(iv) the stockholders of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Change in Control of the Company shall not be deemed to occur solely because any person acquires beneficial ownership of more than 20% of the Company Voting Securities as a result of the acquisition of Company Voting Securities by the Company which reduces the number of Company Voting Securities outstanding; , if after such acquisition by the Company such person becomes the beneficial owner of additional Company Voting Securities that increases the percentage of outstanding Company Voting Securities beneficially owned by such person, a Change in Control of the Company shall then occur.
provided
that
 
(e) "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
 
(f) "Committee" means the committee of the Board described in Article 4.
 
(g) "Corporation" means UnumProvident Corporation, a Delaware corporation.
 
(h) "Covered Employee" means a covered employee as defined in Code Section 162(m)(3).
 
(i) "Disability" means any illness or other physical or mental condition of a Participant that renders the Participant incapable of performing his customary and usual duties for the Corporation, or any medically determinable illness or other physical or mental condition resulting from a bodily injury, disease or mental disorder which, in the judgment of the Committee, is permanent and continuous in nature. The Committee may require such medical or other evidence as it deems necessary to judge the nature and permanency of the Participant's condition. Notwithstanding the above, with respect to an Incentive Stock Option, Disability shall mean Permanent and Total Disability as defined in Section 22(e)(3) of the Code.
 
(j) "Dividend Equivalent" means a right granted to a Participant under Article 11.
 
(k) "Effective Date" has the meaning assigned such term in Section 2.1.
 
(l) "Fair Market Value", on any date, means (i) if the Common Stock is listed on a securities exchange or traded over the Nasdaq National Market, the average of the high and low market prices reported in The Wall Street Journal at which a Share of Common Stock shall have been sold on such day or on the next preceding trading day if such date was not a trading day, or (ii) if the Common Stock is not listed on a securities exchange or traded over the Nasdaq National Market, the mean between the bid and offered prices as quoted by Nasdaq for such date, provided that if it is determined that the fair market value is not properly reflected by such Nasdaq quotations, Fair Market Value will be determined by such other method as the Committee determines in good faith to be reasonable.
(m) "Incentive Stock Option" means an Option that is intended to meet the requirements of Section 422 of the Code or any successor provision thereto.
 
(n) "Non-Qualified Stock Option" means an Option that is not an Incentive Stock Option.
 
(o) "Option" means a right granted to a Participant under Article 7 of the Plan to purchase Stock at a specified price during specified time periods. An Option may be either an Incentive Stock Option or a Non-Qualified Stock Option.
 
(p) "Parent" means a corporation which owns or beneficially owns a majority of the outstanding voting stock or voting power of the Corporation. Notwithstanding the above, with respect to Incentive Stock Options, the term shall have the same meaning as set forth in Section 424(e) of the Code.
 
(q) "Participant" means a person who, as an employee, officer, Producer or director of the Corporation or any Parent or Subsidiary, has been granted an Award under the Plan.
 
(r) "Plan" means the UnumProvident Corporation Stock Plan of 1999, as amended from time to time.
 
(s) "Producer" means a producer of insurance business for the benefit of the Corporation or its subsidiaries. For purposes of this Plan, Producers are deemed to be consultants of the Corporation or its Parent or Subsidiaries.
 
(t) "Restricted Stock Award" means Stock granted to a Participant under Article 10 that is subject to certain restrictions and to risk of forfeiture.
 
(u) "Retirement" means a Participant's voluntary termination of employment with the Corporation, Parent or Subsidiary at or after age 65 or after attaining age 55 with at least 15 years of service with the Corporation or a Parent or Subsidiary or with an entity that has been acquired by the Corporation or a Parent or Subsidiary, or with the approval of the Committee.
 
(v) "Stock" means the $.10 par value common stock of the Corporation and such other securities of the Corporation as may be substituted for Stock pursuant to Article 12.
 
(w) "Stock Appreciation Right" or "SAR" means a right granted to a Participant under Article 8 to receive a payment equal to the difference between the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock as of the date of exercise of the SAR over the grant price of the SAR, all as determined pursuant to Article 8.
 
(x) "Subsidiary" means any corporation, limited liability company, partnership or other entity of which a majority of the outstanding voting stock or voting power is beneficially owned directly or indirectly by the Corporation. Notwithstanding the above, with respect to Incentive Stock Options, the term shall have the meaning set forth in Section 424(f) of the Code.
 
(y) "1933 Act" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended from time to time.
(z) "1934 Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time.
 
 
 
4.1 Committee. The Plan shall be administered by a committee (the "Committee") appointed by the Board (which Committee shall consist of two or more directors) or, at the discretion of the Board from time to time, the Plan may be administered by the Board. It is intended that the directors appointed to serve on the Committee shall be "non-employee directors" (within the meaning of Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the 1934 Act) and "outside directors" (within the meaning of Code Section 162(m) and the regulations thereunder) to the extent that Rule 16b-3 and, if necessary for relief from the limitation under Code Section 162(m) and such relief is sought by the Corporation, Code Section 162(m), respectively, are applicable. However, the mere fact that a Committee member shall fail to qualify under either of the foregoing requirements shall not invalidate any Award made by the Committee which Award is otherwise validly made under the Plan. The members of the Committee shall be appointed by, and may be changed at any time and from time to time in the discretion of, the Board. During any time that the Board is acting as administrator of the Plan, it shall have all the powers of the Committee hereunder, and any reference herein to the Committee (other than in this Section 4.1) shall include the Board.
 
4.2 Action By the Committee. For purposes of administering the Plan, the following rules of procedure shall govern the Committee. A majority of the Committee shall constitute a quorum. The acts of a majority of the members present at any meeting at which a quorum is present, and acts approved unanimously in writing by the members of the Committee in lieu of a meeting, shall be deemed the acts of the Committee. Each member of the Committee is entitled to, in good faith, rely or act upon any report or other information furnished to that member by any officer or other employee of the Corporation or any Parent or Subsidiary, the Corporation's independent certified public accountants, or any executive compensation consultant or other professional retained by the Corporation to assist in the administration of the Plan.
 
4.3 Authority Of Committee. Except as provided below the Committee has the exclusive power, authority and discretion to:
 
(a) Designate Participants;
 
(b) Determine the type or types of Awards to be granted to each Participant;
 
(c) Determine the number of Awards to be granted and the number of shares of Stock to which an Award will relate;
 
(d) Determine the terms and conditions of any Award granted under the Plan, including but not limited to, the exercise price, grant price, or purchase price, any restrictions or limitations on the Award, any schedule for lapse of forfeiture restrictions or restrictions on the exercisability of an Award, and accelerations or waivers thereof, based in each case on such considerations as the Committee in its sole discretion determines;
(e) Accelerate the vesting or lapse of restrictions of any outstanding Award, based in each case on such considerations as the Committee in its sole discretion determines;
 
(f) Determine whether, to what extent, and under what circumstances an Award may be settled in, or the exercise price of an Award may be paid in, cash, Stock, other Awards, or other property, or an Award may be canceled, forfeited, or surrendered;
 
(g) Prescribe the form of each Award Agreement, which need not be identical for each Participant;
 
(h) Decide all other matters that must be determined in connection with an Award;
 
(i) Establish, adopt or revise any rules and regulations as it may deem necessary or advisable to administer the Plan;
 
(j) Make all other decisions and determinations that may be required under the Plan or as the Committee deems necessary or advisable to administer the Plan;
 
(k) Amend the Plan or any Award Agreement as provided herein; and
 
(l) Adopt such modifications, procedures, and subplans as may be necessary or desirable to comply with provisions of the laws of non-U.S. jurisdictions in which the Corporation or any Parent or Subsidiary may operate, in order to assure the viability of the benefits of Awards granted to Participants located in such other jurisdiction and to meet the objectives of the Plan.
 
Notwithstanding the above, the Board or the Committee may expressly delegate to a special committee consisting of one or more directors who are also officers of the Corporation some or all of the Committee's authority under subsections (a) through (g) above with respect to those eligible Participants who, at the time of the grant are not, and are not anticipated to become, either (I) Covered Employees or (ii) persons subject to the insider trading rules of Section 16 of the 1934 Act. Further, the Committee may delegate its general administrative duties under the Plan to an officer or employee or committee of officers or employees of the Company.
 
4.4. Decisions Binding. The Committee's interpretation of the Plan, any Awards granted under the Plan, any Award Agreement and all decisions and determinations by the Committee with respect to the Plan are final, binding, and conclusive on all parties. No member of the Committee shall be liable for any act done in good faith.
 
 
 
5.1. Number Of Shares. The aggregate number of shares of Stock reserved and available for Awards or which may be used to provide a basis of measurement for or to determine the value of an Award (such as with a Stock Appreciation Right) shall be 17,500,000 of which not more than twenty percent (20%) may be granted as Awards of Restricted Stock or unrestricted Stock Awards, and not more than ten percent (10%) shares of Stock shall be granted in the form of Incentive Stock Options.
5.2. Lapsed Awards and Shares Withheld or Tendered. To the extent that an Award is canceled, terminates, expires or lapses for any reason, any shares of Stock subject to the Award will again be available for the grant of Awards under the Plan. Shares subject to SARs or other Awards settled in cash will be available for the grant of an Award under the Plan. Shares of Stock that are surrendered or withheld from any Award to satisfy a Participant's income tax withholding obligations, or shares of Stock owned by a Participant that are tendered to pay the exercise price of Options granted under the Plan will be available for the grant of Awards under the Plan. Stock delivered by the Corporation, any shares of stock with respect to which Awards are made by the Corporation and any shares of Common Stock with respect to which the Corporation becomes obligated to make Awards, through the assumption of, or in substitution for, the outstanding awards previously granted by a acquired entity, shall not be counted against the shares available for Awards under this Plan.
 
5.3. Stock Distributed. Any Stock distributed pursuant to an Award may consist, in whole or in part, of authorized and unissued Stock, treasury Stock or Stock purchased on the open market.
 
5.4. Limitation On Awards. Notwithstanding any provision in the Plan to the contrary, but subject to adjustment as provided in Section 12.4 the maximum number of shares of Stock with respect to one or more Options and/or SARs that may be granted during any one calendar year under the Plan to any one Participant shall be 1,000,000. The maximum Fair Market Value (measured as of the date of grant) of any Awards other than Options and SARs that may be received by any one Participant (less any consideration paid by the Participant for such Award) during any one calendar year under the Plan shall be $10,000,000.
 
 
 
6.1. General. Awards may be granted only to individuals who are employees, officers, Producers or directors of the Corporation or a Parent or Subsidiary.
 
 
 
7.1. General. The Committee is authorized to grant Options to Participants on the following terms and conditions:
 
(a) Exercise Price. The exercise price per share of Stock under an Option shall be determined by the Committee, provided that the exercise price for any Option shall not be less than the Fair Market Value as of the date of the grant.
 
(b) Time And Conditions Of Exercise. The Committee shall determine the time or times at which an Option may be exercised in whole or in part. The Committee also shall determine the performance or other conditions, if any, that must be satisfied before all or part of an Option may be exercised. The Committee may waive any exercise provisions at any time in whole or in part based upon factors as the Committee may determine in its sole discretion so that the Option becomes exercisable or vested at an earlier date.
(c) Payment. The Committee shall determine the methods by which the exercise price of an Option may be paid, the form of payment, including, without limitation, cash, shares of Stock, or other property (including "cashless exercise" arrangements), and the methods by which shares of Stock shall be delivered or deemed to be delivered to Participants; provided, however, that if shares of Stock are used to pay the exercise price of an Option, such shares must have been held by the Participant for at least six months. When shares of Stock are delivered, such delivery may be by attestation of ownership or actual delivery of one or more certificates. Failure by the Committee to specify methods by which the exercise price of an Option may be paid or the form of payment shall be deemed to express the Committee's determination that all methods and forms of payment under the Plan are permitted for that Option.
 
(d) Evidence Of Grant. All Options shall be evidenced by a written Award Agreement between the Corporation and the Participant. The Award Agreement shall include such provisions, not inconsistent with the Plan, as may be specified by the Committee.
 
(e) Additional Options Upon Exercise. The Committee may, in its sole discretion, provide in an Award Agreement, or in an amendment thereto, for the automatic grant of a new Option to any Participant who delivers shares of Stock as full or partial payment of the exercise price of the original Option. Any new Option granted in such a case (i) shall be for the same number of shares of Stock as the Participant delivered in exercising the original Option, (ii) shall have an exercise price of 100% of the Fair Market Value of the surrendered shares of Stock on the date of exercise of the original Option (the grant date for the new Option), and (iii) shall have a term equal to the unexpired term of the original Option.
 
(f) Exercise Term. In no event may an Option be exercisable for more than ten years from the date of its grant.
 
7.2. Incentive Stock Options. The terms of any Incentive Stock Options granted under the Plan must comply with the following additional rules:
 
(a) Exercise Price. The exercise price per share of Stock shall be set by the Committee, provided that the exercise price for any Incentive Stock Option shall not be less than the Fair Market Value as of the date of the grant.
 
(b) Exercise. In no event may any Incentive Stock Option be exercisable for more than ten years from the date of its grant.
 
(c) Lapse Of Option. An Incentive Stock Option shall lapse under the earliest of the following circumstances; provided, however, that the Committee may, prior to the lapse of the Incentive Stock Option under the circumstances described in paragraphs (3), (4) and (5) below, provide in writing that the Option will extend until a later date, but if Option is exercised after the dates specified in paragraphs (3), (4) and (5) below, it will automatically become a Non-Qualified Stock Option:
 
(1) The Incentive Stock Option shall lapse as of the option expiration date set forth in the Award Agreement.
(2) The Incentive Stock Option shall lapse ten years after it is granted, unless an earlier time is set in the Award Agreement.
 
(3) If the Participant terminates employment for any reason other than as provided in paragraph (4) or (5) below, the Incentive Stock Option shall lapse, unless it is previously exercised, three months after the Participant's termination of employment; provided, however, that if the Participant's employment is terminated by the Corporation for cause (as determined by the Corporation ), the Incentive Stock Option shall (to the extent not previously exercised) lapse immediately.
 
(4) If the Participant terminates employment by reason of his Disability, the Incentive Stock Option shall lapse, unless it is previously exercised, one year after the Participant's termination of employment.
 
(5) If the Participant dies while employed, or during the three - month period described in paragraph (3) or during the one - year period described in paragraph (4) and before the Option otherwise lapses, the Option shall lapse one year after the Participant's death. Upon the Participant's death, any exercisable Incentive Stock Options may be exercised by the Participant's beneficiary, determined in accordance with Section 11.6.
 
Unless the exercisability of the Incentive Stock Option is accelerated as provided in Article 11, if a Participant exercises an Option after termination of employment, the Option may be exercised only with respect to the shares that were otherwise vested on the Participant's termination of employment.
 
(d) Individual Dollar Limitation. The aggregate Fair Market Value (determined as of the time an Award is made) of all shares of Stock with respect to which Incentive Stock Options are first exercisable by a Participant in any calendar year may not exceed $100,000.00.
 
(e) Ten Percent Owners. No Incentive Stock Option shall be granted to any individual who, at the date of grant, owns stock possessing more than ten percent of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Corporation or any Parent or Subsidiary unless the exercise price per share of such Option is at least 110% of the Fair Market Value per share of Stock at the date of grant and the Option expires no later than five years after the date of grant.
 
(f) Expiration Of Incentive Stock Options. No Award of an Incentive Stock Option may be made pursuant to the Plan after the day immediately prior to the tenth anniversary of the Effective Date.
 
(g) Right To Exercise. During a Participant's lifetime, an Incentive Stock Option may be exercised only by the Participant or, in the case of the Participant's Disability, by the Participant's guardian or legal representative.
 
(h) Directors. The Committee may not grant an Incentive Stock Option to a non - employee director. The Committee may grant an Incentive Stock Option to a director who is also an employee of the Corporation or Parent or Subsidiary but only in that individual's position as an employee and not as a director.
 
 
8.1. Grant of SARs. The Committee is authorized to grant SARs to Participants on the following terms and conditions:
 
(a) Right To Payment. Upon the exercise of a Stock Appreciation Right, the Participant to whom it is granted has the right to receive the excess, if any, of:
 
(1) The Fair Market Value of one share of Stock on the date of exercise; over
 
(2) The grant price of the Stock Appreciation Right as determined by the Committee, which shall not be less than the Fair Market Value of one share of Stock on the date of grant.
 
(b) Other Terms. All awards of Stock Appreciation Rights shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement. The terms, methods of exercise, methods of settlement, form of consideration payable in settlement, and any other terms and conditions of any Stock Appreciation Right shall be determined by the Committee at the time of the grant of the Award and shall be reflected in the Award Agreement.
 
 
 
9.1. Grant Of Restricted Stock. The Committee is authorized to make Awards of Restricted Stock to Participants in such amounts and subject to such terms and conditions as may be selected by the Committee. All Awards of Restricted Stock shall be evidenced by a Restricted Stock Award Agreement.
 
9.2. Issuance And Restrictions. Restricted Stock shall be subject to such restrictions on transferability and other restrictions as the Committee may impose (including, without limitation, limitations on the right to vote Restricted Stock or the right to receive dividends on the Restricted Stock). These restrictions may lapse separately or in combination at such times, under such circumstances, in such installments, upon the satisfaction of performance goals or otherwise, as the Committee determines at the time of the grant of the Award or thereafter.
 
9.3. Forfeiture. Except as otherwise determined by the Committee at the time of the grant of the Award or thereafter, upon termination of employment during the applicable restriction period or upon failure to satisfy a performance goal during the applicable restriction period, Restricted Stock that is at that time subject to restrictions shall be forfeited and reacquired by the Corporation; provided, however, that the Committee may provide in any Award Agreement that restrictions or forfeiture conditions relating to Restricted Stock will be waived in whole or in part in the event of terminations resulting from specified causes, and the Committee may in other cases waive in whole or in part restrictions or forfeiture conditions relating to Restricted Stock.
9.4. Certificates For Restricted Stock. Restricted Stock granted under the Plan may be evidenced in such manner as the Committee shall determine. If certificates representing shares of Restricted Stock are registered in the name of the Participant, certificates must bear an appropriate legend referring to the terms, conditions, and restrictions applicable to such Restricted Stock.
 
 
 
10.1 Grant Of Dividend Equivalents. The Committee is authorized to grant Dividend Equivalents to Participants subject to such terms and conditions as may be selected by the Committee. Dividend Equivalents shall entitle the Participant to receive payments equal to dividends with respect to all or a portion of the number of shares of Stock subject to an Award, as determined by the Committee. The Committee may provide that Dividend Equivalents be paid or distributed when accrued or be deemed to have been reinvested in additional shares of Stock, or otherwise reinvested.
 
 
 
11.1. Stand-alone, Tandem, And Substitute Awards. Awards granted under the Plan may, in the discretion of the Committee, be granted either alone or in addition to, in tandem with, or in substitution for, any other Award granted under the Plan. If an Award is granted in substitution for another Award, the Committee may require the surrender of such other Award in consideration of the grant of the new Award. Awards granted in addition to or in tandem with other Awards may be granted either at the same time as or at a different time from the grant of such other Awards.
 
11.2. Term Of Award. The term of each Award shall be for the period as determined by the Committee, provided that in no event shall the term of any Incentive Stock Option or a Stock Appreciation Right granted in tandem with the Incentive Stock Option exceed a period of ten years from the date of its grant (or, if Section 7.2(e) applies, five years from the date of its grant).
 
11.3. Form Of Payment For Awards. Subject to the terms of the Plan and any applicable law or Award Agreement, payments or transfers to be made by the Corporation or a Parent or Subsidiary on the grant or exercise of an Award may be made in such form as the Committee determines at or after the time of grant, including without limitation, cash, Stock, other Awards, or other property, or any combination, and may be made in a single payment or transfer, in installments, or on a deferred basis, in each case determined in accordance with rules adopted by, and at the discretion of, the Committee.
 
11.4. Limits On Transfer. No right or interest of a Participant in any unexercised or restricted Award may be pledged, encumbered, or hypothecated to or in favor of any party other than the Corporation or a Parent or Subsidiary, or shall be subject to any lien, obligation, or liability of such Participant to any other party other than the Corporation or a Parent or Subsidiary. No unexercised or restricted Award shall be assignable or transferable by a Participant other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution or, except in the case of an Incentive Stock Option, pursuant to a domestic relations order that would satisfy Section 414(p)(1)(A) of the Code if such Section applied to an Award under the Plan; provided, however, that the Committee may (but need not) permit other transfers where
the Committee concludes that such transferability (i) does not result in accelerated taxation, (ii) does not cause any Option intended to be an Incentive Stock Option to fail to be described in Code Section 422(b), and (iii) is otherwise appropriate and desirable, taking into account any factors deemed relevant, including without limitation, state or federal tax or securities laws applicable to transferable Awards.
 
11.5 Beneficiaries. Notwithstanding Section 11.4, a Participant may, in the manner determined by the Committee, designate a beneficiary to exercise the rights of the Participant and to receive any distribution with respect to any Award upon the Participant's death. A beneficiary, legal guardian, legal representative, or other person claiming any rights under the Plan is subject to all terms and conditions of the Plan and any Award Agreement applicable to the Participant, except to the extent the Plan and Award Agreement otherwise provide, and to any additional restrictions deemed necessary or appropriate by the Committee. If no beneficiary has been designated or survives the Participant, payment shall be made to the Participant's estate. Subject to the foregoing, a beneficiary designation may be changed or revoked by a Participant at any time provided the change or revocation is filed with the Committee.
 
11.6. Stock Certificates. All Stock issuable under the Plan is subject to any stop-transfer orders and other restrictions as the Committee deems necessary or advisable to comply with federal or state securities laws, rules and regulations and the rules of any national securities exchange or automated quotation system on which the Stock is listed, quoted, or traded. The Committee may place legends on any Stock certificate or issue instructions to the transfer agent to reference restrictions applicable to the Stock.
 
11.7 Acceleration Upon Death, Disability Or Retirement. Notwithstanding any other provision in the Plan or any Participant's Award Agreement to the contrary, upon the Participant's death or Disability during his employment or service as a producer or director or upon the Participant's Retirement, all outstanding Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, and other Awards in the nature of rights that may be exercised shall become fully exercisable and all restrictions on outstanding Awards shall lapse. Any Option or Stock Appreciation Rights Awards shall thereafter continue or lapse in accordance with the other provisions of the Plan and the Award Agreement. To the extent that this provision causes Incentive Stock Options to exceed the dollar limitation set forth in Section 7.2(d), the excess Options shall be deemed to be Non-Qualified Stock Options.
 
11.8. Acceleration Upon A Change In Control. Except as otherwise provided in the Award Agreement, upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, all outstanding Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, and other Awards in the nature of rights that may be exercised shall become fully exercisable and all restrictions on outstanding Awards shall lapse; provided, however that such acceleration will not occur if, in the opinion of the Corporation's accountants, such acceleration would preclude the use of "pooling of interest" accounting treatment for a Change in Control transaction that (a) would otherwise qualify for such accounting treatment, and (b) is contingent upon qualifying for such accounting treatment. To the extent that this provision causes Incentive Stock Options to exceed the dollar limitation set forth in Section 7.2(d), the excess Options shall be deemed to be Non-Qualified Stock Options.
 
11.9. Acceleration Upon Certain Events Not Constituting A Change In Control. In the event of the occurrence of any circumstance, transaction or event not constituting a Change in Control (as defined in Section 3.1) but which the Board of Directors deems to be, or to be reasonably likely to lead to, an effective change in control of the Corporation of a nature that would be required to be reported in response to Item 6(e) of Schedule 14A of the 1934 Act, the Committee may in its sole discretion declare all outstanding Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, and other Awards in the nature of rights that may be exercised to be fully exercisable, and/or all restrictions on all outstanding Awards to have lapsed, in each
case, as of such date as the Committee may, in its sole discretion, declare, which may be on or before the consummation of such transaction or event. To the extent that this provision causes Incentive Stock Options to exceed the dollar limitation set forth in Section 7.2(d), the excess Options shall be deemed to be Non-Qualified Stock Options.
 
11.10. Acceleration For Any Other Reason. Regardless of whether an event has occurred as described in Section 11.8 or 11.9 above, the Committee may in its sole discretion at any time determine that all or a portion of a Participant's Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, and other Awards in the nature of rights that may be exercised shall become fully or partially exercisable, and/or that all or a part of the restrictions on all or a portion of the outstanding Awards shall lapse, in each case, as of such date as the Committee may, in its sole discretion, declare. The Committee may discriminate among Participants and among Awards granted to a Participant in exercising its discretion pursuant to this Section 11.10.
 
11.11 Effect Of Acceleration. If an Award is accelerated under Section 11.8 or 11.9, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, provide (i) that the Award will expire after a designated period of time after such acceleration to the extent not then exercised, (ii) that the Award will be settled in cash rather than Stock, (iii) that the Award will be assumed by another party to the transaction giving rise to the acceleration or otherwise be equitably converted in connection with such transaction, or (iv) any combination of the foregoing. The Committee's determination need not be uniform and may be different for different Participants whether or not such Participants are similarly situated.
 
11.12. Performance Goals. The Committee may determine that any Award granted pursuant to this Plan to a Participant shall be determined on the basis of one or more of the following measures of corporate performance, alone or in combination, which may be expressed in terms of Corporation-wide objectives or in terms of objectives that relate to the performance of a division, business unit, region, department or function within the Corporation or a subsidiary: (a) return on equity, (b) overall or selected premium or sales growth, (c) stock performance, (d) expense efficiency ratios (ratio of expenses to premium income), (e) earnings per share, (f) market share, (g) revenue, (h) customer service measures or indices, (i) underwriting efficiency and/or quality, (j) persistency factors, (k) total shareholder return, (l) earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT), (m) earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA), (n) net income, (o) return on assets, (p) return on net assets, (q) economic value added, (r) shareholder value added, (s) embedded value added, (t) net operating profit, (u) net operating profit after tax, (v) combined ratio, (w) expense ratio, (x) loss ratio, (y) premiums, (z) return on capital, (aa) return on invested capital, (bb) profit margin, or (cc) risk based capital. The Committee has the right for any reason to reduce or increase the Award, notwithstanding the achievement of a specified goal.
 
11.13. Termination Of Employment. Whether military, government or other service or other leave of absence shall constitute a termination of employment shall be determined in each case by the Committee at its discretion, and any determination by the Committee shall be final and conclusive. A termination of employment shall not occur in a circumstance in which a Participant transfers from the Corporation to one of its Parents or Subsidiaries, transfers from a Parent or Subsidiary to the Corporation, or transfers from one Parent or Subsidiary to another Parent or Subsidiary or in the discretion of the Committee as specified at or prior to such occurrence, in the case of a spin-off, sale or disposition of the Participant's employer from the Corporation or any Parent or Subsidiary. To the extent that this provision causes the Incentive Stock Options to extend beyond three months from the date a Participant is deemed to be an employee of the Corporation, a Parent or Subsidiary for purposes of Section 424(f) of the Code, the Options held by such Participant shall be deemed to be Non-Qualified Stock Options.
 
 
12.1. General. In the event of a corporate transaction involving the Corporation (including without limitation, any stock dividend, stock split, extraordinary cash dividend, recapitalization, reorganization, merger, consolidation split-up, spin-off, combination or exchange of shares) the authorization limits under Section 5.1 and 5.4 shall be adjusted proportionately, and the Committee may adjust Awards to preserve the benefits or potential benefits of the Awards. Action by the Committee may include: (I) adjustment of the number and kind of shares which may be delivered under the Plan; (ii) adjustment of the number and kind of shares subject to outstanding Awards, adjustment of the exercise price of outstanding Awards; and (iv) any other adjustments that the Committee determines to be equitable. Without limiting the foregoing, in the event a stock dividend or stock split is declared upon the Stock, the authorization limits under Section 5.1 and 5.4 shall be increased proportionately, and the shares of Stock then subject to each Award shall be increased proportionately without any change in the aggregate purchase price therefor.
 
 
 
13.1. Amendment, Modification And Termination. The Board or the Committee may, at any time and from time to time, amend, modify or terminate the Plan without stockholder approval; provided, however, that the Board or Committee may condition any amendment or modification on the approval of stockholders of the Corporation if such approval is necessary or deemed advisable with respect to tax, securities or other applicable laws, policies or regulations.
 
13.2 Awards Previously Granted. At any time and from time to time, the Committee may amend, modify or terminate any outstanding Award without approval of the Participant; provided, however, that subject to the terms of the applicable Award Agreement such amendment, modification or termination shall not, without the Participant's consent, reduce or diminish the value of such Award determined as if the Award had been exercised, vested, cashed in or otherwise settled on the date of such amendment or termination; and provided further that, the original term of any Option may not be extended and, except as otherwise provided in the anti-dilution provision of the Plan, the exercise price of any Option may not be reduced. No termination, amendment, or modification of the Plan shall adversely affect any Award previously granted under the Plan, without the written consent of the Participant.
 
 
 
14.1. No Rights To Awards. No Participant or employee, officer, producer or director shall have any claim to be granted any Award under the Plan, and neither the Corporation nor the Committee is obligated to treat Participants or eligible participants uniformly.
 
14.2. No Stockholder Rights. No Award gives the Participant any of the rights of a stockholder of the Corporation unless and until shares of Stock are in fact issued to such person in connection with such Award.
14.3. Withholding. The Corporation or any Parent or Subsidiary shall have the authority and the right to deduct or withhold, or require a Participant to remit to the Corporation, an amount sufficient to satisfy federal, state, and local taxes (including the Participant's FICA obligation) required by law to be withheld with respect to any taxable event arising as a result of the Plan. With respect to withholding required upon any taxable event under the Plan, the Committee may, at the time the Award is granted or thereafter, require or permit that any such withholding requirement be satisfied, in whole or in part, by withholding from the Award shares of Stock having a Fair Market Value on the date of withholding equal to the minimum amount (and not any greater amount) required to be withheld for tax purposes, all in accordance with such procedures as the Committee establishes.
 
14.4. No Right To Continued Service. Nothing in the Plan or any Award Agreement shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Corporation or any Parent or Subsidiary to terminate any Participant's employment or status as an officer, Producer or director at any time, nor confer upon any Participant any right to continue as an employee, officer, Producer or director of the Corporation or any Parent or Subsidiary.
 
14.5. Unfunded Status Of Awards. The Plan is intended to be an "unfunded" plan for incentive and deferred compensation. With respect to any payments not yet made to a Participant pursuant to an Award, nothing contained in the Plan or any Award Agreement shall give the Participant any rights that are greater than those of a general creditor of the Corporation or any Parent or Subsidiary.
 
14.6. Relationship To Other Benefits. No payment under the Plan shall be taken into account in determining any benefits under any pension, retirement, savings, profit sharing, group insurance, welfare or benefit plan of the Corporation or any Parent or Subsidiary unless provided otherwise in such other plan.
 
14.7. Expenses. The expenses of administering the Plan shall be borne by the Corporation and its Parents or Subsidiaries.
 
14.8. Titles And Headings. The titles and headings of the Sections in the Plan are for convenience of reference only, and in the event of any conflict, the text of the Plan, rather than such titles or headings, shall control.
 
14.9. Gender And Number. Except where otherwise indicated by the context, any masculine term used herein also shall include the feminine; the plural shall include the singular and the singular shall include the plural.
 
14.10. Fractional Shares. No fractional shares of Stock shall be issued and the Committee shall determine, in its discretion, whether cash shall be given in lieu of fractional shares or whether such fractional shares shall be eliminated by rounding up.
 
14.11. Government and other Regulations. The obligation of the Corporation to make payment of awards in Stock or otherwise shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules, and regulations, and to such approvals by government agencies as may be required. The Corporation shall be under no obligation to register under the 1933 Act, or any state securities act, any of the shares of Stock issued in connection with the Plan. The shares issued in connection with the Plan may in certain circumstances be exempt from registration under the 1933 Act, and the Corporation may restrict the transfer of such shares in such manner as it deems advisable to ensure the availability of any such exemption.
14.12. Governing Law. To the extent not governed by federal law, the Plan and all Award Agreements shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Tennessee.
 
14.13. Additional Provisions. Each Award Agreement may contain such other terms and conditions as the Committee may determine; provided that such other terms and conditions are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Plan.
 
The foregoing is hereby acknowledged as being the UnumProvident Corporation Stock Plan of 1999 as adopted and amended by the Board of Directors of the Corporation on February 17, 2004.
 

EXHIBIT 10.2
 
 
 
1. . UnumProvident Corporation (the "Corporation") hereby grants to the Grantee named above (the "Grantee"), as additional compensation for services rendered, and subject to the restrictions and the other terms and conditions set forth in the UnumProvident Corporation Stock Plan of 1999 (the "Plan") and in this agreement (this "Agreement"), the number of shares indicated above of the Corporation's $0.10 par value common stock (the "Shares"). Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the meanings assigned such terms in the Plan.
Grant of Shares
 
2. . The Shares are subject to each of the following restrictions. "Restricted Shares" mean those Shares which are subject to the restrictions imposed hereunder which restrictions have not then expired or terminated. Restricted Shares may not be sold, transferred, exchanged, assigned, pledged, hypothecated or otherwise encumbered. If the Grantee's employment with the Corporation or any Parent or Subsidiary terminates for any reason other than as set forth in any of paragraphs (b) through (d) of Section 3 hereof, then the Grantee shall forfeit all of the Grantee's right, title and interest in and to the Restricted Shares as of the date of employment termination and such Restricted Shares shall be reconveyed to the Corporation without further consideration or any act or action by the Grantee.
Restrictions
 
The restrictions imposed under this Section shall apply to all shares of the Corporation's Stock or other securities issued with respect to Restricted Shares hereunder in connection with any merger, reorganization, consolidation, recapitalization, stock dividend or other change in corporate structure affecting the common stock of the Corporation.
 
3. . The restrictions imposed under Section 2 will expire on the earliest to occur of the following:
Expiration and Termination of Restrictions
 
(a) As to the following numbers of Restricted Shares awarded hereunder (adjusted proportionately in the event of any change in the total numbers of Restricted Shares) on the following respective dates:
 
 
(b) On the date of termination of the Grantee's employment with the Corporation or any Parent or Subsidiary because of his or her death, Disability, normal retirement at age 65 or older without regard to years of service, early retirement at ages from 55 to and including 64 for persons having at least fifteen (15) years of service with the Corporation; with the approval of the Compensation Committee, early retirement at ages from 55 to and including 64 for a person having fewer than fifteen (15) years of service with the corporation; or
 
(c) On the date specified by the Committee or as otherwise established in the Plan in the event of an acceleration of vesting under Article 11 of the Plan, which includes Change in Control; or
 
(d) On the effective date of the dissolution or liquidation of the Corporation.
 
4. . The Shares will be issued in the name of the Grantee as Restricted Stock and will be held by the Corporation during the Restricted Period. During such period, the Shares may be evidenced in such manner as the Corporation shall determine, including, without limitation, registration by book entry. If certificates
Delivery of Shares
 
representing the Shares are registered in the name of Grantee prior to the lapse of the applicable forfeiture provisions, such certificates shall bear a legend in substantially the following form:
 
This certificate and the shares of stock represented hereby are subject to the terms and conditions (including forfeiture and restrictions against transfer) contained in a Restricted Stock Award Agreement between the registered owner of the shares represented hereby and UnumProvident Corporation. Release from such terms and conditions shall be made only in accordance with the provisions of such Agreement, copies of which are on file in the office of UnumProvident Corporation.
 
As soon as practicable after vesting of the Shares due to the lapse of applicable forfeiture provisions, the Shares will be issued, free of the foregoing legend, and delivered either to the Grantee or his or her legal representative in certificated form or, at the request of the Grantee, transferred to Grantee's brokerage account or otherwise held in book-entry form. In any case, delivery may be postponed for such period as may be required for the Corporation with reasonable diligence to comply if deemed advisable by the Corporation, with registration requirements under the Securities Act, listing requirements under the rules of any stock exchange, and requirements under any other law or regulation applicable to the issuance or transfer of the Shares.
 
5. . The Grantee, as beneficial owner of the Shares, shall have full voting and dividend rights with respect to the Shares during the Restricted Period.
Voting and Dividend Rights
 
6. . The Restricted Shares may not be pledged, encumbered, or hypothecated to or in favor of any party other than the Corporation or a Parent or Subsidiary, or be subject to any lien, obligation, or liability of the Grantee to any other party other than the Corporation or a Parent or Subsidiary. The Restricted Shares are not assignable or transferable by the Grantee other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution.
Restrictions on Transfer and Pledge
 
7. . In the event a stock dividend is declared upon the Stock, the shares of Stock then subject to this Agreement shall be increased proportionately. In the event the Stock shall be changed into or exchanged for a different number or class of shares of stock or securities of the Corporation or of another corporation, whether through reorganization, recapitalization, reclassification, stock split-up, combination of shares, merger or consolidation, there shall be substituted for each such share of Stock then subject to this Agreement the number and class of shares into which each outstanding share of Stock shall be so exchanged.
Changes in Capital Structure
 
8. . Nothing in this Agreement shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Corporation or any Parent or Subsidiary to terminate the Grantee's employment at any time, nor confer upon the Grantee any right to continue in the employ of the Corporation or any Parent or Subsidiary.
No Right of Continued Employment
 
9. . The Grantee will, no later than the date as of which any amount related to the Shares first becomes includable in the Grantee's gross income for federal income tax purposes, pay to the Corporation, or make other arrangements satisfactory to the Corporation regarding payment of, any federal, state and local taxes of any kind required by law to be withheld with respect to such amount. The withholding requirement may be satisfied, in whole or in part, by withholding from the award Shares having a Fair Market Value on the date of withholding equal to the minimum amount required to be withheld for tax purposes, all in accordance with such procedures as the Committee establishes. The obligations of the Corporation under this Agreement will be conditional on such payment or arrangements, and the Corporation, and, where applicable, its Subsidiaries will, to the extent permitted by law, have the right to deduct any such taxes from any payment of any kind otherwise due to the Grantee.
Payment of Taxes
 
10. . The Grantee hereby agrees to use his best efforts to provide services to the Corporation in a workmanlike manner and to promote the Corporation's interests.
Grantee's Covenant
 
11. . The Committee may amend, modify or terminate this Agreement without approval of the Grantee; provided, however, that such amendment, modification or termination shall not, without the Grantee's consent, reduce or diminish the value of this award determined as if it had been fully vested on the date of such amendment or termination.
Amendment
 
12. . The terms contained in the Plan are incorporated into and made a part of this Agreement and this Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the Plan. In the event of any actual or alleged conflict between the provisions of the Plan and the provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of the Plan shall be controlling and determinative.
Plan Controls
 
13. . This Agreement shall be binding upon any successor of the Corporation, in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and the Plan.
Successors
 
14. . If any one or more of the provisions contained in this Agreement is invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the other provisions of this Agreement will be construed and enforced as if the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provision had never been included.
Severability
 
15. . Notices and communications under this Agreement must be in writing and either personally delivered or sent by registered or certified United States mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid. Notices to the Corporation must be addressed to:
Notice
 
UnumProvident Corporation
2211 Congress Street, S215
Portland, Maine 04122
Attn: Executive Compensation, Human Resources
 
or any other address designated by the Corporation in a written notice to the Grantee. Notices to the Grantee will be directed to the address of the Grantee then currently on file with the Corporation, or at any other address given by the Grantee in a written notice to the Corporation.
 
16. . In consideration for the granting of stock, Grantee agrees to waive all claims whether known or unknown that Grantee may have against the Corporation, its affiliates, officers, directors, agents or employees arising out of or related to Grantee's employment, except for those claims against the benefit plans of the Corporation. This waiver specifically includes all claims under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, as amended, but does not apply to those claims arising after the date of execution. Grantee (a) should consult an attorney if desired; (b) has twenty-one (21) days to consider this waiver and release; and (c) may revoke this waiver and release within seven (7) days of execution upon written notice to Vice President, Employment and Labor, Law Department, UnumProvident Corporation, 1 Fountain Square, Chattanooga, Tennessee 37402. The waiver and release will not become enforceable until the expiration of the seven (7) day period.
Waiver and Release
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, UnumProvident Corporation, acting by and through its duly authorized officers, has caused this Agreement to be executed, and the Grantee has executed this Agreement, all as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
I hereby accept the above Shares grant in accordance with and subject to the terms and conditions set forth above.
 
I agree that any shares of common stock received by me hereunder will not be sold or otherwise disposed of by me except in a manner in compliance with applicable securities laws.
 
 

Exhibit 10.3
 
 
1. .
Establishment of Plan
 
(a) . The purpose of the Amended and Restated UnumProvident Corporation Non-Employee Director Compensation Plan of 2004 is to attract, retain and compensate highly-qualified individuals who are not employees of UnumProvident Corporation or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates for service as members of the Board by providing them with competitive compensation and an opportunity to increase their ownership interest in the Common Stock of the Company. The Company intends that the Plan will benefit the Company and its stockholders by allowing Non-Employee Directors to have a personal financial stake in the Company through an ownership interest in the Common Stock and will closely associate the interests of Non-Employee Directors with that of the Company's stockholders.
Purpose
 
(b) . The Plan is intended, in part, to be a nonqualified, unfunded plan of deferred compensation under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Status of Plan
 
(c) . All active Non-Employee Directors shall be eligible to participate in the Plan; provided, however, that Shares may be issued in settlement of Deferred Share Rights after a Participant ceases to be an active Non-Employee Director, as provided in Section 6.
Participation
 
2. . Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
Defined Terms
 
"" means the annual retainer payable by the Company to a Non-Employee Director for service as a director of the Company, as such amount may be changed from time to time. The term Annual Retainer as used herein shall include the Base Annual Retainer and the Supplemental Annual Retainer, but no other fees.
Annual Retainer
 
"" means the annual retainer paid pursuant to Section 5(a).
Base Annual Retainer
 
"" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board
 
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and includes a reference to the underlying final regulations.
Code
 
"" means UnumProvident Corporation, a Delaware corporation.
Company
 
"" has the meaning assigned such term in Section 3.
Committee
 
"" means the common stock, par value $.10 per share, of the Company.
Common Stock
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 6(f) of the Plan.
Deferral Period
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 6(e) of the Plan.
Deferral Termination Date
 
"" means a right, granted under Section 6, to receive one share of Common Stock on the Payment Date.
Deferred Share Right
 
"" has the meaning as set forth in Code Section 409A and any regulations, revenue procedure or revenue rulings issued by the Secretary of the United States Treasury applicable to Code Section 409A from time to time. Until otherwise defined, under Code Section 409A a Participant shall be considered Disabled if the Participant (i) is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months; or (ii) is, by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, receiving income replacement benefits for a period of not less than three months under an accident and health plan covering employees of the Company.
Disability
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 6(f) of the Plan.
Distributions
 
"" means the date of the 2004 annual meeting of the Company's stockholders.
Effective Date
 
"" means a form approved by Executive Compensation pursuant to which a Non-Employee Director may elect to receive some or all of his or her Annual Retainer and/or Fees in the form of Deferred Share Rights and the payment terms for Deferred Share Rights, if applicable.
Election Form
 
"" means the period designated by Executive Compensation each year during which Non-Employee Directors may elect to receive Deferred Share Rights as payment of some or all of their Annual Retainer and/or Fees. The Election Period shall end on or before December 31 of each year prior to the year in which a new Plan Year begins (or, if hereafter permitted by Code Section 409A and by the Plan administrator, before April 30 of each year for the following Plan Year) ; provided, however, that the initial Election Period with respect to a person who first becomes a Non-Employee Director shall be the 30-day period immediately following his or her eligibility to participate in the Plan and any deferral election made during that initial Election Period shall be effective only with respect to that portion of the Annual Retainer and/or Fees earned by such Participant for services rendered after the date of his or her election to defer. For example, if a newly eligible Non-Employee Director is entitled to a 11/12 pro rata Annual Retainer under Section 5(a) or 5(b), but does not make the deferral election until the end of the 30-day Election Period, he or she would be able to defer only the 10/12 prorata Annual Retainer that was earned after the election was made.
Election Period
 
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
 
"" means the Executive Compensation division of the Human Resources Department of the Company.
Executive Compensation
 
"", on any date, means (i) if the Common Stock is listed on a securities exchange or traded over the Nasdaq National Market, the average of the high and low market prices reported in The Wall Street Journal at which a Share of Common Stock shall have been sold on such day or on the next preceding trading day if such date was not a trading day, or (ii) if the Common Stock is not listed on a securities exchange or traded over the Nasdaq National Market, the mean between the bid and offered prices as quoted by Nasdaq for such date, provided that if it is determined that the fair market value is not properly reflected by such Nasdaq quotations, Fair Market Value will be determined by such other method as the Committee determines in good faith to be reasonable.
Fair Market Value
 
"" means meeting fees and special project fees payable pursuant to Section 6(d) and/or 6(e).
Fees
 
"" means the date on which Deferred Share Rights are granted pursuant to Section 6.
Grant Date
 
"" has the meaning as set forth in Code Section 409A and any regulations, revenue procedure or revenue rulings issued by the Secretary of the United States Treasury applicable to Code Section 409A from time to time. Until otherwise defined, under Code Section 409A, Hardship means a severe financial hardship to the Participant resulting from (i) a sudden and unexpected illness or accident of the Participant, the Participant's spouse, or a dependent (as defined in Code Section 152(a)) of the Participant, (ii) loss of the Participant's property due to casualty, or (iii) other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances arising as a result of events beyond the control of the Participant. The requirements of this definition shall be met only if, as determined under Treasury regulations, the amounts distributed with respect to the Hardship do not exceed the amounts necessary to satisfy such emergency plus amounts necessary to pay taxes reasonably anticipated as a result of the distribution, after taking into account the extent to which such hardship is or may be relieved through reimbursement or compensation by insurance or otherwise or by liquidation of the Participant's assets (to the extent the liquidation of such assets would not itself cause severe financial hardship).
Hardship
 
"" means any director of the Company who is not an employee of the Company or of any of its subsidiaries or affiliates.
Non-Employee Director
 
"" means any Non-Employee Director who is participating in the Plan or is receiving a post-service distribution of Shares pursuant to Section 6 of the Plan.
Participant
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 6(e) of the Plan.
Payment Date
 
"" means the UnumProvident Corporation Amended and Restated Non-Employee Director Compensation Plan of 2004, as amended from time to time.
Plan
 
"" means the approximately twelve-month period beginning on the date of the annual meeting of the stockholders of the Company ("annual meeting") in any year and ending on the date of the following annual meeting, which, for purposes of the Plan, is the period for which Annual Retainers are earned.
Plan Year
 
"" means Rule 16b-3, as amended from time to time, of the Securities and Exchange Commission as promulgated under the Exchange Act.
Rule 16b-3
 
"" means shares of Common Stock.
Shares
 
"" means the annual retainer paid pursuant to Section 5(b).
Supplemental Annual Retainer
 
3. . The Plan shall be administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board (the "Committee"). Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall be authorized to interpret the Plan, to establish, amend and rescind any rules and regulations relating to the Plan, and to make all other determinations necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan; provided, however, that the Committee shall have no discretion with respect to the eligibility or selection of Non-Employee Directors to receive awards under the Plan, the number of Shares subject to any such awards or the time at which any such awards are to be granted. The Committee's interpretation of the Plan, and all actions taken and determinations made by the Committee pursuant to the powers vested in it hereunder, shall be conclusive and binding upon all parties concerned including the Company, its stockholders and persons granted awards under the Plan. The Committee may appoint a plan administrator to carry out the ministerial functions of the Plan, but the administrator shall have no other authority or powers of the Committee. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board shall exercise any and all rights, duties and powers of the Committee under the Plan to the extent required by the applicable exemptive conditions of Rule 16b-3, as determined by the Board its sole discretion.
Administration
 
4. . The Shares issuable under the Plan pursuant to the conversion of Deferred Share Rights shall not exceed in the aggregate 500,000 Shares of Common Stock. Such Shares may be acquired on the open market or issued out of authorized and unissued Shares or treasury Shares.
Shares Subject to Plan
 
5. .
Retainers, Fees and Expenses
 
(a) Each Non-Employee Director shall be paid a Base Annual Retainer for service as a director during each Plan Year. The amount and payment schedule of the Base Annual Retainer shall be established from time to time by the Board and set forth on hereto. The Board may change the dollar amounts and payment schedule for the Base Annual Retainer at any time by amending , which amendments shall not require
Base Annual Retainer
.
Exhibit A
Exhibit A
 
stockholder approval or the consent of any Participant. Each person who first becomes a Non-Employee Director on a date other than an annual meeting date shall be paid a pro-rata retainer equal to the Base Annual Retainer for such Plan Year, multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of full months before the next regularly scheduled annual meeting of the Company's stockholders, and the denominator of which is 12. Payment of such prorated Base Annual Retainer shall be made on the first day of the first full month following the date that the person first becomes a Non-Employee Director.
 
(b) Certain Non-Employee Directors shall be paid a Supplemental Annual Retainer for service as chair or co-chair of the Board or of a committee of the Board during a Plan Year. The amount and payment schedule of the Supplemental Annual Retainers shall be established from time to time by the Board and set forth on hereto. The Board may change the dollar amounts and payment schedule for the Supplemental Annual Retainers at any time by amending , which amendments shall not require stockholder approval or the consent of any Participant. A pro-rata Supplemental Annual Retainer will be paid to any Non-Employee Director who becomes the chair or co-chair of the Board or of a committee of the Board on a date other than the beginning of a Plan Year, based on the number of full months between the date such Non-Employee Director assumed such position and the beginning of the next Plan Year.
Supplemental Annual Retainer
.
Exhibit A
Exhibit A
 
(c) . Any amount of the Annual Retainer not elected to be received in the form of Deferred Share Rights, as provided in Section 6, shall be paid to the Participant in cash.
Form of Payment
 
(d) . Each Non-Employee Director shall be paid a fee for each meeting of the Board or committee thereof in which he or she participates. Any amount of such fee not elected to be received in the form of Deferred Share Rights, as provided in Section 6, shall be paid to the Participant in cash. The amount and payment schedule of the meeting fees shall be established from time to time by the Board and set forth on hereto. The Board may change the dollar amounts and payment schedule for the meeting fees at any time by amending which amendments shall not require stockholder approval or the consent of any Participant.
Meeting Fees
Exhibit A
Exhibit A,
 
(e) . Each Non-Employee Director may be paid a fee for special project work undertaken in his or her capacity as a Non-Employee Director. Any amount of such fee not elected to be received in the form of Deferred Share Rights, as provided in Section 6, shall be paid to the Participant in cash. The amount and payment schedule of any such fees shall be established from time to time by the Board and set forth on hereto. The Board may change the dollar amounts and payment schedule for such fees at any time by amending , which amendments shall not require stockholder approval or the consent of any Participant.
Special Project Fees
Exhibit A
Exhibit A
 
(f) . All Non-Employee Directors shall be reimbursed for reasonable travel expenses (including spouse's expenses to attend up to one event per Plan
Travel Expense Reimbursement
 
Year to which spouses are invited) in connection with attendance at meetings of the Board and its committees, or other Company functions at which the Chief Executive Officer requests the Non-Employee Director to participate. If the travel expense is related to the reimbursement of commercial airfare, such reimbursement will not exceed first class rates for domestic travel or business-class rates for international travel. If the travel expense is related to reimbursement of non-commercial air travel, such reimbursement shall not exceed the rate for comparable travel by means of commercial airlines.
 
6. .
Deferred Share Rights
 
(a) . A Non-Employee Director may elect each year to receive up to 100% of his or her Annual Retainer and/or Fees in the form of Deferred Share Rights in accordance with this Section 6. A Non-Employee Director who wishes to receive some or all of his or her Annual Retainer and/or Fees for a Plan Year in the form of Deferred Share Rights must irrevocably elect to do so during the Election Period for such Plan Year, by delivering a valid Election Form to Executive Compensation. A Non-Employee Director's participation in Section 6 of the Plan will be effective with respect to the Annual Retainer and/or Fees to be earned in the first Plan Year beginning after Executive Compensation receives the Non-Employee Director's Election Form (or with respect to the Annual Retainer and/or Fees to be earned during the remainder of the current Plan Year in the case of a person who first becomes a Non-Employee Director and files an initial Election Form within the 30-day period immediately following his or her eligibility to participate in the Plan).
Election to Receive Deferred Share Rights
 
(b) . Elections to receive Deferred Share Rights as payment of Annual Retainer and/or Fees shall be valid only for one Plan Year. New elections must be made for participation in Section 6 of the Plan for subsequent Plan Years. The deferral Election Form signed by the Participant prior to the Plan Year will be irrevocable except in case of Hardship; provided, however, that the Participant may, at least one year in advance of the original Deferral Termination Date, designate a later Deferral Termination Date, which must be at least five years after the last effective Deferral Termination Date.
Irrevocable, Annual Election
 
(c) . Deferred Share Rights shall be granted to each Non-Employee Director who, during the applicable Election Period, filed with Executive Compensation a written irrevocable election to receive Deferred Share Rights as payment of some or all of such Non-Employee Director's Annual Retainer and/or Fees payable in the following Plan Year (or in the remainder of the current Plan Year in the case of a person who first becomes a Non-Employee Director and files an initial Election Form within the 30-day period immediately following his or her eligibility to participate in the Plan). Deferred Share Rights will be granted on the date the Annual Retainer and/or Fees, as applicable, for such Plan Year are otherwise payable(the "Grant Date").
Time of Grant
 
(d) . The number of Deferred Share Rights granted pursuant to this Section 6 shall be the number of whole Shares equal to (i) the dollar amount of the Annual Retainer and/or Fees that the Non-Employee Director elects shall be payable in the form of Deferred Share Rights, divided by (ii) the Fair Market Value per Share on the Grant
Number of Deferred Share Rights
 
Date. In determining the number of Deferred Share Rights, any fraction of a Deferred Share Right will be rounded to the next lowest whole number of Deferred Share Rights. For example:
 
Assume that a Non-Employee Director has elected to defer $50,000 of his or her Annual Retainer and that the Fair Market Value per Share on the Grant Date is $15. The Non-Employee Director would be granted 3,333 Deferred Share Rights as payment of the $50,000 compensation. $50,000 divided by $15 FMV = 3,333 Deferred Share Rights granted (rounded to the next lowest whole number).
 
Similarly, assume that a Non-Employee Director has elected to defer $1,000 of his or her Meeting Fees and that the Fair Market Value per Share on the Grant Date is $15. The Non-Employee Director would be granted 66 Deferred Share Rights as payment of the $1,000 compensation. $1,000 divided by $15 FMV = 66 Deferred Share Rights granted (rounded to the next lowest whole number).
 
(e) . Each Deferred Share Right constitutes the right to receive one Share of Common Stock on the earlier of (i) the Participant's termination of service as a director of the Company, or (ii) another designated date at least three years after the date of such deferral election (in either case, the "Deferral Termination Date"). Pursuant to the Election Form, the Participant will elect whether the Shares will be (a) issued within 30 days after the Deferral Termination Date, or (b) issued in approximately equal annual installments of Shares over a period of three, five or seven years (as the Participant may elect) after the Deferral Termination Date, each such annual issuance to be made within 30 days after the anniversary of the Deferral Termination Date. For bookkeeping purposes, any amounts which the Participant elects to receive in the form of Deferred Share Rights, and any Distributions credited in accordance with Section 6(f), shall be transferred to and held in individual deferral accounts. No Shares will be issued until the applicable payment date(s) (the "Payment Date"), at which time the Company agrees to issue Shares of Common Stock to the Participant. The Participant will have no rights as a stockholder with respect to the Deferred Share Rights, and the Deferred Share Rights will be unsecured.
Nature of Deferred Share Rights
 
(f) . If any dividends or other rights or distributions of any kind ("Distributions") are distributed to holders of Common Stock during the period from the applicable Grant Date until the settlement in full of a Participant's Deferred Share Rights (the "Deferral Period"), an amount equal to the product of (i) the number of Deferred Share Rights credited to a Participant's deferral account as of the date of the Distribution, and (ii) the per Share cash value of such Distributions on their distribution date, as such value is determined by the Committee (collectively, the "Credited Distribution"), will be converted to additional Deferred Share Rights and credited to the Participant's deferral account as follows: the account will be credited with the right to receive additional Shares having a Fair Market Value as of the date of the Distribution equal to the cash value of the Credited Distribution. Such additional Deferred Share Rights will be settled in Shares at the same time as the original Deferred Share Rights with respect to which the Credited Distributions were made.
Dividend Equivalents
 
(g) . No Deferred Share Rights shall be assignable or transferable by the Participant other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution. No right or interest in the Deferred Share Rights shall be subject to liability for the debts, contracts or engagements of the Participant or shall be subject to disposition by transfer, alienation, anticipation, pledge, encumbrance, assignment or any other means whether such disposition be voluntary or involuntary or by operation of law by judgment, levy, attachment, garnishment or any other legal or equitable proceedings (including bankruptcy), and any attempted disposition thereof shall be null and void and of no effect; provided, however, that nothing in this Section 6(g) shall prevent transfers by will or by the applicable laws of descent and distribution.
Transferability of Deferred Share Rights
 
(h) . The Board may accelerate the payment in Shares of all or a portion of a Participant's Deferred Share Rights on account of his or her Hardship, but only in such a manner as would not violate the requirements of Code Section 409A or any regulations, revenue procedure or revenue rulings issued by the Secretary of the United States Treasury applicable to Code Section 409A.
Hardship
 
(i) . Deferred Share Rights shall be paid from the general assets of the Company or as otherwise directed by the Company. To the extent that any Participant acquires the right to receive Deferred Share Rights under the Plan, such right shall be no greater than that of an unsecured general creditor of the Company. Participants and their Beneficiaries shall not have any preference or security interest in the assets of the Company other than as a general unsecured creditor.
Funding
 
(j) . All amounts or Shares payable under the Plan shall be paid to the appropriate Participant; provided, however, that a Participant may, by written instruction during the Participant's lifetime on a form prescribed by Executive Compensation, designate one or more primary Beneficiaries to receive the amount or Shares payable hereunder following the Participant's death, and may designate the proportions in which such Beneficiaries are to receive such payments. A Participant may change such designations from time to time, and the last written designation filed with the Committee prior to the Participant's death shall control. A Beneficiary designation shall not be considered effective unless made on a form prescribed by Executive Compensation and which is delivered to Executive Compensation. If any Participant shall fail to designate a Beneficiary or shall designate a Beneficiary who shall fail to survive the Participant, the Beneficiary shall be the Participant's surviving spouse, or, if none, the Participant's surviving descendants (who shall take per stirpes) and if there are no surviving descendants, the Beneficiary shall be the Participant's estate.
Designation of Beneficiary
 
7. . If on any date, Shares of Common Stock are not available under the Plan to grant to Non-Employee Directors the full amount of a grant of Deferred Share Rights contemplated by the Plan, then each such affected director shall receive an award of Deferred Share Rights equal to the number of Shares of Common Stock then available under the Plan divided by the number of Non-Employee Directors entitled to a grant of Deferred Share Rights on such date. Fractional Shares shall be ignored and not granted. Any shortfall resulting from such proration shall be paid in the form of cash.
Prorated Grants
 
8. . Each Non-Employee Director is expected to have or acquire a minimum number of Shares of Common Stock (such minimum number is shown on , as adjusted from time to time by the Board).
Stock Ownership Guidelines
Exhibit A
 
9. .
Adjustments
 
(a) Notwithstanding any other term of this Plan, in the event that the Committee determines that any Distribution (whether in the form of cash, Common Stock, other securities, or other property), recapitalization, reclassification, stock split, reverse stock split, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, combination, repurchase, or exchange of Common Stock or other securities of the Company, issuance of warrants or other rights to purchase Common Stock or other securities of the Company, or other similar corporate transaction or event, in the Committee's sole discretion, affects the Common Stock such that an adjustment is determined by the Committee to be appropriate in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Plan or with respect to an award or awards hereunder, then the Committee shall, in such manner as it may deem equitable, adjust the number and type of shares (or other securities or property) which may be granted under the Plan (including, but not limited to, adjustments of the maximum number and kind of securities which may be issued).
 
(b) Notwithstanding any other term of this Plan, in the event of any corporate transaction or event described in paragraph (a) which results in Shares being exchanged for or converted into cash, securities or other property (including securities of another corporation), all Deferred Share Rights granted under Section 6 shall become the right to receive such cash, securities or other property.
 
(c) The number of Shares finally granted under this Plan shall always be rounded to the next lowest whole Share, subject to availability of Shares under Section 4. Any fractional Shares that would otherwise be deliverable shall be paid in cash in an amount equal to the Fair Market Value of such fractional share.
 
(d) Any decision of the Committee pursuant to the terms of this Section 9 shall be final, binding and conclusive upon the Participants, the Company and all other interested parties.
 
10. . The Board may, at any time and from time to time, amend, modify or terminate the Plan without stockholder approval (but subject to the provisions herein requiring the consent of Participants for certain amendments); provided, however, that if an amendment to the Plan would, in the reasonable opinion of the Board, require stockholder approval under applicable laws, policies or regulations or the applicable listing or other requirements of any securities exchange on which the Common Stock is then listed or traded, then such amendment shall be subject to stockholder approval. No termination, modification or amendment of the Plan (other than an automatic amendment pursuant to the terms of the Plan) may, without the consent of a Participant, adversely affect a Participant's rights under an award granted prior thereto.
Amendment
 
11. . Each Participant is solely responsible for any decision to receive his or her Annual Retainer and/or Fees in the form of Deferred Share Rights and accepts all investment risks entailed by such decision, including the risk of loss and a decrease in the value of the amounts he or she elects to receive in the form of Deferred Share Rights.
Responsibility for Investment Choices
 
12. . Each person who is or has been a member of the Committee or who otherwise participates in the administration or operation of this Plan shall be indemnified by the Company against, and held harmless from, any loss, cost, liability or expense that may be imposed upon or incurred by him or her in connection with or resulting from any claim, action, suit or proceeding in which such person may be involved by reason of any action taken or failure to act under the Plan and shall be fully reimbursed by the Company for any and all amounts paid by such person in satisfaction of judgment against him or her in any such action, suit or proceeding, provided he or she will give the Company an opportunity, by written notice to the Committee, to defend the same at the Company's own expense before he or she undertakes to defend it on his or her own behalf. This right of indemnification shall not be exclusive of any other rights of indemnification.
Indemnification
 
The Committee and the Board may rely upon any information furnished by the Company, its public accountants and other experts. No individual will have personal liability by reason of anything done or omitted to be done by the Company, the Committee or the Board in connection with the Plan.
 
13. . The Plan shall remain in effect until the annual meeting of the Company's stockholders held in 2010, unless terminated earlier by the Board.
Duration of the Plan
 
14. . The expenses of administering the Plan shall be borne by the Company.
Expenses of the Plan
 
The foregoing is hereby acknowledged as being the UnumProvident Corporation Amended and Restated Non-Employee Director Compensation Plan of 2004 as adopted by the Board of Directors of the Company on February 18, 2005.
 
 
 
 
Base Annual Retainer
 
 
Supplemental Annual Retainers
 
 
Meeting Fees
 
 
Special Project Fees
 
 
: 20,000 Shares. Once the guideline level has been achieved, the director is expected to hold such number of Shares until his or her termination as a director.
Minimum Stock Ownership Guidelines
 


