FILE:UNM/UNM-8K-20051003091518.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 3, 2005, UnumProvident Corporation (the "Company") announced the resolution of several matters involving claim handling practices of the Company's insurance subsidiaries. Three of the Company's insurance subsidiaries entered into a Settlement Agreement with the California Department of Insurance (CDI) (the "Settlement Agreement") on October 3, 2005. The Settlement Agreement resolves a number of issues resulting from a market conduct examination by the CDI covering a period ended June 30, 2003, and includes, among other matters, a reassessment process for certain claims previously denied or terminated, changes to certain disability policy provisions or company claim practices, the approval of new disability policy forms, incorporation of provisions of the multistate regulatory settlement agreements entered into among the Company's insurance subsidiaries and the insurance regulators of 48 other states and the U.S. Department of Labor in 2004, and a fine of $8 million to be paid to the CDI. Additionally, the Company announced that its insurance subsidiaries will amend the multistate regulatory settlement agreements to provide, among other matters, notice of the claim reassessment process to certain claimants that were not entitled to notice under the original settlement agreements and the extension of time to June 30, 2006, for certain other claimants who are not entitled to notice to request reassessment of their claims (the "Amendment to the RSA"). Furthermore, the Company announced that it would proceed with a Company program to offer a claim reassessment process to certain insurers and employers for whom the Company's subsidiaries administered claims during a defined period either as a result of agreements covering acquired or reinsured disability insurance or under arrangements with employers as self-insurers to administer their disability claims. Copies of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment to RSA are attached hereto as Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2 respectively, and incorporated herein by reference. A copy of the press release issued by the Company on October 3, 2005 discussing the resolution of the matters, including the Settlement Agreement and Amendment to the RSA is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
(c) Exhibits. The following exhibits are filed with this Report:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
Respondents UNUM LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY OF AMERICA ("Unum"), PROVIDENT LIFE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCE COMPANY ("Provident"), and THE PAUL REVERE LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY ("Paul Revere") (all three collectively, "Respondents"), and the California Department of Insurance (the "Department") do hereby enter into this California Settlement Agreement ("CSA") in the above-entitled consolidated matters and stipulate as follows:
 
A. The Insurance Commissioner of the State of California ("Insurance Commissioner") has jurisdiction over the each of the Respondents, as insurers holding Certificates of Authority issued under the Laws of the State of California;
 
B. The Department conducted examinations into Respondents' rating, underwriting and claims practices, including one examination by its Field Rating and Underwriting Bureau covering the period January 1, 2002 to December 15, 2003, and two examinations by its Field Claims Bureau of Respondents' claim files as follows: an initial, routine examination which included a review of Respondents' claims handling practices during the period February 1, 2001 through January 31, 2002, and a targeted review of open and closed long term disability claim files covering the period January 1, 2000 through June 30, 2003. In addition, the Department surveyed recent court cases, interviewed certain individuals, reviewed evidence and testimony in civil cases, reviewed individual Requests for Assistance submitted to the Department by Respondents' claimants, and conducted other investigative activities. The CSA constitutes the resolution of the Department's investigation, which includes all of the above;
 
C. Respondents acknowledge receipt of a copy of the Accusation issued by the Department ("Accusation") in the above entitled matter, but deny the allegations contained therein;
 
D. This CSA is made solely for the purpose of reaching a compromise settlement, without litigating the issues, and it is the intent of the parties that any conduct or statements made in negotiation hereof, including this CSA, shall be inadmissible for any purpose in any proceeding unrelated to enforcement of the terms of this CSA;
 
E. Respondents neither admit nor concede any actual or potential fault, wrongdoing or liability in connection with allegations contained in the Accusation or any of the findings of the Insurance Commissioner ("Findings") set forth in his Order of the Commissioner;
 
F. Respondents acknowledge that certain of the allegations contained in the Accusation, if heard and proved, could constitute grounds for the Insurance Commissioner to suspend Respondents' certificates of authority and licenses pursuant to the Insurance Code of the State of California ("Insurance Code");
 
G. Respondents acknowledge that certain of the allegations contained in the Accusation as to claims handling, if heard and proved, could constitute grounds for the Insurance
 
Commissioner to impose civil penalties and to issue an Order to Cease and Desist from engaging in those methods, acts, or practices found to be unfair or deceptive pursuant to the provisions of the Insurance Code, which are referred to in the incorporated in its entirety by reference herein.
Public Report of the Market Conduct Examination of the Department of Insurance, Market Conduct Division, Field Claims Bureau ("Public Report"),
{Please see link on "UnumProvident Settlement" page on CDI website.}
 
H. Respondents agree that the imposition of civil penalties and the award of costs of investigation and future enforcement provided for herein shall have the same force and effect as if imposed after a hearing or hearings held pursuant to the relevant provisions of the Insurance Code and Government Code of the State of California ("Government Code").
 
I. By entering into this CSA, Respondents waive Notice of Hearing and hearing, and all other rights which may be accorded pursuant to Chapter 5, Part 1, Division 3, Title 2 (Sections 15000-11528, inclusive) of the Government Code and by the Insurance Code with regard to the matters agreed to and settled herein.
 
 
 
The following terms, for purposes of the CSA and as used herein, are defined as follows, unless otherwise specifically defined herein. This CSA contains definitions other than these set forth in this Section II.
 
A. "California Claimant" for purposes of Section III of the CSA shall mean a California Early Period Claimant or California Later Period Claimant; otherwise California Claimant shall be an insured of a Respondent in circumstances where California law is the applicable law governing the insurance policy covering the insured or the claims handling standards and procedures with respect to the insured.
 
B. "California Contract" for the purposes of Section IV and V of this CSA shall mean a policy of disability income insurance issued by a Respondent which is subject to the jurisdiction of and approved by the Department.
 
C. "California Early Period Claimant" shall mean any California resident whose individual or group long term disability income claim was denied or whose benefits were terminated by any one of the Respondents on or after January 1, 1997 and before January 1, 2000.
 
D. "California Later Period Claimant" shall mean any California resident whose individual or group long term disability income claim was denied or whose benefits were terminated by any one of the Respondents on or after January 1, 2000 and prior to September 30, 2005. This shall include California residents who already have elected to participate in the RSA Reassessment, and California residents who are eligible and elect to participate in the CSA Reassessment.
 
E. "CSA Effective Date" shall mean the date of the Order of the Commissioner adopting the CSA and shall apply to all sections of this CSA except for the following sections which shall be effective on November 1, 2005:
 
1. Section V.C.
 
2. Section V.D.
 
F. "CSA Implementation Date" shall mean a date which is thirty (30) days after the CSA Effective Date.
 
G. "CSA Notice" shall mean the notice of availability of the CSA Reassessment that is to be sent to California Claimants pursuant to the provisions of the CSA.
 
H. "CSA Reassessment" shall mean the reassessment process as conducted under the standards established in the CSA, and may include standards incorporated by reference to the RSA and those established by Respondents when those non-CSA standards do not conflict with the CSA standards.
 
I. "Order of the Commissioner" shall mean the Decision and Order of the Insurance Commissioner on Settlement relating to the CSA, which is attached hereto as and which Order of the Commissioner is executed simultaneously with the execution of the CSA.
Exhibit "A"
 
J. "RSA Notice" shall mean the notice of availability of the RSA Reassessment that was sent on a nationwide basis to claimants in all states pursuant to the provisions of the Multistate Regulatory Settlement Agreement ("RSA").
 
K. "RSA Reassessment" shall mean the reassessment process as conducted solely under the standards established by Respondents pursuant to the RSA.
 
 
 
 
 
On September 2, 2003, Maine, Massachusetts, and Tennessee, the Respondents' principal domiciliary states ("Domestic Regulators"), ordered a multistate targeted examination of the Respondents' claims handling practices ("multistate exam") to determine if the individual and group long term disability income claims handling practices of the companies reflected systemic "unfair claims settlement practices," as defined in the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) or (1990). Ultimately, the terms of the resolution thereof were documented in a Regulatory Settlement Agreement (RSA) with each of the Respondents, dated November 18, 2004, each RSA identical to the other. A separate and virtually identical RSA was entered into with First Unum Life Insurance Company, an insurance company subsidiary domiciled in New York, and the New York Superintendent of Insurance.
Unfair Methods of Competition and Unfair and Deceptive Acts and Practices in the Business of Insurance Model Act (1972) 
NAIC Claims Settlement Practices Model Act
 
Included in the RSA was a Plan of Corrective Action that included (1) changes in corporate governance, (2) the RSA Reassessment, and (3) changes in claim organization and procedures. Also included in the RSA were provisions for immediate and contingent payment of fines; certain administrative provisions regarding, among other things, participation in the RSA by those non-domestic states electing to participate; and notice to certain claimants nationwide that they may be eligible to have their claims reassessed.
 
The RSA Reassessment is available on a nationwide basis to certain long term disability insurance policyholders under individual policies and to certain long term disability insurance
 
certificate holders under group policies issued to their employers or organizations to which they belong. In addition to the Domestic Regulators, the United States Department of Labor (DOL) is a party to the RSA and has jurisdiction over the Respondents' group insurance plans pursuant to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA), 29 U.S.C. Section 1134, which applies to group long term disability income insurance policies that are sponsored or endorsed by employers for their employees.
 
California elected not to participate in the RSA. However, in accordance with its terms and ERISA, California residents are entitled to participate in the RSA Reassessment.
 
Notwithstanding that California did not participate in negotiating or settling the multistate action, the RSA required nationwide notice to both group (employment- and non-employment-related) and individual claimants, including those in California, for reassessment of claims under standards set forth in the RSA. Thus when implementation of the provisions of the RSA began on January 19, 2005, RSA Notices began to be mailed to individual and group California Later Period Claimants. Many California Later Period Claimants responded by requesting reassessment of their claims.
 
Respondents agree that all California Claimants who elect to participate in the CSA Reassessment described below, and any California Later and Early Period Claimants who previously elected to participate in the RSA Reassessment, will be reassessed under the rules and procedures set forth in the CSA and the exhibits hereto.
 
Incorporated herein by reference is the RSA for Unum, which includes the regulatory settlement agreement covering A. Recitals, B. Plan of Corrective Action, C. Other Provisions, D. Remedies, and Signature Pages, and exhibits to the RSA..
{
Please see link on "UnumProvident Settlement" page on CDI website
}
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Except as specified below, the provisions of the RSA are adopted, incorporated by reference and made applicable to all three Respondents herein. Respondents hereby agree that they will comply with the provisions of the RSA except as supplemented or modified by the CSA and the Order of the Commissioner with respect to California Claimants.
 
 
1. .
Eligibility
 
a. Any California Early Period Claimant or any California Later Period Claimant shall be eligible to participate in the CSA Reassessment whose claim was denied or whose benefits were terminated the following:
for reasons other than
 
(i) death of the claimant,
 
(ii) claim was withdrawn,
 
(iii) claimant did not satisfy the elimination period,
 
(iv) maximum benefits were paid,
 
(v) claimant who had his or her claim resolved through litigation or settlement, or
 
(vi) claimant who has pending litigation against a Respondent challenging the denial or termination of his or her claim, which lawsuit was filed after the date of receipt of notice of the CSA Reassessment or a claimant whose lawsuit was filed prior to the date of receipt of notice of the CSA Reassessment in which lawsuit there has been a verdict or judgment on the merits prior to completion of the reassessment on the claim.
 
Eligibility for CSA Reassessment includes California Later Period Claimants who have already elected to participate pursuant to an effective election under the RSA and California Claimants who are eligible to participate under this provision and who make their election within the time period set forth in the notice provided under the CSA as set forth below.
 
b. Any California Early Period Claimant who is otherwise eligible under Section III.B.1.a. but is not entitled to receive notice from the Respondents under Section III.B.2. below, may request to have his or her claim reassessed under the CSA Reassessment so long as such request is made to the Respondents no later than June 30, 2006.
 
c. Any California Claimant who disputes on any rational basis a Respondent's characterization that such denial or termination falls into any of the reasons set forth in Section III.B.1.a. (i) through (iv) above may request to participate in the CSA Reassessment so long as such request is made to the Respondents no later than June 30, 2006. A Respondent's upholding of the characterization and consequent rejection of the claim from the CSA Reassessment shall be subject to the Independent Review (IR) Process described in Section III.C. of the CSA and hereto.
Exhibit "B"
 
2. . - Respondents shall mail a CSA Notice in the form of regarding the CSA Reassessment no later than the CSA Implementation Date to any California Claimant who is eligible under Section III.B.1., above and who is either:
Notice
Exhibit "C"
 
a. a California Later Period Claimant except for those who have already made a valid election to participate in the RSA Reassessment, in which case they shall not be sent a CSA Notice, although their claims shall be reassessed under provisions applicable to the CSA Reassessment, or
 
b. a California Early Period Claimant and such claimant's original claim was denied or terminated based upon the Respondent's interpretation of certain of California judicial decisions or Department positions impacting disability insurance benefits and the application of such decisions and positions to claims eligible for reassessment under this CSA.
 
3. . Respondents will review the oldest claims of eligible California Claimants who have elected to participate in the CSA Reassessment first, taking into account the entire period from 1997 through September 30, 2005 as the appropriate period in which to consider what is oldest but also considering that submission and receipt of information necessary for the reassessment is an ongoing process so that the date when completed information is received is a relevant consideration in putting a re-submitted claim into the sequence for
CSA Reassessment
 
review. It is also recognized that the RSA Reassessment involves review of the 2000 and later claims prior to review of any claims in the 1997-1999 period, whereas the schedule under this CSA requires consideration of the oldest first from 1997 through September 30, 2005. Administration of the CSA Reassessment will review what is deemed oldest first under the RSA with what is deemed oldest first under this CSA for California Claimants by integrating the two beginning dates and the subsequent periods in a fair and equitable manner with neither being advantaged over the other while recognizing that the RSA Reassessment began several months earlier than the CSA Reassessment.
 
 
No later than one hundred and twenty (120) days of the CSA Effective Date, there shall be implemented an Independent Review (IR) process for review, at the request of the claimant, of any decision of Respondents' Claim Reassessment Unit (CRU) that upholds on reassessment, in whole or in part, an original claim decision either denying the claim or terminating the benefits of a California Claimant, as further documented in Exhibit "B", attached hereto.
 
The IR process also shall be available for appeal from a Respondent's decision upholding an original claim denial or benefit termination on (i) through (iv) grounds contained in Section III.B.1.(a) above, affecting availability of CSA Reassessment to a California Claimant.
 
An individual selected by mutual agreement by the Department and the Respondent shall be the IR Director, with the duties and responsibilities set forth in Exhibit "B." All costs of the IR process shall be paid by Respondents.
 
Respondents shall make the final decision in the CSA Reassessment as to whether the original decision is upheld, modified or reversed. The California Claimant shall have access to the claim file, including the Report of the Independent Reviewer, after the decision of the CRU is final, in the event he or she is dissatisfied with the decision of the CRU.
 
 
Respondent shall give significant weight to an attending physician's opinion, if the attending physician is properly licensed and the claimed medical condition falls within the attending physician's customary area of practice, unless the attending physician's opinion is not
 
well supported by medically acceptable clinical or diagnostic standards and is inconsistent with other substantial evidence in the record. In order for an attending physician's opinion to be rejected, the claim file must include specific reasons why the opinion is not well supported by medically acceptable clinical or diagnostic standards and is inconsistent with other substantial evidence in the record.
 
 
As part of the information advising a California Claimant how to submit a claim or early in the process of reviewing an open claim and, in any event, prior to any decision being made to deny a recently submitted claim or to close an open claim, California Claimants shall be informed in writing that it is their right or the right of their attending physician (either directly or through the claimant's representative) to request an "independent medical examination" ("IME") of their medical condition, unless the decision is made to pay or continue to pay the claim.
 
 
1. . The Insurance Commissioner shall conduct examinations of the Claim Reassessment Unit's claim decisions and compliance with the other terms of the CSA, including changes made in claim handling practices and procedures contemplated by the CSA, all in the manner and at such intervals as he or she deems appropriate in accordance with the Insurance Code and Regulations. In connection with such examinations, the Insurance Commissioner shall have access to claim files and other paper and electronic records as authorized pursuant to Insurance Code and Regulations.
Examinations
 
2. . Respondents shall provide the Insurance Commissioner on a quarterly basis with reports relating to the status of California Claimants who are eligible to participate and have elected to participate in the CSA and RSA Reassessments, including information concerning the results of reviews of the Claim Reassessment Unit and the use and results of the IR process.
Information
 
 
 
In an effort to resolve disagreements between the Respondents and the Department concerning certain provisions in California Contracts or their interpretation as applied in handling claim decisions, which disagreements were not able to be resolved based upon usual sources of statutory, regulatory or decisional authority, Respondents have agreed to make the following changes in certain claims handling policies and in the terms of their California Contracts, in accordance with the effective date of the provisions in Section V.
 
 
Respondents shall discontinue use of a provision that has the effect of conferring unlimited discretion on the Respondent or other plan administrator to interpret policy language, or requires an "abuse of discretion" standard of review if a lawsuit ensues unless the reviewing court determines otherwise ("discretionary authority provision") in any California Contract sold after the date set forth in Section V.
 
 
Respondents shall interpret the "mental and nervous conditions" benefit in a California Contract and its limitation to twenty-four (24) months to apply after the termination of any physiological-based disabling condition covered by the policy and not concurrent with such physiological condition and shall amend policy language in future California Contracts to better reflect this interpretation of the provision.
 
 
Respondents shall discontinue application of the "self-reported condition" provisions in California Contracts, which has permitted Respondent to characterize certain disabling conditions as "self-reported" (e.g., pain, limited range of motion, weakness), while the Respondent accepted only objective test results to support disability, thus limiting payment of certain benefits under the "self-reported conditions" policy provision, and discontinue inclusion of "self-reported conditions" provisions in any California Contract issued after the date set forth in Section V.
 
 
 
 
A. Respondents agree that they shall not target short term and long term disability claims for denial or termination of benefits on the basis of economic advantage to themselves.
 
B. Respondents agree that they shall promptly, fairly, and objectively investigate each short term and long term disability claim, considering the interests of the claimant at least as much as their own, pursuant to California statutory and case law and in accordance with the terms of the applicable insurance policy, so long as such terms are consistent with applicable California statutory and case law.
 
C. Respondents agree that as of the CSA Effective Date, except for new forms that might be submitted to and approved by the Commissioner in the future, the Respondents will no longer market, offer, issue or deliver (1) an individual disability policy form other than Forms 650-CA and 651-CA to California residents, or (2) group disability policy or certificate forms other than Forms C.FP-1-CA and CC.FP-1-CA to California groups, as approved pursuant to the Order of the Commissioner issued as part of this CSA. However, policy forms for which quotes have been offered or applications have been taken by the CSA Effective Date may be delivered to the purchasers after the CSA Effective Date if they are sold before November 1, 2005. For business initiated and sold between October 3, 2005 and November 1, 2005, the Respondents may use existing policy forms so long as the provisions are interpreted to conform with the requirements of Section V.D. hereof. Respondents agree that, as of the CSA Effective Date, they shall comply with California Insurance Code Section 10270.507.
 
 
Individual Policy Forms 650-CA and 651-CA and Group Policy Form C.FP-1  CA, as noted above in section V.C., contain language that is in compliance with the laws of the State of California, and each of which has been approved for sale in the State of California. The most important policy language changes are as follows:
 
 
"Total disability" shall be defined in California Contracts during the usual or own-occupation period as:
 
a disability that renders one unable to perform with reasonable continuity the substantial and material acts necessary to pursue his or her usual occupation in the usual and customary way
 
and during the another or any-occupation period shall be defined as:
 
a disability that renders one unable to perform with reasonable continuity the substantial and material acts necessary to pursue his or her usual occupation in the usual and customary way and to engage with reasonable continuity in another occupation in which he or she could reasonably be expected to perform satisfactorily in light of his or her age, education, training, experience, station in life, physical and mental capacity.
 
This change shall be made in all new California Contracts issued after the CSA Effective Date and in in-force policies upon renewal after the CSA Effective Date.
 
 
Respondents agree to withdraw from the administrative mandamus action (the appeal from the administrative hearing and Insurance Commissioner's Order) regarding discretionary authority policy language. Any language having the effect of a "discretionary authority provision" as set forth in Section IV.A. shall not be applied to any California Contract sold after the CSA Effective Date. A "discretionary authority provision" shall not be included in any new policies issued as California Contracts or included in Summary Plan Descriptions (SPDs) in ERISA-related Plans generated or issued by the Company, after the CSA Effective Date so long as its omission from the policy form or SPD is consistent with what is permitted by applicable California statutory and case law. Discretionary authority provisions in existing California Contracts that were issued prior to the date of the Order of the Commissioner are not affected by the CSA.
 
 
Policy language regarding limitations on benefits for self-reported conditions as set forth in Section IV.C shall not be applied in existing California Contracts after the earlier of the date of their first renewal following the CSA Effective Date or December 31, 2007. Self-reported
 
conditions provisions shall not be included in any new policies issued as California Contracts after the CSA Effective Date.
 
 
Policy language limiting the duration of payment on disability caused by mental and nervous conditions shall be interpreted as set forth in Section IV.B. so as not to run concurrently with benefits for physiologically-based conditions in California Contracts after the earlier of the date of their first renewal following the CSA Effective Date or December 31, 2007, and the language in all new policies issued as California Contracts after the CSA Effective Date shall be changed to better reflect the interpretation of this provision set forth in Section IV.B. As a matter of clarification and current interpretation in all applicable policies, in circumstances in which a physiological disability exists and is followed by a mental and nervous disability, the 24 month limitation in the mental and nervous disability provision starts at the onset of the mental and nervous disability and does not relate back to the period of the physiological disability with the result of limiting the disability period for the physiological disability to 24 months.
 
 
Policy language excluding conditions "contributed [to] by" the pre-existing condition shall not be applied in existing California Contracts after the CSA Effective Date. This change shall be made in all new policies issued as California Contracts after the CSA Effective Date and in in-force policies upon renewal after the CSA Effective Date.
 
 
Policy language regarding offsets for Social Security Disability Income (SSDI) benefits shall be interpreted to mean that only SSDI benefits actually received by the claimant shall be offset in California Contracts after the CSA Effective Date. This change shall be made in all new policies issued as California Contracts after the CSA Effective Date and in in-force policies upon renewal after the CSA Effective Date.
 
 
Policy language requiring participation in a mandatory rehabilitation program will no longer be included in California Contracts after the CSA Effective Date.
 
 
The definition of "Eligible Survivor" shall be interpreted in California Contracts after the CSA Effective Date to delete an age limitation for surviving children, and shall provide that if no estate is formed, the benefits will escheat to the State of California. This change shall be made in new policies issued as California Contracts after the CSA Effective Date.
 
 
The policy language changes reflected in Section V.D. above shall be applicable to consideration of claim decisions of California Claimants in accordance with the following provisions:
 
 
The change described above in Section V.D.1. shall be applied to (1) claims open at CSA Effective Date that were submitted to Respondents on or after June 24, 2004; (2) claims participating in CSA Reassessment; and (3) new claims submitted after the CSA Effective Date. That is, the claims will be handled as if this change were in place at the specified time.
 
 
The change described above in Section V.D.2. shall be applied to (1) policies sold after the CSA Effective Date; and (2) claims participating in CSA Reassessment.
 
 
The change described above in Section V.D.3. shall be applied to (1) new claims submitted after the earlier of the first renewal date of the group policy to which they relate following the CSA Effective Date or December 31, 2007; and (2) claims participating in the CSA Reassessment. In addition, Respondents shall enhance training for claims staff regarding subjective conditions, augmenting the criteria to be used in evaluating subjective complaints.
 
 
The change described above in Section V.D.4. shall be applied to (1) new claims submitted after the earlier of the first renewal date of the group policy to which they relate following the CSA Effective Date or December 31, 2007; and (2) claims participating in the CSA Reassessment.
 
 
The change described above in Section V.D.5. shall be applied to (1) new claims submitted after the CSA Effective Date, and (2) claims participating in the CSA Reassessment.
 
 
The change described above in Section V.D.6. shall be applied to (1) claims open as of the CSA Effective Date; (2) claims participating in the CSA Reassessment; and (3) new claims submitted after the CSA Effective Date.
 
 
The change described above in Section V.D.7. shall be applied to (1) claims open as of the CSA Effective Date; (2) claims participating in the CSA Reassessment; and (3) new claims submitted after the CSA Effective Date. In processing the claims covered by this change, Respondents shall consider participation in vocational rehabilitation to be voluntary.
 
 
The change described above in Section V.D.8. shall be applied to (1) claims open as of the CSA Effective Date; (2) claims participating in the CSA Reassessment; and (3) new claims submitted after the CSA Effective Date. In addition, Respondents will inform survivors who are not eligible survivors under the policy definitions of the necessity of forming an estate in the event there are no eligible survivors.
 
 
In processing the claims covered by the changes set forth in Sections IV and V, an additional level of internal review by a Quality Compliance Consultant (or its equivalent) will occur prior to a claim denial.
 
 
 
A.    Respondents and the Department agree that, in lieu of other disciplinary action, the Insurance Commissioner may, by his written Decision and Order to be made and filed herein, without further notice to Respondents, issue an order prohibiting Respondents from engaging in
 
the conduct set forth in the Accusation (without any admission by Respondents of having engaged in such conduct) and requiring Respondents to pay a civil penalty in the amount of $8,000,000.00;
 
B.    Respondents agree to pay to the Department all attorney's fees and costs of the Department in bringing this enforcement action, in the amount of $598,503.00, pursuant to Insurance Code, section 12921(b)(4);
 
C.    Respondents agree to pay all reasonable future costs of the Department to ensure compliance with the CSA, pursuant to Insurance Code, section 12921(b)(4);
 
D.    Respondents agree to pay the civil penalty, attorney's fees and costs enumerated above upon receipt of invoice(s) from the Department, payments to be directed to the California Department of Insurance; Division of Accounting; 300 Capitol Mall, 13
th
Floor; Sacramento, CA 95814;
 
E.    Respondents acknowledge that the CSA is freely and voluntarily executed by Respondents, with a full realization of the legal rights set forth in the Insurance Code;
 
F.    Respondents and the Department agree that the CSA is the full and final settlement of the Department's investigation, scheduled and targeted Field Claims examinations, and Field Rating and Underwriting examination, and the Accusation;
 
G.    Neither the CSA nor any related negotiations, statements, or documents shall be offered by the Department as evidence of an admission or concession of any liability or wrongdoing whatsoever on the part of the Respondents;
 
H.    Neither the CSA nor any of the obligations agreed to by the Respondents shall be interpreted to constitute a novation or alter the terms of any policy, except as specifically stated herein. Neither the CSA nor any of the obligations agreed to by the Respondents shall be interpreted to reduce or increase any rights of participants in ERISA-covered plans, except as specifically stated herein, including but not limited to rights to which they may be entitled pursuant to 29 U.S.C. 1133 and 29 CFR 2560.503-1 of ERISA, including any appeal or review rights under the plan. Other than those rights afforded under the CSA, it is the intention of the parties that no additional rights are provided to the extent that any California Claimants have
 
previously exercised their rights and therefore, as provided for under ERISA, have permitted those rights to lapse;
 
I.    Respondents agree that, in the event of a material noncompliance with the terms of the CSA, the Insurance Commissioner may, after notice and hearing, order the suspension for up to one (1) year of the Certificate of Authority of the noncompliant Respondent(s);
 
J.    Section III. of the CSA will terminate upon completion of Respondents' review of claims for which California Claimants have chosen to participate or requested review under the CSA Reassessment, except that the following provisions of Section III. shall continue in effect:
 
1. Subsection III.D. - Attending Physician's Opinion,
 
2. Subsection III.E. - Claimants Informed of Right to Request IME, and
 
3. Subsection III.F.1. - Monitoring Compliance with the CSA;
 
K.    Section IV. and Section V. of the CSA shall be subject to change as follows:
 
1. Respondent's agreements as to Changes in Claims Handling Policies, set forth in Section IV., shall each remain in effect until such time as a change in Section IV.A., IV.B. or IV.C. is either (i) required by a change in applicable statute, regulation or court decision, or (ii) permitted by such authorities and the Respondent provides the Department with 30 days prior written notice of the proposed change, the reason therefor, and the specific source of authority (applicable statute, regulation or court decision) permitting such change, and the change is agreed to by the Department and such agreement by the Department shall not unreasonably be withheld. The provisions of Section IV. that are not affected by the specific change shall continue in effect;
 
2. Respondent's agreements as to Changes to Policy Language and Claims Handling, set forth in Section V., shall each remain in effect until the earlier of (i) such time as a change in one of the agreements set forth in Sections V.D. or V.E. is required by a change in the applicable statute, regulation or relevant court decision; (ii) alternative policy language for disability insurance policies affecting one of such designated Sections is approved by the Department for Respondent or for other insurers writing disability insurance in California; (iii) approval for a specific change to policy language affecting one of such designated Sections is
 
authorized by the Department; or (iv) a change to policy language or claims handling is permitted by such authorities affecting one of such designated Sections and the Respondent provides the Department with 30 days prior written notice of the proposed change, the reason therefor, and the specific source of authority (applicable statute, regulation or court decision) permitting such change, and the change is agreed to by the Department, and such agreement by the Department shall not unreasonably be withheld. The provisions of Sections V.D. or V.E. that are not affected by the specific change shall continue in effect;
 
L.    Respondents agree to use their best efforts to complete the CSA Reassessment by June 30, 2007, although, for good cause shown, the Insurance Commissioner may agree to extend the time for completing that process;
 
M.    Respondents acknowledge that Insurance Code, section 12921(b)(l), requires the Insurance Commissioner to approve the final settlement of this matter, and that both the settlement terms and conditions contained herein and the acceptance of those terms and conditions are contingent upon the Insurance Commissioner's approval, which approval is provided in the Order of the Commissioner, issued simultaneously with the execution of this CSA and made a part hereof.
 
Respondents and the Department hereby execute this document at Chattanooga, State of Tennessee, on the 3rd day of October, 2005, and San Francisco, State of California, on the 3rd day of October, 2005, respectively.
 
 
 
 
 
 
WHEREAS, the Insurance Commissioner ordered an investigation be conducted into the business practices of Respondents, including an on-site examination of Respondents' claims, rating and underwriting practices; and
 
WHEREAS, Respondents acknowledge receipt of a copy of the Accusation in the above-entitled matter; and
 
WHEREAS, Respondents neither admit nor concede any actual or potential fault, wrongdoing or liability in connection with the allegations contained in the Accusation; and
 
WHEREAS, the Department of Insurance contends that the violations alleged in the Accusation, if heard and proved, would constitute grounds for the Insurance Commissioner to suspend Respondents' Certificates of Authority, impose civil penalties and issue an order prohibiting Respondents from engaging in the conduct at issue; and
 
WHEREAS, Respondents and the Department of Insurance have undertaken extensive discussions to resolve the issues in this proceeding, without either party admitting the other's contentions, through compromise settlement without litigating the issues; and
WHEREAS, Respondents and the Department of Insurance have executed the California Settlement Agreement (CSA) attached hereto and incorporated by reference herein, and
 
WHEREAS, the terms of the CSA and the provisions of Section 12921(b)(l) of the Insurance Code require the Insurance Commissioner to approve the settlement of this matter, and
 
WHEREAS, this Decision and Order constitutes the approval of the Insurance Commissioner of the settlement of this matter upon the terms and conditions set forth in the CSA;
 
NOW THEREFORE, the Insurance Commissioner hereby approves the CSA and finds, without Respondents having had the opportunity to defend at a hearing, that Respondents, in certain instances, either individually or collectively, during the period with respect to which they were investigated by the Department of Insurance, engaged in the following acts or practices in violation of Sections 700 and 704 of the California Insurance Code:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Insurance Commissioner hereby approves the CSA attached hereto and issued simultaneously herewith.
 
The Insurance Commissioner hereby approves the policy forms referenced in the CSA attached hereto.
 
Respondents are hereby ordered to fulfill each and every term and obligation set forth in the CSA, at the time and in the manner set forth therein.
 
Respondents are prohibited from engaging in the conduct set forth in the Findings enumerated above.
 
Respondents shall pay a civil penalty in the amount of $8,000,000.00.
 
Respondents shall pay the costs of the Department of Insurance in bringing the enforcement action herein, in the amount of $598,503.00.
 
Respondents shall pay all reasonable future costs of the Department of Insurance to ensure Respondents' compliance with the terms of the CSA. Respondents shall pay such costs within thirty (30) days of the receipt of an itemized invoice. Invoices for costs shall be issued on a quarterly basis, commencing on January 1, 2006.
 
Respondents shall pay that total sum of $8,598,503.00 to the Department of Insurance within thirty (30) days of Respondents' receipt of an invoice for said amount.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed my official seal this day of October, 2005.
    
 
 
 
 
 
Independent Review (IR) is available to a California Claimant who is entitled to claim reassessment under the terms of the California Settlement Agreement to which this exhibit is attached. In the event a California Claimant is not satisfied with a decision of the Company's Claim Reassessment Unit (CRU) that upholds, in whole or in part, the original decision that either denied or closed his or her claim, the following process shall be implemented for independent review of the CRU's decision:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CLAIM, TEST
123 MAIN STREET
Anycity, Anystate 12345-4673
 
 
 
Your claim for disability insurance benefits was denied, or your disability insurance benefits were terminated, on or after January 1, 1997, by one of the above-named UnumProvident insurance companies.
 
The California Insurance Commissioner and UnumProvident have recently reached an agreement that provides the opportunity for your claim to be reevaluated (reassessed) under certain standards developed especially for California claims.
 
You may have previously received a letter from UnumProvident notifying you of your right to ask for reassessment of your claim. If you responded to that letter by asking the company to reassess your claim, there is no need for you to respond again with a new request.
 
If you did receive the earlier letter or if you did not respond to the earlier letter by asking for reassessment of your claim, you may request reassessment of your claim by doing one of the following things:
not
now
 
 
 
 
You must respond within 60 days of the date of this notice for your claim to be reconsidered. Your request for reassessment will be acknowledged by UnumProvident.
 
In addition to its agreement with the California Insurance Commissioner regarding California claimants, UnumProvident is reassessing claims nationwide under an agreement it reached in late 2004 with 48 other state insurance regulators and the U.S. Department of Labor. Because of the large number of claims to be reviewed, the process will take a substantial amount of time. If you elect to have your claim reassessed, you will receive another letter from UnumProvident closer to the time your claim actually will be reviewed, letting you know the approximate time period of that review. Enclosed with that letter will be a Reassessment Information Form for you to fill out and return to UnumProvident with information it needs to begin reviewing your claim.
 
By asking for your claim to be reassessed you agree to give up (waive) certain legal rights in the event and to the extent that benefits are paid to you. The legal rights you will be asked to give up will be described in greater detail in a form you will be asked to sign and return along with the Reassessment Information Form.
 
These rights are important and include the ability to pursue legal action, including the ability to obtain special or extracontractual damages, but only to the extent that such an action is based on any part of the claim denial or termination of benefits that is reversed or changed by the reassessment.
 
Before you decide to give up any of your rights, you may wish to consult an attorney.
 
If there remains a complete or partial denial of benefits after the reassessment of your claim, your right to pursue legal action for further benefits that are not related to any reversal or change of the previous decision on your claim shall not be waived.
 
If you have already started legal action relating to your prior claim decision, please provide a copy of this letter to your attorney as soon as possible so that he or she can advise you of your options. If, after consulting with your attorney, you decide to have your claim reassessed, you will need to take such action as is necessary to stop further legal proceedings pending the outcome of the reassessment process. Please note that filing a lawsuit concerning your claim after requesting reassessment will make your claim ineligible for reassessment.
 
You are encouraged to contact UnumProvident by one of the three steps provided for applying to have your claim reassessed. Please note that you must make contact within 60 days of the date of this notice to be eligible for UnumProvident to prepare your claim for review.
 
If you experience difficulty in participating in the claim reassessment process or otherwise, you may call the California Department of Insurance Consumer Hotline at (800) 927-HELP (4357).
 
Thank you.
 
UnumProvident Claim Reassessment Unit
Provident Life and Accident Insurance Company
 
 
 
 
Name: Claim, Test
 
Claim Number: 5400000060002
 
Insuring Company: Provident Life and Accident Insurance Company
 
By returning this letter, I am requesting to participate in the Claim Reassessment Process.
 
 
Last four (4) digits of Social Security:
                                        
 
Date:
                                                                                              
 
In order to have your claim included in this reassessment, this form must be mailed to the address provided by November 30, 2005.
 

Exhibit 10.2
 
 
 
On November 18, 2004, four substantially identical regulatory settlement agreements (each an "RSA") were entered into among Provident Life and Accident Insurance Company and Provident Life and Casualty Insurance Company ("Provident"), The Paul Revere Life Insurance Company ("Revere), Unum Life Insurance Company of America ("Unum") (the "Companies") and First Unum Life Insurance Company ("First Unum"), their domestic insurance regulator (the "Lead Regulator"), the domestic insurance regulators of the other Companies (the "Lead Regulators"), the United States Department of Labor ("DOL"), and the chief insurance regulators of forty-five other states and the District of Columbia (the "Participating Regulators"). The definitions and terms used in the RSA are applicable to this Amendment, which is deemed to be an amendment to each RSA.
 
WHEREAS, the Companies and First Unum have given due consideration to the Lead Regulators' requests that they provide notice to certain claimants eligible to participate in the RSA Claim Reassessment Process who are not currently entitled to notice of their eligibility under the terms of the RSA, which does not presently provide for written notice to eligible claimants whose claims were denied or terminated during the period from January 1, 1997 through December 31, 1999, and have considered certain other related matters;
 
WHEREAS, the Companies believe that the categories of eligible claimants who are not currently entitled to notice and should be reconsidered and provided notice of their eligibility are those claimants whose disability policies were written by Provident and Revere, since Unum Corporation, the parent of Unum and First Unum, did not merge with Provident Companies, Inc. until June 30, 1999, and claim handling practices were not generally made uniform throughout the merged company until after January 1, 2000. January 1, 2000 is the beginning date for eligible claimants who are entitled to receive notice under the terms of the RSA;
 
WHEREAS, the Companies also propose to inform claimants in writing of the circumstances under which they are entitled, as a result of the terms of the RSA, to an independent medical examination as part of the review of their claim;
 
WHEREAS, the Companies confirm the weight that it provides in handling disability claims to the opinion of an attending physician; and
 
NOW, THEREFORE, pursuant to the amending provision of each RSA, each of Provident, Revere, Unum and First Unum, their Lead Regulator, the Lead Regulators and the DOL hereby agree as follows:
 
 
 
"The Company commits to use its best efforts to complete the Claim Reassessment Process by December 31, 2006, (except for the reassessment of Requesting Claimants which shall be completed by June 30, 2007), although, for good cause shown, the Lead Regulators and the DOL may agree to extend either of the foregoing dates."
 
 
"Claimants who come within the definition of Requesting Claimants must comply with the response period to a notice received pursuant to this Agreement or, if no notice is provided, make a request to the Company no later than June 30, 2006."
 
 
"As part of advising a claimant how to submit a claim or early in the process of reviewing an open claim and, in any event, prior to any decision being made to deny a recently submitted claim or to close an open claim, claimants shall be informed in writing that it is their right or the right of their attending physician (either directly or through the claimant's representative) to request an IME of their medical condition, unless the decision is made to pay or continue to pay the claim."
 
 
"Giving significant weight to an attending physician's ("AP") opinion, if the AP is properly licensed and the claimed medical condition falls within the AP's customary area of practice, unless the AP's opinion is not well supported by medically acceptable clinical or diagnostic standards and is inconsistent with other substantial evidence in the record. In order for an AP's opinion to be
 
rejected, the claim file must include specific reasons why the opinion is not well supported by medically acceptable clinical or diagnostic standards and is inconsistent with other substantial evidence in the record."
 
 
 
 
October 3, 2005
 
Authorizing Signatures for the Lead Regulator for each of Provident, Revere, Unum and First Unum RSA's, respectively
 
 
 
Authorizing Signature for the United States Department of Labor
 
Elaine L. Chao
Secretary of Labor
 
Ann L. Combs
Assistant Secretary
Employee Benefits Security Administration
 
 
Post Office Address:
 
U. S. Department of Labor
Employee Benefits Security Administration
JFK Federal Building, Room 575
Boston, MA 02203
TEL: 617-565-9600
FAX: 617-565-9666
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
"While we are taking this step to remove the regulatory cloud that has been hanging over us, we do not agree with the generalizations the Department has made about our company through this process," said Watjen. "UnumProvident is an organization that works hard to serve its customers, and I am proud of the work our employees do on behalf of the more than two million Californians our policies protect. Last year alone, we paid more than $600 million in benefits to California residents, more than any other disability provider. We are committed to doing the right thing and to always striving to improve the level of service we offer our customers."
 
Added Watjen, "Over the past two years, our company has undertaken broad changes designed to improve the quality of claims decisions and our service levels to policyholders. We made many changes during this time to improve in these areas, and added to those through the multistate settlement that was previously approved by 48 other states. Because of this, we do not believe that California's allegations or the market conduct exam report, which is essentially a snapshot from a prior period, provide an accurate portrayal of our claim practices today.
 
"Nevertheless, we have concluded it is in the best interest of our California customers and our company to reach this settlement so that we can focus our energy on continuing to build upon the progress we have made as a company over the last two years. Since 2003, we have undergone significant financial and operational restructuring, built a new management team and improved many of our business processes. As a result of these and other efforts, we are essentially today a new' UnumProvident."
 
Under the terms of the settlement, UnumProvident will change a number of provisions specific to California disability policies, including the definition of "total disability." The California Department of Insurance is expected to notify all disability providers who do business in the state of its concerns about the lawfulness of certain provisions contained in present policy language, and to spell out an approach for addressing these concerns.
 
"The landscape is changing significantly for all disability insurance carriers who do business in California," added Watjen. "While we believe that ultimately some of these changes may impact the cost and availability of disability insurance coverage, we are fully committed to implementing the terms of the settlement agreement, which include bringing new products to market, and to establishing new industry standards in claims practices."
 
Additionally as part of the settlement, UnumProvident will receive approval from California for the use of new individual and group disability policy forms, which will become available for sale on November 1, 2005.
 
The California settlement also incorporates the claim reassessment process and the changes in claim handling practices contained in the November 2004 multistate regulatory settlement agreement that was previously ratified by 48 other states. California claimants were included in the 2004 multistate settlement and could choose to participate in that claim reassessment process even though California did not join the multistate agreement. Under the California agreement, reassessment notices will be mailed to approximately 26,000 individuals whose claims were
 
denied or terminated between January 1, 1997, and September 30, 2005. Many of these individuals have already received reassessment notices under the multistate agreement. Additionally, an individual whose claim denial or termination is upheld in the reassessment may request an independent review by a member of a panel established for that purpose.
 
UnumProvident also said it would amend the multistate settlement agreement to include mailing a notice of the claim reassessment process to approximately 29,500 individuals whose claims were denied or terminated between January 1, 1997, and December 31, 1999. Under the original multistate agreement, claimants during this period could request participation in the reassessment process, but they were not sent a notice.
 
Watjen said this change is one that has been considered in the past. "The enhancement we are making is one that had previously been discussed on the request of the lead insurance regulators of the multistate agreement," he said. The amendment will also confirm that eligible claimants in the 1997 to 1999 period who do not receive a notice under the amendment, but who are entitled to request a reassessment, will have until June 30, 2006, to do so.
 
Separately, UnumProvident said it is proceeding with a company plan to offer to reassess private label, acquired and reinsured block claims, as well as claims administered on behalf of certain employers from January 1, 1997, through January 18, 2005 (and through September 30, 2005 for California residents). These approximately 24,000 claims were not included in the 2004 multistate regulatory settlement, but the offer being made will generally follow the reassessment procedures contained in that agreement.
 
Based on the settlement agreement and related matters, UnumProvident will record a charge of $75.0 million before tax or $51.6 million after tax ($0.16 per diluted common share) for the third quarter of 2005. The pre-tax charge is comprised of four elements: $14.3 million of incremental direct operating expenses to conduct the reassessment process; $37.3 million for benefit costs and reserves reopened from the reassessment; $15.4 million for additional benefit costs and reserves from claims already incurred and currently in inventory that are anticipated as a result of the claim process changes being implemented; and the $8 million fine. The ongoing expenses of changing certain claim practices and policy provisions in California insurance forms will be included in the company's operating expenses as incurred going forward. At this point, the company anticipates that these ongoing expenses will not materially affect its results of operations. The company also expects its ratings to be reaffirmed.
 
UnumProvident will hold its 2005 Investor Meeting on Monday, Oct. 17, 2005, at 10 a.m. Eastern. A live audio webcast of this meeting can be accessed via the "Investors & Shareholders" section of www.unumprovident.com. A replay of the webcast will be available on this site for two weeks beginning Oct. 18, 2005.
 
UnumProvident is the leading provider of group and individual disability insurance in California, providing benefits to more than 14,000 California businesses and protecting approximately 2.4 million Californians. In 2004, the company received more than 22,000 claims for disability benefits in California and paid approximately $600 million in disability, life and long-term care benefits to California customers and their families. UnumProvident is the marketing brand of UnumProvident's insuring subsidiaries. Not all companies do business in all jurisdictions.
 
 
Safe Harbor Agreement
 
A "safe harbor" is provided for "forward-looking statements" under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements in this press release, which are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include such general matters as general economic or business conditions; events or consequences relating to terrorism and acts of war; competitive factors, including pricing pressures; legislative, regulatory, or tax changes; and the interest rate environment. More specifically, they include fluctuations in insurance reserve liabilities, projected new sales and renewals, persistency rates, incidence and recovery rates, pricing and underwriting projections and experience, retained risks in reinsurance operations, availability and cost of reinsurance, level and results of litigation, rating agency actions, regulatory actions and investigations, negative media attention, the level of pension benefit costs and funding, investment results, including credit deterioration of investments, and effectiveness of product and customer support. For further information of risks and uncertainties that could affect actual results, see the sections entitled "Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" and "Risk Factors" in the Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004, and subsequently filed Form 10-Qs. The forward-looking statements are being made as of the date of this press release and the Company expressly disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statement contained herein.
 


