FILE:UNM/UNM-8K-20050330175147.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On March 30, 2005, UnumProvident Corporation issued a press release with a statement announcing that it is making a series of modifications in its producer compensation and disclosure practices which is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference. A copy of the letter sent to producers outlining all of the changes which is referred to in the press release is also attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
In accordance with General Instructions B.2 of Form 8-K, the information included or incorporated in this Item 7.01, including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall such information and exhibits be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits. The following exhibits are furnished with this Report:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
EXHIBIT
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
Other changes include requiring customer approval of compensation paid by UnumProvident to the producer when the customer is also paying a fee to the producer, and strengthening certain policies and procedures associated with new business and quoting activities. A copy of a letter sent to producers outlining all of the changes is contained on the company's website at .
www.unumprovident.com/saespartners
 
"I believe that these are significant steps towards responding to a changing and still uncertain environment, and I believe further changes are likely as we learn more and as new policies are adopted by our federal and state regulators or legislatures," added Watjen. "We recognize, for example, that there are still questions being raised about the role of contingent commissions.' While contingent commissions represent a very small percentage of our overall compensation arrangements, we are watching this area closely and will consider alternative arrangements when there is more clarity on this issue as a component of producer compensation in the future."
 
 
About UnumProvident
 
UnumProvident (UNM) is the largest provider of group and individual disability income protection insurance in the United States and United Kingdom. Through its subsidiaries, UnumProvident Corporation insures more than 25 million people and paid $5.9 billion in total benefits to customers in 2004. With primary offices in Chattanooga, Tenn., and Portland, Maine, the company employs more than 12,000 people worldwide. For more information, visit www.unumprovident.com.

Exhibit 99.2
 
Dear Financial Advisor:
 
You are certainly aware of the public discussion and attention on our industry from various regulatory authorities regarding producer compensation and disclosure to customers. As our President and CEO, Tom Watjen, announced last fall, UnumProvident is firmly committed to disclosure of producer compensation and will make every effort to provide you and your clients with all relevant producer compensation information.
 
Since last fall we have been reviewing all of our compensation programs and disclosure policies. Although we have generally found our programs and policies to be acceptable, we are making several changes to enhance disclosure and avoid even the appearance of any conflict of interest. We believe these changes will better assist you in fulfilling your responsibility to make appropriate compensation disclosure.
 
These changes are being implemented over the next two months:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, the Department of Labor has just issued further clarification about form 5500 reporting for ERISA-qualified business. That notice requires that all insurers report all compensation, including bonuses, overrides, or fees, at a case level to the customer.
We are in the process of reviewing our systems and procedures in order to provide this additional information to customers as soon as possible. As we implement this change, we will provide you and your customers with additional information. If you have specific questions regarding producer compensation and disclosure, please feel free to contact your local UnumProvident representative or call our Producer Compensation Services area directly at 1-800-633-7491.
 
This is certainly a challenging time for our industry, but we believe these changes to enhance disclosure and transparency will allow customers to make informed buying decisions. We appreciate the business you have placed with us and your support as we make these changes to better serve our customers.
 


