FILE:UNM/UNM-8K-20051121165248.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
UnumProvident Corporation entered into an Amendment to the Employment Agreement dated as of March 31, 2003 between the Company and F. Dean Copeland, an executive officer of the Company, effective November 17, 2005 (the Amendment). The changes reflected in the Amendment include (i) the change in title and responsibilities from Senior Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Chief Administrative Officer to Senior Executive Vice President and Special Advisor to the Chief Executive Officer, (ii) providing a long term incentive grant for 2005 payable in cash upon retirement, (iii) adjusting the post-termination exercise period for options to reflect the requirements of new Code Section 409A, and (iv) providing for the payment of the cost of retiree medical benefits for a period of two years after the date of termination. In addition, adjustments were made to the calculation of the retirement benefit under the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan with respect to amounts vesting after December 31, 2004 to exclude the offset for social security benefits and to impose a six-month delay in payment as required by Code Section 409A. A copy of the Amendment to Employment Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits. The following exhibit is filed with this Report:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
THIS AMENDMENT (the "Amendment"), effective as of November 17, 2005, by and between UnumProvident Corporation (the "Company"), and F. Dean Copeland (the "Executive"), amends that certain Employment Agreement, dated as of March 31, 2003, by and between the Company and the Executive (the "Employment Agreement").
 
In consideration of the mutual promises and covenants herein contained, the parties hereto agree as follows:
 
1. Section 2(a)(i) of the Employment Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced with the following:
 
(i) The Executive shall serve as Senior Executive Vice President and Special Advisor to the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, with the appropriate authority, duties and responsibilities attendant to such positions.
 
2. Section 4(b) of the Employment Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced with the following:
 
. If the Executive's employment is terminated by reason of the Executive's death or Disability, this Agreement shall terminate without further obligations to the Executive's legal representatives or to the Executive, as the case may be, under this Agreement, other than for payment of the Accrued Obligations and the timely payment or provision of Other Benefit. In addition, the Equity Awards shall vest immediately and such stock options will remain exercisable until the later of (x) the post-termination expiration date specified in the original option agreement, (y) December 31 of the year in which the Date of Termination occurs, or (z) the 15
(b) Death or Disability
th
day of the third month following the Date of Termination, but not exceeding the expiration of their initial term. If, however, the Executive's employment is terminated by reason of death after a Notice of Termination given either by the Executive for Good Reason or by the Company other than for Cause, the Company shall also pay to the Executive's legal representatives in one lump sum the amounts specified in Sections 4(a)(i)(A) and (B).
 
. If the Executive's employment is terminated by reason of the Executive's Retirement, this Agreement shall terminate without further obligations to the Executive's legal representatives or to the Executive, as the case may be, under this Agreement, other than (i) payment of the Accrued Obligations, (ii) the provision of the Retirement Benefit (including the other retirement benefits provided in Section 2(b)(vi)), (iii)
Retirement
payment of the cost of retiree medical benefits for the Executive and his dependents for a period of 2 years after the Date of Termination, (iv) payment to the Executive a long-term incentive benefit for 2005 payable in cash, and (v) the timely payment or provision of Other Benefits. In addition, the Equity Awards shall vest immediately and such stock options will remain exercisable until the later of (x) the post-termination expiration date specified in the original option agreement, (y) December 31 of the year in which the Date of Termination occurs, or (z) the 15
th
day of the third month following the Date of Termination, but not exceeding the expiration of their initial term. To the extent required to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), as determined in writing by the Company's outside counsel, one or more payments under this Section 4(b) shall be delayed to the six month anniversary of the date of Executive's separation from service, within the meaning of Code Section 409A."
 
3. Attachment A to the Agreement is here by deleted and replaced with the following:
 
 
The Retirement Benefit shall be the benefit provided under the Unum Corporation Senior Executive Retirement Plan (the "Plan") as amended and restated effective January 1, 2005:
 
 
 
 
For the avoidance of doubt the Retirement Benefit shall be calculated according to the following methodology:
 
Employee Data:
 
Date of Birth
Date of Employment
 
Date of Termination
Age at Termination
Benefit Commencement Date (of Annual Retirement Benefit)
Age at Benefit Commencement
Earnings (based on qualified plan pensionable earnings, but without regard to IRC 401(a)(17) limit on compensation, plus amounts deferred under any non qualified deferred compensation plan)
 
Final Average Earnings (FAE)
(based on qualified plan definition; current definition is highest five calendar year earnings during the last ten consecutive calendar years of employment)
 
Service
Service Adjustment (5 years)
Adjusted Service
Maximum Service recognized  20 years
 
Retirement Benefit:
 
 
 
 
Reductions:
 
 
 
 
(b) With respect to the balance that was not accrued and fully vested as of December 31, 2004 (the "409A Balance"), no offset for Social Security Benefit.
 
Special Rules Applicable to 409A Balance:
 
The 409A balance shall be accrued for the first six months after the Date of Termination and paid to the Executive in a lump sum, without interest, promptly after the expiration of such six-month period. No payment of the 409A Balance shall be paid to the Executive before the expiration of six months from the Date of Termination.
 
 
4. As amended hereby, the Employment Agreement, as heretofore amended, shall be and remain in full force and effect.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Amendment as of the date first above written.
 
 


