FILE:UNM/UNM-8K-20061220171728.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(d) On December 15, 2006, UnumProvident Corporation announced that Michael Caulfield will rejoin its board of directors effective January 1, 2007. Mr. Caulfield was initially elected to the Company's Board in August 2004, but left in July 2005 when he accepted the role of chief operating officer at Mercer Human Resource Consulting, a firm with which UnumProvident does business. He recently resigned as president of Mercer. Mr. Caulfield, who has been determined by the Board to be an independent director, has been appointed to serve on the Audit Committee and as Chairman of the Finance Committee of the Board of the Company. He was elected to fill the vacancy that will be created by the previously announced retirement of C. William Pollard effective December 31, 2006. Mr. Caulfield will be a Class 2 director with a term of office expiring at the 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
A copy of the press release announcing the election of Mr. Caulfield is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) . The following exhibit is filed with this Report:
Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 2006 UnumProvident Corporation. All rights reserved.
About UnumProvident
UnumProvident () is the largest provider of group and individual income protection insurance, and one of the leading providers of employee benefits products and services, in the United States and the United Kingdom. Through its subsidiaries, UnumProvident insures more than 21 million people and provided $6 billion in total benefits to customers in 2005.
www.unumprovident.com


