FILE:UNM/UNM-8K-20060503172130.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
On May 3, 2006, UnumProvident Corporation issued a press release reporting its results for the first quarter of 2006, a copy of which is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
Also on May 3, 2006, UnumProvident Corporation posted on its website at www.unumprovident.com the Statistical Supplement relating to its financial results for the first quarter of 2006. A copy of the Statistical Supplement is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information included or incorporated in this Item 2.02, including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall such information and exhibits be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
(c) Exhibits. The following exhibits are filed with this Report:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Chattanooga, TN  UnumProvident Corporation (NYSE: UNM) announced today its results for the first quarter of 2006 with net income of $73.4 million ($0.23 per diluted common share), compared to $152.2 million ($0.49 per diluted common share) for the first quarter of 2005. Included in the results for the first quarter of 2006 is a net realized after tax investment gain of $1.5 million, compared to a net realized after tax investment loss of $2.1 million in the first quarter of 2005.
In the first quarter of 2006, the Company completed an analysis of its assumptions related to the reserves established for the claim reassessment process implemented as a result of the settlement agreements entered into with state insurance regulators in the fourth quarter of 2004 and the settlement agreement entered into with the California Department of Insurance in the third quarter of 2005. The analysis was based on preliminary data as of the end of the first quarter of 2006, when actual results to date were considered credible enough to enable the Company to update its initial expectations of costs related to the reassessment process. The Company concluded that a change in its initial assumptions, related primarily to the number of claimants for whom payments will continue because the claimant remains eligible for disability payments under the reassessment process, was warranted. Based on this analysis, a charge of $86.0 million before tax, or $55.9 million after tax ($0.17 per diluted common share), was recognized in the first quarter of 2006 to reflect the Company's current estimate of future obligations for benefit costs for claims reopened in the reassessment.
The charge decreased before-tax operating results for the U.S. Brokerage segment group income protection line of business $72.8 million and the Individual Income Protection  Closed Block segment $13.2 million.
Also included in the first quarter of 2006 is interest expense related to the write-off of deferred debt costs of $5.3 million before tax, or $3.4 million after tax ($0.01 per diluted common share), resulting from the extinguishment of $400.0 million of debt associated with the remarketing in February 2006 of the senior note element of the adjustable conversion-rate equity security units issued in May 2003. The Company participated in the remarketing of the units and purchased $400.0 million of the senior notes which were subsequently retired. The charge is included in the results for the Corporate segment.
Included in the first quarter of 2005 was the release of $32.0 million of income tax liabilities that related primarily to interest on the timing of expense deductions. The $32.0 million ($0.10 per diluted common share) increase to net income was reported as a reduction to income tax expense in the first quarter of 2005.
Income, on an after tax basis, excluding net realized investment gains and losses, the first quarter of 2006 regulatory reassessment charge and write-off of deferred debt costs, and the first quarter of 2005 release of income tax liabilities was $131.2 million ($0.41 per diluted common share) in the first quarter of 2006, compared to $122.3 million ($0.40 per diluted common share) in the first quarter of 2005. (See discussion of non-GAAP financial measures and the related reconciliation below.)
Thomas R. Watjen, president and chief executive officer, said, "We continued to generate strong operating results in most of our business and product lines in the first quarter. Although our U.S. Brokerage group income protection line performance remains below our expectations, I am encouraged by indications that the steps we took earlier this year within our benefits area are beginning to have a positive impact."
"Separately, we are fulfilling the requirements of our regulatory settlement agreements, including making the appropriate payments required under the reassessment process. We are today in a much better position to quantify the cost to us of the reassessment process and based on our experience thus far we have determined that we will likely incur higher costs than initially projected, which have been incorporated in our first quarter results. We believe we are taking the appropriate actions to satisfactorily put this matter behind us."
RESULTS BY SEGMENT
In the following discussions of the Company's segment operating results, "operating revenue" excludes net realized investment gains and losses. "Operating income" or "operating loss" excludes income tax and net realized investment gains and losses.
U.S. Brokerage Segment
The U.S. Brokerage segment reported operating income of $28.5 million in the first quarter of 2006, compared to $100.5 million in the first quarter of 2005. The results for the first quarter of 2006 include the before-tax claim reassessment charge of $72.8 million. Excluding the charge, operating income for this segment for the first quarter of 2006 was $101.3 million.
Within this segment, the U.S. Brokerage group income protection line of business reported a loss of $71.6 million in the first quarter of 2006 compared to income of $3.5 million in the first quarter of 2005. Excluding the before-tax claim reassessment charge of $72.8 million in the first quarter of 2006, operating income in this line was $1.2 million, and the benefit ratio was 95.5 percent in the first quarter of 2006, compared to 95.3 percent in the first quarter of 2005. This slight increase reflects an increase in paid claim costs on existing claims due to lower claim recovery rates during the past several quarters. Partially offsetting this increase was a decline in both submitted and paid claim incidence in the first quarter of 2006 compared to the prior year first quarter. Premium income in group income protection declined 2.5 percent to $619.8 million in the first quarter of 2006, compared to $635.4 million in the first quarter of 2005, reflecting lower sales in recent quarters as the Company has focused on improving the profitability of the business. Sales of fully insured group long-term income protection products in the first quarter of 2006 increased 16.5 percent to $43.1 million, compared to $37.0 million in the year ago quarter. First quarter of 2006 sales in the small and mid-employer core market segment were 22.5 percent higher than the first quarter of 2005, while sales in the large case market were also higher than the prior year quarter but grew less than sales in the core market. Sales of fully insured group short-term income protection products in the first quarter of 2006 decreased 25.0 percent to $12.0 million, compared to $16.0 million in the year ago quarter, reflecting decreased sales in the large case market which offset increased sales in the core small and mid-sized markets. Premium persistency in the group long-term income protection line of business improved to 86.6 percent for the first quarter of 2006 compared to 82.6 percent in the year ago quarter.
The U.S. Brokerage segment's group life and accidental death and dismemberment lines of business reported a 20.9 percent decline in operating income to $43.9 million in the first quarter of 2006, compared to $55.5 million in the first quarter of 2005. The decline in earnings primarily reflects a decline in premium, lower net investment income, and a higher benefit ratio relative to the year ago quarter. Premium income for these lines of business declined 2.9 percent to $358.8 million in the first quarter of 2006, compared to $369.7 million in the first quarter of 2005, reflecting lower sales and persistency in recent quarters as the Company has focused on improving the profitability of the business in a competitive market environment. Sales of group life products
in the first quarter of 2006 increased 4.7 percent to $33.2 million, compared to $31.7 million in the year ago quarter, with increased sales in the core small and mid-sized markets offsetting a decline in sales in the large case market. Premium persistency in the group life line of business improved to 79.1 percent for the first quarter of 2006, compared to 72.5 percent for the first quarter of 2005.
Also within this segment, the U.S. Brokerage supplemental and voluntary lines of business reported a 35.4 percent increase in operating income to $56.2 million in the first quarter of 2006, compared to $41.5 million in the first quarter of 2005. The improvement in earnings is primarily driven by improved results in all three lines of business; the individual income protection  recently issued, long-term care, and voluntary workplace benefits. Premium income increased 6.9 percent to $325.2 million in the first quarter of 2006, compared to $304.1 million in the first quarter of 2005. New annualized sales in the voluntary workplace benefits line of business increased 7.5 percent in the first quarter of 2006 compared to the first quarter of 2005, while sales in the individual income protection  recently issued line decreased 7.5 percent and long-term care sales declined 18.5 percent compared with the year ago quarter.
Unum Limited Segment
The Unum Limited segment reported a 15.0 percent increase in operating income to $54.4 million in the first quarter of 2006, compared to $47.3 million in the first quarter of 2005. Operating income in this segment benefited from a slightly lower benefit ratio resulting from favorable risk experience and claims management and a lower expense ratio relative to the year ago quarter. Premium income for this segment was flat, increasing 0.7 percent to $191.4 million in the first quarter of 2006, compared to $190.0 million in the first quarter of 2005. New annualized sales in this segment declined 68.1 percent to $11.7 million in the first quarter of 2006 from $36.7 million in the first quarter of 2005 due primarily to decreased activity in the U.K. market during the first quarter, the competitive environment in the U.K. for group life products, and the Company's decision to maintain its pricing discipline.
Colonial Segment
The Colonial segment reported a 5.5 percent increase in operating income to $46.2 million in the first quarter of 2006, compared to $43.8 million in the first quarter of 2005. Results in this segment in the first quarter of 2006 benefited from a lower benefit ratio resulting from favorable risk experience in the individual short-term income protection line of business and also due to the release of reserves related to the policies which lapsed due to the impact of the third quarter of 2005 hurricanes in the United States gulf coast region. Premium income for this segment increased 4.7 percent to $202.6 million in the first quarter of 2006, compared to $193.5 million in the first quarter
of 2005, reflecting current and prior period sales growth and stable persistency, partially offset by the policies which lapsed as a result of the 2005 hurricanes. New annualized sales in this segment increased 9.6 percent to $67.2 million in the first quarter of 2006 from $61.3 million in the first quarter of 2005.
Individual Income Protection  Closed Block Segment
The Individual Income Protection  Closed Block segment reported operating income of $14.7 million in the first quarter of 2006, compared to $23.1 million in the first quarter of 2005. Results for the first quarter of 2006 include the before-tax claim reassessment charge of $13.2 million. Excluding this charge, operating income in this segment was $27.9 million in the first quarter of 2006.
Other Segment
The Other segment reported operating income of $8.2 million in the first quarter of 2006, compared to $9.3 million in the first quarter of 2005.
Corporate Segment
The Corporate segment, which includes investment earnings on corporate assets not specifically allocated to a line of business, corporate interest expense, and certain other corporate expenses, reported a loss of $43.5 million in the first quarter of 2006, compared to a loss of $39.2 million in the first quarter of 2005. Included in the first quarter of 2006 interest expense is the write-off of deferred debt costs of $5.3 million.
OTHER INFORMATION
The Company's average number of shares (000s) outstanding, assuming dilution, was 319,636.8 for the first quarter of 2006, compared to 307,610.9 for the first quarter of 2005.
Book value per common share at March 31, 2006 was $21.94, compared to $23.68 at March 31, 2005. Excluding the net unrealized gain on securities and the net gain on cash flow hedges, book value per common share at March 31, 2006 was $20.40 compared to $19.49 at March 31, 2005.
OUTLOOK
Commenting on the Company's first quarter results, President and Chief Executive Officer Thomas R. Watjen stated, "There is a great deal that worked well in the first quarter, and we are making progress in those areas which did not meet our expectations. The Company continues to build operating and financial
strength, and we are making progress toward satisfactorily putting the regulatory matters behind us. With so many things working well, and the slow but steady progress we are making in the areas that are not, I continue to be confident in the two to three year financial goals we established last October at our analyst and investor meeting. A strong operational and financial foundation exists for us to achieve ROE expansion from 8.9% in 2005 to the 10 to 12% range. However, given the short-fall this quarter and our expectation that the U.S. Brokerage group income protection benefit ratio will stabilize at the current level and not begin to improve until later this year, we believe it is prudent to adjust our 2006 operational earnings per diluted common share guidance to a range of $1.65 to $1.70 from our previous guidance of $1.75 to $1.80. While I am very disappointed that we are now forecasting a slower recovery in our U.S. Brokerage group income protection business, nothing changes our long-term view or the potential for this franchise to generate significant shareholder value."
NON-GAAP RECONCILIATION
The Company analyzes its performance using non-GAAP financial measures which exclude certain items and the related tax thereon from net income. The Company believes operating income or loss excluding realized investment gains and losses, which are recurring, is a better performance measure and a better indicator of the profitability and underlying trends in the business. Realized investment gains and losses are dependent on market conditions and general economic events and are not necessarily related to decisions regarding the Company's underlying business. The Company believes book value per common share excluding unrealized gains and losses on securities and the net gain on cash flow hedges, which also tend to fluctuate dependent on market conditions and general economic trends, is an important measure.
The Company believes that exclusion of certain other items specified in the non-GAAP reconciliation enhances the understanding and comparability of the Company's performance and the underlying fundamentals in its operations, but this exclusion is not an indication that similar items may not recur. For a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP measures, refer to the attached digest of earnings.
CONFERENCE CALL INFORMATION
UnumProvident Corporation senior management will host a conference call on Thursday, May 4 at 9:00 a.m. (eastern) to discuss the results of operations for the first quarter and will include forward-looking information, such as guidance on future results and trends in operations, as well as other material information.
The dial-in number is (877) 502-9276 for U.S. and Canada. For International, the dial-in number is
Alternatively, a live webcast of the call will be available at www.unumprovident.com in a listen-only mode. About fifteen minutes prior to the start of the call, you should access the "Investor and Shareholder Information" section of our website. A replay of the call will be available by telephone and on our website through Thursday, May 11. In addition, the Company's Statistical Supplement for the first quarter of 2006 is available on the Company's website.
(913) 981-5591.
ABOUT UNUMPROVIDENT
UnumProvident is the largest provider of group and individual income protection insurance in the United States and United Kingdom. Through its subsidiaries, UnumProvident insures more than 25 million people and provided $6.0 billion in total benefits to customers in 2005. With primary offices in Chattanooga, Tennessee, and Portland, Maine, the Company employs approximately 11,300 people worldwide. For more information, visit www.unumprovident.com.
SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT
A "safe harbor" is provided for "forward-looking statements" under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements in this press release, which are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include such general matters as general economic or business conditions; events or consequences relating to terrorism and acts of war; competitive factors, including pricing pressures; legislative, regulatory, or tax changes; and the interest rate environment. More specifically, they include fluctuations in insurance reserve liabilities, projected new sales and renewals, persistency rates, incidence and recovery rates, pricing and underwriting projections and experience, retained risks in reinsurance operations, availability and cost of reinsurance, level and results of litigation, rating agency actions, regulatory actions and investigations, negative media attention, the level of pension benefit costs and funding, investment results, including credit deterioration of investments, and effectiveness of product and customer support. For further information of risks and uncertainties that could affect actual results, see the sections entitled "Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" and "Risk Factors" in the Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005. The forward-looking statements are being made as of the date of this press release and the Company expressly disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statement contained herein.
($ in millions, except share data)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
Smart Service. Great Ideas.
First
Quarter 2006
STATISTICAL
SUPPLEMENT
www.unumprovident.com
 
 
2006
 
 
2005
 
 
 
2004
 
 
2003
See "Notes to Statistical Supplement" on page 15 for additional information.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Allocated stockholders' equity is determined on the basis of an internal allocation formula that reflects the volume and risk components of the business and aligns with the Company's target capital levels for regulatory and rating agency purposes. This formula is modified periodically to recognize changes in the views of capital requirements.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: See "Notes to Statistical Supplement" on page 15 for additional information.
 
 
 
 
Note: See "Notes to Statistical Supplement" on page 15 for additional information.
 
 
See "Notes to Statistical Supplement" on page 15 for additional information.
 
 
 
 
See "Notes to Statistical Supplement" on page 15 for additional information.
 
 
 
 
 
 
See "Notes to Statistical Supplement" on page 15 for additional information.
 
 
See "Notes to Statistical Supplement" on page 15 for additional information.
 
 
 
 
 
 
See "Notes to Statistical Supplement" on page 15 for additional information.
 
 
 
 
See "Notes to Statistical Supplement" on page 15 for additional information.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: Statutory results are reported in conformity with statutory accounting principles as prescribed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners and adopted by the applicable state laws.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
We analyze our Company's performance using non-GAAP financial measures which exclude certain items and the related tax thereon from net income. We believe operating income or loss excluding realized investment gains and losses, which are recurring, is a better performance measure and a better indicator of the profitability and underlying trends in our business. Realized investment gains and losses are dependent on market conditions and general economic events and are not necessarily related to decisions regarding our Company's underlying business. We also believe that the exclusion of certain other items specified and presented in the reconciliations on the segment financial results pages throughout this supplement enhances the understanding and comparability of our Company's performance and the underlying fundamentals in our operations, but this exclusion is not an indication that similar items may not recur.
2006 Significant Transactions and Events
Revised Claim Reassessment Reserve Estimate
In the first quarter of 2006, we completed an analysis of our assumptions related to the reserves we established for the claim reassessment process implemented as a result of the settlement agreements we entered into with state insurance regulators in the fourth quarter of 2004 on conclusion of a multistate market conduct examination led by Maine, Massachusetts, and Tennessee relating to our disability claims handling practices and the settlement agreement we entered into with the California Department of Insurance (DOI) in the third quarter of 2005 which concluded a market conduct examination and investigation of our disability claims handling practices.
Included in our analysis was a review of (1) the number of claimants who would ultimately choose to participate in the process, (2) the number of claimants for whom payments would be made and then closed because the claimant is no longer disabled, (3) the number of claimants for whom payments will continue because the claimant remains eligible for disability payments, and (4) the average incurred cost per claimant. Our analysis was based on preliminary data as of the end of the first quarter of 2006, when actual results to date were considered credible enough to enable us to update our initial expectations of costs related to the reassessment process. We concluded that a change in our initial assumptions, primarily related to the number of claimants for whom payments will continue because the claimant remains eligible for disability payments, was warranted. Based on our analysis, in the first quarter of 2006 we recorded a charge of $86.0 million before tax, or $55.9 million after tax, to reflect our current estimate of future obligations for benefit costs for claims reopened in the reassessment. We also reviewed and concluded that we did not need to further adjust the amounts previously recorded for the incremental direct operating expenses to conduct the reassessment process and for the additional benefit costs and reserves for claims that were already incurred and in inventory that were anticipated to increase as a result of the claim process changes being implemented. The charge decreased before-tax operating results for our U.S. Brokerage segment group income protection line of business $72.8 million and our Individual Income Protection  Closed Block segment $13.2 million.
Financing
The scheduled remarketing of the senior note element of the adjustable conversion-rate equity security units (units) issued in May 2003 occurred in February 2006, as stipulated by the terms of the original offering, and UnumProvident issued $575.0 million of 5.997% senior notes due May 15, 2008. We participated in the remarketing of the units and purchased $400.0 million of the senior notes which were subsequently retired. Interest and debt expense for the three months ended March 31, 2006, includes $5.3 million related to the write-off of deferred debt costs.
(continued on next page)
 
Effective January 1, 2006, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004) (SFAS 123(R)), SFAS 123(R) focuses primarily on accounting for transactions in which an entity obtains employee service in exchange for share-based payments. The adoption of SFAS 123(R) did not have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations.
Share-Based Payment.
2005 Significant Transactions and Events
California Settlement Agreement and Amendment of the Multistate Market Conduct Examination Settlement Agreements
In the third quarter of 2005, certain of our U.S. insurance subsidiaries entered into a settlement agreement with the California DOI, concluding a market conduct examination and investigation of our U.S. subsidiaries' disability claims handling practices. The California DOI had chosen not to join the 2004 multistate settlement agreements. As part of the settlement with the California DOI, we paid a civil penalty of $8.0 million and agreed to change certain practices and policy provisions related to our California business. The settlement also incorporates claims handling practices previously covered by the multistate settlement agreements and includes certain additional claim handling changes.
Based on the California DOI settlement agreement and related matters described above, in the third quarter of 2005 we recorded a charge of $75.0 million before tax, or $51.6 million after tax, comprised of four elements: $14.3 million of incremental direct operating expenses to conduct the reassessment process; $37.3 million for benefit costs and reserves from claims reopened from the reassessment; $15.4 million for additional benefit costs and reserves for claims already incurred and currently in inventory that are anticipated as a result of the claim process changes being implemented; and the $8.0 million fine. The charge decreased before-tax operating results for our U.S. Brokerage segment group income protection line of business and supplemental and voluntary lines of business $37.4 million and $3.3 million, respectively, and our Individual Income Protection  Closed Block segment $34.3 million.
Income Tax
In the third quarter of 2005, the Company recognized an income tax benefit of $10.8 million in connection with the finalization of income tax reviews of the Company's U.K. subsidiaries.
In the first quarter of 2005, the Internal Revenue Service completed its examination of tax years 1999 through 2001 and issued its revenue agent's report (RAR). Income tax liabilities of $32.0 million that relate primarily to interest on the timing of expense deductions were released in the first quarter of 2005, all of which was reflected as a reduction to income tax expense.
Dispositions
During the third quarter of 2005, Unum Limited completed the sale of its Netherlands branch. The gain on the sale was $5.7 million before tax and $4.0 million after tax.
Financing
During 2005, we repaid $227.0 million of maturing debt. In November 2005, we completed a long-term debt offering, issuing $400.0 million of 6.85% senior notes due November 15, 2015.
(continued on next page)
 
During the third quarter of 2005, we recaptured a closed block of individual income protection business originally ceded to Centre Life Reinsurance Ltd. in 1996. The recaptured business included approximately $1.6 billion in invested assets and $185.0 million of annual premium. The effective date of the recapture was August 8, 2005. The underlying operating results of the reinsurance contract, prior to recapture, were reflected in other income. The recapture therefore did not have a material impact on operating income for our Individual Income Protection  Closed Block segment.
2004 Significant Transactions and Events
Settlement of Multistate Market Conduct Examination
During 2004, certain of our U.S. insurance subsidiaries entered into settlement agreements with state insurance regulators upon conclusion of a multistate market conduct examination led by Maine, Massachusetts, and Tennessee relating to our disability claims handling practices. A total of 48 states and the District of Columbia are parties to the settlement agreements. In addition, the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL), which had been conducting an inquiry relating to certain ERISA plans, is a party to the settlement agreements, and the Office of the NYAG, which had engaged in its own investigation of our claims handling practices, notified us that it was in support of the settlement and was, therefore, closing its investigation on this issue. The examination report did not make any findings of violations of law or market conduct regulations. However, the examination report did identify areas of concern. These became the focus of specific changes and enhancements to our disability claims handling operations which are designed to assure each claim decision is made in a consistently high quality manner.
The primary components of the settlement agreements include enhancements to our claims handling procedures; a reassessment process for claimants of certain previously denied or closed claims who elect to participate; additional corporate and board governance to support the oversight of the reassessment process and general claims handling practices; and payment of a fine in the amount of $15.0 million that was allocated among the states and jurisdictions that joined the agreements and a potential fine of $145.0 million in the future if certain standards are not met in examinations at the end of approximately two years.
In the fourth quarter of 2004, we recorded a charge of $127.0 million before tax, or $87.8 million after tax, comprised of four elements: $27.5 million of incremental direct operating expenses to conduct the two-year reassessment process; $44.0 million for benefit costs and reserves from claims reopened from the reassessment; $40.5 million for additional benefit costs and reserves for claims already incurred and currently in inventory that are anticipated as a result of the claim process changes being implemented; and the $15.0 million fine. The charge decreased before-tax operating results for our U.S. Brokerage segment group income protection and individual income protection  recently issued lines of business $116.7 million and $1.7 million, respectively, and our Individual Income Protection  Closed Block segment $8.6 million.
Disposition
During the second quarter of 2004, we closed the sale of our Canadian operations. Financial results for the Canadian branch are reported as discontinued operations. The losses recognized during 2004 and 2003 were $60.8 million and $161.7 million after tax, respectively.
(continued on next page)
 
In the first quarter of 2004, we restructured our individual income protection  closed block business and entered into reinsurance agreements which effectively provide approximately 60 percent reinsurance coverage for our overall consolidated risk above a specified retention limit, which at March 31, 2006, equaled approximately $8.0 billion. The maximum risk limit for the reinsurer grows to approximately $2.6 billion over time, after which any further losses will revert to our insurance subsidiaries. We have not yet reached the retention limit and do not currently anticipate that once reached, our losses would exceed the maximum risk limit for the reinsurer and revert back to us. The reinsurance receivable for this contract, as reported in our condensed consolidated statements of financial condition, was approximately $577.2 million at March 31, 2006.
In conjunction with the restructuring of the individual income protection  closed block business, effective January 1, 2004, we modified our reporting segments to include a separate segment for this business. The reporting, monitoring, and management of the closed block of individual income protection business as a discrete segment is consistent with the Company's financial restructuring and separation of this business from the lines of business which actively market new products. In the past, this business had been reported in combination with the individual income protection  recently issued line of business. Prior to 2004, detailed separate financial metrics and models were unavailable to appropriately manage this block of business separately from the recently issued individual income protection block of business.
The separation of the closed block business into a separate reporting segment required us to perform, separately for the individual income protection  closed block business and individual income protection  recently issued business, impairment testing for goodwill and loss recognition testing for the recoverability of deferred policy acquisition costs and value of business acquired. As required under GAAP, prior to the change in reporting segments, these tests were performed for the individual income protection line of business on a combined basis. The testing indicated impairment of the individual income protection  closed block deferred policy acquisition costs, value of business acquired, and goodwill balances of $282.2 million, $367.1 million, and $207.1 million, respectively. These impairment charges, $856.4 million before tax and $629.1 million after tax, were recorded in the first quarter of 2004.
Also as part of the restructuring, we analyzed our reserve assumptions related to our individual income protection  closed block reserves as a stand-alone segment. Previously these reserves were analyzed for the individual income protection line of business on a combined basis. Included in the analysis was a review of morbidity assumptions, primarily claim resolution rates and claim reserve discount rate assumptions. Based upon this analysis, we lowered our claim reserve discount rate to reflect the segmentation of assets between the individual income protection  recently issued business and the individual income protection  closed block business, the change in our investment portfolio yield rates during the first quarter of 2004, our expectation of future investment portfolio yield rates, and our desire to maintain the relationship between our claim reserve discount rate and our investment portfolio yield rate for the individual income protection  closed block at our long-term objective. The segmentation of the investment portfolio was necessary to ensure appropriate matching of the duration of the assets and the related policy liabilities. Based on this analysis, in the first quarter of 2004 we increased our individual income protection  closed block claim reserves by $110.6 million before tax, or $71.9 million after tax, to reflect our current estimate of future benefit obligations. The first quarter 2004 change represented a 1.2 percent increase in total net Individual Income Protection  Closed Block segment reserves as of March 31, 2004, which equaled $9.530 billion prior to this increase.
(continued on next page)
 
Reserve Strengthening
In the fourth quarter of 2003 we recognized an after tax increase in U.S. Brokerage group income protection reserves of $286.0 million, or $440.0 million before tax. In January 2004, we completed our annual review of claim reserves to ensure that our claim reserves make adequate and reasonable provision for future benefits and expenses. Approximately $300.0 million of the reserve strengthening reflected implementation of a lower discount rate for our U.S. Brokerage group income protection claim reserves. The discount rate was lowered to reflect our expectation of future investment portfolio yield rates and our new discount rate management approach of maintaining a wider spread between our group income protection portfolio investment yield rate and our average discount rate. Approximately $140.0 million of the reserve increase related to a strengthening of the morbidity assumptions to reflect the impact of the continuing weak economic cycle on claim incidence and severity. Claim incidence in the second half of 2003 was 8.4 percent higher than the first half of the year and 5.8 percent above the second half of 2002. The reserve increase represents a 6.6 percent increase in total net U.S. Brokerage group income protection reserves as of December 31, 2003, which were $6.674 billion prior to this increase.
In the first quarter of 2003 we recognized an after tax increase in our U.S. Brokerage group long-term income protection GAAP reserves of $454.0 million before tax, or $295.1 million after tax. In April of 2003, we completed an analysis of our assumptions related to our group long-term income protection claim reserves. This analysis was initiated based on a trend in lower net claim recovery rates observed during the first quarter of 2003. The claim recovery rates during the first quarter were below expected levels and were lower than those experienced in the past three years. The analysis of emerging net claim recovery rates and the reasons driving the changes resulted in a reduction in our long-term expectations. Based on the analysis noted above, we increased our U.S. Brokerage group long-term income protection claim reserves as of March 31, 2003 to reflect our current estimate of future benefit obligations. The analysis indicated not only a decrease in overall claim recovery rates, but a change in claim recovery rates by claim duration.
Accounting Principle Change
Effective October 1, 2003, we adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133 Implementation Issue B36 (DIG Issue B36), DIG Issue B36 addresses financial accounting and reporting for embedded derivatives in modified coinsurance contracts that incorporate credit risk exposure unrelated to the credit risk of the counterparty to the reinsurance contract and requires the bifurcation of any such derivative from the host reinsurance contract. At the date of adoption, we had two reinsurance contracts for which DIG Issue B36 was applicable, one of which was recaptured in 2005. The adoption of DIG Issue B36 in 2003 resulted in a $39.9 million cumulative effect of accounting principle change, net of $21.4 million in tax.
Embedded Derivatives: Modified Coinsurance Arrangements and Debt Instruments That Incorporate Credit Risk Exposure That Are Unrelated or Only Partially Related to the Creditworthiness of the Obligor Under Those Instruments.
 


