FILE:UNM/UNM-8K-20060802162013.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
On August 2, 2006, UnumProvident Corporation issued a press release reporting its results for the second quarter of 2006, a copy of which is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
Also on August 2, 2006, UnumProvident Corporation posted on its website at www.unumprovident.com the Statistical Supplement relating to its financial results for the second quarter of 2006. A copy of the Statistical Supplement is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information included or incorporated in this Item 2.02, including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall such information and exhibits be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
(c) Exhibits. The following exhibits are filed with this Report:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Chattanooga, TN  UnumProvident Corporation (NYSE: UNM) announced today its results for the second quarter of 2006 with net income of $125.2 million ($0.38 per diluted common share), compared to $171.3 million ($0.55 per diluted common share) for the second quarter of 2005. Included in the results for the second quarter of 2006 is a net realized after tax investment loss of $3.6 million ($0.01 per diluted common share), compared to a net realized after tax investment gain of $42.6 million ($0.13 per diluted common share) in the second quarter of 2005.
Also included in the second quarter of 2006 is the after tax cost related to the early retirement of debt of $11.6 million ($0.04 per diluted common share), resulting from the successful execution of a $300 million debt tender in the second quarter.
Income, on an after tax basis, excluding net realized investment gains and losses and the cost related to the early retirement of debt was $140.4 million ($0.43 per diluted common share) in the second quarter of 2006, compared to $128.7 million ($0.42 per diluted common share) in the second quarter of 2005. (See discussion of non-GAAP financial measures and the related reconciliation below.)
Thomas R. Watjen, president and chief executive officer, said, "I am generally pleased with our results for the second quarter. Most areas of the Company met or exceeded our expectations, including record profitability in our Unum Limited and Colonial operations. The one area of the Company which is still
operating below our long-term expectations is our U.S. Brokerage group income protection business; however, I am encouraged by the progress we made this past quarter. In addition, we have continued to build financial strength this past quarter, reducing outstanding debt by $300 million and producing healthy cash flow and strong statutory earnings."
RESULTS BY SEGMENT
In the following discussions of the Company's segment operating results, "operating revenue" excludes net realized investment gains and losses. "Operating income" or "operating loss" excludes income tax and net realized investment gains and losses.
U.S. Brokerage Segment
The U.S. Brokerage segment reported operating income of $104.5 million in the second quarter of 2006, compared to $111.4 million in the second quarter of 2005. Premium income declined 0.4 percent to $1,311.6 million in the second quarter of 2006 from $1,317.3 million in the second quarter of 2005.
Within this segment, the U.S. Brokerage group income protection line of business reported income of $10.4 million in the second quarter of 2006 compared to income of $20.1 million in the second quarter of 2005. The benefit ratio for this line increased to 95.1 percent in the second quarter compared to 93.5 percent in the second quarter of 2005 due to a lower rate of claim recoveries offset partially by a decrease in the rate of submitted and paid claims. Compared to the first quarter of 2006, the benefit ratio for this line declined slightly to 95.1 percent in the second quarter of 2006 from 95.5 percent in the first quarter of 2006, excluding the first quarter claim reassessment charge. This slight improvement relative to the first quarter was primarily due to improved results in the Company's group long-term income protection line of business resulting from generally stable claim recovery experience and lower levels of claim incidence and claim size, which was offset somewhat by an increase in the benefit ratio in the Company's group short-term income protection line. Premium income in group income protection declined 2.2 percent to $622.9 million in the second quarter of 2006, compared to $636.8 million in the second quarter of 2005, reflecting lower sales in recent quarters as the Company has focused on improving the profitability of the business. Sales of fully insured group long-term income protection products in the second quarter of 2006 increased 6.7 percent to $50.9 million, compared to $47.7 million in the year ago quarter. Sales of fully insured group short-term income protection products in the second quarter of 2006 increased 27.9 percent to $18.8 million, compared to $14.7 million in the year ago quarter. Premium persistency in the group long-term income protection line of business improved to 86.5 percent for the first half of 2006 compared to 83.2 percent in the first half of 2005.
The U.S. Brokerage segment's group life and accidental death and dismemberment lines of business reported a 6.5 percent decline in operating income to $44.8 million in the second quarter of 2006, compared to $47.9 million in the second quarter of 2005. The decline in earnings primarily reflects a decline in premium income and lower net investment income relative to the year ago quarter. Premium income for these lines of business declined 2.7 percent to $361.5 million in the second quarter of 2006, compared to $371.5 million in the second quarter of 2005, reflecting lower sales and persistency in recent quarters as the Company has focused on improving the profitability of the business in a competitive market environment. Sales of group life products in the second quarter of 2006 increased 13.0 percent to $43.5 million, compared to $38.5 million in the year ago quarter. Premium persistency in the group life line of business improved to 79.9 percent for the first half of 2006, compared to 75.0 percent for the first half of 2005.
Also within this segment, the U.S. Brokerage supplemental and voluntary lines of business reported a 13.6 percent increase in operating income to $49.3 million in the second quarter of 2006, compared to $43.4 million in the second quarter of 2005. The improvement in earnings is primarily driven by improved results in the individual income protection  recently issued and voluntary workplace benefits lines of business, which offset lower earnings in the long-term care line. Premium income increased 5.9 percent to $327.2 million in the second quarter of 2006, compared to $309.0 million in the second quarter of 2005. New annualized sales in the voluntary workplace benefits line of business increased 6.2 percent in the second quarter of 2006 compared to the second quarter of 2005 and sales in the individual income protection  recently issued line increased 5.0 percent, while long-term care sales declined 17.2 percent compared with the year ago quarter.
Unum Limited Segment
The Unum Limited segment reported a 35.8 percent increase in operating income to $56.1 million in the second quarter of 2006, compared to $41.3 million in the second quarter of 2005. Operating income in this segment benefited from a lower benefit ratio resulting from favorable risk experience and claims management and a lower expense ratio relative to the year ago quarter. Premium income for this segment increased 3.9 percent to $200.7 million in the second quarter of 2006, compared to $193.1 million in the second quarter of 2005. Sales in this segment declined 56.5 percent to $20.0 million in the second quarter of 2006 from $46.0 million in the second quarter of 2005 due primarily to low activity in the overall U.K. market due to changes in pension legislation, a decrease in large case sales due to the competitive market in the U.K. for group products, and the Company's decision to maintain its pricing discipline.
Colonial Segment
The Colonial segment reported a 14.4 percent increase in operating income to $49.9 million in the second quarter of 2006, compared to $43.6 million in the second quarter of 2005. Results in this segment in the second quarter of 2006 benefited from a lower benefit ratio resulting from favorable risk experience in the income protection line of business. Premium income for this segment increased 7.1 percent to $209.5 million in the second quarter of 2006, compared to $195.6 million in the second quarter of 2005, reflecting current and prior period sales growth and stable persistency. Sales in this segment increased 10.9 percent to $73.1 million in the second quarter of 2006 from $65.9 million in the second quarter of 2005.
Individual Income Protection  Closed Block Segment
The Individual Income Protection  Closed Block segment reported operating income of $33.2 million in the second quarter of 2006, compared to $27.7 million in the second quarter of 2005. The interest adjusted loss ratio increased to 93.0 percent in the second quarter of 2006 compared to 86.4 percent in the second quarter of 2005, primarily due to a lower rate of claim recoveries which was offset partially by lower claim incidence rates. Net investment income for the second quarter of 2006 was $214.0 million, which includes $23.4 million of investment income related to the bonds transferred to the Company in conjunction with the Centre Re reinsurance contract recapture in the third quarter of 2005, compared to $189.7 million in the second quarter of 2005.
Other Segment
The Other segment reported operating income of $8.7 million in the second quarter of 2006, compared to $13.9 million in the second quarter of 2005, reflecting the wind down of product lines that are no longer actively marketed.
Corporate Segment
The Corporate segment, which includes investment earnings on corporate assets not specifically allocated to a line of business, corporate interest expense, and certain other corporate expenses, reported a loss of $53.7 million in the second quarter of 2006, compared to a loss of $37.6 million in the second quarter of 2005. Included in this segment in the second quarter of 2006 is the before-tax cost of $17.8 million related to early retirement of debt.
OTHER INFORMATION
The Company's average number of shares (000s) outstanding, assuming dilution, was 329,905.0 for the second quarter of 2006, compared to 309,108.3 for the second quarter of 2005.
Book value per common share at June 30, 2006 was $20.40, compared to $26.37 at June 30, 2005. Excluding the net unrealized gain on securities and the net gain on cash flow hedges, book value per common share at June 30, 2006 was $19.85 compared to $19.88 at June 30, 2005.
OUTLOOK
Commenting on the Company's second quarter results, President and Chief Executive Officer Thomas R. Watjen stated, "Given our performance for the second quarter, I am comfortable in reiterating our operating earnings per share guidance for 2006 of $1.65 to $1.70, which includes our expectation that the U.S. Brokerage group income protection benefit ratio will remain stable at current levels in the third quarter before beginning to decline later in the year. At our October 2005 investor meeting we provided guidance on a number of areas of the business. While we have met or exceeded that guidance for most of our businesses, the one exception has been the U.S. Brokerage group income protection benefit ratio, which at the time we felt could decline to the 87% to 88% by late 2007 or early 2008. Based on our recent performance and the time we believe it will take for the recent changes in the claims management area to fully take effect, we believe it is appropriate to extend the timeframe needed to achieve our long-term target for this line of business. We now believe that a benefit ratio in the 90% to 92% range is a more appropriate objective for this timeframe, and that the 87% to 88% range is achievable over a longer timeframe. We intend to discuss our long-term expectations for all of our business segments at our upcoming investor meeting in New York on November 8th."
NON-GAAP RECONCILIATION
The Company analyzes its performance using non-GAAP financial measures which exclude certain items and the related tax thereon from net income. The Company believes operating income or loss excluding realized investment gains and losses, which are recurring, is a better performance measure and a better indicator of the profitability and underlying trends in the business. Realized investment gains and losses are dependent on market conditions and general economic events and are not necessarily related to decisions regarding the Company's underlying business. The Company believes book value per common share excluding unrealized gains and losses on securities and the net gain on cash flow hedges, which also tend to fluctuate dependent on market conditions and general economic trends, is an important measure.
The Company believes that exclusion of certain other items specified in the non-GAAP reconciliation enhances the understanding and comparability of the Company's performance and the underlying fundamentals in its operations, but this exclusion is not an indication that similar items may not recur. For a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP measures, refer to the attached digest of earnings.
CONFERENCE CALL INFORMATION
UnumProvident Corporation senior management will host a conference call on Thursday, August 3 at 9:00 a.m. (eastern) to discuss the results of operations for the second quarter and will include forward-looking information, such as guidance on future results and trends in operations, as well as other material information. Alternatively, a live webcast of the call will be available at in a listen-only mode. About fifteen minutes prior to the start of the call, you should access the "Investor and Shareholder" section of our website. A replay of the call will be available by telephone and on our website through Thursday, August 10. In addition, the Company's Statistical Supplement for the second quarter of 2006 is available on the Company's website.
The dial-in number is (888) 208-1812 for U.S. and Canada. For International, the dial-in number is (719) 457-2654.
www.unumprovident.com
ABOUT UNUMPROVIDENT
UnumProvident is the largest provider of group and individual income protection insurance in the United States and United Kingdom. Through its subsidiaries, UnumProvident insures more than 25 million people and provided $6.0 billion in total benefits to customers in 2005. With primary offices in Chattanooga, Tennessee, and Portland, Maine, the Company employs approximately 11,300 people worldwide. For more information, visit www.unumprovident.com.
SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT
A "safe harbor" is provided for "forward-looking statements" under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements in this press release, such as our earnings per share guidance and our U.S. Brokerage group income protection benefit ratio guidance, which are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include such general matters as general economic or business conditions; events or consequences relating to terrorism and acts of war; competitive factors, including pricing pressures; legislative, regulatory, or tax changes; and the interest rate environment. More specifically, they include fluctuations in insurance reserve liabilities, projected new sales
and renewals, persistency rates, incidence and recovery rates, pricing and underwriting projections and experience, retained risks in reinsurance operations, availability and cost of reinsurance, level and results of litigation, rating agency actions, regulatory actions and investigations, negative media attention, the level of pension benefit costs and funding, investment results, including credit deterioration of investments, and effectiveness of product and customer support. For further information of risks and uncertainties that could affect actual results, see the sections entitled "Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" and "Risk Factors" in the Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 and subsequently filed Form 10-Qs. The forward-looking statements are being made as of the date of this press release and the Company expressly disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statement contained herein.
($ in millions, except share data)
 
 
 
 

 
Throughout this supplement, segment operating results exclude income taxes and realized investment gains and losses.
See "Notes to Statistical Supplement" on page 16 for a discussion of non-GAAP financial measures.
 
2006
 
 
2005
 
 
 
2004
 
 
2003
 
See "Notes to Statistical Supplement" on page 16 for additional information.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Allocated stockholders' equity is determined on the basis of an internal allocation formula that reflects the volume and risk components of the business and aligns with the Company's target capital levels for regulatory and rating agency purposes. This formula is modified periodically to recognize changes in the views of capital requirements.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: See "Notes to Statistical Supplement" on page 16 for additional information.
 
 
 
 
Note: See "Notes to Statistical Supplement" on page 16 for additional information.
 
 
See "Notes to Statistical Supplement" on page 16 for additional information.
 
 
 
 
See "Notes to Statistical Supplement" on page 16 for additional information.
 
 
 
 
 
 
See "Notes to Statistical Supplement" on page 16 for additional information.
 
 
See "Notes to Statistical Supplement" on page 16 for additional information.
 
 
 
 
 
 
See "Notes to Statistical Supplement" on page 16 for additional information.
 
 
 
 
See "Notes to Statistical Supplement" on page 16 for additional information.
 
 
 
The decrease in U.S. Brokerage segment IBNR reserves from December 31, 2005 is due to a slight decline in insured lives in the group income protection, group life, and accidental death and dismemberment lines of business. The increase in the U.S. Brokerage All Other reserves from December 31, 2005 is due to growth in the disabled life reserves in the U.S. Brokerage group income protection line of business and growth in the active life reserves for the U.S. Brokerage long-term care and individual income protection - recently issued lines of business. The increase in All Other reserves from December 31, 2005 for the Unum Limited product lines is due primarily to growth in insured lives and fluctuation in the foreign exchange rate.
Because of the increase in interest rates and the corresponding decline in unrealized investment gains in our available-for-sale securities, the unrealized adjustment to reserves to reflect the changes that would be necessary to policyholder liabilities if the unrealized gains and losses related to our available-for-sale securities had been realized decreased All Other reserves approximately $636.7 million during the first six months of 2006, primarily in U.S. Brokerage group income protection and the Individual Income Protection - Closed Block segment.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: Statutory results are reported in conformity with statutory accounting principles as prescribed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners and adopted by the applicable state laws.
 
 
 
 
Note: Group A&H for Unum Life Insurance Company of America includes group long- and short-term income protection, group accidental death & dismemberment, and group voluntary income protection, cancer, and critical illness products reported in our U.S. Brokerage segment as well as the reinsurance pools reported in our Other segment.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
We analyze our Company's performance using non-GAAP financial measures which exclude certain items and the related tax thereon from net income. We believe operating income or loss excluding realized investment gains and losses, which are recurring, is a better performance measure and a better indicator of the profitability and underlying trends in our business. Realized investment gains and losses are dependent on market conditions and general economic events and are not necessarily related to decisions regarding our Company's underlying business. We also believe that the exclusion of certain other items specified and presented in the reconciliations on the segment financial results pages throughout this supplement enhances the understanding and comparability of our Company's performance and the underlying fundamentals in our operations, but this exclusion is not an indication that similar items may not recur.
2006 Significant Transactions and Events
Revised Claim Reassessment Reserve Estimate
In the first quarter of 2006, we completed an analysis of our assumptions related to the reserves we established for our claim reassessment process. This process was implemented as a result of the settlement agreements we entered into with state insurance regulators in the fourth quarter of 2004 and the settlement agreement we entered into with the California Department of Insurance (DOI) in the third quarter of 2005. The fourth quarter of 2004 agreements were entered into on conclusion of a multistate market conduct examination led by Maine, Massachusetts, and Tennessee relating to our disability claims handling practices. The settlement agreement we entered into with the California DOI concluded a market conduct examination and investigation of our disability claims handling practices. See Item 7 of our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 for a complete discussion of these settlement agreements.
Included in our analysis was a review of (1) the number of claimants who would ultimately choose to participate in the process, (2) the number of claimants for whom payments would be made and then closed because the claimant is no longer disabled, (3) the number of claimants for whom payments will continue because the claimant remains eligible for disability payments, and (4) the average incurred cost per claimant. Our analysis was based on preliminary data as of the end of the first quarter of 2006, when actual results to date were considered credible enough to enable us to update our initial expectations of costs related to the reassessment process. We concluded that a change in our initial assumptions, primarily related to the number of claimants for whom payments will continue because the claimant remains eligible for disability payments, was warranted. Based on our analysis, in the first quarter of 2006 we recorded a charge of $86.0 million before tax, or $55.9 million after tax, to reflect our current estimate of future obligations for benefit costs for claims reopened in the reassessment. We also reviewed and concluded that we did not need to further adjust the amounts previously recorded for the incremental direct operating expenses to conduct the reassessment process and for the additional benefit costs and reserves for claims that were already incurred and in inventory that were anticipated to increase as a result of the claim process changes being implemented. The charge decreased before-tax operating results for our U.S. Brokerage segment group income protection line of business $72.8 million and our Individual Income Protection  Closed Block segment $13.2 million.
Financing
In June 2006, in accordance with a cash tender offer, we purchased $50.0 million of our outstanding Junior Subordinated Debt Securities at 7.405% due 2038 and $250.0 million of our outstanding Notes at 7.625% due 2011. The cost of the cash tender offer decreased second quarter 2006 income by $17.8 million before tax, or $11.6 million after tax.
In May 2006, we settled the purchase contract element of the 2003 adjustable conversion-rate equity security units (units) by issuing 43.3 million shares of common stock. We received proceeds of $575.0 million from the transaction.
 
The scheduled remarketing of the senior note element of the units occurred in February 2006, as stipulated by the terms of the original offering, and we reset the interest rate on $575.0 million of senior notes due May 15, 2008 to 5.997%. We purchased $400.0 million of the senior notes in the remarketing which were subsequently retired. The associated deferred debt costs write-off decreased first quarter 2006 income by $5.3 million before tax, or $3.4 million after tax.
Accounting Principle Change
Effective January 1, 2006, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004) (SFAS 123(R)), SFAS 123(R) focuses primarily on accounting for transactions in which an entity obtains employee service in exchange for share-based payments. The adoption of SFAS 123(R) did not have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations.
Share-Based Payment.
2005 Significant Transactions and Events
California Settlement Agreement and Amendment of the Multistate Market Conduct Examination Settlement Agreements
In the third quarter of 2005, certain of our U.S. insurance subsidiaries entered into a settlement agreement with the California DOI, concluding a market conduct examination and investigation of our U.S. subsidiaries' disability claims handling practices. The California DOI had chosen not to join the 2004 multistate settlement agreements. As part of the settlement with the California DOI, we paid a civil penalty of $8.0 million and agreed to change certain practices and policy provisions related to our California business. The settlement also incorporates claims handling practices previously covered by the multistate settlement agreements and includes certain additional claim handling changes.
Based on the California DOI settlement agreement and related matters described above, in the third quarter of 2005 we recorded a charge of $75.0 million before tax, or $51.6 million after tax, comprised of four elements: $14.3 million of incremental direct operating expenses to conduct the reassessment process; $37.3 million for benefit costs and reserves from claims reopened from the reassessment; $15.4 million for additional benefit costs and reserves for claims already incurred and currently in inventory that are anticipated as a result of the claim process changes being implemented; and the $8.0 million fine. The charge decreased before-tax operating results for our U.S. Brokerage segment group income protection line of business and supplemental and voluntary lines of business $37.4 million and $3.3 million, respectively, and our Individual Income Protection  Closed Block segment $34.3 million.
Income Tax
In the third quarter of 2005, the Company recognized an income tax benefit of $10.8 million in connection with the finalization of income tax reviews of the Company's U.K. subsidiaries.
In the first quarter of 2005, the Internal Revenue Service completed its examination of tax years 1999 through 2001 and issued its revenue agent's report (RAR). Income tax liabilities of $32.0 million that relate primarily to interest on the timing of expense deductions were released in the first quarter of 2005, all of which was reflected as a reduction to income tax expense.
Dispositions
During the third quarter of 2005, Unum Limited completed the sale of its Netherlands branch. The gain on the sale was $5.7 million before tax and $4.0 million after tax.
 
Financing
During 2005, we repaid $227.0 million of maturing debt. In November 2005, we completed a long-term debt offering, issuing $400.0 million of 6.85% senior notes due November 15, 2015.
Closed Block Reinsurance Recapture
During the third quarter of 2005, we recaptured a closed block of individual income protection business originally ceded to Centre Life Reinsurance Ltd. in 1996. The recaptured business included approximately $1.6 billion in invested assets and $185.0 million of annual premium. The effective date of the recapture was August 8, 2005. The underlying operating results of the reinsurance contract, prior to recapture, were reflected in other income. The recapture therefore did not have a material impact on operating income for our Individual Income Protection  Closed Block segment.
2004 Significant Transactions and Events
Settlement of Multistate Market Conduct Examination
During 2004, certain of our U.S. insurance subsidiaries entered into settlement agreements with state insurance regulators upon conclusion of a multistate market conduct examination led by Maine, Massachusetts, and Tennessee relating to our disability claims handling practices. A total of 48 states and the District of Columbia are parties to the settlement agreements. In addition, the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL), which had been conducting an inquiry relating to certain ERISA plans, is a party to the settlement agreements, and the Office of the NYAG, which had engaged in its own investigation of our claims handling practices, notified us that it was in support of the settlement and was, therefore, closing its investigation on this issue. The examination report did not make any findings of violations of law or market conduct regulations. However, the examination report did identify areas of concern. These became the focus of specific changes and enhancements to our disability claims handling operations which are designed to assure each claim decision is made in a consistently high quality manner.
The primary components of the settlement agreements include enhancements to our claims handling procedures; a reassessment process for claimants of certain previously denied or closed claims who elect to participate; additional corporate and board governance to support the oversight of the reassessment process and general claims handling practices; and payment of a fine in the amount of $15.0 million that was allocated among the states and jurisdictions that joined the agreements and a potential fine of $145.0 million in the future if certain standards are not met in examinations at the end of approximately two years.
In the fourth quarter of 2004, we recorded a charge of $127.0 million before tax, or $87.8 million after tax, comprised of four elements: $27.5 million of incremental direct operating expenses to conduct the two-year reassessment process; $44.0 million for benefit costs and reserves from claims reopened from the reassessment; $40.5 million for additional benefit costs and reserves for claims already incurred and currently in inventory that are anticipated as a result of the claim process changes being implemented; and the $15.0 million fine. The charge decreased before-tax operating results for our U.S. Brokerage segment group income protection and individual income protection  recently issued lines of business $116.7 million and $1.7 million, respectively, and our Individual Income Protection  Closed Block segment $8.6 million.
Disposition
During the second quarter of 2004, we closed the sale of our Canadian operations. Financial results for the Canadian branch are reported as discontinued operations. The losses recognized during 2004 and 2003 were $60.8 million and $161.7 million after tax, respectively.
 
Restructuring of Individual Income Protection  Closed Block Business
In the first quarter of 2004, we restructured our individual income protection  closed block business and entered into reinsurance agreements which effectively provide approximately 60 percent reinsurance coverage for our overall consolidated risk above a specified retention limit, which at June 30, 2006, equaled approximately $8.0 billion. The maximum risk limit for the reinsurer grows to approximately $2.5 billion over time, after which any further losses will revert to our insurance subsidiaries. We have not yet reached the retention limit and do not currently anticipate that once reached, our losses would exceed the maximum risk limit for the reinsurer and revert back to us. The reinsurance receivable for this contract, as reported in our consolidated statements of financial condition, was approximately $584.6 million at June 30, 2006.
In conjunction with the restructuring of the individual income protection  closed block business, effective January 1, 2004, we modified our reporting segments to include a separate segment for this business. The reporting, monitoring, and management of the closed block of individual income protection business as a discrete segment is consistent with the Company's financial restructuring and separation of this business from the lines of business which actively market new products. In the past, this business had been reported in combination with the individual income protection  recently issued line of business. Prior to 2004, detailed separate financial metrics and models were unavailable to appropriately manage this block of business separately from the recently issued individual income protection block of business.
The separation of the closed block business into a separate reporting segment required us to perform, separately for the individual income protection  closed block business and individual income protection  recently issued business, impairment testing for goodwill and loss recognition testing for the recoverability of deferred policy acquisition costs and value of business acquired. As required under GAAP, prior to the change in reporting segments, these tests were performed for the individual income protection line of business on a combined basis. The testing indicated impairment of the individual income protection  closed block deferred policy acquisition costs, value of business acquired, and goodwill balances of $282.2 million, $367.1 million, and $207.1 million, respectively. These impairment charges, $856.4 million before tax and $629.1 million after tax, were recorded in the first quarter of 2004.
Also as part of the restructuring, we analyzed our reserve assumptions related to our individual income protection  closed block reserves as a stand-alone segment. Previously these reserves were analyzed for the individual income protection line of business on a combined basis. Included in the analysis was a review of morbidity assumptions, primarily claim resolution rates and claim reserve discount rate assumptions. Based upon this analysis, we lowered our claim reserve discount rate to reflect the segmentation of assets between the individual income protection  recently issued business and the individual income protection  closed block business, the change in our investment portfolio yield rates during the first quarter of 2004, our expectation of future investment portfolio yield rates, and our desire to maintain the relationship between our claim reserve discount rate and our investment portfolio yield rate for the individual income protection  closed block at our long-term objective. The segmentation of the investment portfolio was necessary to ensure appropriate matching of the duration of the assets and the related policy liabilities. Based on this analysis, in the first quarter of 2004 we increased our individual income protection  closed block claim reserves by $110.6 million before tax, or $71.9 million after tax, to reflect our current estimate of future benefit obligations. The first quarter 2004 change represented a 1.2 percent increase in total net Individual Income Protection  Closed Block segment reserves as of March 31, 2004, which equaled $9.530 billion prior to this increase.
 
2003 Significant Transactions and Events
Reserve Strengthening
In the fourth quarter of 2003 we recognized an after tax increase in U.S. Brokerage group income protection reserves of $286.0 million, or $440.0 million before tax. In January 2004, we completed our annual review of claim reserves to ensure that our claim reserves make adequate and reasonable provision for future benefits and expenses. Approximately $300.0 million of the reserve strengthening reflected implementation of a lower discount rate for our U.S. Brokerage group income protection claim reserves. The discount rate was lowered to reflect our expectation of future investment portfolio yield rates and our new discount rate management approach of maintaining a wider spread between our group income protection portfolio investment yield rate and our average discount rate. Approximately $140.0 million of the reserve increase related to a strengthening of the morbidity assumptions to reflect the impact of the continuing weak economic cycle on claim incidence and severity. Claim incidence in the second half of 2003 was 8.4 percent higher than the first half of the year and 5.8 percent above the second half of 2002. The reserve increase represents a 6.6 percent increase in total net U.S. Brokerage group income protection reserves as of December 31, 2003, which were $6.674 billion prior to this increase.
In the first quarter of 2003 we recognized an after tax increase in our U.S. Brokerage group long-term income protection GAAP reserves of $454.0 million before tax, or $295.1 million after tax. In April of 2003, we completed an analysis of our assumptions related to our group long-term income protection claim reserves. This analysis was initiated based on a trend in lower net claim recovery rates observed during the first quarter of 2003. The claim recovery rates during the first quarter were below expected levels and were lower than those experienced in the past three years. The analysis of emerging net claim recovery rates and the reasons driving the changes resulted in a reduction in our long-term expectations. Based on the analysis noted above, we increased our U.S. Brokerage group long-term income protection claim reserves as of March 31, 2003 to reflect our current estimate of future benefit obligations. The analysis indicated not only a decrease in overall claim recovery rates, but a change in claim recovery rates by claim duration.
Accounting Principle Change
Effective October 1, 2003, we adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133 Implementation Issue B36 (DIG Issue B36), DIG Issue B36 addresses financial accounting and reporting for embedded derivatives in modified coinsurance contracts that incorporate credit risk exposure unrelated to the credit risk of the counterparty to the reinsurance contract and requires the bifurcation of any such derivative from the host reinsurance contract. At the date of adoption, we had two reinsurance contracts for which DIG Issue B36 was applicable, one of which was recaptured in 2005. The adoption of DIG Issue B36 in 2003 resulted in a $39.9 million cumulative effect of accounting principle change, net of $21.4 million in tax.
Embedded Derivatives: Modified Coinsurance Arrangements and Debt Instruments That Incorporate Credit Risk Exposure That Are Unrelated or Only Partially Related to the Creditworthiness of the Obligor Under Those Instruments.
 


