FILE:UNM/UNM-8K-20071031171734.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Triggering Events That Accelerate or Increase a Direct Financial Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Triggering Events That Accelerate or Increase a Direct Financial Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
On October 31, 2007, Unum Group ("Unum Group" or the "Company"), a Delaware corporation, issued a press release reporting its results for the third quarter of 2007, a copy of which is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
Also on October 31, 2007, Unum Group posted on its website at www.unum.com the Statistical Supplement relating to its financial results for the third quarter of 2007. A copy of the Statistical Supplement is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information included or incorporated in this Item 2.02, including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall such information and exhibits be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
On October 31, 2007, Northwind Holdings, LLC ("Northwind Holdings"), a Delaware limited liability company and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Unum Group, issued $800 million aggregate principal amount of Floating Rate Insured Notes due December 1, 2037 (the "Notes") in a private offering. The payment of scheduled interest payments under the Notes and the ultimate repayment of principal amount on December 1, 2037 (the "Stated Maturity Date") are insured by MBIA Insurance Corporation, a New York stock insurance company ("MBIA"), through a financial guaranty insurance policy (the "Notes Policy"). MBIA will not guarantee the payment of any accelerated principal repayment, redemption premium, early repayment of principal on the Notes, taxes or shortfalls for withholding taxes. The Notes are direct financial obligations of Northwind Holdings, and no affiliate of Northwind Holdings, including without limitation Unum Group, Provident Life and Accident Insurance Company ("Provident"), a Tennessee corporation, Unum Life Insurance Company ("Unum America"), a Maine corporation, or The Paul Revere Life Insurance Company ("Paul Revere"), a Massachusetts corporation, is an obligor or guarantor of the Notes.
Northwind Holdings will rely upon the receipt of dividend payments from its wholly-owned subsidiary, Northwind Reinsurance Company ("Northwind Re"), a special purpose financial captive insurance company incorporated under the laws of the State of Vermont, to make payments of interest and principal on the Notes. The ability of Northwind Re to make dividend payments to Northwind Holdings is contingent upon meeting certain regulatory requirements and upon the performance of the block of business ceded by Provident, Unum America and Paul Revere (collectively, the "Ceding Insurers") to Northwind Re pursuant to separate reinsurance agreements between each of the Ceding Insurers and Northwind Re, which business consists of specified individual disability income policies issued by or reinsured by the respective Ceding Insurers. Northwind Re was established for the limited purpose of reinsuring, on a modified coinsurance basis, risks attributable to such policies.
The annual interest rate on the Notes will equal the 3-month London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR"), plus a spread. Such interest will be payable quarterly in arrears on each March 1, June 1, September 1 and December 1 (each a "Scheduled Payment Date") for the period beginning on the date of issuance and to (but excluding) the first Scheduled Payment Date and, thereafter, for the successive periods from (and including) each Scheduled Payment Date to (but excluding) the following Scheduled Payment Date and at the Stated Maturity Date or at any earlier date of redemption or repayment.
Under the terms of the Notes Policy, MBIA may direct The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the "Trustee"), under an indenture (the "Indenture") among Northwind Holdings, Unum Group (solely for the limited purposes set forth therein), the Trustee and MBIA, to foreclose on certain accounts of Northwind Re (the "Collateral") securing the Notes Policy if any of the following event of default occurs, subject to any applicable grace periods:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If an event of default occurs and is continuing, the entire principal thereof and interest accrued thereon may be declared to be due and payable immediately.
Northwind Holdings may redeem all or a portion of the Notes on any Scheduled Payment Date at a redemption price, payable in cash, equal to 103% of the principal amount of such Note to be redeemed on a redemption date occurring on or after December 1, 2007 to (and including) December 1, 2008 and thereafter declining ratably on each Scheduled Payment Date to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes until December 1, 2020 and remaining constant at 100% thereafter, until maturity, together with interest accrued to (but excluding) the date of redemption (the "Redemption Price"). Pursuant to an insurance and indemnity agreement with MBIA, Northwind Holdings is obligated to pay a periodic premium to MBIA in respect of the Notes Policy. Additional information regarding this transaction is set forth in the press release which is filed as Exhibit 99.3 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
 
On October 31, 2007, Unum Group delivered a notice of redemption to the holders of all $150 million principal amount of its outstanding 7.25% Public Income Notes due 2032 ("PINES"). Pursuant to the indenture under which the PINES were issued, the Company is obligated to redeem the PINES on December 3, 2007 at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount plus accrued interest to (but excluding) the redemption date. For additional information, please see a copy of the press release announcing the redemption filed as Exhibit 99.4 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
 
On October 31, 2007, Unum Group posted on its website at www.unum.com updated information with regard to its claim reassessment process for the third quarter of 2007.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information included or incorporated in this Item 7.01, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
On October 31, 2007, Unum Group announced that is has commenced cash tender offers to purchase up to $400 million aggregate liquidation amount or principal amount, as applicable, of certain of its outstanding capital and debt securities. The terms and conditions of the tender offers are described in an Offer to Purchase dated October 31, 2007, including the identity of the issues of securities subject to the tender offers. The tender offers may be amended or terminated by the Company at any time. Additional details regarding the debt tender offers are contained in a press release filed as Exhibit 99.5 to this report and incorporated herein by reference. The tender offers and the redemption of the PINES are part of a program to reduce corporate debt as described more fully in the press release.
Also on October 31, 2007, Unum Group announced that its Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of up to $700 million of its common stock, which Unum Group anticipates initiating upon completion of the debt reduction program expected to occur during the first half of 2008. The share repurchase program does not have an expiration date, and the pace of repurchase activity, if commenced, will depend upon various factors such as the level of available cash, alternative uses for cash and the Company's stock price. The share repurchase authorization may be modified, extended or terminated by the Board of Directors at any time. Additional information regarding the share repurchase authorization is set forth in the press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report, which portion thereof is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 Unum Group (NYSE: UNM) announced today its results for the third quarter of 2007. The Company reported net income of $187.0 million ($0.52 per diluted common share), compared to a net loss of $63.7 million ($0.19 per diluted common share) for the third quarter of 2006.
CHATTANOOGA, Tenn. (October 31, 2007)
Included in the results for the third quarter of 2007 are net realized after-tax investment losses of $30.0 million ($0.08 per diluted common share), compared to net realized after tax investment gains of $3.1 million ($0.01 per diluted common share) in the third quarter of 2006. Net realized investment losses for the third quarter of 2007 include after-tax losses of $18.0 million related to changes in the fair values of the embedded derivatives in certain modified coinsurance contracts and after-tax losses of $12.0 million related to write-downs of certain investments which the Company no longer has the intent to hold to
 
maturity due to changes in the capital requirements resulting from the reinsurance transaction involving the Individual Income Protection  Closed Block segment and the Company's related capital redeployment plans. Results for the third quarter of 2006 included an increase in the claim reassessment reserve of $325.4 million before tax, or $211.5 million after tax ($0.62 per diluted common share) and $18.5 million before tax, or $12.7 million after tax ($0.04 per diluted common share), for the settlement agreement concerning the Company's broker compensation practices.
Adjusting for the respective aforementioned items, income from continuing operations on an after-tax basis was $217.0 million ($0.60 per diluted common share) in the third quarter of 2007, compared to $155.8 million ($0.46 per diluted common share) in the third quarter of 2006.
"The third quarter continues a trend of steadily improving operating performance that began in early 2006," said Thomas R. Watjen, president and chief executive officer. "I'm pleased to say that all three of our businesses made significant contributions during the quarter, as both Colonial and Unum UK once again delivered outstanding results and Unum US continued to achieve consistent, solid improvement in its operating performance. Based on the results for this and the past several quarters, it's clear our strategy is working.
As our performance has improved, we've transitioned from a company that just a few years ago needed to raise capital to one that now generates capital. The successful completion of the securitization of our Individual Income Protection  Closed Block business we announced today accelerates the pace of capital generation at the Company. As a result, we have formalized our capital management strategy, and with this in mind I'm pleased to say that our board of
 
 
directors has authorized the repurchase of up to $700 million of our common stock."
RESULTS BY SEGMENT
In the following discussions of the Company's operating segment results, "operating revenue" excludes net realized investment gains and losses. "Operating income" or "operating loss" excludes income tax and net realized investment gains and losses.
Unum US Segment
Unum US reported operating income of $164.3 million in the third quarter of 2007, compared to an operating loss of $173.2 million in the third quarter of 2006. Included in the results for the third quarter of 2006 is a claim reassessment charge of $291.4 million. Excluding this charge, income for the segment was $118.2 million for the third quarter of 2006. Premium income declined 1.8 percent to $1,255.3 million in the third quarter of 2007, from $1,278.6 million in the third quarter of 2006.
Within Unum US, the group income protection line of business reported operating income of $50.4 million in the third quarter of 2007, compared to an operating loss of $275.0 million in the third quarter of 2006. Results for the third quarter of 2006 include a claim reassessment charge of $291.4 million in 2006. Excluding the charge, operating income was $16.4 million for the third quarter of 2006. The benefit ratio for the third quarter of 2007 was 92.1 percent, compared to 139.4 percent in the third quarter of 2006, or 94.5 percent excluding the charge taken in the third quarter of 2006. The improvement in the benefit ratio continues to
 
 
be driven by improvements in the claims management process along with a reduction in paid claims in both the group long-term and short-term income protection lines of business relative to the third quarter of 2006. Premium income in group income protection declined 3.6 percent to $593.3 million in the third quarter of 2007, compared to $615.7 million in the third quarter of 2006. The decline continues to be attributable to the Company's disciplined approach to pricing, renewals, and risk selection. Sales of fully insured group long-term income protection products in the third quarter of 2007 decreased by 5.9 percent to $23.9 million, compared to $25.4 million in the year ago quarter. Sales of fully insured group short-term income protection products declined by 13.3 percent to $8.5 million in the third quarter of 2007, compared to $9.8 million in the third quarter of 2006. Premium persistency in the group long-term income protection line of business was 84.9 percent through the third quarter of 2007, compared to 87.5 percent in the first nine months of 2006. Case persistency for this line was 88.1 percent for the first nine months of 2007, compared to 86.9 percent for the comparable year ago period. Premium persistency in the group short-term income protection line of business was 75.5 percent for the first nine months of 2007, compared to 85.3 percent for the comparable period in 2006. Case persistency for the line was 87.1 percent for the first nine months of 2007, compared to 85.8 percent in the first nine months of 2006.
The group life and accidental death and dismemberment line of business reported a 30.7 percent increase in operating income to $56.2 million in the third quarter of 2007, compared to $43.0 million in the third quarter of 2006. Results for the line continue to reflect a lower claim incidence rate in group life, outweighing a higher level of incidence in the
 
 
accidental death and dismemberment line during the quarter. Premium income for this line of business declined 6.4 percent to $309.6 million in the third quarter of 2007, compared to $330.6 million in the third quarter of 2006, continuing to reflect the Company's ongoing disciplined approach to pricing, renewals, and risk selection. Sales of group life products in the third quarter of 2007 declined 2.3 percent to $17.3 million, compared to $17.7 million in the third quarter of 2006. Premium persistency in the group life line of business was 79.3 percent for the first nine months of 2007, compared to 80.3 percent for the comparable period in 2006. Case persistency for the first nine months of 2007 was 87.2 percent and for the comparable period in 2006 was 86.5 percent.
The Unum US supplemental and voluntary lines of business reported a 1.9 percent decrease in operating income to $57.7 million in the third quarter of 2007, compared to $58.8 million in the third quarter of 2006. Premium income for supplemental and voluntary lines increased 6.0 percent to $352.4 million in the third quarter of 2007, compared to $332.3 million in the third quarter of 2006. Sales in the voluntary workplace benefits line of business increased 11.0 percent in the third quarter of 2007, sales in the individual income protection  recently issued line increased 7.8 percent, and long-term care sales increased 23.8 percent compared with the year ago quarter.
Unum UK Segment
Unum UK reported operating income of $101.0 million in the third quarter of 2007, a 54.2 percent increase, compared to $65.5 million in the third quarter of 2006. Operating income benefited from a decline in the
 
 
benefit ratio to 53.3 percent in the third quarter of 2007, compared to 67.2 percent in the third quarter of 2006. The lower benefit ratio for the current quarter was primarily the result of a third quarter 2007 adjustment to long-term assumptions for claim reserves due to emerging experience and the Company's view of future events. The adjustment increased third quarter segment operating income by approximately $16.6 million. Favorable currency exchange rates continued to benefit reported results for the segment. In local currency, operating income for the third quarter of 2007 increased 43.3 percent from the third quarter of 2006. Premium income increased 12.7 percent to $247.6 million in the third quarter of 2007, compared to $219.7 million in the third quarter of 2006. In local currency, premium income increased 4.5 percent compared to the third quarter of 2006. Sales decreased 12.6 percent to $22.2 million in the third quarter of 2007, compared to $25.4 million in the third quarter of 2006. In local currency, sales for the third quarter of 2007 decreased 18.5 percent compared to the third quarter of 2006.
Colonial Segment
Colonial reported a 20.0 percent increase in operating income to $62.5 million in the third quarter of 2007, compared to $52.1 million in the third quarter of 2006. Results in the third quarter of 2007 were driven by continued favorable claims experience across all major product lines: income protection, life, and cancer and critical illness. The benefit ratio in the third quarter of 2007 was 48.6 percent, compared to 52.6 percent for the same period in 2006. The Colonial operating segment continued to build on its product portfolio with the introduction of two new products: Medical Bridge 3000 in the third quarter of 2007 and Colonial
 
 
Health Advantage early in the fourth quarter. Premium income for the third quarter of 2007 increased to $227.0 million, compared to $212.8 million in the third quarter of 2006. Sales increased 2.2 percent to $74.5 million in the third quarter of 2007 from $72.9 million in the third quarter of 2006. New accounts increased 7.0 percent in the third quarter of 2007 compared to the third quarter of 2006. Average weekly producers increased 4.2 percent in the third quarter of 2007 compared to the third quarter of 2006, while average weekly premium per agent decreased 2.0 percent.
Individual Income Protection  Closed Block Segment
The Individual Income Protection  Closed Block segment reported operating income of $29.4 million in the third quarter of 2007, compared to a loss of $5.3 million in the third quarter of 2006. Results for the third quarter of 2006 include a claim reassessment charge of $34.0 million. Excluding this charge, operating income for the segment was $28.7 million in the third quarter of 2006. The interest adjusted loss ratio for the segment was 92.4 percent in the third quarter of 2007, compared to 106.2 percent in the prior year third quarter. Excluding the claim reassessment charge in the third quarter 2006, the ratio was 93.0 percent in the year ago quarter.
Other Segment
The Other segment reported operating income of $3.6 million in the third quarter of 2007, compared to $7.8 million in the third quarter of 2006.
 
 
Corporate Segment
The Corporate segment, which includes investment earnings on corporate assets not specifically allocated to a line of business, corporate interest expense, and certain other corporate expenses, reported a loss of $35.7 million in the third quarter of 2007, compared to a loss of $49.1 million in the third quarter of 2006. The results for 2006 include the $18.5 million charge related to the broker compensation settlement agreement. Interest expense in the third quarter 2007 was $43.9 million, compared to $44.2 million in the third quarter of 2006.
OTHER INFORMATION
Securitization Transaction Announced
In a separate announcement issued today, Unum Group announced the completion of the securitization of its closed block of individual income protection reserves with the private offering of $800.0 million of floating rate insured notes due December 1, 2037, by the Company's wholly-owned subsidiary Northwind Holdings, LLC (Northwind Holdings). The transaction included the intercompany reinsurance of $11.1 billion of statutory reserves, representing approximately 95 percent of the Individual Income Protection  Closed Block segment, to Northwind Reinsurance Company (Northwind Re), a newly formed special purpose financial captive insurance company domiciled in Vermont and owned by Northwind Holdings. With the risk transfer to Northwind Re, the Company's traditional U.S. insurance subsidiaries will release excess statutory capital previously supporting this reinsured closed block business. The excess capital will be transferred to Unum Group from the ceding companies through extraordinary dividends. This capital structure will allow the Company to continue to fully support the risk profile
 
 
of this closed block of business while allowing for redeployment of excess capital to other uses. The redeployment is expected to build additional value and financial strength to the benefit of Unum Group's policyholders, shareholders, and creditors.
Capital Management Strategy Announced
In response to numerous questions from investors on the Company's intentions for utilizing any excess capital, it has recently formalized its capital management goals and objectives. The first priority is to maintain sufficient financial flexibility to support its operations over various economic cycles and to respond to opportunities in the marketplace while positioning the Company for improvements in its credit ratings. It has set in place several financial targets which will guide its capital management decisions including:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company considers any capital above that needed to achieve and maintain these metrics to be excess capital available to fund share repurchases, business growth, or acquisitions. The goal in allocating excess capital is to maximize risk-adjusted shareholder returns over a three to five year time period, with share repurchase used as the benchmark for evaluating uses for excess capital.
Shares Outstanding
The Company's average number of shares (000s) outstanding, assuming dilution, was 360,906.3 for the third quarter of 2007, compared to 340,727.7 for the third quarter of 2006.
Book Value
Book value per common share as of September 30, 2007 was $21.70, compared to $22.17 at September 30, 2006. Excluding the net unrealized gain on securities and the net gain on cash flow hedges, book value per common share at September 30, 2007 was $20.36, compared to $19.63 at September 30, 2006.
Claim Reassessment Update
The Company has now substantially completed the claim reassessment process, as required by the regulatory settlement agreements. During the third
 
 
quarter of 2007, 2,533 claims were reviewed, and the review on the remaining balance of 210 claims will be completed in the fourth quarter. For the third quarter of 2007, the overturn rate was 53 percent, and for the process to date the overturn rate is 41 percent. Any remaining reassessment cost will not have a material effect on the Company's operations. The final examination under the multi-state regulatory settlement agreement has begun, with an anticipated completion by mid-year 2008. Supplemental disclosure on the claim reassessment results for the third quarter of 2007 has been posted to the Company's website.
OUTLOOK
The Company is revising upward its full year 2007 operating earnings guidance to a range of $2.14 to $2.17 per share, excluding the second quarter claim reassessment charge, from previous guidance of $2.01 to $2.04 per share, based on the nine months performance and current expectations for the remainder of the year. Incorporated in the Company's estimates is continued improvement in the benefit ratio for the Unum US group income protection line to within its previously stated guidance of a range of 90.0 percent to 92.0 percent by the end of 2007.
The Company will hold an investor meeting in New York on November 19, 2007, at which time it intends to review its outlook for 2008.
NON-GAAP RECONCILIATION
The Company analyzes its performance using non-GAAP financial measures which exclude certain items and the related tax thereon from net income. The Company believes operating income or loss, excluding realized investment gains
 
 
and losses, which are recurring, and excluding certain other items specified in the non-GAAP reconciliation, is a better performance measure and a better indicator of the profitability and underlying trends in its business. Realized investment gains and losses are primarily dependent on market conditions and general economic events and are not necessarily related to decisions regarding the Company's underlying business. The exclusion of certain other items specified in the non-GAAP reconciliation also enhances the understanding and comparability of the Company's performance and the underlying fundamentals in its operations, but this exclusion is not an indication that similar items may not recur. The Company believes book value per common share excluding unrealized gains and losses on securities and the net gain or loss on cash flow hedges, which also tend to fluctuate depending on market conditions and general economic trends, is an important measure. For a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP measures, refer to the attached digest of earnings.
CONFERENCE CALL INFORMATION
Unum Group senior management will host a conference call on Thursday, November 1, 2007 at 9:00 a.m. (EDST) to discuss the results of operations for the third quarter. Included in the discussion will be forward-looking information, such as guidance on future results and trends in operations, as well as other material information.
A live webcast of the call will also be available at in a listen-only mode. It is recommended that webcast viewers access the "Investor Information" section of the Company's website and opt-in to the webcast fifteen minutes prior to
The dial-in number for the conference call is (888) 713-4486 for U.S. and Canada. For International, the dial-in number is (913) 312-1439.
www.unum.com
 
 
the start of the call. A replay of the call will be available by telephone and on the Company's website through Thursday, November 8. In conjunction with the Company's earnings announcement, the Company's Statistical Supplement for the third quarter of 2007 has been made available on the "Investor Information" section of the Company's website.
ABOUT UNUM GROUP
Unum () is one of the leading providers of employee benefits products and services and the largest provider of group and individual disability income protection insurance in the United States and the United Kingdom.
www.unum.com
SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT
Statements in this press release that are not historical facts, such as The Company's earnings per share and Unum US group income protection benefit ratio guidance, constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include such matters as general economic or business conditions; events or consequences relating to terrorism, acts of war and catastrophes, including natural and man-made disasters; competitive factors, including pricing pressures; legislative, regulatory, accounting, or tax law changes; and the interest rate environment. More specifically, they include fluctuations in insurance reserve liabilities; changes in projected new sales and renewals; variations between projections and actual experience in persistency rates, incidence and recovery rates, pricing and
 
 
underwriting; retained risks in the Company's reinsurance operations; availability and cost of reinsurance; the level and results of litigation, rating agency actions, and regulatory actions and investigations; actual experience in implementing and complying with the multistate market conduct regulatory settlement agreements and the California Department of Insurance settlement agreement; negative media attention; changes in assumptions relating to deferred acquisition costs, value of business acquired, or goodwill; the level of pension benefit costs and funding; investment results, including credit deterioration of investments; the ability of the Company's insurance company subsidiaries to pay dividends or extend credit to the Company and certain of its intermediate holding company subsidiaries and/or finance subsidiaries; and effectiveness of product support and customer service. For further information of risks and uncertainties that could affect actual results, see the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including information in the sections titled "Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" and "Risk Factors" in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006 and subsequently filed Form 10-Qs. The forward-looking statements in this press release are being made as of the date of this press release, and the Company expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement contained herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Throughout this supplement, segment operating results exclude income taxes and realized investment gains and losses.
See "Notes to Statistical Supplement" on page 16 for a discussion of non-GAAP financial measures.
N.M. = not a meaningful percentage
 
2007
2006
 
 
 
 
2005
 
 
2004
 
See "Notes to Statistical Supplement" on page 16 for additional information.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Allocated stockholders' equity is determined on the basis of an internal allocation formula that reflects the volume and risk components of the business and aligns with the Company's target capital levels for regulatory and rating agency purposes. This formula is modified periodically to recognize changes in the views of capital requirements.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: See "Notes to Statistical Supplement" on page 16 for additional information.
 
 
 
 
Note:   See "Notes to Statistical Supplement" on page 16 for additional information.
 
 
See "Notes to Statistical Supplement" on page 16 for additional information.
 
 
 
 
See "Notes to Statistical Supplement" on page 16 for additional information.
 
 
 
 
 
 
See "Notes to Statistical Supplement" on page 16 for additional information.
 
 
See "Notes to Statistical Supplement" on page 16 for additional information.
 
 
 
 
See "Notes to Statistical Supplement" on page 16 for additional information.
 
 
 
 
See "Notes to Statistical Supplement" on page 16 for additional information.
 
 
The decrease in the Unum US segment and Individual Income Protection - Closed Block segment IBNR from December 31, 2006 is due to the release of reserves to cover costs for the multistate market conduct examination settlement agreements and the California settlement agreement and related matters and a slight decline in insured lives in the group income protection, group life, and accidental death and dismemberment lines of business. Offsetting the release for Unum US group income protection is the second quarter of 2007 claim reassessment revision to increase reserves $76.5 million.
The increase in Unum US Policy and Claim Reserves Incurred from December 31, 2006 is due to growth in the disabled life reserves in the Unum US group income protection line of business and growth in the active life reserves for the Unum US long-term care and individual income protection - recently issued lines of business.
 
 
 
 
(1) Excludes DIG Issue B36 embedded derivatives, which at September 30, 2007 had a fair value of $(32.8) million.
(2) Bond equivalent yield is a book value and duration weighted average of the yield on the fixed income securities in the portfolio.
 
 
 
(1) Excludes DIG Issue B36 embedded derivatives, which at September 30, 2007 had a fair value of $(32.8) million.
 
 
(1) Capital and Surplus of Paul Revere Variable is included in Paul Revere Life
 
 
Note: Statutory results are reported in conformity with statutory accounting principles as prescribed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners and adopted by the applicable state laws. Unum Group implemented a new reserve valuation system for its individual disability reserves during the third quarter of 2007, effective January 1, 2007. The new system establishes active life and claim reserves and incurred but not reported (IBNR) and in course of settlement (ICOS) claim liabilities using revised assumptions based on current experience, minimum reserving requirements, and specified valuation methodologies. The change in the active life and claim reserves was reported as a change in valuation basis and was recorded directly to statutory surplus rather than as a part of the reserve change recognized in the summary of operations. The change in the IBNR and ICOS claim liabilities was recognized as a reserve change in the summary of operations. The implementation increased the third quarter of 2007 net gain from operations after tax and net income $114.9 million.
 
 
Note: Statutory results are reported in conformity with statutory accounting principles as prescribed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners and adopted by the applicable state laws.
 
 
(a) balances to Schedule H Part 3 Line 3.2 Column 2
(b) balances to Schedule H Part 2 Line C.1 Column 2
 
 
Note: Group A&H for Unum Life Insurance Company of America includes group long- and short-term income protection, group accidental death & dismemberment, and group voluntary income protection, cancer, and critical illness products reported in our Unum US segment as well as the reinsurance pools reported in our Other segment.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
We analyze our Company's performance using non-GAAP financial measures which exclude certain items and the related tax thereon from net income (loss). We believe operating income or loss excluding realized investment gains and losses, which are recurring, is a better performance measure and a better indicator of the profitability and underlying trends in our business. Realized investment gains and losses are dependent on market conditions and general economic events and are not necessarily related to decisions regarding our Company's underlying business. We also believe that the exclusion of certain other items specified and presented in the reconciliations on the segment financial results pages throughout this supplement enhances the understanding and comparability of our Company's performance and the underlying fundamentals in our operations, but this exclusion is not an indication that similar items may not recur.
2007 Significant Transactions and Events
Subsequent Events
On October 31, 2007, Northwind Holdings, LLC (Northwind Holdings), a newly formed Delaware limited liability company and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Unum Group, issued $800.0 million of senior, secured notes in a private offering. Recourse for the payment of principal, interest, and other amounts due on the notes will be dependent principally on the receipt of dividends from Northwind Reinsurance Company (Northwind Re), the sole subsidiary of Northwind Holdings. The ability of Northwind Re to pay dividends to Northwind Holdings will depend on its satisfaction of applicable regulatory requirements and on the performance of the business of The Paul Revere Life Insurance Company, Provident Life and Accident Insurance Company, and Unum Life Insurance Company of America (collectively, the ceding insurers) reinsured by Northwind Re. None of Unum Group, the ceding insurers, Northwind Re, or any other affiliate of Northwind Holdings is an obligor or guarantor on the notes.
On October 31, 2007, we announced our intent to call for an early redemption all $150.0 million principal amount of our outstanding 7.25% notes scheduled to mature in 2032. We also announced that we intend to offer to purchase up to $400.0 million aggregate principal amount of other of our outstanding long-term debt.
In October 2007, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $700.0 million of Unum Group's common stock. The share repurchase program does not have an expiration date, and the pace of repurchase activity, if commenced, will depend upon various factors such as the level of available cash, alternative uses for cash, and our stock price. The authorization may be modified, extended, or terminated by our board of directors at any time.
Claim Reassessment Reserve Estimate
In the second quarter of 2007, we increased our provision for the estimated cost of the claim reassessment process $53.0 million before tax and $34.5 million after tax based on changes in our emerging experience for the number of decisions being overturned and the average cost per reassessed claim. The claim reassessment process was implemented as a result of the settlement agreements we entered into with various state insurance regulators in 2004 and 2005.
 
The revised second quarter estimate was based on the cost of approximately 99 percent of the potential inventory of claim reassessment information forms returned to us, with our claim reassessment on approximately 88 percent of the forms completed at that time. At the time of our second quarter of 2007 revision, we had not yet finalized our claim reassessment on the remaining forms but had performed a financial review and included that information in our analysis of emerging experience. Additional information regarding the second quarter revision to our estimate is as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Disposition
During the first quarter of 2007, we closed the sale of our wholly-owned subsidiary GENEX Services, Inc. (GENEX). Financial results for GENEX are reported as discontinued operations. The after-tax gain recognized on the sale was $6.2 million.
 
Financing
The scheduled remarketing of the senior note element of the adjustable conversion-rate equity security units (units) issued in May 2004 occurred in February 2007, as stipulated by the terms of the original offering, and we reset the interest rate on $300.0 million of senior notes due May 15, 2009 to 5.859%. We purchased $150.0 million of the senior notes in the remarketing which were subsequently retired. The associated write-off of deferred debt costs decreased first quarter of 2007 income by $2.4 million before tax, or $1.6 million after tax. In May 2007, we settled the purchase contract element of the units by issuing 17.7 million shares of common stock. We received proceeds of approximately $300.0 million from the transaction.
During the first nine months of 2007, we made principal payments of $15.0 million on our senior secured non-recourse variable rate notes due 2036 which were issued by Tailwind Holdings, LLC.
During the second quarter of 2007, we purchased $34.5 million aggregate principal amount of our outstanding 6.85% notes due 2015. The costs associated with this debt reduction decreased our second quarter 2007 income approximately $0.8 million before tax, or $0.6 million after tax.
Accounting Principle Changes
Effective January 1, 2007, we adopted Statement of Position 05-1 (SOP 05-1), . SOP 05-1 provides guidance on accounting by insurance enterprises for deferred acquisition costs on internal replacements of insurance and investment contracts other than those specifically described in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 97, . The cumulative effect of applying the provisions of SOP 05-1 decreased our 2007 opening balance of retained earnings $445.2 million.
Accounting by Insurance Enterprises for Deferred Acquisition Costs in Connection With Modifications or Exchanges of Insurance Contracts
Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Long-Duration Contracts and for Realized Gains and Losses from the Sale of Investments
Effective January 1, 2007, we adopted FASB Interpretation No. 48 (FIN 48), . FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprise's financial statements in accordance with SFAS 109. Additionally, FIN 48 provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure, and transition. The cumulative effect of applying the provisions of FIN 48 increased our 2007 opening balance of retained earnings $22.7 million.
Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an interpretation of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109 (SFAS 109)
2006 Significant Transactions and Events
Claim Reassessment Reserve Estimate
In the first quarter of 2006, we completed an analysis of our assumptions related to the reserves we established for the claim reassessment process. Our analysis was based on preliminary data as of the end of the first quarter of 2006, when actual results to date were considered credible enough to enable us to update our initial expectations of costs related to the reassessment process. We concluded that a change in our initial assumptions, primarily related to the number of claimants for
 
whom payments will continue because the claimant remains eligible for disability payments, was warranted. We based our conclusion and our revised estimate on the information that existed at that time, which was the actual cost related to approximately 20 percent of the projected ultimate total number of claims expected to be reassessed. The characteristics, profile, and cost of those initial 20 percent of claims were more statistically credible than the information on which we based the initial charges in 2004 and 2005. Based on our analysis, in the first quarter of 2006 we recorded a charge of $86.0 million before tax, or $55.9 million after tax, to reflect our then current estimate of future obligations for benefit costs for claims reopened in the reassessment. The first quarter charge decreased before-tax operating results for our Unum US segment group income protection line of business $72.8 million and our Individual Income Protection  Closed Block segment $13.2 million.
In the third quarter of 2006 we increased our provision for the cost of the reassessment process $325.4 million before tax and $211.5 million after tax based on changes in our emerging experience for the number of decisions being overturned by the reassessment process and the average cost per reassessed claim. The revised third quarter estimate was based on the cost of approximately 55 percent of the projected ultimate total number of claims expected to be reassessed. The third quarter charge was comprised of $310.4 million to reflect our revised estimate of future obligations for benefit costs for claims reopened in the reassessment and $15.0 million for additional incremental direct claim reassessment operating expenses because of the additional time now estimated to complete the process. Our best estimate of $310.4 million for the reopened claims assumed that the nature and characteristics of the approximately 45 percent remaining claims estimated to be reassessed at that time would be similar to the average profile of the 55 percent already reviewed at that time. The third quarter charge decreased before-tax operating results for our Unum US segment group income protection line of business $291.4 million and our Individual Income Protection  Closed Block segment $34.0 million.
Broker Compensation Settlement
On October 31, 2006, we reached a settlement agreement on broker compensation with the Office of the New York Attorney General (NYAG) that directly resolves all issues raised by the NYAG in its review of our broker compensation practices. The review was part of a larger investigation of broker compensation practices in the insurance industry. We also resolved litigation filed by the California Insurance Commissioner against our Company and other insurers regarding disclosure practices in broker compensation. We have agreed to eliminate all contingent compensation programs for our group product lines. Additionally, we are expanding our disclosure of broker compensation programs. We had previously taken a number of steps to enhance transparency by establishing, in March 2005, disclosure policies that provided customers with a means of obtaining information about the compensation paid to their brokers. As part of the settlement, we agreed to a fine of $1.9 million, the establishment of a fund of $15.5 million to provide restitution for any customer determined to be harmed by past practices, and certain other expenses approximating $1.1 million.
Income Tax
In the fourth quarter of 2006, we recorded income of $2.6 million before tax and approximately $3.9 million after tax attributable to the receipt of interest and tax refunds on prior year tax items in excess of what was previously provided.
 
Additionally, in the fourth quarter of 2006 we recognized an income tax benefit of approximately $91.9 million primarily as the result of group relief benefits obtained from the use of net operating losses in a foreign jurisdiction in which our businesses operate.
Financing
In the second quarter of 2006, pursuant to a cash tender offer, we purchased $50.0 million of our outstanding 7.405% junior subordinated debt securities due 2038 and $250.0 million aggregate principal amount of our outstanding 7.625% notes due 2011. The cost of the cash tender offer decreased second quarter 2006 income by $17.8 million before tax, or $11.6 million after tax. In the fourth quarter of 2006, we purchased $32.0 million of our outstanding 6.850% notes due 2015 on the open market. The cost of the debt purchase decreased fourth quarter 2006 income by $2.7 million before tax, or $1.9 million after tax.
The scheduled remarketing of the senior note element of the units issued in May 2003 occurred in February 2006, as stipulated by the terms of the original offering, and we reset the interest rate on $575.0 million of senior notes due May 15, 2008 to 5.997%. We purchased $400.0 million of the senior notes in the remarketing which were subsequently retired. The associated write-off of deferred debt costs decreased first quarter of 2006 income by $5.3 million before tax, or $3.4 million after tax. In May 2006, we settled the purchase contract element of the units by issuing 43.3 million shares of common stock. We received proceeds of approximately $575.0 million from the transaction.
In November 2006, Tailwind Holdings issued $130.0 million of senior, secured notes in a private placement. Interest on the notes is variable based upon a London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus a margin. None of Unum Group or any other affiliate of Tailwind Holdings is an obligor or guarantor on the notes.
Accounting Principle Changes
Effective January 1, 2006, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004) (SFAS 123(R)), SFAS 123(R) focuses primarily on accounting for transactions in which an entity obtains employee service in exchange for share-based payments. The adoption of SFAS 123(R) did not have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations.
Share-Based Payment.
Effective December 31, 2006, we adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 158 (SFAS 158), . SFAS 158 requires an employer to recognize the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans as an asset or liability in its balance sheet and to recognize changes in that funded status through comprehensive income. Also, under SFAS 158, defined benefit pension and other postretirement plan assets and obligations are to be measured as of the date of the employer's fiscal year-end. The adoption of SFAS 158, which resulted in an $84.1 million decrease in accumulated other comprehensive income in stockholders' equity, had no effect on our results of operations.
Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans
 
2005 Significant Transactions and Events
California Settlement Agreement and Amendment of the Multistate Market Conduct Examination Settlement Agreements
In the third quarter of 2005, certain of our U.S. insurance subsidiaries entered into a settlement agreement with the California DOI, concluding a market conduct examination and investigation of the subsidiaries' disability claims handling practices. The California DOI had chosen not to join the 2004 multistate settlement agreements. As part of the settlement with the California DOI, we paid a civil penalty of $8.0 million and agreed to change certain practices and policy provisions related to our California business. The settlement also incorporates claims handling practices previously covered by the multistate settlement agreements and includes certain additional claim handling changes.
Based on the settlement agreement and related matters, in the third quarter of 2005 we recorded a charge of $75.0 million before tax, or $51.6 million after tax, comprised of four elements: $14.3 million of incremental direct operating expenses to conduct the reassessment process; $37.3 million for benefit costs and reserves from claims reopened from the reassessment; $15.4 million for additional benefit costs and reserves for claims already incurred and currently in inventory that are anticipated as a result of the claim process changes being implemented; and the $8.0 million civil penalty. The charge decreased before-tax operating results for the Unum US segment group income protection line of business and supplemental and voluntary lines of business $37.4 million and $3.3 million, respectively, and the Individual Income Protection  Closed Block segment $34.3 million.
Income Tax
In the third quarter of 2005, we recognized an income tax benefit of approximately $10.8 million related to the finalization of income tax reviews of our U.K. subsidiaries.
During the first quarter of 2005, the Internal Revenue Service completed its examination of tax years 1999 through 2001 and issued its revenue agent's report (RAR) in April 2005. Income tax liabilities of approximately $32.0 million that related primarily to interest on the timing of expense deductions were released in the first quarter of 2005, all of which was reflected as a reduction to income tax expense.
Disposition
During the third quarter of 2005, our wholly-owned subsidiary, Unum Limited, completed the sale of its Netherlands branch. The gain on the sale was approximately $5.7 million before tax and $4.0 million after tax.
Financing
During 2005, we repaid $227.0 million of maturing debt. In November 2005, we completed a long-term debt offering, issuing $400.0 million of 6.85% senior notes due November 15, 2015.
 
Closed Block Reinsurance Recapture
During the third quarter of 2005, we recaptured a closed block of individual income protection business originally ceded to Centre Life Reinsurance Ltd. in 1996. The recaptured business included approximately $1.6 billion in invested assets and $185.0 million of annual premium. The effective date of the recapture was August 8, 2005. The underlying operating results of the reinsurance contract, prior to recapture, were reflected in other income. The recapture therefore did not have a material impact on operating income for our Individual Income Protection  Closed Block segment.
2004 Significant Transactions and Events
Settlement of Multistate Market Conduct Examination
During 2004, certain of our U.S. insurance subsidiaries entered into settlement agreements with state insurance regulators upon conclusion of a multistate market conduct examination led by Maine, Massachusetts, and Tennessee relating to our disability claims handling practices. A total of 48 states and the District of Columbia are parties to the settlement agreements. In addition, the U.S. Department of Labor, which had been conducting an inquiry relating to certain ERISA plans, is a party to the settlement agreements, and the NYAG, which had engaged in its own investigation of our claims handling practices, notified us that it was in support of the settlement and was, therefore, closing its investigation on this issue. The examination report did not make any findings of violations of law or market conduct regulations. However, the examination report did identify areas of concern. These became the focus of specific changes and enhancements to our disability claims handling operations which are designed to assure each claim decision is made in a consistently high quality manner.
The primary components of the settlement agreements include enhancements to our claims handling procedures; a reassessment process for claimants of certain previously denied or closed claims who elect to participate; additional corporate and board governance to support the oversight of the reassessment process and general claims handling practices; and payment of a fine in the amount of $15.0 million that was allocated among the states and jurisdictions that joined the agreements and a potential fine of $145.0 million in the future if certain standards are not met in examinations at the end of approximately two years.
In the fourth quarter of 2004, we recorded a charge of $127.0 million before tax, or $87.8 million after tax, comprised of four elements: $27.5 million of incremental direct operating expenses to conduct the two-year reassessment process; $44.0 million for benefit costs and reserves from claims reopened from the reassessment; $40.5 million for additional benefit costs and reserves for claims already incurred and currently in inventory that are anticipated as a result of the claim process changes being implemented; and the $15.0 million fine. The charge decreased before-tax operating results for the Unum US segment group income protection and individual income protection  recently issued lines of business $116.7 million and $1.7 million, respectively, and the Individual Income Protection  Closed Block segment $8.6 million.
Disposition
During the second quarter of 2004, we closed the sale of our Canadian operations. Financial results for the Canadian branch are reported as discontinued operations. The loss recognized during 2004 was $60.8 million after tax.
 
Restructuring of Individual Income Protection  Closed Block Business
In the first quarter of 2004, we restructured our individual income protection  closed block business and entered into reinsurance agreements which effectively provide approximately 60 percent reinsurance coverage for our overall consolidated risk above a specified retention limit. We have not yet reached the retention limit and do not currently anticipate that once reached, our losses would exceed the maximum risk limit for the reinsurer and revert back to us.
In conjunction with the restructuring of the individual income protection  closed block business, effective January 1, 2004, we modified our reporting segments to include a separate segment for this business. The reporting, monitoring, and management of the closed block of individual income protection business as a discrete segment is consistent with our financial restructuring and separation of this business from the lines of business which actively market new products. In the past, this business had been reported in combination with the individual income protection  recently issued line of business. Prior to 2004, detailed separate financial metrics and models were unavailable to appropriately manage this block of business separately from the recently issued individual income protection block of business.
The separation of the closed block business into a separate reporting segment required us to perform, separately for the individual income protection  closed block business and individual income protection  recently issued business, impairment testing for goodwill and loss recognition testing for the recoverability of deferred acquisition costs and value of business acquired. As required under GAAP, prior to the change in reporting segments, these tests were performed for the individual income protection line of business on a combined basis. The testing indicated impairment of the individual income protection  closed block deferred acquisition costs, value of business acquired, and goodwill balances of $282.2 million, $367.1 million, and $207.1 million, respectively. These impairment charges, $856.4 million before tax and $629.1 million after tax, were recorded in the first quarter of 2004.
Also as part of the restructuring, we analyzed our reserve assumptions related to our individual income protection  closed block reserves as a stand-alone segment. Previously these reserves were analyzed for the individual income protection line of business on a combined basis. Included in the analysis was a review of morbidity assumptions, primarily claim resolution rates, and claim reserve discount rate assumptions. Based upon this analysis, we lowered the claim reserve discount rate to reflect the segmentation of the investment portfolio between the individual income protection  recently issued business and the individual income protection  closed block business, the duration of the assets and the related policy liabilities. Based on this analysis, in the first quarter of 2004 we increased our individual income protection  closed block claim reserves by $110.6 million before tax, or $71.9 million after tax, to reflect our current estimate of future benefit obligations.
 

Exhibit 99.3
 
 
Unum Group (NYSE: UNM) announced today the completion of a securitization of its closed block of individual income protection insurance. The Company, through its subsidiary Northwind Holdings, LLC (Northwind Holdings), a newly formed Delaware limited liability company, issued $800 million of floating rate insured notes due December 1, 2037. The notes will carry a coupon of three month LIBOR plus a spread of 78 basis points. The notes are guaranteed by MBIA Insurance Company with respect to both interest and principal payment and are considered non-recourse to Unum Group. Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan were structuring agents.
CHATTANOOGA, Tenn. (October 31, 2007) 
Thomas R. Watjen, President and Chief Executive Officer, stated, "The Northwind transaction is another important step in our ongoing efforts, which began in 2004, to improve the returns associated with our Individual Income Protection  Closed Block business. This securitization creates a more efficient, market-validated capitalization for this business and creates capital which can be directed to other uses. The redeployment of excess capital from on-going operations and this transaction will benefit our policyholders, shareholders, and creditors."
Based on MBIA's financial guarantee, the notes will carry Aaa/AAA/AAA/aaa ratings from Moody's Investors Service, Standard & Poor's Corporation, Fitch Ratings and A. M. Best Company, respectively.
 
The Northwind transaction includes the intercompany reinsurance of approximately $11.1 billion of statutory reserves from Provident Life and Accident Insurance Company, Unum Life Insurance Company of America, and The Paul Revere Life Insurance Company, representing approximately 95 percent of Unum's Individual Income Protection  Closed Block segment, to Northwind Reinsurance Company (Northwind Re), a newly formed Vermont domiciled special purpose financial captive insurance company owned by Northwind Holdings. With the risk transfer to Northwind Re, the three ceding insurers will be able to release excess statutory capital previously supporting this reinsured closed block business. The excess capital will be transferred to Unum Group from the ceding companies through extraordinary dividends which have been approved by regulatory authorities in the applicable domestic states.
Robert C. Greving, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Actuary, stated, "This more efficient capital structure allows Unum to continue to fully support the risk profile of our business while we use excess capital to invest in our ongoing, core operations. We have formalized our capital management strategy (described below), and our capital redeployment plans will focus on strengthening the capital position of our businesses, managing our leverage position, initiating a common stock repurchase program, and maintaining a strong level of holding company liquidity. Fully implemented, the redeployment of capital is expected to improve the Company's return on equity by approximately 70 basis points and enhance earnings per share growth potential."
As a result of the build-up of excess capital from improved operating trends and in anticipation of the Northwind transaction, the Company recently formalized its capital management goals and objectives. The first priority is to maintain sufficient financial flexibility to support its operations over various economic cycles and to respond to opportunities in the marketplace while positioning the Company for improvements in its credit ratings. It has set in place several financial targets which will guide its capital management decisions including:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company considers any capital above that needed to achieve and maintain these metrics to be excess capital available to fund share repurchases, business growth, or acquisitions. The goal in allocating excess capital is to maximize risk-adjusted shareholder returns over a three to five year time period, with share repurchase used as the benchmark for evaluating uses for excess capital.
Consistent with this capital management philosophy, the Company is announcing the primary components of its capital redeployment plan which it expects to execute over the next year, including:
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, the Board of Unum Group has authorized the repurchase of up to $700 million of the Company's common stock, which the Company anticipates initiating upon completion of the debt reduction program. The share repurchase program does not have an expiration date, and the pace of repurchase activity, if commenced, will depend upon various factors such as the level of available cash, alternative uses for cash, and our stock price. The authorization may be modified, extended or terminated by the Board at any time.
ABOUT UNUM GROUP
Unum () is one of the leading providers of employee benefits products and services and the largest provider of group and individual disability income protection insurance in the United States and the United Kingdom.
www.unum.com
SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT
Statements in this press release that are not historical facts, such as our return on equity projection, constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include such general matters as economic or business conditions; events or consequences relating to terrorism, acts of war and catastrophes, including natural and man-made disasters; competitive factors, including pricing pressures; legislative, regulatory, accounting, or tax law changes; and the interest rate environment. More specifically, they include fluctuations in insurance reserve liabilities; changes in projected new sales and renewals; variations between projections and actual experience in persistency rates, incidence and recovery rates, pricing and underwriting; retained risks in our reinsurance operations; availability and cost of reinsurance; the level and results of litigation, rating agency actions, and regulatory actions and investigations; actual experience in implementing and complying with the multistate market conduct regulatory settlement agreements and the California Department of Insurance settlement agreement; negative media attention; changes in assumptions relating to deferred acquisition costs, value of business acquired, or goodwill; the level of pension benefit costs and funding; investment results, including credit deterioration of investments; the ability of our insurance company subsidiaries to pay dividends or
 
 
extend credit to us and certain of our intermediate holding company subsidiaries and/or finance subsidiaries; and effectiveness of product support and customer service. For further information of risks and uncertainties that could affect actual results, see our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including information in the sections titled "Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" and "Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006 and subsequently filed Form 10-Qs. The forward-looking statements in this press release are being made as of the date of this press release, and we expressly disclaim any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement contained herein.
 

Exhibit 99.4
 
 
Unum Group (NYSE: UNM) today announced that it has sent a notice of redemption to the holders of all $150.0 million principal amount of its outstanding 7.25% Public Income Notes, or PINES, scheduled to mature in 2032. Unum Group became eligible to exercise its right to redeem these notes on June 25, 2007 under the stated terms of the PINES. The redemption date is December 3, 2007, and the redemption price is 100% of the principal amount of the PINES plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date.
CHATTANOOGA, Tenn. (October 31 2007) 
Today's announcement coincides with the Company's announcement of completion of the securitization of its Closed Block of Individual Income Protection business. It is made in conjunction with the announcement of the Company's debt tender offer for the repurchase of $400 million of outstanding debt. Copies of these announcements are available on the Company's website under "Investor Information."
The redemption of the PINES will be funded with proceeds made available through the securitization.
ABOUT UNUM GROUP
Unum () is one of the leading providers of employee benefits products and services and the largest provider of group and individual disability income protection insurance in the United States and the United Kingdom.
www.unum.com
SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT
Statements in this press release that are not historical facts constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include such general matters as general economic or business
 
conditions; events or consequences relating to terrorism, acts of war and catastrophes, including natural and man-made disasters; competitive factors, including pricing pressures; legislative, regulatory, accounting, or tax law changes; and the interest rate environment. More specifically, they include fluctuations in insurance reserve liabilities; changes in projected new sales and renewals; variations between projections and actual experience in persistency rates, incidence and recovery rates, pricing and underwriting; retained risks in our reinsurance operations; availability and cost of reinsurance; the level and results of litigation, rating agency actions, and regulatory actions and investigations; actual experience in implementing and complying with the multistate market conduct regulatory settlement agreements and the California Department of Insurance settlement agreement; negative media attention; changes in assumptions relating to deferred acquisition costs, value of business acquired, or goodwill; the level of pension benefit costs and funding; investment results, including credit deterioration of investments; the ability of our insurance company subsidiaries to pay dividends or extend credit to us and certain of our intermediate holding company subsidiaries and/or finance subsidiaries; and effectiveness of product support and customer service. For further information of risks and uncertainties that could affect actual results, see our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including information in the sections titled "Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" and "Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006 and subsequently filed Form 10-Qs. The forward-looking statements in this press release are being made as of the date of this press release, and we expressly disclaim any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement contained herein.
 

Exhibit 99.5
 
 
Unum Group (NYSE: UNM) (the "Company") announced today that it has commenced tender offers to purchase for cash up to $400 million aggregate liquidation amount or principal amount, as applicable, of its outstanding securities listed below. The tender offers consist of an "any and all" offer for one issue of securities and maximum tender offers for six issues of securities, which are made pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth in an Offer to Purchase dated October 31, 2007. In the "any and all" offer, the Company is offering to purchase any and all of the outstanding securities listed under the heading "Any and All Offer" in the table below. In the maximum tender offers, the Company is offering to purchase up to the Maximum Amount to be Accepted of the specified series of outstanding securities listed under the heading "Maximum Tender Offers" in the table below.
CHATTANOOGA, Tenn. (October 31, 2007) 
 
 
Today's tender announcement coincides with the Company's announcement of the completion of the securitization of its Closed Block  Individual Income Protection business. It is made in conjunction with the announcement of the Company's call for an early redemption of all $150.0 million principal amount of its outstanding 7.25% Public Income Notes, or PINES, scheduled to mature in 2032. Copies of these announcements are available on the Company's website under "Investor Information."
The Tender Offers
The tender offers will expire at 12:00 midnight, New York City time, on November 29, 2007, unless extended. Holders of securities subject to the tender offers must validly tender and not validly withdraw their securities at or before the early tender date, which is 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on November 14, 2007, unless extended, to be eligible to receive the applicable full tender offer consideration. Holders of securities subject to the tender offers who validly tender their securities after the early tender date and at or before the expiration date will be eligible to receive the late tender offer consideration, which is the applicable full tender offer consideration minus the early tender premium.
Securities subject to the tender offers tendered at or before the early tender date may be validly withdrawn at any time at or before the early tender date, but not thereafter, except as required by law. Securities tendered after the early tender date may not be withdrawn, except as required by law.
The applicable total tender offer consideration for each $1,000 in liquidation amount and principal amount, as applicable, of securities tendered and accepted for payment pursuant to the tender offer will be determined in the manner described in the Offer to Purchase. The consideration will be determined by reference to a fixed spread specified for such securities over the yield based on the bid-side price of the applicable U.S. Treasury Security specified in the table above, as fully described in the Offer to Purchase. The consideration will be calculated by the dealer manager for the tender offer at 2:00 p.m., New York City time on November 14, 2007.
In addition to the applicable total tender offer consideration or applicable late tender offer consideration accrued and unpaid interest up to, but not including, the settlement date will be paid in cash on all validly tendered securities accepted for purchase in the tender offers. The settlement date is expected to be November 30, 2007. Subject to applicable law, each tender offer may be terminated or withdrawn in whole or terminated or withdrawn with respect to one or more series of securities.
Morgan Stanley is the dealer manager for the tender offers. D.F. King & Co. has been retained to serve as the tender agent and information agent. Persons with questions regarding the tender offers should contact Morgan Stanley at (212) 761-5797 or (toll-free) (800) 624-1808, Attention: Sarah Downie. Requests for copies of the Offer to Purchase, letter of transmittal and related materials should be directed to D.F. King & Co. at (212) 269-5550 or (toll-free) (888) 869-7406.
This news release is neither an offer to purchase nor a solicitation of an offer to sell the notes. The offers are made only by the Offer to Purchase, and the information in this news release is qualified by reference to the Offer to Purchase and related letter of transmittal each dated October 31, 2007.
 
 
ABOUT UNUM GROUP
Unum () is one of the leading providers of employee benefits products and services and the largest provider of group and individual disability income protection insurance in the United States and the United Kingdom.
www.unum.com
SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT
Statements in this press release that are not historical facts constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include such matters as general economic or business conditions; events or consequences relating to terrorism, acts of war and catastrophes, including natural and man-made disasters; competitive factors, including pricing pressures; legislative, regulatory, accounting, or tax law changes; and the interest rate environment. More specifically, they include fluctuations in insurance reserve liabilities; changes in projected new sales and renewals; variations between projections and actual experience in persistency rates, incidence and recovery rates, pricing and underwriting; retained risks in our reinsurance operations; availability and cost of reinsurance; the level and results of litigation, rating agency actions, and regulatory actions and investigations; actual experience in implementing and complying with the multistate market conduct regulatory settlement agreements and the California Department of Insurance settlement agreement; negative media attention; changes in assumptions relating to deferred acquisition costs, value of business acquired, or goodwill; the level of pension benefit costs and funding; investment results, including credit deterioration of investments; the ability of our insurance company subsidiaries to pay dividends or extend credit to us and certain of our intermediate holding company subsidiaries and/or finance subsidiaries; and effectiveness of product support and customer service. For further information of risks and uncertainties that could affect actual results, see our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including information in the sections titled "Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" and "Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006 and subsequently filed Form 10-Qs. The forward-looking statements in this press release are being made as of the date of this press release, and we expressly disclaim any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement contained herein.
 


