FILE:UNM/UNM-8K-20081217164229.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) On December 11, 2008, the Board of Directors, acting upon the recommendation of the Governance Committee, adopted an amendment to the Company's Amended and Restated Bylaws (the "Bylaws"), which became effective on that date. Set forth below is a description of the amendment. Such description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the amendment, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 3.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
The Bylaws have been amended by adding a new Section 12 of Article VIII to clarify that an indemnitee has a contractual right to indemnification and advancement that vests at the time of the relevant act or omission.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 3.2
Article VIII, SECTION 12. The right to indemnification and advancement conferred in this Article VIII shall be a contract between the Corporation and each person who is covered by this Article VIII while these Bylaws are in effect. Any repeal or modification of the foregoing provisions of this Article VIII shall not adversely affect any right or protection hereunder of any person who is covered by this Article VIII in respect of any proceeding (regardless of when such proceeding is first threatened, commenced or completed) arising out of, or related to, any act or omission occurring prior to the time of such repeal or modification. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Article VIII, any right or protection provided hereunder shall be deemed to vest at the time that the act or omission occurred, irrespective of when and whether a proceeding challenging such act or omission is first threatened or commenced.
Contract Right; Effect of Amendment.


