FILE:UNM/UNM-8K-20080131165009.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 31, 2008, Unum Group (the "Company") entered into an agreement for an Accelerated Share Repurchase Transaction (the "ASR Agreement") with Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated ("MSCO"). Under the ASR Agreement, the Company purchased approximately $350 million of its outstanding common stock. The Company is acquiring these shares as part of a previously announced share repurchase program of up to $700 million approved by the Company's Board of Directors on October 29, 2007.
Under the ASR Agreement, MSCO plans to purchase shares of common stock in the open market from time to time until it has acquired a number of shares equivalent to the number of shares purchased by the Company. At the end of this period, the Company may receive, or may be required to remit, a purchase price adjustment based upon the volume weighted average price of its common shares during the period. Any price adjustment payable to the Company will be settled in shares of its common stock. Any price adjustment payable to MSCO will be settled in either cash or common stock, at the Company's election. This settlement is scheduled to occur on or before the completion of the ASR Agreement in May 2008.
MSCO and certain of its affiliates have engaged, and may in the future engage, in financial advisory, investment banking and other services for the Company and its affiliates.
 
On January 31, 2008, the Company issued a press release reporting the accelerated share repurchase transaction described in Item 1.01 above. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information included or incorporated in this Item 7.01 shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
 Unum Group (NYSE: UNM) announced today that it repurchased approximately $350 million of its outstanding common stock from Morgan Stanley using an accelerated share repurchase agreement. The repurchase follows the previously announced authorization by Unum's board of directors to repurchase up to $700 million of the company's stock and is a component of Unum's overall capital management strategy, as outlined in October 2007.
CHATTANOOGA, Tenn. (January 31, 2008)
We are continuing to implement the capital management strategy we announced in October and we believe that by accelerating our previously announced share repurchase program, we are creating even greater value for our shareholders," remarked Thomas R. Watjen, president and chief executive officer of Unum Group.
 
UNUM IS A REGISTERED TRADEMARK AND MARKETING BRAND OF UNUM GROUP AND ITS INSURING SUBSIDIARIES.
 
Under the terms of the repurchase agreement with Morgan Stanley, Unum Group may receive, or be required to pay, a price adjustment based on the volume weighted average price of Unum Group common stock during the term of the agreement. Any price adjustment payable to Unum Group will be settled in shares of its common stock. Any price adjustment payable to Morgan Stanley will be settled in either cash or common stock. Unum Group expects the price adjustment to settle on or before the completion of the agreement in May 2008.
ABOUT UNUM GROUP
Unum () is one of the leading providers of employee benefits products and services and the largest provider of group and individual disability insurance in the United States and the United Kingdom.
www.unum.com
SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT
Statements in this press release that are not historical facts constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include such matters as general economic or business conditions; events or consequences relating to terrorism, acts of war and catastrophes, including natural and man-made disasters; competitive factors, including pricing pressures; legislative, regulatory, accounting, or tax law changes; and the interest rate environment. More specifically, they include fluctuations in insurance reserve liabilities; changes in projected new sales and renewals; variations between projections and actual experience in persistency rates, incidence and recovery rates, pricing and underwriting; retained risks in the
 
 
Company's reinsurance operations; availability and cost of reinsurance; the level and results of litigation, rating agency actions, and regulatory actions and investigations; actual experience in implementing and complying with the multistate market conduct regulatory settlement agreements and the California Department of Insurance settlement agreement; negative media attention; changes in assumptions relating to deferred acquisition costs, value of business acquired, or goodwill; the level of pension benefit costs and funding; investment results, including credit deterioration of investments; the ability of the Company's insurance company subsidiaries to pay dividends or extend credit to the Company and certain of its intermediate holding company subsidiaries and/or finance subsidiaries; and effectiveness of product support and customer service. For further information of risks and uncertainties that could affect actual results, see the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including information in the sections titled "Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" and "Risk Factors" in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006 and subsequently filed Form 10-Qs. The forward-looking statements in this press release are being made as of the date of this press release, and the Company expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement contained herein.
 


