FILE:UNM/UNM-8K-20080801133931.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Date of Report (Date of Earliest Event Reported): July 31, 2008
Unum Group
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Charter)
(423) 294-1011
(Registrant's Telephone Number, including Area Code)
( General Instruction A.2. below)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions
see
:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 1.01     
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
.
On July 31, 2008, Unum Group (the Company) entered into an agreement for an Accelerated Share Repurchase Transaction (the ASR Agreement) with Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch (Deutsche Bank). Under the ASR Agreement, the Company purchased approximately $350 million of its outstanding common stock. This completes the previously announced share repurchase program of up to $700 million approved by the Companys Board of Directors on October 29, 2007.
Under the ASR Agreement, Deutsche Bank plans to purchase shares of common stock in the open market from time to time until it has acquired a number of shares equivalent to the number of shares purchased by the Company. At the end of this period, the Company may receive, or may be required to remit, a purchase price adjustment based upon the volume weighted average price of its common shares during the period. Any price adjustment payable to the Company will be settled in shares of its common stock. Any price adjustment payable to Deutsche Bank will be settled in either cash or common stock, at the Companys election. This settlement is scheduled to occur on or before the completion of the ASR Agreement in December 2008.
Deutsche Bank and certain of its affiliates have engaged, and may in the future engage, in financial advisory, investment banking or other services for the Company and its affiliates.
Item 7.01     
Regulation FD Disclosure
.
OnAugust 1, 2008, the Company issued a press release reporting the accelerated share repurchase transaction described in Item 1.01 above. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information included or incorporated in this Item 7.01 shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Item 9.01     
Financial Statements and Exhibits
.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
INDEX TO EXHIBITS

Exhibit 99
Unum Group Announces Accelerated Share Repurchase of $350 Million
Completes Board Authorized Repurchase of $700 Million
CHATTANOOGA, Tenn.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Unum Group (NYSE: UNM) announced today that it has entered into an accelerated repurchase agreement with Deutsche Bank, AG London Branch (Deutsche Bank) to repurchase approximately $350 million of its outstanding common stock. This announcement follows the accelerated repurchase of $350 million of the companys stock executed in the first quarter of 2008 and completes the previously announced authorization by Unum's board of directors to repurchase up to $700 million of the company's stock.
Despite the volatility in the financial markets and the uncertain economic environment, we have maintained solid operating results and significant financial flexibility, which in turn has enabled us to continue to execute our capital management strategy, said Thomas R. Watjen, president and chief executive officer.
Under the terms of the repurchase agreement with Deutsche Bank, Unum Group may receive, or be required to pay, a price adjustment based on the volume weighted average price of Unum Group common stock during the term of the agreement. Any price adjustment payable to Unum Group will be settled in shares of its common stock. Any price adjustment payable to Deutsche Bank can be settled in common stock or cash, at the option of Unum Group. Unum Group expects the price adjustment to settle on or before the completion of the agreement in December 2008.
ABOUT UNUM
Unum () is one of the leading providers of employee benefits products and services and the largest provider of group and individual disability insurance in the United States and the United Kingdom.
www.unum.com
SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT
Statements in this press release that are not historical facts constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include such matters as general economic or business conditions; events or consequences relating to terrorism, acts of war and catastrophes, including natural and man-made disasters; competitive factors, including pricing pressures; legislative, regulatory, accounting, or tax law changes; and the interest rate environment. More specifically, they include fluctuations in insurance reserve liabilities; changes in projected new sales and renewals; variations between projections and actual experience in persistency rates, incidence and recovery rates, pricing and underwriting; retained risks in the Companys reinsurance operations; availability and cost of reinsurance; the level and results of litigation, rating agency actions, and regulatory actions and investigations; negative media attention; changes in assumptions relating to deferred acquisition costs, value of business acquired, or goodwill; the level of pension benefit costs and funding; investment results, including credit deterioration of investments; the ability of the Companys insurance company subsidiaries to pay dividends or extend credit to the Company and certain of its intermediate holding company subsidiaries and/or finance subsidiaries; and effectiveness of product support and customer service. For further information of risks and uncertainties that could affect actual results, see the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including information in the sections titled Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007 and subsequently filed Form 10-Q. The forward-looking statements in this press release are being made as of the date of this press release, and the Company expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement contained herein.
CONTACT: Unum Group Investors: Thomas A. H. White, 423-294-8996 or Madhavi Venkatesan, 423-294-1630


