FILE:UNM/UNM-8K-20081209162138.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On December 9, 2008, Unum Group (the "Company") entered into an unsecured $250,000,000 364-Day Senior Revolving Credit Facility among the Company, as borrower, the lenders named below, SunTrust Bank, as Documentation Agent, Bank of America, N.A., as Syndication Agent, and Wachovia Bank, National Association, as Administrative Agent, Issuing Lender and Swingline Lender (the "Agreement"). The Lenders who are parties to the Agreement are: Wachovia Bank, National Association; Bank of America, N.A.; SunTrust Bank; Fifth Third Bank; JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.; Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A.; PNC Bank, National Association; Regions Bank; Branch Banking and Trust Company; First Tennessee Bank National Association; Webster Bank, National Association; and National City Bank. Under the terms of the Agreement, the aggregate amount of commitments may be increased upon request up to $350,000,000.
Until December 8, 2009 (the "commitment termination date"), the Company may borrow under the revolving loan facility. After the commitment termination date, the revolving loans become due and payable in full unless the Company has converted them to term loans. No term loan may extend beyond the first anniversary of the commitment termination date (the "final maturity date").
Letters of credit may be issued until, but excluding, the commitment termination date, although they can be renewed or extended for one-year periods so long as the extension does not go beyond the final maturity date.
The Agreement provides for interest rates based on either the prime rate or LIBOR, as adjusted.
The Agreement contains financial covenants, negative covenants and events of default that are customary for a facility of this type.
As of December 9, 2008, there were no borrowings under the Agreement.
 
The information in Item 1.01 above is incorporated by reference into this Item.
 
On December 9, 2008, the Company issued a press release announcing that it had entered into the Agreement. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 Unum Group (NYSE: UNM) (the "Company") announced today that it has obtained a new credit facility. The current facility establishes a $250 million unsecured revolving line of credit and replaces an existing facility. The facility was arranged through Wachovia Capital Markets LLC and Banc of America Securities LLC. As previously stated, the Company intends to use any drawn borrowings from the facility for general corporate purposes. Any actions that the Company may take will be consistent with the Company's stated capital management strategy.
CHATTANOOGA, TN (December 9, 2008)
"Our strong operating performance, in conjunction with our capital management strategy, has provided us with a financial buffer during these volatile and uncertain times. Though we have no current plans to access credit or to raise additional capital, we believe it is prudent to maintain our financial flexibility. The facility which we have announced today is consistent with our commitment to maintaining this flexibility," commented Robert Greving, executive vice president, chief financial officer and chief actuary of Unum Group. "Given the heightened liquidity constraints in the banking sector over the last twelve months, we view our ability to establish our current facility as a continuation of the financial markets validation of our Company."
About Unum
Unum () is one of the leading providers of employee benefits products and services, and the largest provider of group and individual disability income protection insurance in the United States and the United Kingdom.
www.unum.com
 
UNUM IS A REGISTERED TRADEMARK AND MARKETING BRAND OF UNUM GROUP AND ITS INSURING SUBSIDIARIES.


