FILE:UNM/UNM-8K-20080229170524.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01  Other Events.
On February 29, 2008, Unum Group announced that Senior Vice President and Chief Investment Officer, David Fussell will be retiring after 42 years with the company.  Mr. Fussell will remain with the Company until July 1, 2008 in order to provide an effective transition of responsibilities.  He will also be retained in a consulting capacity through year end.
Frank Williamson has been named Senior Vice President, Capital Management and Chief Investment Officer effective immediately.  Mr. Williamson has previously served in a number of financial positions in the Company, most recently as Senior Vice President, Corporate Development and Strategic Planning.  He joined the Company in 1995.
In addition to Mr. Williamson, Senior Vice President Martha Leiper will take on expanded responsibilities in the investment department as Deputy Chief Investment Officer.  In this role she will be responsible for all the Companys investment research and trading and she will chair the Companys Investment Committee.  She has been with the Company since 1985.
Also taking on expanded responsibilities in the investment department is Rob Hensley, Vice President, Asset-Liability Management and Investment Strategy.  In his new role he will lead the Companys investment risk management functions.  Mr. Hensley joined the Company in 1999.
 
 
 
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) .   The following exhibit is filed or furnished with this Report:
Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                     
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT

 
Unum Group (NYSE: UNM) announced today that Senior Vice President and Chief Investment Officer David Fussell will be retiring after 42 years with the company. Fussell will remain with the company until July 1, 2008, in order to provide an effective transition of responsibilities. He will also be retained in a consulting capacity through year end.
CHATTANOOGA, Tenn., (Feb. 29, 2008)
  
 
David Fussell has made tremendous contributions to this company, said Unum President and Chief Executive Officer Thomas R. Watjen. Through his efforts, our investment portfolio is very strong and extremely well-positioned in this uncertain economic climate. He has built a seasoned investment team that is well-prepared to take on expanded responsibilities. This transition in leadership has been carefully planned, and Davids assistance through year end will assure a smooth transition and continuation of our current investment strategies.
 
Fussell joined Provident, a predecessor company, in 1966, and has served in many professional roles in the companys investment operations. In 2000 he was named to his current role.
 
With Fussells retirement, Frank Williamson has been named senior vice president of capital management and chief investment officer, effective immediately. Williamson most recently served as senior vice president of corporate development and strategic planning and has been with the company since 1995.
 
In addition, Senior Vice President Martha Leiper will take on an expanded role as deputy chief investment officer, with responsibilities for the companys investment research and trading and as chair of Unums internal investment committee. She joined the company in 1985.
 
Rob Hensley will also take on additional responsibilities and has been named vice president, asset-liability management and investment strategy. In his new role he will lead the companys investment risk management functions. Hensley has been with the company since 1999.
 
 
 
About Unum
Unum (
www.unum.com
) is one of the leading providers of employee benefits products and services, and the largest provider of group and individual disability income protection insurance in the United States and the United Kingdom.


