FILE:UNM/UNM-8K-20100623103953.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On June 23, 2010, Unum Group (the "Company") announced that Senior Vice President and Chief Investment Officer Frank Williamson is resigning after 15 years with the Company, the last two of which he oversaw Investments, to pursue other interests. Mr. Williamson will remain with the Company temporarily in an advisory capacity.
Former Senior Vice President and Chief Investment Officer David Fussell, who retired from the Company in February 2008, has agreed to return to the Company as interim Chief Investment Officer until a successor is named.
 
 
99.1         News release of Unum Group dated June 23, 2010.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Unum Group (NYSE:UNM) today announced that Senior Vice President and Chief Investment Officer Frank Williamson is resigning after 15 years with the company, the last two of which he oversaw Investments, to pursue other interests. He will remain with Unum temporarily in an advisory capacity.
CHATTANOOGA, Tenn. (June 23, 2010) 
Former Senior Vice President and Chief Investment Officer David Fussell, who retired from Unum in February 2008, has agreed to return to the company as interim Chief Investment Officer until a successor is named.
"Frank has made tremendous contributions to Unum over the last 15 years, and we certainly wish him well as he pursues other personal and professional interests," said Thomas R. Watjen, president and chief executive officer. "We're fortunate that David has agreed to come out of retirement on an interim basis to help assure that we maintain our current investment strategy and to oversee a portfolio that is among the strongest and most highly regarded in the industry. His past experience and knowledge of the function will no doubt ensure a smooth transition in leadership."
About Unum
Unum () is one of the leading providers of employee benefits products and services in the United States and the United Kingdom. Through its subsidiaries, Unum provided nearly $6 billion in total benefits to customers in 2009.
www.unum.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
UNUM IS A REGISTERED TRADEMARK AND MARKETING BRAND OF UNUM GROUP AND ITS INSURING SUBSIDIARIES.


