FILE:UNM/UNM-8K-20110525171248.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 25, 2011, Unum Group (the "Company") held its annual meeting of shareholders. Matters submitted to shareholders at the meeting and voting results were as follows:
. The Company's shareholders elected the four director nominees listed below for three-year terms expiring in 2014, based upon the following voting results:
Item 1  Election of Directors
 
Also continuing as directors of the Company after the meeting were: E. Michael Caulfield, Pamela H. Godwin, Ronald E. Goldsberry, Kevin T. Kabat, Thomas Kinser, A.S. (Pat) MacMillan, Jr., Edward J. Muhl, and Michael J. Passarella.
The Company's shareholders approved, on an advisory basis, the compensation of the Company's named executive officers, based upon the following voting results:
Item 2  Advisory Vote on Executive Compensation.
 
The Company's shareholders voted, on an advisory basis, on the frequency of holding future advisory votes on executive compensation as follows:
Item 3  Advisory Vote on the Frequency of Future Advisory Votes on Executive Compensation.
 
In light of the above voting results and consistent with its recommendation to shareholders on this item, the Board of Directors of the Company has determined that the Company will hold future advisory votes on executive compensation on an annual basis.
The Company's shareholders approved the Unum European Holding Company Limited Savings-Related Share Option Scheme 2011, based upon the following voting results:
Item 4  Approval of the Unum European Holding Company Limited Savings-Related Share Option Scheme 2011.
 
The Company's shareholders ratified the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for 2011, based upon the following voting results:
Item 5  Ratification of Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.
 
 
At the annual meeting of shareholders on May 25, 2011, the Company announced that its Board of Directors authorized an increase of 13.5 percent in the quarterly dividend paid on its common stock. The new quarterly dividend rate of $0.1050 per common share will be effective with the dividend expected to be paid in the third quarter of 2011. A copy of a news release concerning the dividend increase is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Unum Group (NYSE:UNM) announced today at its annual meeting of shareholders that its Board of Directors has authorized an increase of 13.5 percent in the quarterly dividend paid on its common stock. The new quarterly dividend rate of 10.5 cents per common share will be effective with the dividend expected to be paid in the third quarter of 2011.
CHATTANOOGA, Tenn. (May 25, 2010)
"Our consistent operating performance and strong capital position have enabled us to again increase our common stock dividend, which along with our recent share repurchases is part of our strategy to return capital to shareholders," said Thomas R. Watjen, president and chief executive officer.
This marks the third consecutive year in which Unum has raised its quarterly dividend. The company increased its quarterly dividend 10 percent in 2009 and 12.1 percent in 2010. At the end of the first quarter of 2011, Unum had also completed approximately $1.28 billion of share repurchases since 2008, with approximately $920 million of additional share repurchases remaining on the $1 billion share authorization program announced in 2010.
ABOUT UNUM GROUP
Unum () is one of the leading providers of employee benefits products and services and the largest provider of group and individual disability income protection insurance in the United States and the United Kingdom.
www.unum.com
UNUM IS A REGISTERED TRADEMARK AND MARKETING BRAND OF UNUM GROUP AND ITS INSURING SUBSIDIARIES.


