FILE:UNM/UNM-8K-20110204091420.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
On February 4, 2011, Unum Group (the "Company") issued a news release announcing its entry into an accelerated share repurchase transaction, as described in Item 8.01 below. A copy of the news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information included or incorporated in this Item 7.01 shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
On February 4, 2011, the Company entered into an accelerated share repurchase transaction (the "ASR Agreement") with Goldman, Sachs & Co. pursuant to which the Company will purchase $200 million of its outstanding common stock.
The total number of shares ultimately repurchased under the ASR Agreement will be determined at the settlement of the transaction. Under the terms of the ASR Agreement, the Company may receive, or be required to deliver, an additional number of shares of common stock based on the volume weighted average price of its common stock during the term of the ASR Agreement. Any adjustment with respect to Goldman, Sachs & Co.'s obligation to deliver additional shares will be settled in shares of the Company's common stock. Any adjustment payable to Goldman, Sachs & Co. will be settled either in cash or common stock, at the Company's election. The Company expects the settlement of the transaction to occur on or before the termination date of the ASR Agreement, scheduled for April 5, 2011.
Goldman, Sachs & Co. and certain of its affiliates have engaged, and may in the future engage, in financial advisory, investment banking or other services for the Company and its affiliates.
 
(d) . The following exhibit is furnished (and not filed) with this Report:
Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 Unum Group (NYSE: UNM) announced today that it entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement with Goldman, Sachs & Co. to repurchase $200 million of its outstanding common stock. The repurchase follows the recently announced authorization by Unum Group's Board of Directors to repurchase up to an additional $1 billion of the company's common stock and is a component of Unum Group's overall capital management strategy, as outlined in November 2010.
CHATTANOOGA, Tenn. (February 4, 2011)
The total number of shares ultimately repurchased under the agreement will be determined at the settlement of the transaction. Under the terms of the repurchase agreement, Unum Group may receive, or be required to deliver, an additional number of shares of common stock based on the volume weighted average price of Unum Group common stock during the term of the agreement. Any adjustment with respect to the Goldman, Sachs & Co.'s obligation to deliver additional shares will be settled in shares of Unum Group common stock. Any adjustment payable to Goldman, Sachs & Co. will be settled either in cash or common stock. Unum Group expects the settlement of the transaction to occur on or before the termination date of the agreement, scheduled for April 5, 2011.
ABOUT UNUM GROUP
 
UNUM IS A REGISTERED TRADEMARK AND MARKETING BRAND OF UNUM GROUP AND ITS INSURING SUBSIDIARIES.
 
Unum () is one of the leading providers of employee benefits products and services and the largest provider of disability insurance products in the United States and the United Kingdom.
www.unum.com
SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT
Certain information in this press release constitutes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are those not based on historical information, but rather relate to future operations, strategies, financial results, or other developments and speak only as of the date made. These forward-looking statements, including statements about the timing and amount of the Company's share repurchases, are subject to numerous assumptions, risks, and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. The following factors, in addition to other factors mentioned from time to time, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements: (1) unfavorable economic or business conditions, both domestic and foreign, including the continued financial market disruption; (2) legislative, regulatory, or tax changes, both domestic and foreign, including the effect of potential legislation and increased regulation in the current political environment; (3) sustained periods of low interest rates; (4) changes in claim incidence and recovery rates due to, among other factors, the rate of unemployment and consumer confidence, the emergence of new diseases, epidemics, or pandemics, new trends and developments in medical treatments, and the effectiveness of claims management operations; (5) fluctuation in insurance reserve liabilities; (6) investment results, including but not limited to, realized investment losses resulting from impairments that differ from our assumptions and historical experience; (7) changes in interest rates, credit spreads, and securities prices; (8) increased competition from other insurers and financial services companies due to industry consolidation or other factors; (9) changes in our financial strength and credit ratings; (10) rating agency actions, state insurance department market conduct examinations and other inquiries, other governmental investigations and actions, and negative media attention; (11) effectiveness in managing our operating risks and the implementation of operational improvements and
 
2
UNUM IS A REGISTERED TRADEMARK AND MARKETING BRAND OF UNUM GROUP AND ITS INSURING SUBSIDIARIES.
 
strategic growth initiatives; (12) actual experience in pricing, underwriting, and reserving that deviates from our assumptions; (13) lower than projected persistency and lower sales growth; (14) changes in accounting standards, practices, or policies; (15) effectiveness of our risk management program; (16) the level and results of litigation; (17) currency exchange rates; (18) ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends as a result of regulatory restrictions; (19) ability and willingness of reinsurers to meet their obligations; (20) changes in assumptions related to intangible assets such as deferred acquisition costs, value of business acquired, and goodwill; (21) events or consequences relating to terrorism and acts of war, both domestic and foreign; and (22) ability to recover our systems and information in the event of a disaster or unanticipated event.
For further information about risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements, see Part I, Item 1A of our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 and any subsequently filed Forms 10-Q. The forward-looking statements in this press release are being made as of the date of this press release, and the Company expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement contained herein, even if made available on our website or otherwise.
 
3
UNUM IS A REGISTERED TRADEMARK AND MARKETING BRAND OF UNUM GROUP AND ITS INSURING SUBSIDIARIES.


