FILE:UNM/UNM-8K-20120525162147.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(e) On May 24, 2012, the shareholders of Unum Group (the "Company") approved the Unum Group Stock Incentive Plan of 2012 (the "Plan") at the annual meeting of shareholders. The Human Capital Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company had previously adopted the Plan on February 21, 2012, subject to shareholder approval. A description of the material features of the Plan is set forth on pages 14 through 24 of the Company's definitive proxy statement on Schedule 14A filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 12, 2012 (the "Proxy Statement"), which description is incorporated herein by reference. This description of the Plan is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Plan, which was included as Appendix A to the Proxy Statement and is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
The Company held its annual meeting of shareholders on May 24, 2012. Matters submitted to shareholders at the meeting and voting results were as follows:
. The Company's shareholders elected the four director nominees listed below for three-year terms expiring in 2015, based upon the following voting results:
Item 1  Election of Directors
 
Also continuing as directors of the Company after the meeting were: E. Michael Caulfield, Ronald E. Goldsberry, Kevin T. Kabat, Gloria C. Larson, Michael J. Passarella, William J. Ryan and Thomas R. Watjen.
The Company's shareholders approved, on an advisory basis, the compensation of the Company's named executive officers, based upon the following voting results:
Item 2  Advisory Vote to Approve Executive Compensation.
 
The Company's shareholders approved the Unum Group Stock Incentive Plan of 2012, based upon the following voting results:
Item 3  Vote on Approval of the Unum Group Stock Incentive Plan of 2012.
 
The Company's shareholders ratified the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for 2012, based upon the following voting results:
Item 4  Ratification of Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.
 
(d) . The following exhibit is filed with this report:
Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


