FILE:UNM/UNM-8K-20120417161805.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934
1 Fountain Square
Chattanooga, Tennessee 37402
(Address of principal executive offices)(Zip Code)
(423) 294-1011
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
Not Applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report.)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
On April 17, 2012, Unum Group (the Company) made available a Supplemental Exhibit to illustrate the anticipated changes to the presentation of the Company's prior period financial results as a result of the retrospective adoption, effective January 1, 2012, of Accounting Standards Update No. 2010-26 (previously referred to as EITF Issue No. 09-G) and to reflect a modification to the Company's segment reporting of non-operating retirement-relate
d gains or losses.
In October 2010, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued an accounting standards update (ASU 2010-26) to address the diversity in practice regarding the interpretation of which costs relating to the acquisition of new or renewal insurance contracts qualify as deferred acquisition costs. The amendments in the update require that only incremental direct costs associated with the successful acquisition of a new or renewal insurance contract can be capitalized. All other costs are to be expensed as incurred. The Company adopted this update effective January 1, 2012 and applied the amendments retrospectively, adjusting all prior periods.
Additionally, during the first quarter of 2012, the Company determined that it would modify its segment reporting. The Company previously allocated the amortization of prior period actuarial gains and losses, the component of the net periodic benefit costs for its pensions and other postretirement benefit plans which management considers non-operating, to the Corporate segment. Management believes actuarial gains or losses are primarily driven by market performance and are not indicative of the operational results of the businesses. Effective January 1, 2012, the amortization of prior period actuarial gains or losses is no longer included in operating income or operating loss by segment. As such, operating income or operating loss by segment excludes net realized investment gains and losses, non-operating retirement-related gains or losses, and income tax.
This information is being made available to provide investors with an opportunity to become familiar with the expected impact of the accounting standards update to the Company's financial results and the presentation thereof prior to the Company's earnings release for the quarter ended March 31, 2012. A copy of the Supplemental Exhibit is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference and furnished herewith.
Item 9.01    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
INDEX TO EXHIBITS
    

Unum Group Consolidated Balance Sheets - Adjusted for ASU 2010-26
1
Unum Group Deferred Acquisition Costs by Segment - Adjusted for ASU 2010-26
2
Unum Group Book Value Per Share - Adjusted for ASU 2010-26
See "Consolidated Balance Sheets" on page 1 of this Supplemental Exhibit for detail on the components of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) excluded from Total Stockholders' Equity in computing the book value per share measures listed above.
3
Unum Group Financial Results - Adjusted for ASU 2010-26
4
Unum Group Financial Results - Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
In the chart below and in the following segment financial data, "operating revenue" excludes net realized investment gains or losses. "Operating income" or "operating loss" excludes net realized investment gains or losses, non-operating retirement-related gains or loss, and income tax. A reconciliation of total operating revenue and operating income by segment to revenue and net income as reported in our consolidated statements of income follows.
4.1
Unum Group Financial Results - Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures - Continued
We analyze our performance using non-GAAP financial measures. A non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. We believe operating income or loss which excludes the specified items listed in our reconciliation is a better performance measure and a better indicator of the profitability and underlying trends in our business. Realized investment gains and losses depend on market conditions and do not necessarily relate to decisions regarding the underlying business of our segments. Our investment focus is on investment income to support our insurance liabilities as opposed to the generation of realized investment gains and losses. A long-term focus is necessary to maintain profitability over the life of the business, although we may experience realized investment losses which will affect future earnings levels since our underlying business is long-term in nature and we need to earn the interest rates assumed in calculating our liabilities. Certain components of the net periodic benefit cost for our pensions and other postretirement benefit plans, namely the amortization of prior period actuarial gains and losses, are primarily driven by market performance and are not indicative of the operational results of our businesses. We believe that excluding the amortization of prior period actuarial gains and losses from operating income by segment provides investors with additional information for comparison and analysis of our operating results. However, although we manage our non-operating retirement-related gains or losses separately from the operational performance of our business, these gains or losses impact the overall profitability of our company and will increase or decrease over time, depending on market conditions and the resulting impact on the actuarial gains or losses in our pensions and other postretirement benefit plans. We may at other times exclude certain other items, as noted in our reconciliation of after-tax operating income to net income, from our discussion of financial ratios and metrics in order to enhance the understanding and comparability of our operational performance and the underlying fundamentals, but this exclusion is not an indication that similar items may not recur and does not replace net income or net loss as a measure of overall profitability.
4.2
Unum Group Financial Results for Unum US Segment - Adjusted for ASU 2010-26
5
Unum Group Financial Results for Unum US Group Disability - Adjusted for ASU 2010-26
5.1
Unum Group Financial Results for Unum US Group Life and Accidental Death &Dismemberment - Adjusted for ASU 2010-26
5.2
Unum Group Financial Results for Unum US Supplemental and Voluntary - Adjusted for ASU 2010-26
5.3
Unum Group Financial Results for Unum UK Segment - Adjusted for ASU 2010-26
6
Unum Group Financial Results for Unum UK Segment - Adjusted for ASU 2010-26 - Continued
6.1
Unum Group Financial Results for Colonial Life Segment - Adjusted for ASU 2010-26
7
Unum Group Financial Results for Closed Block Segment - Adjusted for ASU 2010-26
8
Unum Group Financial Results for Closed Block Segment - Adjusted for ASU 2010-26 - Continued
8.1
Unum Group Financial Results for Corporate Segment - Adjusted for Non-operating Retirement-related Loss
*We previously allocated the amortization of prior period actuarial gains and losses, the component of the net periodic benefit costs for our pensions and other postretirement benefit plans which we consider to be non-operating, to our Corporate segment.  During the first quarter of 2012, we determined that we would modify our segment reporting.  Effective January 1, 2012, these gains or losses are no longer included in operating income or operating loss by segment.  Prior period amounts for our Corporate segment have been adjusted to conform to current year reporting. 
9


