FILE:TWX/TWX-8K-20030414154337.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Acquisition or disposition of assets	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Acquisition or disposition of assets
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
Item 2. Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
      On March 31, 2003, AOL Time Warner Inc., a Delaware corporation ("AOL Time Warner"), Warner Communications Inc., a Delaware corporation ("WCI"), American Television and Communications Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("ATC"), Comcast Corporation, a Pennsylvania corporation ("Comcast"), and certain other parties consummated the transactions contemplated by the Restructuring Agreement, dated as of August 20, 2002, by and among AOL Time Warner, WCI, ATC, Comcast and the other parties thereto, as amended, relating to the previously announced restructuring (the "TWE Restructuring") of Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P. ("TWE"), a Delaware limited partnership formed in 1992.
      Prior to the completion of the TWE Restructuring, TWE had held a significant portion of AOL Time Warner's interests in its cable, networks and filmed entertainment businesses. The TWE Restructuring resulted in the following: (i) AOL Time Warner acquired complete ownership of TWE's content assets (including Warner Bros. and Home Box Office, which became separate, wholly owned subsidiaries of AOL Time Warner); (ii) all of AOL Time Warner's directly-owned cable television system interests were contributed to a separate company which became a majority-owned subsidiary of AOL Time Warner and was renamed Time Warner Cable Inc. ("TWC Inc."); (iii) TWE became a subsidiary of TWC Inc. and will continue to own the cable television system interests previously owned by it; (iv) Comcast, which had held limited partnership interests in TWE through two trusts (the "Comcast Trusts"), received $2.1 billion in cash and AOL Time Warner equity securities valued at $1.5 billion; (v) a Comcast Trust also retained a 21% economic interest in AOL Time Warner's cable business through a 17.9% direct ownership interest in TWC Inc. (representing a 10.7% voting interest) and a limited partnership interest in TWE representing a 4.7% residual equity interest; and (vi) AOL Time Warner retained an overall 79% economic interest in the cable business, through an 82.1% ownership interest in TWC Inc. (representing an 89.3% voting interest) and a limited partnership interest in TWE representing a 1% residual equity interest. In addition, AOL Time Warner's limited partnership interest in TWE includes a $2.4 billion preferred component.
      In connection with the TWE Restructuring, AOL Time Warner, WCI, ATC and TWC Inc. participated in a series of certain transactions completed on March 28, 2003 pursuant to which certain assets and liabilities were transferred by ATC and other wholly owned subsidiaries of AOL Time Warner to WCI in exchange for WCI common stock. At the closing of the TWE Restructuring, the portion of these assets related to AOL Time Warner's cable business was transferred by WCI to TWC Inc. in exchange for shares of Class A common stock of TWC Inc., which are included in AOL Time Warner's ownership percentage described above.
      In the ordinary course of business, AOL Time Warner and its divisions and affiliates have entered into various agreements on an arms-length basis with Comcast and its divisions and affiliates. None of these agreements are material to the business of AOL Time Warner, TWE, WCI or ATC.
      A copy of the press release issued by AOL Time Warner announcing the closing of the TWE Restructuring is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
      
Item 7.
Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits.
      (c)  Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 

Table of Contents
EXHIBIT: 2.2
EXECUTION COPY
               This AMENDMENT NO. 1 (this "Amendment") to the RESTRUCTURING AGREEMENT (the "Restructuring Agreement"), dated as of August 20, 2002, by and among Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership ("TWE"), AT&T Corp., a New York corporation ("AT&T"), Comcast of Georgia, Inc., a Colorado corporation (formerly named MediaOne of Colorado, Inc., "Comcast of Georgia"), MOTH Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation (formerly named New MOTH Holdings, Inc., the "Company") (as successor to MOTH Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation formerly named MediaOne TWE Holdings, Inc. (the "Company Predecessor")), Comcast Holdings Corporation, a Pennsylvania corporation (formerly named Comcast Corporation, "Comcast Holdings"), Comcast Corporation, a Pennsylvania corporation (formerly named AT&T Comcast Corporation, "Comcast"), AOL Time Warner Inc., a Delaware corporation ("AOLTW"), TWI Cable Inc., a Delaware corporation ("TWIC"), Warner Communications Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Holdco"), and American Television and Communications Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("ATC"), is made as of March 31, 2003, by and among TWE, Comcast of Georgia, the Company, Comcast Holdings, Comcast, AOLTW, TWIC, Holdco, ATC, TWE Holdings I Trust, a Delaware statutory trust (together with its predecessor Delaware limited liability company, "Trust I"), TWE Holdings II Trust, a Delaware statutory trust (together with its predecessor Delaware limited liability company, "Trust II"), and TWE Holdings III Trust, a Delaware statutory trust (together with its predecessor Delaware limited liability company, "Trust III" and, collectively with Trust I and Trust II, the "Trust Entities"). Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the respective meanings assigned to them in the Restructuring Agreement.
               WHEREAS, certain of the parties hereto have previously entered into the Restructuring Agreement pursuant to which, among other things, the parties agreed to restructure and recapitalize TWE and the Company;
               WHEREAS, on November 18, 2002, AT&T, Comcast Holdings and Comcast consummated the AT&T-Comcast Merger and, upon such consummation and pursuant to Section 15.12 of the Restructuring Agreement, all of AT&T's rights and obligations under the Transaction Agreements were automatically assigned to and assumed by Comcast and Comcast replaced AT&T as a party to the Transaction Agreements;
               WHEREAS, in connection with the closing of the AT&T-Comcast Merger (a) Comcast of Georgia indirectly transferred its limited partnership interest in TWE to Trust I, (b) Comcast of Georgia indirectly transferred all of the Equity Securities of the Company Predecessor to Trust II and (c) the Company Predecessor transferred its limited partnership interest in TWE to Trust III;
               WHEREAS, in connection with the closing of the AT&T-Comcast Merger and pursuant to the Assignment and Assumption Agreement, dated as of November 18,
Table of Contents
2002, by and among Comcast of Georgia, the Company, AT&T, Comcast, Comcast Holdings and the Trust Entities, and acknowledged by AOLTW, TWE, TWIC and ATC (the "Trust Assignment and Assumption Agreement"): (a) each Trust Entity was assigned the rights of the party transferring the limited partnership interest in TWE or Equity Securities of the Company, as applicable, to such Trust Entity, and agreed to assume obligations of such transferring party, under the Transaction Agreements, in each case to the extent relating to the limited partnership interests in TWE or Equity Securities of the Company transferred to such Trust Entity, (b) each Trust Entity was assigned certain additional rights, and assumed certain additional obligations, of each of AT&T, Comcast and Comcast Holdings and (c) each Trust Entity was admitted as a party to the Transaction Agreements to which the rights assigned to, or obligations assumed by, such Trust Entity relate, but only with respect to the provisions of such Transaction Documents relating to such rights and/or obligations;
               WHEREAS, prior to the date hereof, the Company Predecessor was merged with and into the Company and, by virtue of such merger, the Company, as the surviving corporation, became entitled to all of the rights and subject to all of the obligations of the Company Predecessor, including, without limitation, all rights and obligations of the Company Predecessor under the Transaction Agreements; and
               WHEREAS, in accordance with Section 15.4(a) of the Restructuring Agreement, the parties hereto wish to amend the Restructuring Agreement to reflect the consummation of certain of the transactions described above and to make certain other changes.
               NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto, intending to be legally bound, agree as follows:
               1.1      Change of Name of Comcast Corporation. All references in the Restructuring Agreement to "Comcast Corporation" are hereby changed to "Comcast Holdings Corporation," and all references to "Comcast" are hereby changed to "Comcast Holdings."
               1.2      Change of Name of AT&T Comcast Corporation. All references in the Restructuring Agreement to "AT&T Comcast Corporation" are hereby changed to "Comcast Corporation" and all references to "AT&T Comcast" are hereby changed to "Comcast."
               1.3      Change of Name of MediaOne of Colorado, Inc. All references in the Restructuring Agreement to "MediaOne of Colorado, Inc." are hereby changed to "Comcast of Georgia, Inc." and all references to "MediaOne of Colorado" are hereby changed to "Comcast of Georgia."
2
Table of Contents
               1.4      Change to Permitted AT&T Transfer. All references in the Restructuring Agreement to "Permitted AT&T Transfer" are hereby changed to "Permitted AT&T Disposition."
               2.1      Additional Amendments to the Restructuring Agreement. The document attached hereto as Annex A reflects the amendments to the Restructuring Agreement agreed to by the parties hereto that are not otherwise reflected in this Amendment.
               2.2      AOLTW Disclosure Letter. Sections 5.12, 5.15, 5.22 and 5.29 of the AOLTW Disclosure Letter are hereby amended and rested in their entirety to read in full as set forth on Annex B to this Amendment.
               2.3      AT&T Disclosure Letter. Section 3.7 of the AT&T Disclosure Letter is hereby amended by adding to such section the information set forth on Annex C to this Amendment.
               2.4      Closing. The parties agree that the Closing contemplated by Section 2.2 of the Restructuring Agreement shall take place on March 31, 2003.
               3.1      Amendment to Exhibit A of the Restructuring Agreement. Exhibit A to the Restructuring Agreement, the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the new Exhibit A attached hereto.
               3.2      Amendment to Exhibit B of the Restructuring Agreement. Exhibit B to the Restructuring Agreement, the Amended and Restated Partnership Agreement, is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the new Exhibit B attached hereto.
               3.3      Amendment to Exhibit C of the Restructuring Agreement. Exhibit C to the Restructuring Agreement, the Amended By-laws, is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the new Exhibit C attached hereto.
               3.4      Amendment to Exhibit D of the Restructuring Agreement. Exhibit D to the Restructuring Agreement, the AOL High Speed Data Agreement, is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the new Exhibit D attached hereto.
               3.5      Amendment to Exhibit E of the Restructuring Agreement. Exhibit E to the Restructuring Agreement, the AOLTW Company Registration Rights
3
Table of Contents
     Agreement, is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the new Exhibit E attached hereto.
               3.6      Amendment to Exhibit F of the Restructuring Agreement. Exhibit F to the Restructuring Agreement, the AT&T Company Registration Rights Agreement, is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the new Exhibit F attached hereto.
               3.7      Amendment to Exhibit H of the Restructuring Agreement. Exhibit H to the Restructuring Agreement, the Parent Agreement, is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the new Exhibit H attached hereto.
               3.8      Amendment to Exhibit I of the Restructuring Agreement. Exhibit I to the Restructuring Agreement, the Partnership Interest Sale Agreement, is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the new Exhibit I attached hereto.
               3.9      Amendment to Exhibit J of the Restructuring Agreement. Exhibit J to the Restructuring Agreement, the Reimbursement Agreement, is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the new Exhibit J attached hereto.
               3.10      Amendment to Exhibit K of the Restructuring Agreement. Exhibit K to the Restructuring Agreement, the Road Runner Brand Name License Agreement, is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the new Exhibit K attached hereto.
               3.11      Amendment to Exhibit L of the Restructuring Agreement. Exhibit L to the Restructuring Agreement, the Tax Matters Agreement, is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the new Exhibit L attached hereto.
               3.12      Amendment to Exhibit M of the Restructuring Agreement. Exhibit M to the Restructuring Agreement, the Time Warner Brand Name License Agreement, is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the new Exhibit M attached hereto.
               3.13      Addition of Exhibit N to the Restructuring Agreement. The Restructuring Agreement is hereby amended by inserting Exhibit N attached hereto, the Certificate of Designations, to the end of the Restructuring Agreement as a new Exhibit N to the Restructuring Agreement.
               4.1      Successors and Assigns. The provisions of this Amendment shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns; provided that no party hereto may assign, delegate or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement without the consent of the other parties hereto. Each of the parties hereto consents to the assignment of rights by Trust III to Trust II effected pursuant to the Assignment and Assumption Agreement,
4
Table of Contents
dated as of the date hereof, by and between Trust III and Trust II and acknowledged by AOLTW and the other acknowledging parties thereto.
               4.2      Governing Law. This Amendment shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, without regard to the conflicts of law rules of the State of New York.
               4.3      Counterparts; Effectiveness. This Amendment may be signed in counterparts, each of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument. This Amendment shall become effective when each party hereto shall have received a counterpart hereof signed by the other parties hereto.
               4.4      Headings. The headings in this Amendment are for reference only and shall not affect the interpretation of this Amendment.
               4.5      Ratification. Except as otherwise expressly provided by this Amendment, all of the terms and conditions of the Restructuring Agreement and of the Trust Assignment and Assumption Agreement are hereby ratified and shall remain unchanged and continue in full force and effect. The parties hereto acknowledge that this Amendment reflects certain, but not all, of the assignments of rights and assumptions of obligations effected by the Trust Assignment and Assumption Agreement, and does not reflect the full extent to which the Trust Entities have been admitted as parties to the Agreement pursuant to the Trust Assignment and Assumption Agreement. The terms and conditions of the Trust Assignment and Assumption Agreement shall survive the execution of this Amendment and nothing in this Amendment shall be interpreted to limit, expand or otherwise amend the assignments of rights or the assumptions of obligations effected by the Trust Assignment and Assumption Agreement.
5
Table of Contents
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed, or have caused to be executed, this Amendment on the date first written above.
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
[EXECUTION COPY] ANNEX A
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
     This RESTRUCTURING AGREEMENT, dated as of August 20, 2002, is by and among Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership ("TWE"), AT&T Corp., a New York corporation, MediaOne of Colorado, Inc., a Colorado corporation ("MediaOne of Colorado"), MediaOne TWE Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation[ (the "Company")], Comcast Corporation, a Pennsylvania corporation ("Comcast"), AT&T Comcast Corporation, a Pennsylvania corporation, AOL Time Warner Inc., a Delaware corporation ("AOLTW"), TWI Cable Inc., a Delaware corporation ("TWIC"), Warner Communications Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Holdco"), and American Television and Communications Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("ATC[" and, collectively with Holdco, the "AOL TWE Partners]"). Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the respective meanings assigned to them in Article I.
     WHEREAS, the parties desire to separate the broadband assets and business, and related liabilities, of AOLTW and its Subsidiaries from all of AOLTW's and its Subsidiaries' other assets and businesses as set forth in this Agreement;
     WHEREAS, AOLTW's Existing TWE Partners hold all of the TWE Partnership Interests owned directly or indirectly by the AOLTW Group;
     WHEREAS, AOLTW shall, prior to the Closing, cause ATC to transfer a portion of its TWE Partnership Interests, directly or indirectly, to Holdco, subject to the TWE Partnership Liabilities associated with the portion so transferred, and, following such transfer, Holdco and ATC will continue to collectively own all of the TWE Partnership Interests, subject to all of the TWE Partnership Liabilities, of the AOLTW Group (the "TWE Transfer");
(a)
and (b) ATC to transfer to Holdco, directly or indirectly, all of the ATC Assets (other than the ATC Delayed Transfer Assets), subject to the ATC Liabilities, such that, following such transfer, Holdco will, directly or indirectly, own all of the ATC Assets (other than the ATC Delayed Transfer Assets), subject to the ATC Liabilities (the "ATC Contribution");
     WHEREAS, AOLTW shall, prior to the Closing, cause TWIC to transfer to Holdco, directly or indirectly, all of the TWIC Broadband Assets (other than the TWIC Delayed Transfer Assets), subject to the TWIC Broadband Liabilities, such that, following such transfer , Holdco will, directly or indirectly, own all of the TWIC Broadband Assets (other than the TWIC Delayed Transfer Assets), subject to all of the TWIC Broadband Liabilities, all on terms and conditions that are the same in all material respects to the terms and conditions on which such Assets and Liabilities will be transferred at the Closing to the Company pursuant to the TWIC Contribution Agreement (other than with respect to the identity of the parties and the timing of effectiveness) (collectively, the "Initial TWIC Contribution");
Initial
Initial
and the ATC Contribution
     WHEREAS, the parties desire to restructure TWE by causing TWE to distribute to Holdco, in partial redemption of the TWE Partnership Interests held by
Table of Contents
2
Holdco, all of the TWE Non-Broadband Assets, subject to all of the TWE Non-Broadband Liabilities;
     WHEREAS, the parties desire to restructure and recapitalize the Company by (a) AT&T causing the Company to incur certain Indebtedness for borrowed money and to apply the cash proceeds of such Indebtedness to satisfy and discharge certain then existing Indebtedness of the Company owed to MediaOne of Colorado; (b) approving and adopting the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company; (c) MediaOne of Colorado or a Subsidiary of MediaOne of Colorado transferring shares of Company Class B Common Stock to AOLTW in exchange for [shares]of [AOLTW Common]Stock (the "Exchange"); and (d) Holdco contributing all of its TWE Partnership Interests, subject to its TWE Partnership Liabilities associated with the TWE Broadband Business, and all of the TWIC Broadband Assets (other than the TWIC Delayed Transfer Assets), subject to all of the TWIC Broadband Liabilities, to the Company (the "Holdco Contribution") in exchange for shares of Company Class A Common Stock;
one share
Series A Preferred
     WHEREAS, the parties desire to recapitalize TWE by approving and adopting the Amended and Restated TWE Partnership Agreement pursuant to which, among other things, all of the then-existing TWE Partnership Interests will be converted into new TWE partnership interests as provided in the Amended and Restated TWE Partnership Agreement;
     WHEREAS, as a condition precedent of, and inducement to, the parties willingness to enter into this Agreement, (a) AOLTW and MediaOne of Colorado are concurrently herewith entering into the AOLTW Registration Rights Agreement, (b) at the Closing, MediaOne of Colorado, AOLTW and the Company will enter into the AT&T Company Registration Rights Agreement and (c) at the Closing, AOLTW, MediaOne of Colorado and the Company will enter into the AOLTW Company Registration Rights Agreement;
     WHEREAS, as a condition precedent of, and inducement to, the parties' willingness to enter into this Agreement, AOLTW, Comcast and AT&T are agreeing that, at the Closing, subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the [AOLTW]High Speed Data Agreement will be entered into and become effective;
AOL
     WHEREAS, it is intended that, for Federal income tax purposes, the Exchange shall qualify as a reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code;
     WHEREAS, it is intended that, for Federal income tax purposes, the Holdco Contribution in exchange for Company Class A Common Stock shall qualify as an exchange within the meaning of Section 351 of the Code; and
     WHEREAS, it is intended that all of the foregoing shall be effected on the terms and subject to the applicable conditions contained herein and in the other Transaction Agreements.
Table of Contents
3
     NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto, intending to be legally bound, agree as follows:
     1.1     Definitions.
          (a)     The following terms, as used herein, have the following meanings:
     "1933 Act" means the Securities Act of 1933.
     "1934 Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
     "A/N Deconsolidation" means, with respect to the TWE Broadband Business, the Assets, Liabilities and results of operations of the Selected Business ceasing to be consolidated with the Assets, Liabilities and results of operations of TWE as a result of the TWEAN Restructuring.
     "Acquire" means to directly or indirectly acquire, receive in exchange or redemption, subscribe for, purchase (by merger, consolidation, combination, recapitalization or other reorganization) or otherwise obtain an interest in, by operation of law or otherwise. "Acquisition" has a correlative meaning.
     "Affiliate" means, with respect to any Person, any other Person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by or under common control with such Person; provided that, for purposes of this definition, "control" (including with correlative meanings, the terms "controlled by" and "under common control with"), as used with respect to any Person, shall mean the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities or other Equity Securities, by Contract or otherwise; provided, further, that, solely for purposes of this definition of Affiliate, if any Person owns [all]of the beneficial interests of a Disposition Trust, such Disposition Trust (and its controlled Affiliates) will be deemed to be controlled by such Person and any other Person who controls such Person.
directly or indirectly
a majority
     "Agreement" means this Restructuring Agreement, as the same may be amended, supplemented or modified in accordance with the terms hereof.
     "Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation" means the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A.
     "Amended and Restated TWE Partnership Agreement" means the Amended and Restated Partnership Agreement of TWE, substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit B.
Table of Contents
4
     "Amended Bylaws" means the Amended Bylaws of the Company, substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit C.
     "AOL" means America Online, Inc., a Delaware corporation.
     "AOL High Speed Data Agreement" means the Internet Service Provider Agreement, to be entered into among AOL, TWE and AT&T at the Closing, in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit D, as such agreement may be amended in accordance with Sections 8.1 and 9.1.
     "AOLTW Balance Sheet" means the pro forma consolidated balance sheet of AOLTW and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of June 30, 2002, as set forth in the AOLTW 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2002.
     "AOLTW Balance Sheet Date" means June 30, 2002.
     "AOLTW Broadband Business" means the TWE Broadband Business and the TWIC Broadband Business.
     "AOLTW Broadband Group" means (i) TWIC and its Subsidiaries (but only with respect to the TWIC Broadband Assets, the [TWIC Broadband Business and the]TWIC Broadband Liabilities )[,] prior togiving effect to the contribution of TWIC Broadband [Assets]to,[and] assumption of TWIC Broadband [Liabilities]by, Holdco; (ii) [Holdco]and [its]Subsidiaries (butonly with respect to the [TWIC Broadband]Assets, the [TWIC Broadband]Business and the [TWIC Broadband]Liabilities) ;[ and] (iii) TWE and its Subsidiaries (but only with respect to the TWE Broadband Assets, the TWE Broadband Business and the TWE Broadband Liabilities). Any Person in the AOLTW Broadband Group may be referred to as an "AOLTW Broadband Member."
Initial
Initial
and the Initial TWIC Broadband Business
, with respect to any given Initial TWIC Broadband Asset, Initial TWIC Broadband Liability or portion of the Initial TWIC Broadband Business,
such Initial
Asset
such Initial
Liability
, or transfer of such portion of the Initial TWIC Broadband Business to
ATC
Time Warner Connect and their respective
, in the case of ATC and its Subsidiaries (other than Time Warner Connect and its Subsidiaries),
ATC
ATC
ATC
prior to giving effect to the contribution of the ATC Assets to, and the assumption of the ATC Liabilities by, Holdco
) Holdco and its Subsidiaries (but only with respect to the TWIC Broadband Assets, the TWIC Broadband Business and the TWIC Broadband Liabilities); and (iv
     "AOLTW Broadband Permitted Indebtedness" means aggregate consolidated Net Indebtedness not in excess of an amount equal to (a) $6 billion; plus (b) the Indebtedness incurred by the Company pursuant to Section 2.4(a); minus (c) the TWE Preferred Amount; minus (d) the aggregate amount of cash received by the AOLTW Broadband Group on or after the date hereof and prior to Closing for "launch support" (i.e., payments subject to forfeiture for failure to perform obligations under carriage arrangements that are required to be performed by the Company or its Subsidiaries after Closing) to the extent in excess of $20 million and net of estimated
Table of Contents
5
taxes arising from the receipt of such excess amount calculated as described below; minus (e) cash and cash equivalents received by the AOLTW Broadband Business after the date hereof from unconsolidated joint ventures (excluding tax distributions); plus (f) cash and cash equivalents disbursed to unconsolidated joint ventures in the AOLTW Broadband Business. In addition, AOLTW Permitted Indebtedness shall be subject to increases for acquisitions, and decreases for dispositions, of Systems from the date hereof to Closing, in each case to the extent appropriate. In the event of any such acquisition or disposition that impacts AOLTW Broadband Permitted Indebtedness by more than $10 million individually or $50 million in the aggregate, the parties will consult in good faith as to the appropriate adjustment to be made pursuant to the foregoing sentence. To the extent income or gain referred to in clause (d) above is recognized directly or indirectly by TWE the estimated taxes referred to in that clause shall be the sum of TWE Entity Level Income Taxes plus any distributions with respect to such income or gain made to the partners of TWE as described in Section 2.8(b) hereof. In all other cases, such estimate shall be at the Combined Effective Tax Rate.
     "AOLTW Common Stock" means Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of AOLTW, or any successor securities.
     "AOLTW Company Registration Rights Agreement" means the Registration Rights Agreement, to be entered into by and among AOLTW, MediaOne of Colorado and the Company at the Closing, in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit E.
     "AOLTW Disclosure Letter" means that certain letter identified to AT&T and Comcast as such by AOLTW in writing on the date hereof; provided, that, for purposes of the representations and warranties contained in Sections 5.10, 5.11, 5.12, 5.13(a), 5.14 and 5.15, the AOLTW Disclosure Letter shall be deemed to include all information disclosed by AOLTW or any of its Subsidiaries in any public filing with the SEC [on or before the third Trading Day immediately ]prior to [(and excluding) ]the [first Trading Day in the Valuation Period].
Closing Date
     "AOLTW's Existing TWE Partners" means ATC and Holdco.
     "AOLTW Group" means AOLTW together with its Subsidiaries. Any Person in the AOLTW Group is an "AOLTW Member."
     "AOLTW Material Adverse Effect" means (a) a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, assets or results of operations of AOLTW and its Subsidiaries (taken as a whole after giving effect to the Transactions) excluding any such effect resulting from or arising in connection with (i) the announcement of this Agreement; (ii) changes or conditions generally affecting the industries in which AOLTW operates; (iii) changes in the economy or financial markets in general; or (iv) changes in general regulatory or political conditions or (b) any change or effect that prohibits or materially impairs the ability of any Person to consummate the Transactions.
Table of Contents
6
     "AOLTW Non-Broadband Business" means the TWE Non-Broadband Business, as defined in the TWE Distribution Agreement, and the TWIC Non-Broadband Business, as defined in the TWIC Contribution Agreement.
     "AOLTW Non-Broadband Member" means any AOLTW Member other than an AOLTW Broadband Member.
     "AOLTW Parties" means AOLTW, TWIC, TWE, Holdco and ATC.
     "AOLTW Registration Rights Agreement" means the Registration Rights Agreement dated as of the date hereof by and between AOLTW and MediaOne of Colorado.
     ["AOLTW Stock Price" means the simple average (rounded to the nearest [/][10,000) of the Trading Values of AOLTW Common Stock for each Trading Day during the Valuation Period.]
1]
     "Arm's-Length Terms" means terms that, when taken as a whole, are substantially as favorable to the AOLTW Broadband Group as would have been obtainable in a comparable arm's length transaction with a Person that is not AOLTW or an Affiliate of AOLTW.
     "Assets" means assets, properties and rights (including goodwill), wherever located (including in the possession of vendors or other third parties or elsewhere), whether real, personal or mixed, tangible, intangible or contingent, in each case whether or not recorded or reflected or required to be recorded or reflected on the books and records or financial statements of any Person, including the following:
     (a)       all accounting and other books, records and files whether in paper, microfilm, microfiche, computer tape or disc, magnetic tape or any other form;
     (b)       all apparatus, computers and other electronic data processing equipment, fixtures, machinery, equipment, furniture, office equipment, automobiles, trucks, aircraft, rolling stock, vessels, motor vehicles and other transportation equipment, special and general tools, test devices, prototypes and models and other tangible personal property;
     (c)       all inventories of materials, parts, raw materials, supplies, work-in-process and finished goods and products;
     (d)       all interests in real property of whatever nature, including easements and rights of way, whether as owner, mortgagee or holder of a security interest in real property, lessor, sublessor, lessee, sublessee or otherwise, and copies of all related documentation;
     (e)       all interests in any capital stock or other equity interests of any Subsidiary or any other Person, all bonds, notes, debentures or other securities issued by
Table of Contents
7
any Subsidiary or any other Person, all loans, advances or other extensions of credit or capital contributions to any Subsidiary or any other Person and all other investments in securities of any Person;
     (f)       all license agreements, leases of personal property, open purchase orders for raw materials, supplies, parts or services, unfilled orders for the manufacture and sale of products and other contracts, agreements or commitments;
     (g)     all deposits, letters of credit and performance and surety bonds;
     (h)       all written technical information, data, specifications, research and development information, engineering drawings, operating and maintenance manuals, and materials and analyses prepared by consultants and other third parties;
     (i)     all domestic and foreign patents, copyrights, trade names, trademarks, service marks and registrations and applications for any of the foregoing, mask works, trade secrets, inventions, other proprietary information and licenses from third Persons granting the right to use any of the foregoing;
     (j)       all computer applications, programs and other software, including operating software, network software, firmware, middleware, design software, design tools, systems documentation and instructions;
     (k)     all cost information, sales and pricing data, customer prospect lists, supplier records, customer and supplier lists, records pertaining to customers and customer accounts, customer and vendor data, correspondence and lists, product literature, artwork, design, development and manufacturing files, vendor and customer drawings, formulations and specifications, quality records and reports and other books, records, studies, surveys, reports, plans and documents;
     (l)       all prepaid expenses, trade accounts and other accounts and notes receivable;
     (m)       all rights under contracts or agreements, all claims or rights against any Person arising from the ownership of any Asset, all rights in connection with any bids or offers and all claims, choses in action or similar rights, whether accrued or contingent;
     (n)     all insurance proceeds and rights under insurance policies and all rights in the nature of insurance, indemnification or contribution;
     (o)       all Authorizations that have been issued by any Governmental Authority;
     (p)     all cash or cash equivalents, bank accounts, lock boxes and other deposit arrangements;
     (q)     copies of all documentation related to insurance policies; and
Table of Contents
8
     (r)     interest rate, currency, commodity or other swap, collar, cap or other hedging or similar agreements or arrangements.
     "AT&T" means AT&T Corp., a New York corporation; provided that following consummation of the AT&T-Comcast Merger, all references to "AT&T" shall mean AT&T Comcast and shall no longer mean AT&T Corp. but all references to "AT&T Corp." shall continue to mean AT&T Corp.
     "AT&T Broadband" means AT&T Broadband Corp., a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned Subsidiary of AT&T.
     "AT&T Comcast" means AT&T Comcast Corporation, a Pennsylvania corporation, and in any event shall include the Ultimate Public Parent of AT&T Broadband and Comcast following consummation of the AT&T-Comcast Merger.
     "AT&T-Comcast Merger" means the mergers of separate Subsidiaries of AT&T Comcast with and into Comcast and AT&T Broadband, pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of December 19, 2001, as amended, by and among AT&T Corp., AT&T Broadband, Comcast, AT&T Comcast, AT&T Broadband Acquisition Corp. and Comcast Acquisition Corp. (the "AT&T Comcast Merger Agreement").
     "AT&T Company Registration Rights Agreement" means the Registration Rights Agreement, to be entered into by and among the Company, MediaOne of Colorado and AOLTW at the Closing, in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit F.
     "AT&T Confidentiality Agreement" means the Letter Agreement dated August 5, 2002 between AT&T Corp. and AOLTW.
     "AT&T Disclosure Letter" means that certain letter identified to AOLTW and Comcast as such by AT&T in writing on the date hereof.
     "AT&T Parties" means AT&T, MediaOne of Colorado and (i) on or prior to Closing, the Company and (ii) following a Permitted AT&T Disposition, each Permitted MOC Transferee and Permitted Company Transferee.
     
"ATC Assets" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in the TWIC Contribution Agreement.
     
"ATC Assumption Agreement" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in the TWIC Contribution Agreement.
     
"ATC Broadband Business" means the ATC Microwave Business, together with the Time Warner Connect Business (each as defined in the TWIC Contribution Agreement).
Table of Contents
9
     
"ATC Contribution Agreement" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in the TWIC Contribution Agreement.
     
"ATC Liabilities" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in the TWIC Contribution Agreement.
     
"ATC Prior Partnership Interest" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in the Amended and Restated TWE Partnership Agreement.
     "Authorization" means any waiver, amendment, consent, approval, license, franchise, permit (including construction permits), certificate, exemption, variance or authorization of, expiration or termination of any waiting period requirement (including pursuant to the HSR Act) or other action by, or notice, filing, registration, qualification, declaration or designation with, any Person (including any Governmental Authority).
     "Basic Subscriber" means, as of any date, the aggregate of all of the following that are receiving the lowest level of programming services offered: (a) private residential customer accounts that are billed by individual unit (regardless of whether such accounts are in single family homes or in individually billed units in apartment houses and other multi-unit buildings) (excluding "second connects" or "additional outlets," as such terms are commonly understood in the Broadband Industry), each of which shall be counted as one Basic Subscriber, (b) bulk bill residential accounts not billed by individual unit, such as apartment houses and multi-family homes, provided each unit in such apartment house or multi-family home shall be counted as one Basic Subscriber and (c) commercial bulk accounts such as hotels, motels and restaurants, provided each commercial account shall count as one Basic Subscriber; provided that, in all such cases, Basic Subscribers shall not include any free accounts.
     "Benefit Plan" means any employee benefit plan, arrangement, policy or program (whether or not an employee benefit plan within the meaning of Section 3(3) of ERISA and whether or not written), including, without limitation, any employment, consulting or deferred compensation agreement, executive compensation, bonus, incentive, pension, profit-sharing, savings, retirement, stock option, stock purchase or severance pay plan, any life, health, disability or accident insurance plan or any holiday or vacation practice, sponsored, maintained or contributed to by TWICor any of []Subsidiaries and which covers any employee or former employee of TWICor any of []Subsidiaries or with respect to which TWIC or any of []Subsidiaries has any liability.
, ATC, Time Warner Connect
its
their respective
, ATC, Time Warner Connect
its
their respective
, ATC, Time Warner Connect
its
their respective
     "Board" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 12.1 of the Original Partnership Agreement.
     "Broadband Industry" means the industries in which the TWE Broadband Business and TWIC Broadband Business operate as of the date hereof and as such industries develop from time to time.
Table of Contents
10
     "Business Day" means a day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in New York City are authorized or required by Law or executive order to close.
     
"Calculation Agent Agreement" means the Calculation Agent Agreement, dated as of March 6, 2003, between TWE and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as calculation agent, relating to the calculation of the Preferred Return (as defined in the Amended and Restated TWE Partnership Agreement).
     
"Certificate of Designations" means the Certificate of the Voting Powers, Designations, Preferences and Relative, Participating, Optional or Other Special Rights and Qualifications, Limitations or Restrictions thereof, of Series A Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock of AOLTW, substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit N.
     "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
     "Combined Effective Tax Rate" has the meaning ascribed thereto in the Original Partnership Agreement.
     "Comcast Confidentiality Agreement" means the Letter Agreement dated August 5, 2002 between Comcast and AOLTW.
     "Comcast Disclosure Letter" means that certain letter identified to AOLTW and AT&T as such by Comcast in writing on the date hereof.
     "Comcast Parties" means Comcast and, following the AT&T Comcast Merger, AT&T Comcast.
     "Communications Act" means the Communications Act of 1934.
     
"Company" means, following the time of its incorporation, MOTH Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation formerly named New MOTH Holdings, Inc. and with respect to periods prior to the effective time of the Company Merger, "Company" shall also mean the Company Predecessor.
     
"Company Assignment and Transfer Agreement" means the Assignment and Transfer Agreement, dated as of March 26, 2003, as amended, by and among MediaOne of Colorado, MOC Holdco II, Inc., a Delaware corporation, TWE Holdings II LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, TWE Holdings III Trust, a Delaware statutory trust, the Company, the Company Predecessor and the other parties thereto.
     "Company Class A Common Stock" means Class A Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company.
     "Company Class B Common Stock" means Class B Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company.
Table of Contents
11
     "Company Common Stock" means the Company Class A Common Stock and the Company Class B Common Stock.
     "Company Material Adverse Effect" means (a) a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, assets or results of operations of the Company and its Subsidiaries (taken as a whole after giving effect to the Transactions) excluding any such effect resulting from or arising in connection with (i) the announcement of this Agreement; (ii) changes or conditions generally affecting the Broadband Industry; (iii) changes in the economy or financial markets in general; or (iv) changes in general regulatory or political conditions or (b) any change or effect that prohibits or materially impairs the ability of any Person to consummate the Transactions.
     
"Company Merger" means the merger of the Company Predecessor with and into MOTH Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation formerly named New MOTH Holdings, Inc., on March 28, 2003.
     
"Company Predecessor" means MOTH Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation formerly named MediaOne TWE Holdings, Inc.
     "Competition Law" means the Sherman Act, the Clayton Act, the HSR Act, the Federal Trade Commission Act, the Communications Act, and all other Laws that are designed or intended to prohibit, restrict or regulate (a) mergers, acquisitions or other business combinations or (b) actions having the purpose or effect of monopolization or restraint of trade or lessening of competition.
     "Confidentiality Agreements" means the Comcast Confidentiality Agreement and the AT&T Confidentiality Agreement and any similar confidentiality agreement executed in connection with the Engagement Letter.
     "Contract" means any contract, lease, agreement, covenant, indenture, note, security, instrument, arrangement, commitment or any other binding understanding, whether written or oral.
     "Contribute" means to contribute, assign, transfer, convey and deliver. "Contribution" shall have the correlative meaning.
     
"date hereof" means August 20, 2002.
     "Determination" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in the Tax Matters Agreement.
     "DGCL" means the Delaware General Corporation Law.
     "Digital Subscribers" means the non-equivalized, paying customers subscribing to the digital product tier.
     "Dispose" means to directly or indirectly sell, assign, alienate, give, exchange, convey, transfer or otherwise dispose or monetize, whether voluntarily or
Table of Contents
12
involuntarily, directly or indirectly, including through a Subsidiary or by means of an equity offering by any such Subsidiary, and shall include, with respect to Equity Securities or beneficial interest in any trust, the disposition of voting or dispositive power over such Equity Securities or beneficial trust interest. "Disposition" shall have a correlative meaning.
     "Disposition Trust" means, with respect to any Person, any trust, all of the beneficial interests of which are owned by such Person, including any such trust that was an entity other than a trust and is converted into a trust.
     "DOJ" means the Department of Justice.
     "EBITDA" means operating income plus depreciation and amortization, in each case as determined by GAAP (and consistent with the presentation and manner of calculation in the consolidated statement of operations contained in TWE's SEC documents).
     "Environmental Law" means any Law (including common law) relating to pollution or the protection of public health, safety, welfare or the pollution, protection or restoration of the environment, including Laws relating to emissions, discharges, releases or threatened releases of Hazardous Substances into the environment (including ambient air, surface water, ground water or land) or otherwise relating to the manufacture, processing, distribution, use, treatment, storage, disposal, transport or handling of Hazardous Substances.
     "Equity Security" has the meaning ascribed to such term in Rule 405 promulgated under the 1933 Act as in effect on the date hereof and, in any event, shall also include (i) any capital stock of a corporation, any partnership interest, any limited liability company interest and any other equity interest; (ii) any security or Indebtedness having the attendant right to vote for directors or similar representatives; (iii) any security or right convertible into, exchangeable for, or evidencing the right to subscribe for any such stock, equity interest, security or Indebtedness referred to in clause (i) or (ii); (iv) any stock appreciation right, contingent value right or similar security or right that is derivative of any such stock, equity interest, security or Indebtedness referred to in clause (i), (ii) or (iii); and (v) any Contract to grant, issue, award, convey or sell any of the foregoing.
     "ERISA" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.
     "FCC" means the Federal Communications Commission.
     "FCC Licenses" means, with respect to any Person, Authorizations issued by the FCC in connection with the business or operations of such Person or its controlled Affiliates.
Table of Contents
13
     "Five Largest HBO Customer Contracts" means, collectively, the Contracts pursuant to which AOLTW Affiliates provide HBO and Cinemax programming services to its five largest distributors of such cable programming services.
     "Franchise" means a written "franchise" within the meaning of Section 602(9) of the Communications Act.
     "Franchising Authority" means "franchising authority" within the meaning of Section 602(10) of the Communications Act.
     "FTC" means the Federal Trade Commission.
     "GAAP" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States in effect from time to time applied on a consistent basis (except as may be otherwise indicated in the notes to the applicable financial statements or the AOLTW Disclosure Letter).
     "Governmental Authority" means any supranational, national, state, municipal or local government, political subdivision or other governmental department, court, commission, board, bureau, agency, instrumentality, or other authority thereof, or any quasi-governmental or private body exercising any regulatory, taxing, importing or other governmental or quasi-governmental authority, whether domestic or foreign.
     "Hazardous Substances" means (a) any "hazardous waste" as defined by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 (RCRA) (42 U.S.C.  6901 et seq.); (b) any "hazardous substance" as defined by the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C.  9601 et seq.) (CERCLA); (c) any substance regulated by the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) (42 U.S.C.  2601 et seq.) or the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA) (7 U.S.C.  136 et seq.); (d) asbestos or asbestos-containing material of any kind or character; (e) polychlorinated biphenyls; (f) any substances regulated under the provisions of Subtitle I of RCRA relating to underground storage tanks; (g) any substance the presence, use, handling, treatment, storage, release or disposal of which on real property owned or leased by TWIC is regulated or prohibited by any Environmental Law; and (h) any other substance which by any Environmental Law requires special handling, reporting or notification of any Governmental Authority in its collection, storage, release, use, treatment or disposal.
     
"Hedging Transaction" means any Hedging Transaction or OTC Hedging Transaction (each as defined in the AOLTW Registration Rights Agreement) or any similar transaction involving the AOLTW Common Stock or any AOLTW debt securities or any security linked to the AOLTW Common Stock or any security that would be deemed to be a "derivative security" (as defined in Rule 16a-1(c) under the 1934 Act) with respect to the AOLTW Common Stock (even if not a security) which would (were it a security) be considered such a derivative security or which transfers some or all of the economic risk of ownership of the AOLTW Common Stock. For the avoidance of doubt, the AOLTW Common Stock
Table of Contents
14
shall be deemed to be a Registrable Security (as defined in the AOLTW Registration Rights Agreement) for purposes of the definitions of "Hedging Transaction" and "OTC Hedging Transaction."
     "High Speed Data Subscribers" means paying customers to Internet access services at signal rates of 128 kilobits per second or above, calculated on an equivalized basis with respect to bulk and commercial accounts.
     "HSR Act" means the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976.
     "Income Taxes" means any Tax which is based upon, measured by, or calculated with respect to net income or profits (including alternative minimum Tax).
     "Indebtedness" means, with respect to any Person, (a) any obligation of such Person (i) for borrowed money, (ii) evidenced by a bond, note, debenture or similar instrument for value received or in settlement of claims, (iii) under conditional sale or other title retention agreements relating to property acquired by such Person, (iv) for the deferred purchase price of property or services, except trade accounts payable arising in the ordinary course of business, or (v) under any lease or similar arrangement that would be required to be accounted for by the lessee as a capital lease in accordance with GAAP, or (b) without duplication, any guarantee (or keepwell agreement) by such Person of any Indebtedness of others described in clause (a); provided, that in no event shall Indebtedness include letters of credit that are performance or surety bonds or similar instruments issued in the ordinary course of business or disclosed pursuant to Section 5.13(b) of the AOLTW Disclosure Letter.
     "Intellectual Property" means all intellectual property and similar property rights, including but not limited to: (i) trademarks, service marks, trade names, brand names, trade dress, designs, logos, corporate names and other indicia of origin, whether registered or unregistered, and all registrations and applications therefor and the goodwill associated therewith, (ii) Internet addresses, domain names, web sites, web pages and similar rights and items, (iii) patents, patent applications and inventions, designs and improvements described and claimed therein, (iv) computer software programs, including all source code, object code and documentation related thereto, (v) trade secrets, know-how, inventions, processes, procedures, databases, confidential business information and other proprietary information and rights, (vi) copyrights and mask works, including all renewals and extensions thereof, copyright registrations and applications for registration thereof, and non-registered copyrights; and (vii) all licenses and other agreements or permissions including the right to receive royalties, or any other consideration, related to the property described in (i)  (vi).
     
"Initial TWIC Broadband Assets" means the TWIC Broadband Assets (as defined in the Initial TWIC Contribution Agreement).
     
"Initial TWIC Broadband Business" means the TWIC Broadband Business (as defined in the Initial TWIC Contribution Agreement).
Table of Contents
15
     
"Initial TWIC Broadband Liabilities" means the TWIC Broadband Liabilities (as defined in the Initial TWIC Contribution Agreement).
     
"Initial TWIC Contribution Agreement" means the Initial TWIC Contribution Agreement, dated as of January 17, 2003, as amended and restated as of March 28, 2003, by and among TWIC, Holdco and AOLTW.
     
"Initial TWIC Delayed Transfer Assets" means the Delayed Transfer Assets (as defined in the Initial TWIC Contribution Agreement).
     "Investment Banking Firm" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in the Original Partnership Agreement, provided that such firm also has experience in complex valuations of businesses.
     "IRS" shall mean the United States Internal Revenue Service.
     "Judgment" means any judicial decision, judgment, writ, order, injunction, stipulation, award or decree of any court, judge, justice or magistrate, including any bankruptcy court or judge or the arbitrator in any binding arbitration, and any order of or by any Governmental Authority.
     "Law" means any foreign or domestic law, statute, code, ordinance, rule, regulation, treaty, Judgment or principles of common law or equity (including negligence and strict liability) enacted, entered, promulgated or applied by a Governmental Authority.
     "Liabilities" means any and all liabilities, losses, claims, charges, Indebtedness, demands, actions, damages, obligations, payments, costs and expenses, bonds, indemnities and similar obligations, covenants, and other liabilities, including all Contractual obligations, whether due or to become due, absolute or contingent, inchoate or otherwise, matured or unmatured, liquidated or unliquidated, accrued or unaccrued, known or unknown, determined or determinable, whenever arising, and including those arising under any Law, in each case, whether or not recorded or reflected or required to be recorded or reflected on the books and records or financial statements of any Person.
     "Lien" means, with respect to any property or asset, any mortgage, lien, pledge, charge, security interest, encumbrance or other adverse claim of any kind in respect of such property or asset. For purposes of this Agreement, a Person shall be deemed to own subject to a Lien any property or asset that it has acquired or holds subject to the interest of a vendor or lessor under any conditional sale agreement, capital lease or other title retention agreement relating to such property or asset.
     "Losses" means any actual damages, losses, penalties, costs, expenses (including reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel), other Liabilities and any reasonable costs incurred by a party in connection with enforcing its rights under this Agreement.
Table of Contents
16
     "Master Transaction Agreement" means the Master Transaction Agreement, dated as of August 1, 2002, by and among TWEAN, TWE, Paragon Communications and Advance/Newhouse Partnership, including all exhibits and other attachments thereto and all other agreements and instruments contemplated thereby.
     "MediaOne Promissory Note" means the Promissory Note issued by the Company to MediaOne of Colorado prior to the date hereof, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit G.
     "Net Indebtedness" means, with respect to any Person(s), all Indebtedness, less all cash and cash equivalents, of such Person(s). Net Indebtedness of the AOLTW Broadband Group shall be deemed to exclude all Indebtedness and cash and cash equivalents attributable to the Selected Business and, for the avoidance of doubt, cash and cash equivalents of the AOLTW Broadband Group as measured as of the Closing shall only include cash and cash equivalents owned by the Company and its Subsidiaries as of the Closing (after giving effect to the TWE Distribution and the TWIC Contribution).
     "Non-Broadband Industry" means the industries in which the TWE Non-Broadband Business operates as of the date hereof and as such industries develop from time to time.
     "NYSE" means the New York Stock Exchange.
     "Original Partnership Agreement" means the Agreement of Limited Partnership of TWE, dated as of October 29, 1991, as amended, supplemented or modified in accordance with the terms thereof through the date hereof.
     "Parent" shall mean with respect to any Person, any other Person that controls such Person directly or indirectly through any Subsidiary of such other Person or owns directly or indirectly through any Subsidiary of such other Person more than 50% of the outstanding common stock or outstanding Equity Securities ordinarily entitled to vote of such Person, provided that any Person (and each Parent of such Person) that directly or indirectly holds all of the beneficial interests in a Disposition Trust shall be deemed to be a Parent of such Disposition Trust and its Subsidiaries.
     "Parent Agreement" means the Parent Agreement, to be entered into by and among AOLTW, AT&T and the Company at the Closing, substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit H.
     "Partnership Interest Sale Agreement" means the Partnership Interest Sale Agreement, to be entered into by and among AOLTW, MediaOne of Colorado and the Company at the Closing, substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit I.
     "Pass-Through Entity" means an entity which, for federal income tax purposes, is treated as a partnership, disregarded entity or a grantor trust or any entity treated similarly to any of the foregoing for federal income tax purposes.
Table of Contents
17
     "Pay Units" means the non-equivalized number of individual pay services subscribed to by customers.
     "Permitted AT&T Disposition" means:
          (a)     a Disposition by MediaOne of Colorado or a direct or indirect wholly-owned Subsidiary of MediaOne of Colorado of its interests in TWE or the Company to a direct or indirect wholly-owned Subsidiary (other than the Company or any of its Subsidiaries) or Disposition Trust of MediaOne of Colorado or any of its wholly owned Subsidiaries (each a "MOC Permitted Transferee" or a "Transferee");
          (b)     a Disposition by the Company or a direct or indirect wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Company of its interests in TWE to a direct or indirect wholly-owned Subsidiary or Disposition Trust of the Company (each a "Company Permitted Transferee" or a "Transferee");
          (c)     a Disposition by MediaOne of Colorado or a direct or indirect wholly-owned Subsidiary of MediaOne of Colorado to a MOC Permitted Transferee or by the Company or a direct or indirect wholly owned Subsidiary of the Company to a Company Permitted Transferee of all or part of the rights and obligations of MediaOne of Colorado (or such Subsidiary) or the Company (or such Subsidiary), respectively, hereunder and under the other Transaction Agreements, in each case subject to the related obligations of such transferor thereunder;
          (d)     the dissolution of a Disposition Trust (or the merger of a Disposition Trust into its immediate Parent) that is a Company Permitted Transferee provided that the immediate Parent of such Disposition Trust complies with (c) above as a Company Permitted Transferee; provided, further that, subject to AOLTW's consent, not to be unreasonably withheld, such Parent may transfer the related rights and obligations assigned to and assumed by it to its Parent so long as after giving effect to such transfer the Company and its Subsidiaries continue to own all their interests in TWE and all rights related thereto, and all of its rights under the Transaction Agreements related thereto; and
          (e)     the conversion of a Person that is a MOC Permitted Transferee or a Company Permitted Transferee into a Disposition Trust of the Company or any of its wholly owned Subsidiaries or MediaOne of Colorado or any of its wholly owned Subsidiaries, respectively
provided, that, in each such case:
     (x)       the terms of any such Disposition are (i) as described in Section 1A and 1B of the AT&T Disclosure Letter; or (ii) disclosed to AOLTW not less than 5 Business Days prior to such Disposition and do not adversely affect the rights or obligations of AOLTW or its Affiliates under the Transaction Agreements (other than the Income Tax treatment of any of the Transactions) or, except with respect to a Disposition to a Disposition Entity, have a material risk of affecting the federal Income Tax treatment
Table of Contents
18
of any of the Transactions by reason of matters relating to the Company Class A Common Stock;
     (y)       each Transferee expressly agrees to assume and be bound by (to the extent applicable) the relevant obligations of the applicable transferor (and its predecessors in interests) under the Transaction Agreements, the Original Partnership Agreement, the Engagement Letter and the Letter Agreements (collectively, the "Applicable Agreements"), in each case to the same extent as binds and restricts AT&T and the applicable transferor (and its predecessors in interests) (collectively, the "Transferor Obligations"); provided that no such Disposition shall relieve any Person of any of their respective obligations under the Applicable Agreements; provided, further, that, with respect to a Transferee that is a Disposition Trust, failure of such express assumption shall not violate the requirements of this clause (y) if AT&T and Comcast shall have used reasonable best efforts to cause each such Disposition Trust to expressly assume and be bound by the Transferor Obligations, and shall have in any event expressly made all Assets contributed to such Disposition Trust subject to all Transferor Obligations. AOLTW acknowledges that a Permitted Transferee shall be entitled to (to the extent applicable to) the relevant rights of the applicable transferor (and its predecessors in interest) under the Applicable Agreements. Upon any such disposition, the parties shall amend the terms of the Transaction Agreements as appropriate to reflect the proper parties; and
     (z)       any such Disposition shall be made only (i) in connection with any consent decree entered into with, or any order of, any Governmental Authority, in connection with the consummation of the AT&T-Comcast Merger or the Transactions or (ii) in a manner that does not adversely affect the AOLTW Broadband Business or the Company or any of its Subsidiaries (after giving effect to any of the Transactions).
     "Permitted AT&T Transferee" means a Transferee pursuant to any Permitted AT&T Disposition.
     "Permitted Liens" means, with respect to Equity Securities to be issued in the Transactions, any restrictions arising under the Transaction Agreements or any applicable federal or state securities laws.
     "Person" means an individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, association, trust, joint venture or other entity or organization, including a Governmental Authority.
     "Prohibited Activity" means, with respect to the Valuation Period, (a) any Acquisition or Disposition, in open market transactions, private transactions or otherwise, during the period beginning on (and including) the first day of the Valuation Period and ending on (and including) the last day of the Valuation Period, of (i) any shares of AOLTW Common Stock or (ii) any securities convertible into or exchangeable for or derivative of shares of AOLTW Common Stock (other than, in each case, (A) shares [issued or]Acquired [pursuant to employee stock options granted to]directors, officers[ or]
(including restricted shares) or options to acquire shares issued to or
by
,
Table of Contents
19
employees or (B) sales or other Dispositions of shares by directors, officers or employees[)], or (b) any other action taken intentionally for the purpose of manipulating the price of AOLTW Common Stock during the Valuation Period.
consultants pursuant to any existing employee benefit plan of AOLTW or any of its Subsidiaries, the AOL Time Warner Inc. 2003 Stock Incentive Plan, any employee benefit plan assumed by AOLTW or any of its Subsidiaries in connection with the acquisition of a business or any employee benefit plan of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries,
(C) shares Acquired or Disposed of in the ordinary course of business pursuant to the ISDA Master Agreement, dated as of February 11, 2002, between Merrill Lynch International and TWE or any Transactions (as defined therein) or (D) shares Acquired or Disposed of in the ordinary course of business pursuant to the ISDA Master Agreement, dated as of February 11, 2002, between Merrill Lynch International and AOLTW or any Transactions (as defined therein)), in each of clauses (C) and (D), in connection with prepaid forward contracts relating to AOLTW or TWE deferred compensation plans)
     "Purchase Right" means any rights that any Person may have under the terms of any Franchise to purchase all or any portion of a System owned or operated by such Person as a result of the Transactions.
     "Reimbursement Agreement" means the Reimbursement Agreement, to be entered into by and among AOLTW, the Company, Holdco, ATC and TWE at the Closing, substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit J.
     "Residual Business" has the meaning ascribed thereto in the Master Transaction Agreement.
     "Road Runner" means Road Runner HoldCo LLC, a Delaware limited liability company.
     "Road Runner Brand Name License Agreement" means the Brand Name License Agreement to be entered into by and between Holdco and Road Runner at the Closing, in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit K.
     "Road Runner Consolidation" means, with respect to the TWE Broadband Business, the consolidation of the results of operations of the Road Runner business with the results of operations of TWE as a result of the TWEAN Restructuring.
     "SEC" means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
     "Selected Business" has the meaning ascribed thereto in the Master Transaction Agreement.
     ["Specified Number" means the number of shares of AOLTW Common Stock (rounded to]
Table of Contents
20
     the [nearest whole share) equal to the quotient obtained by dividing $1.5 billion by the AOLTW Stock Price ].[ The Specified Number shall be appropriately adjusted, if necessary, for any dividend or other distribution, subdivision, split or combination of shares with respect to the AOLTW Common Stock but without duplication of any adjustment for such items made to the Specified Price under Section 12.1(d)(ii) in the event an Acceptance Notice is delivered.]
"Series A Preferred Stock" has the meaning ascribed thereto in
Certificate of Designations
     "Subsidiary" means, with respect to any Person, [(i) ]any entity of which securities or other ownership interests having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the board of directors or other body performing similar functions are at any time directly or indirectly owned by such Person; provided that any Disposition Trust (and any of its Subsidiaries) will be deemed to be a Subsidiary of the Person that holds 100% of the beneficial interests therein and of each other Person of which such first Person is a Subsidiary. For the avoidance of doubt, Subsidiary does not include unconsolidated joint ventures. The Residual Business shall be deemed to be a wholly-owned Subsidiary of the AOLTW Broadband Group.
     "System" means a "cable system" within the meaning of Section 602(7) of the Communications Act.
     "Tax Matters Agreement" means the Tax Matters Agreement, to be entered into as of the Closing, by and between AOLTW and the Company, substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit L.
     "Tax Return" shall mean any report, return or other information (including any attached schedules or any amendments to such report, return or other information) required to be supplied to or filed with a Governmental Authority with respect to any Tax, including an information return, claim for refund, amended return, declaration, or estimated Tax return, in connection with the determination, assessment, collection or administration of any Tax.
     "Taxes" shall mean all forms of taxes, fees, imposts, levies or other assessments whenever created or imposed, and whether of the United States or elsewhere, imposed by a Governmental Authority (including Tax sharing payments with respect thereto), and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, shall include income, gross receipts, business and occupation, property, sales, use, license, excise, franchise, capital stock, employment, payroll, unemployment insurance, social security, stamp, environmental, value added, alternative or added minimum, , trade, recording, withholding, occupation or transfer tax, custom or duty or other like governmental assessment or charge of any kind whatsoever, whether computed on a separate, consolidated, unitary, combined or any other basis, together with any related interest, penalties and additions imposed by any Governmental Authority.
ad valorem
     "Third Party" means any Person other than the AT&T Parties and their Affiliates, the AOLTW Parties and their Affiliates or the Comcast Parties and their Affiliates.
Table of Contents
21
     "Time Warner Brand Name License Agreement" means the Brand Name License Agreement, to be entered into by and between AOLTW and the Company at the Closing, in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit M.
     
"Time Warner Connect" means Time Warner Connect, a New York general partnership.
     "Trading Day" means any day on which AOLTW Common Stock is traded on the NYSE.
     [ "Trading Value" means, with respect to AOLTW Common Stock on any given Trading Day, the volume weighted trading price (rounded to the nearest [/][10,000) of AOLTW Common Stock on the NYSE, as reported by Bloomberg Financial Markets (or such other source as AOLTW and AT&T may agree) for that Trading Day.]
1]
     "Transactions" means the transactions contemplated by the Transaction Agreements.
     "Transaction Agreements" means, collectively, this Agreement, the TWE Distribution Agreement, the Amended and Restated TWE Partnership Agreement, the TWIC Contribution Agreement, the Tax Matters Agreement, the AOL High Speed Data Agreement, the Parent Agreement, the AOLTW Registration Rights Agreement, the AT&T Company Registration Rights Agreement, the AOLTW Company Registration Rights Agreement, the Time Warner Brand Name License Agreement, the Road Runner Brand Name License Agreement, the Reimbursement Agreement, the Partnership Interest Sale Agreement, the MediaOne Promissory Note, the Ancillary Agreements (as defined in the TWE Distribution Agreement), the Ancillary Agreements (as defined in the TWIC Contribution Agreement)and any other agreements or instruments contemplated hereunder or thereunder.
Calculation Agent Agreement, the Initial TWIC Contribution Agreement, the ATC Contribution Agreement, the ATC Assumption Agreement, the TWE Contribution Agreement, the
Initial
, the Ancillary Agreements (as defined in the TWIC Contribution Agreement) , the Certificate of Designations
     "Transaction Expenses" means with respect to any party, all out-of-pocket expenses (including, without limitation, all fees and expenses of counsel, accountants, investment bankers, experts, consultants or agents to such party or any of its Affiliates and including governmental transfer taxes, recording fees and other similar fees and impositions) incurred by such party or its Affiliates (or on such party's or its Affiliate's behalf) in connection with or related to the authorization, preparation, negotiation or execution of this Agreement, any of the other Transaction Agreements or any of the Transactions.
     "Treasury Regulations" shall mean the Treasury Regulations promulgated under the Code.
     "Trust I" means TWE Holdings I Trust, a Delaware statutory trust.
Table of Contents
22
     
"Trust II" means TWE Holdings II Trust, a Delaware statutory trust.
     "TWEAN" means Time Warner Entertainment-Advance/Newhouse Partnership, a New York general partnership.
     "TWEAN Restructuring" means the transactions contemplated by the Master Transaction Agreement.
     "TWE Broadband Assets" has the meaning ascribed thereto in the TWE Distribution Agreement.
     "TWE Broadband Business" has the meaning ascribed thereto in the TWE Distribution Agreement.
     "TWE Broadband Liabilities" has the meaning ascribed thereto in the TWE Distribution Agreement.
     "TWE Broadband Members" has the meaning ascribed thereto in the TWE Distribution Agreement.
     "TWE [Delayed Transfer Assets" has]the meaning ascribed thereto in the
Contribution Agreement" shall have
TWIC Contribution Agreement.
     TWE Distribution Agreement.
"TWE Delayed Transfer Assets" means the Delayed Transfer Assets (as defined in the
)
     "TWE Distribution Agreement" means the TWE Distribution Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, by and [between]TWE[and]Holdco .
as amended and restated as of March 31, 2003,
among
,
and AOLTW
     "TWE Eligible Option Holders" means any officer or other employee of any TWE Broadband Member who has been issued stock options to purchase shares of AOLTW Common Stock.
     "TWE Entity Level Income Taxes" shall mean Income Taxes of TWE or any entity owned directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, by TWE to the extent that such Income Taxes are imposed by Law on such entity and not passed through to its owners by reason of such entity being a Pass-Through Entity.
     "TWE Joint Ventures" means, collectively, any Person (excluding TWEAN) in which TWE or its direct or indirect wholly owned Subsidiaries holds Equity Securities that constitute less than 100% of the outstanding Equity Securities issued by such Person, including those listed in Section 5.20(a)(iii) of the AOLTW Disclosure Letter.
     "TWE Non-Broadband Assets" has the meaning ascribed thereto in the TWE Distribution Agreement.
Table of Contents
23
     "TWE Non-Broadband Business" has the meaning ascribed thereto in the TWE Distribution Agreement.
     "TWE Non-Broadband Liabilities" has the meaning ascribed thereto in the TWE Distribution Agreement.
     "TWE Partners" means all of the general and limited partners of TWE.
     "TWE Partnership Interests" means, with respect to any partner of TWE, all of the general and limited partnership interests in TWE held by such Person and all rights and interests of such Person under the Original Partnership Agreement.
     "TWE Partnership Liabilities" means, with respect to any partner of TWE, all Liabilities of such Person (or any predecessor in interest of such Person) relating to, arising out of, or resulting from such Person's (or such predecessor's) capacity as a partner of TWE or otherwise incurred for the benefit of TWE or its controlled Affiliates (including guarantees, keepwells or similar credit support issued in respect of Liabilities of TWE or its controlled Affiliates), including all Liabilities of such Person (or any predecessor in interest of such Person) under the Original Partnership Agreement, other than Liabilities for Income Taxes that are not TWE Entity Level Income Taxes.
     "TWE Preferred Amount" means the aggregate liquidation preference amount of the partnership interests to be held by ATC at Closing and after giving effect to the TWE Recapitalization; provided that the TWE Preferred Amount shall not be less than $2.4 billion nor more than $2.6 billion.
     "TWIC Applicable Taxes" means Taxes which are TWIC Broadband Liabilities (as defined in the TWIC Contribution Agreement).
     "TWIC Broadband Assets" has the meaning ascribed thereto in the TWIC Contribution Agreement.
     "TWIC Broadband Business" has the meaning ascribed thereto in the TWIC Contribution Agreement.
     
"TWIC Broadband Group" means (i) TWIC and its Subsidiaries (but only with respect to the Initial TWIC Broadband Assets, the Initial TWIC Broadband Liabilities and the Initial TWIC Broadband Business) prior to, with respect to any given Initial TWIC Broadband Asset, Initial TWIC Broadband Liability or portion of the Initial TWIC Broadband Business, giving effect to the contribution of such Initial TWIC Broadband Asset to, assumption of such Initial TWIC Broadband Liability by, or transfer of such portion of the Initial TWIC Broadband Business to, Holdco; (ii) ATC and Time Warner Connect and their respective Subsidiaries (but, in the case of ATC and its Subsidiaries (other than Time Warner Connect and its Subsidiaries), only with respect to the ATC Assets, the ATC Liabilities and the ATC Business) prior to giving effect to the contribution of the ATC Assets to, and the assumption of the ATC Liabilities by, Holdco; and
Table of Contents
24
(iii)  Holdco and its Subsidiaries (but only with respect to the TWIC Broadband Assets, the TWIC Broadband Liabilities and the TWIC Broadband Business). Any Person in the TWIC Broadband Group may be referred to as a "TWIC Broadband Member."
     "TWIC Broadband Liabilities" has the meaning ascribed thereto in the TWIC Contribution Agreement.
     "TWIC Broadband Members" has the meaning ascribed thereto in the TWIC [Contribution][Agreement].
definition of
Broadband
Group
     "TWIC Contribution Agreement" means the TWIC Contribution Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, by and between Holdco and the Company.
as amended and restated as of March 31, 2003,
     "TWIC Delayed Transfer Assets[" with respect to the Holdco Contribution, has the meaning ascribed thereto]in the TWIC Contribution Agreement[ and, with respect to the Initial TWIC Contribution, has a correlative meaning].
," means the Delayed Transfer Assets (as defined
)
     "TWIC Eligible Option Holders" means any officer or other employee of TWIC or any other TWIC Broadband Member who has been issued stock options to purchase shares of AOLTW Common Stock.
     "TWIC Joint Ventures" means, collectively, any Person (excluding TWEAN) in which TWIC or its direct or indirect wholly owned Subsidiaries holds Equity Securities that constitute less than 100% of the outstanding Equity Securities issued by such Person, including those listed in Section 5.27(a)(iii) of the AOLTW Disclosure Letter.
     "TWIC Material Adverse Effect" means (a) a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, assets or results of operations of the TWIC Broadband Business (taken as a whole after giving effect to the Transactions), excluding any such effect resulting from or arising in connection with (i) the announcement of this Agreement; (ii) changes or conditions generally affecting the Broadband Industry; (iii) changes in the economy or financial markets in general; or (iv) changes in general regulatory or political conditions or (b) any change or effect that prohibits or materially impairs the ability of any Person to consummate the Transactions.
     "Ultimate Public Parent" shall mean, with respect to any Person, the Parent of such Person that (i) is required to make periodic filings with the SEC under Section 13 or 15 of the 1934 Act with respect to its Equity Securities and (ii) does not have a Parent that is required to make periodic filings with the SEC under Section 13 or 15 of the 1934 Act with respect to its Equity Securities; provided that if no Parent of such Person is so required, then such term shall mean the Parent of such Person that is not a Subsidiary of any other Person.
Table of Contents
25
     "Valuation Period" [means the 15 consecutive Trading Days ending on the fifth Trading Day immediately prior to (and excluding) the Closing Date].
has the meaning ascribed thereto in the Certificate of Designations
          (b)     Each of the following additional terms is defined in the Section set forth opposite such term:
Table of Contents
26
Table of Contents
27
Table of Contents
28
          (c)     In this Agreement, unless otherwise specified or where the context otherwise requires:
               (i)     a reference to a Recital is to the relevant Recital to this Agreement, to a Section is to the relevant Section of this Agreement and to an Exhibit is to the relevant Exhibit to this Agreement;
               (ii)    words importing any gender shall include other genders;
               (iii)   words importing the singular only shall include the plural and vice versa;
               (iv)   the words "include", "includes" or "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the words "without limitation";
               (v)    the words "hereof", "herein", "hereunder" and "herewith" and words of similar import shall, unless otherwise stated, be construed to refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision of this Agreement, and Article, clause and Exhibit references are to the Articles, clauses and Exhibits to this Agreement unless otherwise specified;
Section,
, Sections
               (vi)   references to any Person or any other agreement or document shall include such Person's successors and permitted assigns;
               (vii)  the parties hereto acknowledge that they have participated jointly in the negotiation and drafting of this Agreement and, in the event an ambiguity or question of intent or interpretation arises, this Agreement shall be construed as if drafted jointly by the parties hereto, and no presumption or burden of proof shall arise favoring or disfavoring any party hereto by virtue of the authorship of any provisions of this Agreement;
               (viii) unless otherwise expressly provided herein, any Contract or Law defined or referred to herein or in any Contract that is referred to herein means such Contract or Law as from time to time amended, modified or supplemented, including (in the case of a Contract) by waiver or consent and (in the case of a Law) by succession of comparable successor Laws and any reference in this Agreement to a Law shall be deemed to include any rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
          (d)     Headings. In this Agreement the headings to Sections are inserted for convenience only and shall not affect the construction of this Agreement.
Table of Contents
29
     2.1     Pre-Closing Activities. Prior to the Closing, AOLTW shall cause the TWE Transferand the Initial TWIC Contribution to occur.
, the ATC Contribution
     2.2     The Closing. The closing (the "Closing") of the transactions described in Article II below shall take place at the offices of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison, 1285 Avenue of the Americas, New York, New York 10019 at 10:00 a.m., local time, on the fifth Trading Day following the satisfaction or waiver (and notice thereof to the parties) of the conditions precedent set forth in Sections 11.1, 11.2 and 11.3 (other than conditions that by their nature are to be satisfied at the Closing and will in fact be satisfied at the Closing), or such other date as the parties shall agree. At the Closing, AOLTW and AT&T shall execute, and shall cause their applicable Subsidiaries to execute, all of the Transaction Agreements to which such entities are parties that were not previously executed. At the Closing, the transactions described in Article II below shall occur in the sequential order specified herein. The date on which the Closing occurs is referred to as the "Closing Date."
     2.3     The TWE Distribution. At the Closing and prior to the transactions contemplated by Section 2.5, pursuant to the TWE Distribution Agreement, (a) TWE shall distribute, assign, transfer, convey and deliver to Holdco (or to Subsidiaries of Holdco designated by Holdco), and Holdco (or such Subsidiaries) shall accept from TWE, the TWE Non-Broadband Assets (other than the TWE Delayed Transfer Assets) and (b) Holdco (and any Subsidiary of Holdco that accepts TWE Non-Broadband Assets pursuant to clause (a) of this Section) shall assume and agree to pay and discharge, as and when they become due, the TWE Non-Broadband Liabilities. The transactions contemplated by clauses (a) and (b) of the immediately preceding sentence are referred to together as the "TWE Distribution." The TWE Distribution shall be made in partial redemption of [AOLTW's][Existing]TWE Partnership Interests held by Holdco and in accordance with the TWE Distribution Agreement and each of the TWE Partners and Comcast hereby agrees that its execution of this Agreement shall constitute its consent and approval of the TWE Distribution.
the
existing
     2.4     The MediaOne Note Payment.
          (a)     Prior to the Closing, MediaOne of Colorado shall use best efforts to cause the Company to incur an amount of Indebtedness for borrowed money sufficient to fully satisfy and discharge the MediaOne Promissory Note [and to pay the Company Fees and Expenses] (the "Company Indebtedness"). [The Company Indebtedness shall permit the prepayment of such Indebtedness without penalty or premium (other than any penalty or premium that AT&T agrees to pay) at any time on or following Closing].
          (b)     Immediately following the incurrence of Indebtedness pursuant to clause (a) of this Section 2.4, the Company shall make a cash payment to MediaOne of Colorado in an amount equal to the amount of Indebtedness incurred
Table of Contents
30
pursuant to clause (a) of this Section 2.4[ (minus the amount of the Company Fees and Expenses)] in full satisfaction and discharge of the MediaOne Promissory Note, which will thereupon be canceled.
          (c)     AT&T shall cause the amount of Indebtedness of the Company (including any and all accrued and unpaid interest thereon) at the Closing and immediately following the actions described in Section 2.4(b) to be equal to $2.1 billion[ plus an amount equal to the Company Fees and Expenses].
          (d)     The transactions contemplated by clauses (a), (b) and (c) of this Section 2.4 are referred to together as the "MediaOne Note Payment."
     2.5     The MediaOne Recapitalization.
          (a)     At the Closing and immediately following the MediaOne Note Payment, the Company and MediaOne of Colorado shall cause the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation to be duly filed in accordance with the DGCL with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware. The Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation shall become effective at such time as it is duly filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware and shall continue in effect until amended in accordance with applicable Law. Pursuant to the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the shares of the Company shall be reclassified into shares of Company Class A Common Stock and shares of Company Class B Common Stock.
(or at such other time on the Closing Date as the parties shall agree)
          (b)     At the Closing[ and concurrently with effectiveness of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation], the Amended Bylaws shall be approved and adopted in accordance with the DGCL. The Amended Bylaws shall become effective[ immediately upon such approval and adoption] and shall continue in effect until amended in accordance with applicable Law and the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation.
or prior to
concurrently with effectiveness of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation
          (c)     Subject to compliance with Section 6 of Article V of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation (Independence of Board of Directors) and Section 3.1 of the Parent Agreement, the Company and MediaOne of Colorado shall take all necessary action to cause to be elected as directors of the Company and appointed as officers of the Company as of the Closing the persons designated as such by AOLTW reasonably in advance of the Closing.
          (d)     The transactions contemplated by clauses (a), (b) and (c) of this Section 2.5 are referred to together as the "MediaOne Recapitalization."
     2.6     The Exchange.
          (a)     At the Closing and immediately following the MediaOne Recapitalization, AOLTW shall issue to [MediaOne of Colorado a number of shares of AOLTW Common]Stock[ equal to]
Trust II one share of Series A Preferred
, which
Table of Contents
31
the [Specified Number]and, in exchange therefor, [MediaOne of Colorado]agrees to transfer to AOLTW 75 shares of Company Class B Common Stock (the "Transferred Class B Common Stock"), which shares shall represent all of the issued and outstanding shares of Company Class B Common Stock immediately after the Exchange. The Transferred Class B Common Stock to be transferred pursuant to the preceding sentence, and the AOLTW Common Stock to be issued [pursuant to]the [preceding sentence,]shall, when transferred or issued, as applicable, be duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable, free and clear of Liens other than Permitted Liens.
share shall represent
only issued and outstanding share of Series A Preferred Stock immediately after the Exchange,
Trust II
the Series A Preferred Stock to be issued pursuant to the preceding sentence
upon conversion of
Series A Preferred Stock
          (b)     In furtherance of the transfers described in clause (a) of this Section 2.6, (i) [MediaOne of Colorado]shall deliver to AOLTW certificates representing the Transferred Class B Common Stock, duly endorsed in blank or accompanied by a duly executed stock power, in proper form for transfer and (ii) AOLTW shall deliver to [MediaOne of Colorado]a certificate [or certificates ]in definitive form and registered in [MediaOne of Colorado]'s name[,] representing [a][number]of [shares of AOLTW Common]Stock[ equal to the Specified Number].
Trust II
Trust II
Trust II
one
share
Series A Preferred
     2.7     Holdco Contribution.
          (a)     At the Closing and immediately following the Exchange, Holdco shall Contribute to the capital of the Company (i) all of Holdco's right, title and interest in and to all of the TWE Partnership Interests set forth in Section 2.7 of the AOLTW Disclosure Letter, which will constitute all of the TWE Partnership Interests held[ by Holdco]and (ii) pursuant to and in accordance with the TWIC Contribution Agreement, all of Holdco's right, title and interest in and to all of the TWIC Broadband Assets (other than TWIC Delayed Transfer Assets), in each case, free and clear of all Liens other than the Company Assumed Liabilities (the assets described in clauses (i) and (ii) being referred to collectively as the "Company Transferred Assets");
, directly or indirectly, by AOLTW (other than the TWE Partnership Interests held directly or indirectly by the Company or the ATC Prior Partnership Interest)
          (b)     At the Closing and concurrently with the contribution described in clause (a) of this Section 2.7, the Company shall assume, and agree to pay and discharge as and when they become due (i) all of Holdco's TWE Partnership Liabilities (after giving effect to the assumption by Holdco of ATC's TWE Partnership Liabilities (to the extent relating to the portion of the TWE Partnership Interests transferred by ATC to Holdco) in the TWE Transfer) excluding TWE Partnership Liabilities relating to, arising out of or resulting from the TWE Non-Broadband Business and (ii) the TWIC Broadband Liabilities pursuant to the TWIC Contribution Agreement (the liabilities described in clauses (i) and (ii) being referred to collectively as the "Company Assumed Liabilities").
Table of Contents
32
          (c)     In furtherance of the Holdco Contribution and the assumption of the Company Assumed Liabilities, (i) Holdco shall execute and deliver, and shall cause its Subsidiaries to execute and deliver, such bills of sale, stock powers, certificates of title, assignments of contracts and other instruments of transfer, conveyance and assignment as and to the extent necessary to evidence the Contribution of the Company Transferred Assets to the Company and (ii) the Company shall execute and deliver[,] to Holdco and its Subsidiaries such instruments of assumption and other Contracts as and to the extent necessary to evidence the valid and effective assumption of the Company Assumed Liabilities by the Company.
          (d)     In consideration of the Holdco Contribution, the Company shall issue to Holdco 746 shares of Company Class A Common Stock. The Company Class A Common Stock to be issued pursuant to the preceding sentence shall, when issued, be duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable.
     2.8     The TWE Recapitalization.
          (a)     At the Closing and immediately following the Holdco Contribution, the TWE Partners shall execute and deliver the Amended and Restated TWE Partnership Agreement.
          (b)     Pursuant to the Amended and Restated TWE Partnership Agreement, all of the TWE Partnership Interests existing immediately prior thereto will be converted into the equity interests described therein (the "TWE Recapitalization"). The parties hereby acknowledge and agree that, upon the Closing and immediately following the TWE Recapitalization, the only outstanding Equity Securities of TWE shall be as set forth in the Amended and Restated TWE Partnership Agreement and all other option or similar agreements (other than the Partnership Interest Sale Agreement) shall be null and void and be of no further force or effect. Prior to the Closing, Tax distributions pursuant to Section 8.5 of the Original Partnership Agreement shall continue to be made in accordance with past practice; provided, however, that payments pursuant to such Section 8.5 shall be accelerated so that the Board's then reasonable estimate of the tax distributions to be made if the Closing was the end of the taxable year are made prior to the Closing; provided, further, however, that in computing such tax distributions the Transactions contemplated by Article II shall not be taken into account. Each of the TWE Partners and Comcast hereby agrees that its execution of this Agreement shall constitute its consent to and approval of the TWE Recapitalization.
     Except as set forth in the AT&T Disclosure Letter, each of the AT&T Parties represents and warrants, jointly and severally on behalf of itself and each other AT&T Party, to each of the AOLTW Parties and Comcast Parties as follows:
     3.1     Corporate Existence and Power. Each AT&T Party is a corporation duly [incorporated], validly existing and in good
or other entity
formed
Table of Contents
33
standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of [incorporation]and has all corporate powers required to carry on its business as currently conducted.
organization
     3.2     Corporate Authorization. The execution, delivery and performance by each of the AT&T Parties of the Transaction Agreements to which it is party and the consummation by each of the AT&T Parties of the Transactions to which it is party are within their respective corporatepowers and have been duly authorized by all necessary corporateaction. This Agreement constitutes, and when executed each other Transaction Agreement will constitute, a valid and binding agreement of the AT&T Parties that are party thereto, enforceable against such AT&T Parties in accordance with its terms, except as the same may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, moratorium or similar laws of general application relating to or affecting creditors' rights or by general principles of equity.
, trust or other similar
, trust or similar
     3.3     No Vote Required. No vote or action of the holders of any class or series of capital stock of AT&T (in their capacity as such holders) is necessary to approve the Transactions Agreements or the consummation of the Transactions.
     3.4     Governmental Authorization. The execution, delivery and performance by each of the AT&T Parties of the Transaction Agreements to which it is party and the consummation by each of the AT&T Parties of the Transactions to which it is party require no Authorization of, by or with any Governmental Authority, other than: (a) compliance with any applicable requirements of the HSR Act or any other Competition Law, whether United States, state or foreign; (b) the filing of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware pursuant to the DGCL; (c) compliance with any applicable requirements of the 1933 Act, the 1934 Act and any other applicable securities laws, whether United States, state or foreign; (d) the other Authorizations described in the AT&T Disclosure Letter; and (e) any Authorization the absence of which, individually or in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect.
Amended and
and the Certificate of Designations
     3.5     Non-contravention. The execution, delivery and performance by each of the AT&T Parties of the Transaction Agreements to which it is party and the consummation by each of the AT&T Parties of the Transactions to which it is party do not and will not (a) contravene, conflict with or result in any violation or breach of any provision of the certificate of incorporation, as amended, or bylaws of AT&T or the comparable governing documents of any other AT&T Party; (b) assuming all Authorizations referred to in Section 3.4 are obtained or made, contravene, conflict with or result in a violation or breach of any provision of any applicable Law; (c) require any Authorization by any Person (other than a Governmental Authority) under, constitute a default (or an event that, with or without notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute a default) under, or cause or permit the termination, cancellation, acceleration, triggering or other change of any right or obligation or the loss of any benefit to which the Company is entitled under any provision of any Contract or Authorization binding upon the Company; or (d) result in the creation or imposition of any Lien on any asset or
Table of Contents
34
property of the Company or give rise to any Purchase Right, other than such exceptions in the case of clauses (b), (c) and (d) above as would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect.
     3.6     Capitalization of the Company. As of the date hereof, the authorized capital stock of the Company consists of 10 shares of Common Stock, par value $[0.01]per share. As of the date hereof, there were issued and outstanding 10 shares of such Common Stock, all of which are held by MediaOne of Colorado free and clear of any Lien other than Permitted Liens and Liens under the Original Partnership Agreement, and which constitute, and as of Closing (immediately prior to the MediaOne Recapitalization) will constitute, all outstanding Equity Securities of the Company. As of the Closing, immediately prior to the Exchange, MediaOne of Colorado will own 179 shares of Class A Common Stock and 75 shares of Class B Common Stock, which will constitute all outstanding Equity Securities of the Company. All outstanding shares of capital stock and other Equity Securities of the Company have been, and all shares that may be issued pursuant to this Agreement will be, when issued in accordance with the respective terms thereof, duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable, free and clear of Liens other than Permitted Liens and Liens under the Original Partnership Agreement. There are no outstanding Equity Securities of the Company reserved for issuance upon conversion, exercise, exchange or redemption of any outstanding Equity Securities or Indebtedness and there are no obligations, contingent or otherwise, (i) of the Company or any other Person to repurchase, redeem or otherwise Acquire any Equity Securities of the Company; or (ii) except as provided for herein, of the Company to provide funds to, or make any investment in (in the form of a loan, capital contribution or otherwise), or provide any guarantee with respect to the obligations of, any other Person.
0.10
Company
Company
     3.7     Business of the Company.
          (a)     As of the date hereof and immediately prior to the Closing, AT&T has heretofore delivered or made available to AOLTW true and complete copies of the certificate of incorporation, as amended, and bylaws of the Company, as in effect on the date hereof .
and thereof
          (b)     As of the date hereof and through the time that is immediately prior to the Closing, AT&T directly [and]indirectly owns all of the outstanding Equity Securities of the Company and MediaOne of Colorado[, ] and as of the date hereof the Company and MediaOne of Colorado own all of the outstanding Equity Securities of TWE[,] described in Section 3.7(b) of the AT&T Disclosure Letter , in each casefree and clear of all Liens other than Permitted Liens or any Liens under the Original Partnership Agreement. The Company does not (i) directly or indirectly own, and has never directly or indirectly owned, any assets other than its TWE Partnership Interests and (ii) directly or
(i)
or
(and of each MOC Permitted Transferee
each Company Permitted Transferee), (ii)
(or a Company Permitted Transferee)
(or a MOC Permitted Transferee)
and (iii) as of immediately prior to the Closing, the Company will own approximately 24.78% of the Series A Capital and Residual Equity Capital of TWE
,
any other Assets distributed to the Company by TWE and
Table of Contents
35
indirectly engage, and has never directly or indirectly engaged, in any business other than holding its TWE Partnership Interests and actions taken incidental thereto.
any other Assets distributed to the Company by TWE and
          (c)     As of the date hereof and through the time that is immediately prior to the Closing, the Company is not a party to any Contracts (and has never made any applications to any Franchising Authority), other than the MediaOne Promissory Note, Contracts relating to the Company Indebtedness, the Original Partnership Agreement, any related Contracts to which the AOLTW Parties are party and the Transaction Agreements to which the Company is a party[; provided, that at and after Closing, all Liabilities under Contracts related to Company Indebtedness shall be capable of being fully discharged and satisfied without penalty or premium (other than any penalty or premium paid by AT&T) in connection with the repayment of the Company Indebtedness].
          (d)     Immediately prior to the Closing, the Company will not have, and will never have had, any employees, other than unpaid corporate officers with no entitlement to benefits or other compensation that was, is or will be a liability of the Company.
          (e)     As of the date hereof and through the time that is immediately prior to the Closing, the Company does not directly or indirectly own, and has never directly or indirectly owned, any Intellectual Property, other than rights to and interests in the name "MediaOne TWE Holdings, Inc." and certain derivatives thereof.
or any subsequent name of the Company prior to the Closing,
          (f)     As of the date hereof and through the time that is immediately prior to the Closing, other than the MediaOne Promissory Note and the Company Indebtedness, the Company has no Indebtedness and no Liabilities (excluding any Liabilities under any of the Contracts set forth in Section 3.7(c), Liabilities for Taxes with respect to the investment in TWE or the Company's corporate existence and any Liabilities for Taxes under Treasury Regulation  1.1502-6 or similar provisions of state, local, provincial or foreign Law and excluding any Liabilities ("ERISA Group Liabilities") arising either under the Code or ERISA as a result of the Company having been, at any time on or prior to Closing, a member of a group described in Section 4001(b) of ERISA or Section 414(b), (c), (m) or (o) of the Code (an "ERISA Group")), other than in connection with the Original Partnership Agreement and the Transactions.
          (g)     No ERISA Group Liability has been incurred by the Company and no ERISA Group Liability is reasonably expected to be asserted against the Company for periods prior to the Closing.
          (h)     Immediately upon any Permitted AT&T Disposition by the Company, this Section 3.7 shall automatically and without any action by any Person be deemed to be amended so that each representation and warranty made herein with respect to the Company shall be deemed to have also been made with respect to each Company
Table of Contents
36
Permitted Transferee subject to the exceptions set forth in Section 3.7 of the AT&T Disclosure Letter.
     3.8     Tax Representations.
          (a)     All Tax Returns that are required to be filed by or with respect to the Company have been duly and timely filed (taking into account extensions) or, where not so timely filed, are covered under a valid extension that has been obtained therefor and, to the extent they relate to the Company, are true, correct and complete in all material respects; provided, that no representation is made with respect to the accuracy of any Tax Return filed by TWE or with respect to any aspect of a Tax Return of the Company derived directly from a Tax Return of TWE.
          (b)     All Taxes shown as due on the Company's Tax Returns referred to in clause (a) (and subject to the proviso therein) which relate to the Company have been paid in full.
          (c)     All deficiencies asserted or assessments made with respect to the Company as a result of the examinations of any of the Tax Returns referred to in clause (a) (without reference to the proviso contained therein), to the extent they relate to the Company, (together with any interest, additions or penalties with respect thereto and any interest in respect of such additions or penalties) have been paid in full.
          (d)     No issues with respect to the Company that have been raised in writing to the Company or any of its Affiliates by the relevant taxing authority in connection with the examination of any of the Tax Returns referred to in clause (a) are pending.
          (e)     No extensions or waivers of statutes of limitation have been given by or requested with respect to any Taxes of the Company except for extensions or waivers applicable to combined, consolidated or unitary Tax Returns which include the Company and any other AT&T Affiliate.
          (f)     No audit or other proceeding by any Governmental Authority is pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened with respect to any Taxes due with respect to the Company (provided that no representation or warranty is made with respect to any pending or threatened audit of TWE with respect to which TWE or its general partner would receive notice from a Governmental Authority), no Governmental Authority has given written notice of any intention to assert any deficiency or claim for additional Taxes with respect to the Company against the Company, in each case other than by reason of Treasury Regulation  1.1502-6 or similar provisions of state, local, provincial or foreign Law. No written claim has been made by any Governmental Authority in a jurisdiction where the Company does not file Tax Returns that it is or may be subject to taxation by that jurisdiction (provided, however, that no representation or warranty is being made with respect to a written claim made to TWE).
          (g)     There are no liens, other than liens arising with respect to the activities of TWE, for Taxes upon the assets or properties of the Company, except for
Table of Contents
37
liens for Taxes not yet due and payable or being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings.
          (h)     The Company has not filed a consent under Section 341(f) of the Code or similar provision of state, local, provincial or foreign Law.
          (i)     The Company is not a party to any agreement relating to the sharing, allocation or indemnification of Taxes, or any similar agreement, contract or arrangement, [or has]any liability for Taxes of any other Person under Treasury Regulation  1.1502-6, Treasury Regulation  1.1502-78 or similar provisions of state, local, provincial or foreign Law, as a transferee or successor, by contract, or otherwise except for agreements applicable to members of the affiliated group of which AT&T, AT&T Broadband or AT&T Comcast is the common parent and for liability for Taxes under Treasury Regulation  1.1502-6 for the affiliated group of which AT&T, AT&T Broadband or AT&T Comcast is the common parent.
and does not have
          (j)     MediaOne of Colorado is not a foreign person within the meaning of Section 1445 of the Code.
          (k)     Other than with respect to closing agreements or private letter rulings of the IRS (or comparable rulings of any other Governmental Authority) entered into or obtained by TWE or any such closing agreement or ruling with respect to any combined, consolidated or unitary Tax Return group which includes the Company and any other AT&T Affiliate which agreement or ruling will have no binding effect on the Company after the Closing, no closing agreement pursuant to Section 7121 of the Code or any similar provision of Law, has been executed or entered into with respect to the Company, and the Company is not subject to any private letter ruling of the IRS or comparable ruling of any other Governmental Authority.
          (l)     The Company has not constituted a "distributing corporation" or a "controlled corporation" (within the meaning of Section 355(a)(1)(A) of the Code or similar provision of Law) in a distribution of shares qualifying for tax-free treatment under Section 355 of the Code or similar provision of Law (i) in the two years prior to the date of this Agreement or (ii) in a distribution that could otherwise constitute part of a "plan" or "series of related transactions" (within the meaning of Section 355(e) of the Code or similar provision of Law) in conjunction with this acquisition.
          (m)     No "overall foreign loss" within the meaning of Section 904(f) of the Code has been or shall be allocated to the Company pursuant to Treas. Reg.  1.1502-9A(c) excluding any such overall foreign loss that may have been allocated to the Company as a partner of TWE.
          (n)     The Company has owned no property and has had no income, loss, deductions, credits or other allowances for Tax purposes other than property or Tax items and other than relating to its partnership interest in TWE, the Company Indebtedness and Tax items applicable to it by virtue of the Company being a member of a combined, consolidated or unitary group.
de minimis
Table of Contents
38
     3.9     AT&T Comcast Merger. Prior to the date hereof, AT&T has made available to AOLTW all material terms of the AT&T Comcast Merger.
     Except as set forth in the Comcast Disclosure Letter, each of the Comcast Parties represents and warrants, jointly and severally on behalf of itself and each other Comcast Party, to each of the AOLTW Parties and AT&T Parties as follows:
     4.1     Corporate Existence and Power. Each Comcast Party is a corporation duly incorporated, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of incorporation and has all corporate powers required to carry on its business as currently conducted.
     4.2     Corporate Authorization. The execution, delivery and performance by each of the Comcast Parties of the Transaction Agreements to which it is party and the consummation by each of the Comcast Parties of the Transactions to which it is party are within their respective corporate powers and have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action. This Agreement constitutes, and when executed each other Transaction Agreement will constitute, a valid and binding agreement of the Comcast Parties that are party thereto, enforceable against such Comcast Parties in accordance with its terms, except as the same may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, moratorium or similar laws of general application relating to or affecting creditors' rights or by general principles of equity.
     4.3     No Vote Required. No vote or action of the holders of any class or series of capital stock of Comcast is necessary to approve the Transactions Agreements or the consummation of the Transactions.
     4.4     Governmental Authorization. The execution, delivery and performance by each of the Comcast Parties of the Transaction Agreements to which it is party and the consummation by each of the Comcast Parties of the Transactions to which it is party require no Authorization of, by or with any Governmental Authority, other than: (a) compliance with any applicable requirements of the 1933 Act, the 1934 Act and any other applicable securities laws, whether United States, state or foreign; ([b]) the other Authorizations described in the Comcast Disclosure Letter; and ([c]) any Authorization the absence of which, individually or in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect.
) the filing of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and the Certificate of Designations with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware pursuant to the DGCL, which will have been filed prior to the Closing; (b
c
d
     4.5     Non-contravention. The execution, delivery and performance by each of the Comcast Parties of the Transaction Agreements to which it is party and the consummation by each of the Comcast Parties of the Transactions to which it is party do not and will not (a) contravene, conflict with or result in any violation or breach of any
Table of Contents
39
provision of the certificate of incorporation, as amended, or bylaws of Comcast or the comparable governing documents of the other Comcast Party; (b) assuming all Authorizations referred to in Section 4.4 are obtained or made, contravene, conflict with or result in a violation or breach of any provision of any applicable Law; (c) require any Authorization by any Person (other than a Governmental Authority) under, constitute a default (or an event that, with or without notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute a default) under, or cause or permit the termination, cancellation, acceleration, triggering or other change of any right or obligation or the loss of any benefit to which any Comcast Party is entitled under any provision of any Contract or Authorization binding upon any Comcast Party; or (d) result in the creation or imposition of any Lien on any asset or property of any Comcast Party or give rise to any Purchase Right, other than such exceptions in the case of clauses (b), (c) and (d) above as would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect.
     Except as set forth in the AOLTW Disclosure Letter, each of the AOLTW Parties, jointly and severally on behalf of itself and each other AOLTW Party, represents and warrants to each of the AT&T Parties and each of the Comcast Parties as follows:
     5.1     Corporate Existence and Power. Each AOLTW Party is a corporation or other entity duly formed, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization and has all corporate, partnership or other similar powers required to carry on its business as currently conducted.
     5.2     Corporate Authorization. The execution, delivery and performance by the AOLTW Parties of the Transaction Agreements to which it is party and the consummation by each of the AOLTW Parties of the Transactions to which it is party are within their respective corporate, partnership or other similar powers and have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate, partnership or similar action. This Agreement constitutes, and when executed each other Transaction Agreement will constitute, a valid and binding agreement of the AOLTW Parties that are party thereto, enforceable against such AOLTW Parties in accordance with its terms, except as the same may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, moratorium or similar laws of general application relating to or affecting creditors' rights or by general principles of equity.
each of
     5.3     No Vote Required. No vote or action of the holders of any class or series of capital stock of AOLTW (in their capacity as such holders) is necessary to approve the Transaction Agreements or the consummation of the Transactions.
     5.4     Governmental Authorization. The execution, delivery and performance by the AOLTW Parties of the Transaction Agreements to which it is party and the consummation by each of the AOLTW Parties of the Transactions to which it is party require no Authorization of, by or with any Governmental Authority, other than: (a) Authorizations required from, by or with the relevant Franchising Authorities in
each of
Table of Contents
40
respect of the Franchises for the Systems owned or operated by TWE, TWIC, Holdco or any of their respective Subsidiaries (the "Franchise Consents"); (b) Authorizations required from, by or with the FCC in connection with a change of control and/or assignment of the holder of the FCC Licenses of TWE, TWIC, Holdco or any of their respective Subsidiaries (the "FCC License Consents"); (c) Authorizations from state public utility commissions having jurisdiction over the assets of TWE, TWIC, Holdco or any of their respective Subsidiaries (the "PUC Consents"); (d) compliance with any applicable requirements of the HSR Act or any other Competition Law, whether United States, state or foreign; (e) the filing of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware pursuant to the DGCL; (f) compliance with any applicable requirements of the 1933 Act, the 1934 Act and any other applicable securities laws, whether United States, state or foreign; (g) the other Authorizations described in the AOLTW Disclosure Letter; and (h) any Authorization the absence of which, individually or in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect or AOLTW Material Adverse Effect.
and the Certificate of Designations
     5.5     Non-Contravention. The execution, delivery and performance by the AOLTW Parties of the Transaction Agreements to which it is party and the consummation by each of the AOLTW Parties of the Transactions to which it is party do not and will not (a) contravene, conflict with or result in any violation or breach of any provision of the certificate of incorporation, as amended, or bylaws of AOLTW or the comparable governing documents of any other AOLTW Party; (b) assuming all Authorizations referred to in Section 5.4 are obtained or made, contravene, conflict with or result in a violation or breach of any provision of any applicable Law; (c) require any Authorization by any Person (other than a Governmental Authority) under, constitute a default (or an event that, with or without notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute a default) under, or cause or permit the termination, cancellation, acceleration, triggering or other change of any right or obligation or the loss of any benefit to which any AOLTW Party or any of their respective Subsidiaries is entitled under any provision of any Contract or Authorization binding upon any AOLTW Party or any of their respective Subsidiaries; or (d) result in the creation or imposition of any Lien on any asset or property of any AOLTW Party or any of their respective Subsidiaries or give rise to any Purchase Right, other than such exceptions in the case of clauses (b), (c) and (d) above as would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect or AOLTW Material Adverse Effect.
each of
     5.6     Taxes.
          (a)     AOLTW has no present plan or intention to cause or permit the Company to issue (x) any new class of shares that are nonvoting or (y) additional shares of (i) Company Class B Common Stock to any person other than to AOLTW or (ii) Company Class A Common Stock for cash for a period of six months following the Closing, other than in connection with a public offering, or the exercise of compensatory stock options.
Table of Contents
41
          (b)     AOLTW has no present plan or intention to (i) liquidate the Company, (ii) merge the Company into another corporation or (iii) except for transfers described in Section 368(a)(2)(C) of the Code or Treas. Reg.  1.368-2(k), sell or otherwise dispose of any of the Transferred Class B Common Stock.
          (c)     Neither AOLTW nor any person related to AOLTW (within the meaning of Treasury Regulation Section 1.368-1(e)(3)) has any present plan or intention to purchase, redeem or otherwise reacquire any of the [AOLTW stock]issued in the Exchange , except for possible share repurchases from time to time by AOLTW of [its common stock]if (x) any such repurchases are undertaken for a corporate business purpose, (y) the AOLTW [common][stock]is widely held and publicly traded, and (z) the repurchases of AOLTW [common] [stock]are a small percentage of its total common stock and are made in the open market from AOLTW shareholders generally as part of its ongoing stock repurchase program that was not created or modified in connection with the Exchange, and will not be directed specifically to the former holders of Company stock who received [AOLTW common stock] pursuant to the Exchange.
Series A Preferred Stock
or any of the AOLTW Common Stock that is issued in connection with the conversion thereof
AOLTW Common Stock
Common
Stock
Common
Stock
Series A Preferred Stock
          (d)     Following the Closing, AOLTW intends to cause the Company to continue the business in which it was engaged as of the Closing or use a significant portion of the business assets it held as of the Closing in a business, within the meaning of Treas. Reg. 1.368-1(d).
          (e)     AOLTW is not an investment company as defined in Section 368(a)(2)(F)(iii) and (iv) of the Code.
          (f)     At the Closing, neither AOLTW nor any Affiliate of AOLTW shall have entered into a legally binding underwriting agreement with respect to a primary offering of the Company Class A Common Stock.
          (g)     At the Closing, there shall be no effective registration statement with respect to the Company Class A Common Stock.
     5.7     Ownership of TWE Interests. AOLTW owns directly or indirectly and, except as contemplated by the Transaction Agreements, will own immediately prior to Closing all of the Equity Securities of TWE as described in Section 5.7 of the AOLTW Disclosure Letter, free and clear of Liens other than Permitted Liens and Liens under the Original Partnership Agreement.
     5.8     Sufficiency of Assets.
          (a)     The TWE Broadband Assets and the TWIC Broadband Assets, collectively, are all of the Assets necessary and sufficient (and the right, title and interest of the Company and its Subsidiaries therein (other than in respect of any[ TWE Delayed Transfer Assets or] TWIC Delayed Transfer Assets) immediately after Closing
Table of Contents
42
will be sufficient) to conduct the AOLTW Broadband Business in all material respects as currently conducted by AOLTW and its Subsidiaries (as permitted to be modified in accordance with Section 6.1 hereof).
          (b)     AOLTW does not, directly or indirectly, own any Systems, other than those Systems that constitute TWE Broadband Assets or TWIC Broadband Assets.
          (c)     AOLTW does not, directly or indirectly, own any Equity Securities of TWEAN or Roadrunner, other than those Equity Securities that constitute TWE Broadband Assets or TWIC Broadband Assets.
          (d)     From June 30, 2002 until the date hereof, the AOLTW Broadband Business has not Disposed of any Systems.
     5.9     AOLTW  Affiliate Agreements. Except for Contracts set forth in Part A of Section 5.9 of the AOLTW Disclosure Letter and except for any Contract which does not involve required or reasonably anticipated payments or other consideration delivered or value provided by the AOLTW Broadband Business over the duration of such Contract ("Anticipated Payments") in excess of $25 million, no Contracts are in effect as of the date hereof that are Affiliate Agreements. "Affiliate Agreement" means any Contract or other transaction between any AOLTW Broadband Member or the AOLTW Broadband Business, on the one hand, and any AOLTW Non-Broadband Member or the AOLTW Non-Broadband Business, on the other hand. Part A of such Section also identifies the approximate expiration date of each Affiliate Agreement listed thereon. None of such listed Affiliate Agreements have so called "evergreen" provisions (i.e., provisions providing for automatic renewals of a Contract without affirmative action). Except for Affiliate Agreements that, individually and in the aggregate, do not involve in excess of $50 million of Anticipated Payments, all Affiliate Agreements are on Arm's-Length Terms. The Affiliate Agreements listed on Part B of such Section of the AOLTW Disclosure Letter contain "most favored nations" clauses with respect to the terms of such Contract taken as a whole for the benefit of the AOLTW Broadband Business. Each Affiliate Agreement listed on Part C of such Section of the AOLTW Disclosure Letter is on terms that, when taken as a whole, are comparable to the terms embodied in the Five Largest HBO Customer Contracts. Prior to the date hereof, AOLTW has provided or made available to AT&T and Comcast (or to their counsel) complete copies of each Affiliate Agreement listed in Part A of such Section of the AOLTW Disclosure Letter but not in Part B or C thereof (other than programming agreements, ATDN arrangements or any others listed thereon that are competitively sensitive).
     5.10     AOLTW  SEC Filings.
          (a)     AOLTW has delivered or made available to AT&T and Comcast: (i) AOLTW's annual report on Form 10-K for its fiscal year ended December 31, 2001, (ii) AOLTW's proxy or information statements relating to meetings of, or actions taken without a meeting by, AOLTW's shareholders held since
Table of Contents
43
December 31, 2001, and (iii) all of AOLTW's other reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K filed with the SEC since December 31, 2001 (the documents referred to in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) above, collectively, the "AOLTW SEC Documents").
          (b)     As of its filing date (or, if amended or superseded by a filing prior to the [date of this Agreement or on or prior to the third Trading Day immediately prior to (and excluding) the first Trading Day in the Valuation Period], then on the date of such filing), each AOLTW SEC Document complied as to form in all material respects with the applicable requirements of the 1934 Act.
Closing Date
          (c)     As of its filing date (or, if amended or superseded by a filing prior to the [date of this Agreement or on or prior to the third Trading Day immediately prior to (and excluding) the first Trading Day in the Valuation Period], then on the date of such filing), each AOLTW SEC Document filed pursuant to the 1934 Act did not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements made therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
Closing Date
     5.11     AOLTW  Financial Statements. The audited consolidated financial statements and unaudited consolidated interim financial statements of AOLTW included in the AOLTW SEC Documents fairly present, in all material respects, in conformity with GAAP applied on a consistent basis (except as may be indicated in the notes thereto), the consolidated financial position of AOLTW and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of the respective dates thereof and their consolidated results of operations and cash flows for the periods then ended (subject to normal year-end adjustments in the case of any unaudited interim financial statements).
     5.12     AOLTW  Absence of Certain Changes. Since the AOLTW Balance Sheet Date, there has not been any event, occurrence or development of a state of circumstances or facts that, individually or in the aggregate, has had or would reasonably be expected to have an AOLTW Material Adverse Effect.
     5.13     AOLTW  No Undisclosed Material Liabilities.
          (a)     There are no Liabilities of AOLTW or any of its consolidated Subsidiaries, other than:
               (i)     Liabilities reflected in the AOLTW Balance Sheet or in the notes thereto;
               (ii)     Liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice since the AOLTW Balance Sheet Date; or
               (iii)     Liabilities that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have an AOLTW Material Adverse Effect.
Table of Contents
44
          (b)     Section 5.13 of the AOLTW Disclosure Letter contains a list that is true and correct in all material respects as of July 31, 2002 of all of the following types of obligations of any of the AOLTW Broadband Members:
               (i)     any obligation, whether contingent or otherwise, as an account party on a letter of credit or under any surety bond or similar instrument (other than those issued in the ordinary course of business);
               (ii)     any obligation, whether contingent or otherwise, in respect of bankers' acceptances; and
               (iii)     any obligation in respect of Indebtedness of third parties secured by (or which the holder of such Indebtedness has an existing right, contingent or otherwise, to be secured by) any Lien on property owned or acquired by such AOLTW Broadband Member, whether or not the Indebtedness secured thereby has been assumed.
     5.14     AOLTW  Compliance with Laws and Court Orders. AOLTW and its Subsidiaries hold all Authorizations of, by or with any Governmental Authority that are necessary for the lawful conduct of AOLTW's business as currently conducted, except where the failure to hold any of the foregoing, individually or in the aggregate, has not had and would not reasonably be expected to have an AOLTW Material Adverse Effect. AOLTW and each of its Subsidiaries are and have beenin compliance with[,] all Laws and Authorizations, and, to the knowledge of AOLTW, are not under investigation with respect to and has not been threatened to be charged with or given notice of any violation of any Law or Authorization, except for failures to comply, investigations, threats, and notices that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have an AOLTW Material Adverse Effect.
,
,
     5.15     AOLTW  Litigation. There is no action, suit, investigation or proceeding pending against, or, to the knowledge of AOLTW, threatened against or affecting, AOLTW or its Subsidiaries before any court or arbitrator or before or by any other Governmental Authority, that, individually or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to have an AOLTW Material Adverse Effect.
     5.16     TWE  SEC Filings.
          (a)     AOLTW has delivered or made available to AT&T and Comcast: (i) TWE's annual report on Form 10-K for its fiscal years ended December 31, 2001, and (ii) all of TWE's other reports filed on Forms 10-Q or 8-K with the SEC since December 31, 2001 (the documents referred to in clauses (i) and (ii) above, collectively, the "TWE SEC Documents").
          (b)     As of its filing date (and also, if amended or superseded by a filing prior to the date of this Agreement or the Closing, then on the date of such filing), each TWE SEC Document complied as to form in all material respects with the applicable requirements of the 1934 Act.
Table of Contents
45
          (c) As of its filing date (and also, if amended or superseded by a filing prior to the date of this Agreement or the Closing, then on the date of such filing), each TWE SEC Document filed pursuant to the 1934 Act did not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements made therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
     5.17 TWE Broadband  Selected Financial Information. Set forth on Section 5.17 of the AOLTW Disclosure Letter is, among other things, the following unaudited financial information (the information specified below, the "TWE Selected Information"):
          (a) the revenues, EBITDA and operating income of the TWE Broadband Business for the 12-month period ended December 31, 2001 and the six-month periods ended June 30, 2001 and June 30, 2002 including pro forma adjustments thereto that reflect the A/N Deconsolidation and the Road Runner Consolidation; and
          (b) the current assets (other than cash and cash equivalents), current liabilities (other than any current portion of Indebtedness) and long-term liabilities (other than any Indebtedness) of the TWE Broadband Business, as of June 30, 2002 (the "TWE Balance Sheet Date") including Pro Forma Adjustments thereto that reflect (but are not limited to) the A/N Deconsolidation and the Road Runner Consolidation, (i) except with respect to Pro Forma Adjustments, to the extent such items would be reflected on a balance sheet (other than in any notes thereto) have been prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied, and (ii) with respect to pro forma adjustments (other than any deferred tax and minority interest adjustments), have been prepared on a basis consistent with the guidance in Article 11 of Regulation S-X promulgated by the SEC.
     The TWE Selected Information (other than pro forma adjustments) was prepared in accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent basis. Subject to the exclusion and adjustments described above (including the absence of Indebtedness and non-current assets) and in Section 5.17 of the AOLTW Disclosure Letter, the TWE Selected Information fairly presents in all material respects the results of operations and financial condition of the TWE Broadband Business for the periods and as of the dates specified therein. For the avoidance of doubt, no representation and warranty is made with respect to any information contained in Section 5.17 of the AOLTW Disclosure Letter other than the TWE Selected Information.
Table of Contents
46
     5.18 TWE Broadband  Absence of Certain Changes. From the TWE Balance Sheet Date until the date hereof, the TWE Broadband Business has been operated in all material respects in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice and, since the TWE Balance Sheet Date, there has not been any event, occurrence or development of a state of circumstances or facts that, individually or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect.
     5.19 TWE Broadband  No Undisclosed Material Liabilities.
          (a) There are no Liabilities (other than Indebtedness) of the TWE Broadband Business, other than:
               (i) Liabilities included in the TWE Selected Information;
               (ii) Liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice since the TWE Balance Sheet Date; or
               (iii) Liabilities that, individually or in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect.
          (b) Section 5.19(b) of the AOLTW Disclosure Letter contains a list that is true and complete in all material respects of all grants of options to purchase AOLTW Common Stock to TWE Eligible Option Holders that are outstanding as of the date specified on such list, including:
                    (x) the number of shares of AOLTW Common Stock underlying each such grant;
                    (y) the exercise price of the options covered by each such grant; and
                    (z) the grant and expiration date of such options.
No additional option grants have been issued to employees of the TWE Broadband Business since the date specified on such list and on or prior to the date hereof.
     5.20 TWE Broadband  Systems Information.
          (a) As of June 30, 2002:
               (i) TWE or its direct or indirect wholly owned Subsidiaries (including, for purposes of this Section 5.20, TWEAN (but excluding the Selected Business)) own Systems serving the localities listed in Section 5.20(a)(i) of the AOLTW Disclosure Letter (collectively, the "TWE Wholly Owned Systems").
Table of Contents
47
               (ii) The TWE Joint Ventures own Systems serving the localities listed in Section 5.20(a)(ii) of the AOLTW Disclosure Letter (collectively, the "TWE Non-Wholly Owned Systems" and, together with the TWE Wholly-Owned Systems, the "TWE Systems").
               (iii) TWE or its direct or indirect wholly owned Subsidiaries own the percentage of outstanding voting Equity Securities of each TWE Joint Venture set forth in Section 5.20(a)(iii) of the AOLTW Disclosure Letter.
               (iv) TWE does not, directly or indirectly, manage or operate any Systems (other than the TWIC Systems) in which it does not hold, directly or indirectly, a beneficial or equity interest.
               (v) TWE does not, directly or indirectly, own any Systems that it (or its Affiliates) does not directly or indirectly manage and operate, other than the Systems that are part of the Selected Business.
               (vi) At least 95% of the plant miles in the TWE Systems have been upgraded to at least 550 MHz and at least 85% of the plant miles in the TWE Systems have been upgraded to at least 750 MHz.
          (b) Section 5.20(b) of the AOLTW Disclosure Letter sets forth a materially true and accurate and complete list, as of the July 2002 monthly report generated by TWE in the ordinary course of business, of the number of Basic Subscribers, Pay Units, Digital Subscribers and High Speed Data Subscribers served by the TWE Wholly Owned Systems, in the aggregate, and the TWE Non-Wholly Owned Systems, in the aggregate.
Table of Contents
48
     5.21 TWE Broadband  Compliance with Laws and Court Orders. The TWE Broadband Members hold all Authorizations of, by or with any Governmental Authority (including System Franchises and FCC Licenses) that are necessary for the lawful conduct of the TWE Broadband Business as currently conducted, except where the failure to hold any of the foregoing, individually or in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect. Each TWE Broadband Member is, and has beenin compliance with[,] all Laws and Authorizations, and, to the knowledge of TWE, is not under investigation with respect to and has not been threatened to be charged with or given notice of any violation of any Law or Authorization, except for failures to comply, investigations, threats, and notices that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect.
,
     5.22 TWE Broadband - Litigation. There is no action, suit, investigation or proceeding pending against, or, to the knowledge of AOLTW, threatened against or affecting, the TWE Broadband Business or the TWE Broadband Assets before any court or arbitrator or before or by any other Governmental Authority that, individually or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect.
     5.23 TWEAN Restructuring. Prior to the date hereof, TWE has made available to AT&T and Comcast all material terms of the TWEAN Restructuring.
     5.24 TWIC  Selected Financial Information. Set forth on Section 5.24 of the AOLTW Disclosure Letter is, among other things, the following unaudited financial information (the information specified below, the "TWIC Selected Information"):
          (a) the revenues, EBITDA and operating income of the TWIC Broadband Business for the 12-month period ended December 31, 2001 and the six-month periods ended June 30, 2001 and June 30, 2002; and
          (b) the current assets (other than cash and cash equivalents), current liabilities (other than any current portion of Indebtedness) and long-term liabilities (other than any Indebtedness) of the TWIC Broadband Business, as of June 30, 2002 (the "TWIC Balance Sheet Date") including Pro Forma Adjustments thereto (i) except with respect to Pro Forma Adjustments, to the extent such items would be reflected on a balance sheet (other than in any notes thereto) have been prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied, and (ii) with respect to pro forma adjustments (other than any deferred tax and minority interest adjustments), have been prepared on a basis consistent with the guidance in Article 11 of Regulation S-X promulgated by the SEC.
     The TWIC Selected Information (other than pro forma adjustments) was prepared in accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent basis. Subject to the exclusion and adjustments described above (including the absence of Indebtedness and non-current assets) and in Section 5.24 of the AOLTW Disclosure Letter, the TWIC
Table of Contents
49
Selected Information fairly presents in all material respects the result of operations and financial condition of the TWIC Broadband Business for the periods and as of the dates specified therein. For the avoidance of doubt, no representation or warranty is made with respect to any information contained in Section 5.24 of the AOLTW Disclosure Letter other than the TWIC Selected Information.
     5.25 TWIC  Absence of Certain Changes. From the TWIC Balance Sheet Date until the date hereof, the TWIC Broadband Business has been operated in all material respects in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice and since the TWIC Balance Sheet Date, there has not been any event, occurrence or development of a state of circumstances or facts that, individually or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to have a TWIC Material Adverse Effect.
     5.26 TWIC  No Undisclosed Material Liabilities. There are no Liabilities (other than Indebtedness) in the TWIC Broadband Business other than:
          (a) Liabilities included in the TWIC Selected Information;
          (b) Liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice since the TWIC Balance Sheet Date; or
          (c) Liabilities that, individually or in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to have a TWIC Material Adverse Effect.
     5.27 TWIC  Systems Information.
          (a) As of June 30, 2002:
               (i) TWIC or its direct or indirect wholly owned Subsidiaries own Systems serving the localities listed in Section 5.27(a)(i) of the AOLTW Disclosure Letter (collectively, the "TWIC Wholly Owned Systems").
               (ii) The TWIC Joint Ventures own Systems serving the localities listed in Section 5.27(a)(ii) of the AOLTW Disclosure Letter (collectively, the "TWIC Non-Wholly Owned Systems" and, together with the TWIC Wholly-Owned Systems, the "TWIC Systems").
               (iii) TWIC or its direct or indirect wholly owned Subsidiaries own the percentage of outstanding voting Equity Securities of each TWIC Joint Venture set forth in Section 5.27(a)(iii) of the AOLTW Disclosure Letter.
               (iv) TWIC does not, directly or indirectly, manage or operate any Systems in which it does not hold, directly or indirectly, a beneficial or equity interest.
               (v) TWIC does not, directly or indirectly, own any Systems (excluding Systems owned by TWEAN) that it (or its Affiliates) does not, directly or indirectly, manage and operate.
Table of Contents
50
               (vi) At least 95% of the plant miles in the TWIC Systems have been upgraded to at least 550 MHz and at least 85% of the plant miles in the TWIC Systems have been upgraded to at least 750 MHz.
          (b) Section 5.27(b) of the AOLTW Disclosure Letter sets forth a materially true, accurate and complete list, as of the July 2002 monthly report generated by TWIC in the ordinary course of business, of the number of Basic Subscribers, Pay Units, Digital Subscribers and High Speed Data Subscribers served by the TWIC Wholly Owned Systems, in the aggregate, and the TWIC Non-Wholly Owned Systems, in the aggregate.
     5.28 TWIC  Title to Transferred Assets. At the Closing, the Company and its Subsidiaries will have, good and marketable title to (or, in the case of assets that are leased, valid leasehold interests in) the TWIC Broadband Assets (other than the TWIC Delayed Transfer Assets) to be Contributed to the Company at the Closing, except for such exceptions, qualifications and limitations as would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a TWIC Material Adverse Effect.
     5.29 TWIC  Litigation. There is no action, suit, investigation or proceeding pending against, or, to the knowledge of AOLTW, threatened against or affecting, the TWIC Broadband Business or any of the TWIC Broadband Assets before any court or arbitrator or before or by any other Governmental Authority that, individually or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to have a TWIC Material Adverse Effect.
     5.30 TWIC  Compliance with Laws and Court Orders. The TWIC Broadband Business includes all Authorizations of, by or with any Governmental Authority that are necessary for the lawful conduct of the TWIC Broadband Business as currently conducted, except where the failure to hold any of the foregoing, individually or in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to have a TWIC Material Adverse Effect. Each TWIC Broadband Member is, and has beenin compliance with[,] all Laws and Authorizations, and, to the knowledge of TWIC , is not under investigation with respect to and have not been threatened to be charged with or given notice of any violation of any Law or Authorization, except for failures to comply, investigations, threats, and notices that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a TWIC Material Adverse Effect.
,
or ATC
     5.31 TWIC  Employee Benefits. Except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a TWIC Material Adverse Effect: (i) each Benefit Plan has been maintained in substantial compliance with its terms and with the requirements prescribed by any applicable statutes, orders, rules and regulations, including ERISA and the Code, (ii) each Benefit Plan that is intended to be qualified under an applicable provision of the Code or any regulation thereunder, including Section 401(a) of the Code, is so qualified and has been so qualified during the period since its adoption; each trust created under any such Benefit Plan is exempt from tax and has been so exempt since its creation and, to the knowledge of TWIC , nothing has occurred with respect to the operation of any Benefit Plan that would cause the loss
or ATC
Table of Contents
51
of such qualification or exemption and (iii) the Transactions, alone or in combination with any other triggering event, will not result in any new or additional, or otherwise accelerate any, Liability of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries under any Benefit Plan that would not have been a liability of TWICor [its]Subsidiaries absent the consummation of the Transactions. As of the date hereof and as of the Initial TWIC Contribution, TWIC and its Subsidiaries, and as of the Closing the TWIC Broadband Members, in each case employ and shall employ no individuals other than employees who are primarily employed in connection with the TWIC Broadband Business. As of the date hereof and as of Closing, [neither]TWIC [nor any of its Subsidiaries]is a party to any [collectively]bargaining agreements or sponsors, maintains or contributes to a "multiemployer plan" (as defined in Section 3(37) of ERISA).
, ATC, Time Warner Connect
their respective
each closing of
no
Broadband Member
collective
     5.32 TWIC Environmental Matters. The TWIC Broadband Business complies with and has complied with all Environmental Laws, except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a TWIC Material Adverse Effect.
     5.33 TWIC Tax Matters. Except as would not individually or in the aggregate be reasonably expected to have a TWIC Material Adverse Effect:
          (a) All Tax Returns that are required to be filed with respect to TWIC Applicable Taxes have been duly and timely filed (taking into account extensions) or, where not so timely filed, are covered under a valid extension that has been obtained therefor and are true, correct and complete in all material respects.
          (b) All TWIC Applicable Taxes shown as due on the Tax Returns referred to in clause (a) have been paid in full.
          (c) All deficiencies asserted or assessments made with respect to the TWIC Broadband Business as a result of the examinations of any of the Tax Returns referred to in clause (a) (together with any interest, additions or penalties with respect thereto and any interest in respect of such additions or penalties) have been paid in full.
          (d) No issues with respect to the TWIC Broadband Business that have been raised in writing by the relevant taxing authority in connection with the examination of any of the Tax Returns referred to in clause (a) are pending.
          (e) No written claim with respect to TWIC Applicable Taxes has been made by any Governmental Authority in a jurisdiction where the TWIC Broadband Business does not file Tax Returns that it is or may be subject to taxation by that jurisdiction.
          (f) There are no liens for TWIC Applicable Taxes upon the assets or properties of the TWIC Broadband Business, except for liens for TWIC
Table of Contents
52
Applicable Taxes not yet due and payable or being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings.
     5.34 TWIC  Eligible Option Holders. Section 5.34 of the AOLTW Disclosure Letter contains a list that is true and complete in all material respects of all grants of options to purchase AOLTW Common Stock to TWIC Eligible Option Holders that are outstanding as of the date specified on such list, including:
          (a) the number of shares of AOLTW Common Stock underlying each such grant;
          (b) the exercise price of the options covered by each such grant; and
          (c) the grant and expiration dates of such options.
No additional option grants have been issued to employees of the TWIC Broadband Business since the date specified on such list and on or prior to the date hereof.
     
5.35 TWIC-ATC Assets and Liabilities. Neither the ATC Assets nor the ATC Liabilities are material to the TWIC Broadband Business, taken as a whole.
     6.1 AOLTW Broadband Interim Operations. Except as set forth in the AOLTW Disclosure Letter or as otherwise expressly contemplated by a Transaction Agreement, without the prior written consent of AT&T (which shall not be unreasonably withheld), from the date hereof until the Closing, AOLTW shall cause each of the AOLTW Broadband Members and the AOLTW Broadband Business to conduct its business in all material respects in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, including (a) using reasonable efforts to: (i) preserve intact its present business organization; (ii) maintain its cable plant and facilities; (iii) maintain in effect all material Authorizations from Governmental Authorities, including all material licenses and permits that are required for the AOLTW Broadband Group or any AOLTW Broadband Member to conduct its business; and (iv) preserve existing relationships with its material lenders, suppliers, customers and others having material business relationships with it (it being understood that actions addressed and expressly permitted in the remainder of this Section 6.1 shall be deemed not to violate the requirements of this sentence); (b) incurring capital expenditures in the ordinary course consistent with past practice and with respect to the remainder of the fiscal year 2002 so that the aggregate capital expenditures incurred for fiscal year 2002 is not less than 90% of the aggregate amount budgeted for such fiscal year and (c) granting options only in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice. Except as set forth in the AOLTW Disclosure Letter or as otherwise expressly contemplated hereby or by any of the other Transaction Agreements, from the date hereof until the Closing, without the prior written consent of
Table of Contents
53
AT&T (which shall not be unreasonably withheld), AOLTW shall not permit any AOLTW Broadband Member to:
               (i) enter into any Affiliate Agreement (or consummate any transaction contemplated thereby) unless (A) such Affiliate Agreement (or transaction) is on Arm's-Length Terms and (B) if such Contract (or transaction) involves Anticipated Payments in excess of $25 million, then AOLTW will give written notice upon entering into such Contract to AT&T and Comcast (it being understood that such notice need not include any terms of such Contract other than the identity of the parties and the general subject matter thereof); provided that if such Contract (or transaction) involves Anticipated Payments in excess of $50 million, such Contract must also be a Ratified Contract or a Pre-Approved Contract (as defined below); provided, further, nothing contained in this Section 6.1 shall be deemed to prohibit, restrict or invalidate any Affiliate Agreement (or any transaction contemplated thereby) that was entered into prior to the date hereof (treating any material amendment or any extension or renewal of any such existing Contract as a new Affiliate Agreement entered into at the time of such amendment, extension or renewal);
               (ii) issue, deliver or sell, or authorize the issuance, delivery or sale of, any Equity Securities of any TWE Broadband Member or any TWIC Broadband Member except as permitted pursuant to the final sentence of Section 6.1;
               (iii) except for capital expenditures, which shall be governed by clause (b) of the introductory paragraph of this Section 6.1, acquire any assets or business (including Equity Securities) in one or a series of related transactions, other than (A) pursuant to agreements in effect as of the date hereof that are disclosed in the AOLTW Disclosure Letter, (B) Systems (or Persons primarily engaged in the business of owning, operating or managing Systems), (C) assets used in the ordinary course of business by any AOLTW Broadband Member in a manner that is consistent with past practice (which assets do not constitute a business unit, division or all or substantially all of the assets of the transferor) and (D) assets or businesses (including Equity Securities) in related lines of business as the AOLTW Broadband Business not in excess of $100M in the aggregate;
               (iv) except as required pursuant to Contracts in effect as of the date hereof, Dispose of any assets or business included in the AOLTW Broadband Business in one or a series of related transactions, other than (A) the Disposition of inventory (goods or services) in the ordinary course of business, (B) in any transaction providing for a swap of Systems provided that to the extent that such swap results in the AOLTW Broadband Business having fewer subscribers, such reduction shall (to such extent) be treated as a sale for purposes of clause (C) below, or (C) the Disposition of one or more Systems (and related assets) having subscribers not in excess of 500,000 in the aggregate for all such Dispositions;
               (v) intentionally accelerate the receipt of cash or cash equivalents, or intentionally delay the payment of cash or cash equivalents, for the purpose of reducing Net Indebtedness at the Closing; or
Table of Contents
54
               (vi) agree or commit to do any of the foregoing.
     For purposes of Section 6.1(i), "Ratified Contract" means any Contract that, within a reasonable period of time following the election of at least two independent directors of the Company, is ratified by such independent directors.
     For purposes of Section 6.1(i), a "Pre-Approved Contract" means:
     Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, this Agreement shall not restrict or prohibit transactions, including pursuant to internal contributions, recapitalizations, reorganizations, mergers, liquidations, consolidations or any other transactions, solely between and among wholly owned Subsidiaries of the AOLTW Broadband Members so long as it does not adversely affect the AOLTW Broadband Business or the Company [or any of]its Subsidiaries (after giving effect to the Transactions).
and
taken as a whole
     6.2 Debt. AOLTW shall cause the Company to have no consolidated Net Indebtedness immediately following the Closing other than AOLTW Broadband Permitted Indebtedness. For the avoidance of doubt, Indebtedness of unconsolidated joint ventures described in Section 6.2 of the AOLTW Disclosure Letter shall not be restricted by this Agreement.
     6.3 Transaction Agreements. Prior to or concurrently with the Closing, each of the AOLTW Parties shall execute all Transaction Agreements to which it is a party and shall not amend, or waive any provision of, any Transaction Agreement to which no AT&T Party is party without the consent of AT&T. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the other Transaction Agreements, each of the AOLTW Parties shall, and shall cause each of its Subsidiaries to, comply with its respective obligations required to be performed on or before Closing under each of the Transaction Agreements pursuant to and in accordance with the terms hereof and thereof.
     6.4 Interim Operations of the AOLTW Parties. Except as set forth in the AOLTW Disclosure Letter or as otherwise expressly contemplated by a Transaction Agreement, without the prior written consent of AT&T and Comcast (which shall not be
Table of Contents
55
unreasonably withheld), from the date hereof until the Closing, AOLTW shall not, and shall not permit any AOLTW Party to, take any action that would, or would reasonably be expected to, prevent or materially impair the ability of any AOLTW Party, AT&T Party or Comcast Party to consummate the Transactions or that would, or would reasonably be expected to, make any representation or warranty of the AOLTW Parties hereunder inaccurate in any material respect as of the Closing. AOLTW will provide AT&T and Comcast with drafts and at least 5 Business Days to comment on the forms of all documentation used to effectuate the Initial TWIC Contribution .
or the ATC Contribution
     7.1 Company Interim Operations. Except as set forth in the AT&T Disclosure Letter or as otherwise expressly contemplated by a Transaction Agreement, without the prior written consent of AOLTW and Comcast (in each case, which shall not be unreasonably withheld), from the date hereof until the Closing, (a) AT&T and MediaOne of Colorado shall cause [MediaOne TWE Holdings]not to conduct any business operations (other than its ownership of TWE Partnership Interests), enter into any Contract, Acquire any assets or incur any Liabilities, other than Liabilities for Taxes, ERISA Group Liabilities, the MediaOne Promissory Note or the Company Indebtedness and the Company Fees and Expenses, (b) except pursuant to the AT&T Comcast Merger, the spin-off transactions contemplated by the AT&T Comcast Merger Agreement, or the other internal restructurings and transactions in connection therewith that are solely among wholly owned Subsidiaries of AT&T and that do not adversely affect the Company or its Subsidiaries (after giving effect to the Transactions) (all such transactions referred to in this clause (b) being collectively referred to as the "AT&T Comcast Transactions"), AT&T shall not transfer, assign or otherwise Dispose of any Equity Securities of MediaOne of Colorado and (c) except pursuant to a Permitted AT&T Disposition, AT&T shall not permit (i) MediaOne of Colorado to transfer, assign or otherwise Dispose or agree to Dispose of any Equity Securities of the Company or TWE or (ii) the Company to transfer or otherwise Dispose or agree to Dispose of any Equity Securities of TWE.
the Company
     7.2 Interim Operations of the AT&T Parties. Except as set forth in the AT&T Disclosure Letter or as otherwise expressly contemplated by a Transaction Agreement, without the prior written consent of AOLTW and Comcast (in each case, which shall not be unreasonably withheld), from the date hereof until the Closing, AT&T shall not, and shall not permit any other AT&T Party to, take any action that would, or would reasonably be expected to, prevent or materially impair the ability of any AOLTW Party, AT&T Party or Comcast to consummate the Transactions or that would, or would reasonably be expected to, make any representation or warranty of the AT&T Parties hereunder inaccurate in any material respect as of the Closing.
     7.3 Interim Operations of the Comcast Parties. Except as set forth in the Comcast Disclosure Letter or as otherwise expressly contemplated by a Transaction
Table of Contents
56
Agreement, without the prior written consent of AOLTW and AT&T (in each case, which shall not be unreasonably withheld), from the date hereof until the Closing, Comcast shall not, and shall not permit any Comcast Party to, take any action that would, or would reasonably be expected to, prevent or materially impair the ability of any AOLTW Party, AT&T Party or Comcast Party to consummate the Transactions or that would, or would reasonably be expected to, make any representation or warranty of the Comcast Parties hereunder inaccurate in any material respect as of the Closing.
     7.4 Transaction Agreements. Prior to or concurrently with the Closing, each of the AT&T Parties and each of the Comcast Parties shall execute all Transaction Agreements to which it is a party and shall not amend, or waive any provision of, any Transaction Agreement to which no AOLTW Party is party without the consent of AOLTW. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the other Transaction Agreements, each of such parties shall, and shall cause each of its Subsidiaries to, comply with its respective obligations required to be performed on or before Closing under each of the Transaction Agreements pursuant to and in accordance with the terms hereof and thereof. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the parties acknowledge that none of the AT&T Parties will be able to cause any Disposition Trust or any of its Subsidiaries to comply with such Disposition Trust's or such Subsidiary's obligations under any of the Transaction Agreements. The AT&T Parties agree to use their respective reasonable best efforts to cause such Disposition Trust or such Subsidiary to comply with its obligations under the Transaction Agreements and will indemnify the AOLTW Parties from any Losses arising out of its failure to so comply.
     
7.5 Merger of Disposition Trusts.. Prior to the Closing, Comcast shall not permit Trust III to (a) merge into or consolidate with Trust I or (b) assign any of its rights or obligations under the Transaction Agreements to Trust I, in each case, without the express written consent of AOLTW.
     
7.6 Prohibition on Deemed Sales.
     
. AT&T Comcast shall not consummate, or permit any Subsidiary of AT&T Comcast to consummate, a Deemed Sale if, at the time of such Deemed Sale, the AT&T Company Registration Rights Agreement would prohibit the Stockholders (as defined in the AT&T Company Registration Rights Agreement) from selling the number of shares of Company Class A Common Stock that if sold in such transaction would produce aggregate proceeds (net of underwriting fees, discounts, commissions and other offering expenses) equal to the Deemed Proceeds (as defined in the AT&T Company Registration Rights Agreement) from such Deemed Sale. For purposes of this Agreement, "Deemed Sale" means any direct sale or other direct transfer of the Equity Securities of any Subsidiary of AT&T Comcast (other than to AT&T Comcast or any Subsidiary of AT&T Comcast) if immediately prior to the consummation of such sale the value attributable to the Company Class A Common Stock held directly or indirectly by such Subsidiary represented more than fifty percent of the fair market value of its assets.
Table of Contents
57
     8.1 Required Efforts.
          (a) Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, each of the parties hereto will use its respective reasonable best efforts to promptly (i) take, or cause to be taken, all actions and to do, or cause to be done, all things necessary, proper or advisable under applicable Laws to consummate the Transactions as soon as practicable, including preparing and filing as promptly as practicable all documentation to effect all necessary filings, notices, petitions, statements, registrations, submissions of information, applications and other documents, and (ii) obtain and maintain all Authorizations as are necessary, proper or advisable in connection with the Transactions, including, without limitation, waiver of Purchase Rights, the Franchise Consents, PUC Consents and FCC License Consents (collectively, the "Required Approvals"). The existence of the conditions set forth in Section 11.1(a), 11.1(b) and 11.1(c) shall not limit the parties' obligations pursuant to the foregoing sentences.
          (b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in this Agreement (including Section 8.1(a)) shall require, or be deemed to require AOLTW, AT&T or Comcast (or any of their respective Subsidiaries) to agree to[ or] effect any divestiture, hold separate any business or assets, or enter or agree to enter into, or amend or agree to amend, any of its Contracts or Authorizations (including, without limitation, Franchises and FCC Licenses) or take or refrain from taking any other action or conduct any business in any manner:
effect or
               (i) with respect to all actions and agreements other than any deletion or modification of any term of the AOL High Speed Data Agreement, if doing so would, or would reasonably be likely to, individually or in the aggregate, (A) materially adversely affect the Company (after giving effect to the Transactions) or (B) have a meaningful adverse effect (excluding affects by virtue of ownership interests in the Company) on AOLTW, AT&T or Comcast, as the case may be; provided that the parties agree that the imposition of reasonable restrictions on AT&T's (or MediaOne of Colorado's) ownership interests (which shall be deemed to include, solely for this purpose, any limitations or prohibitions on its exercise of voting rights) in the AOLTW Common Stock or the Company Common Stock issued to MediaOne of Colorado hereunder, or in TWE shall not be deemed, for purposes of this Section 8.1(b)(i) to adversely affect the Company (after giving effect to the Transactions), AOLTW, AT&T or Comcast, as the case may be; or
Series A Preferred Stock (or the
issuable upon conversion thereof)
               (ii) with respect to the AOL High Speed Data Agreement, which has the effect of: (A) deleting or modifying any pricing or other economic term in the AOL High Speed Data Agreement set forth on Exhibit C thereto or in Section 4(f) thereof in a manner that is adverse to such party or (B) deleting or modifying any of the other terms of the AOL High Speed Data Agreement in a manner that, in the aggregate, materially adversely affects such party's rights or obligations under
Table of Contents
58
the AOL High Speed Data Agreement; provided that the parties hereby agree that the failure to include the provisions of Sections 3(C) and 4(L) and the first paragraph of Section 20(B) of the AOL High Speed Data Agreement shall be deemed not to adversely affect any party's rights thereunder (it being understood that, without limiting the other obligations of the parties under this Agreement, AT&T and Comcast shall take all reasonable and appropriate measures to support the retention of Sections 3(C) and 4(L) and the first paragraph of Section 20(B) in the AOL High Speed Data Agreement); or
               (iii) that requires any modifications to (or imposes a condition inconsistent with) this Agreement or the other Transaction Agreements (other than the AOL High Speed Data Agreement) that, in the aggregate, materially adversely affects such party.
     (c)  In furtherance and not in limitation of the covenants of the parties contained in Section 8.1(a), if any administrative or judicial action or proceeding, including any proceeding by a private party, is instituted (or threatened to be instituted) challenging any Transaction as violative of any Competition Law (as defined below), or if any Law is enacted, entered, promulgated or enforced or any other course of action is taken by a Governmental Authority which would make the Transactions illegal or would otherwise prohibit or materially impair or delay the consummation of the Transactions, subject to Section 8.1(b), each of AOLTW, AT&T and Comcast shall cooperate in all respects with each other and shall (including, subject to Section 8.1(b), by selling, holding separate or otherwise disposing of or conducting its business in a specified manner, or agreeing to sell, hold separate or otherwise Dispose of or conduct its business in a specified manner, or permitting the sale, holding separate or other Disposition of any assets of AT&T, AOLTW or their respective Subsidiaries or agreeing to modifications to the Transaction Agreements) contest and resist any such action or proceeding and shall use its respective reasonable best efforts to have vacated, lifted, reversed or overturned any decree, judgment, injunction, order or other Law, whether temporary, preliminary or permanent, that is in effect and that prohibits, prevents or restricts consummation of the Transactions and shall use its respective reasonable best efforts to have such Law repealed, rescinded or made inapplicable so as to permit consummation of the Transactions. Notwithstanding the foregoing or any other provision of this Agreement, nothing in this Section 8.1 shall limit a party's right to terminate this Agreement pursuant to Article XII so long as such party has up to then complied with its obligations under this Section 8.1.
     (d)  Subject to applicable Law relating to the exchange of information, each of AOLTW, AT&T and Comcast shall (i) promptly inform the other parties of any communication received by such party (or any of its Subsidiaries) from, or given by such party (or any of its Subsidiaries) to, any Governmental Authority, in each case regarding any of the Transactions; (ii) have the right to review in advance, and to the extent practicable consult with the other parties on, all the information relating to AOLTW and its Subsidiaries, AT&T and its Subsidiaries or Comcast and its Subsidiaries, as the case may be, that appears in any filing made with, or written materials submitted to, any Governmental Authority with respect to the Transactions; (iii) furnish counsel for the other parties with copies of all correspondence, filings and communications (and
Table of Contents
59
memoranda setting forth the substance thereof) between them and their Affiliates and their respective representatives, on the one hand, and any Governmental Authority or their respective staffs, on the other hand, regarding any of the Transactions; (iv) consult with each other, to the extent practicable, in advance of any meeting or conference with, any Governmental Authority, and to the extent permitted by the Governmental Authority, give the other parties the opportunity to attend and participate in such meetings and conferences; and (v) otherwise use its respective reasonable best efforts to cooperate in all respects with each other in connection with any filing or submission and in connection with any investigation or other inquiry, including any proceeding initiated by a private party in connection with the Transactions; provided that, notwithstanding the above, AOLTW's obligations with respect to Franchise Consents shall be limited to briefing AT&T and Comcast from time to time upon such party's reasonable request with respect to the status of obtaining the Franchise Consents.
     (e)  In furtherance and not in limitation of the foregoing, each of AT&T, AOLTW and Comcast agrees to make, as promptly as practicable (and, in any event, within 30 calendar days of the date of this Agreement), to the extent it has not already done so, all necessary filings with applicable Governmental Authorities relating to the Transactions, and, in each case, to supply as promptly as practicable any additional information and documentary material that may be reasonably requested pursuant to such Laws or by such Governmental Authorities and to use reasonable best efforts to cause the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting periods under the HSR Act and the receipt of any Required Approvals under such other Laws or from such authorities as soon as practicable.
     (f)  In furtherance of obtaining Franchise Consents in connection with the Transactions, the Company hereby authorizes the persons designated in Section 8.1(f) of the AOLTW Disclosure Letter to execute and file such forms, applications and other documents and to take such other actions as may be necessary or appropriate by and in the name of the Company in order to apply for and obtain such Franchise Consents; provided, however, that AOLTW shall not have the authority to bind the Company to any obligation that is not conditioned on the Closing taking place and shall indemnify the Company from any Loss arising out of any action so taken by such Persons in the event the Closing does not occur.
the persons designated in Section 8.1(f) of the
Disclosure Letter
AOLTW
     8.2 Prohibited Activities. The parties hereto shall not, and shall cause their respective Affiliates, agents and representatives acting on their behalf not to, engage in, announce an intention to engage in, or act in concert with any Person to engage in, a Prohibited Activity.
     8.3 Public Announcements. Prior to Closing, AT&T, Comcast and AOLTW will consult with each other before issuing any press release or making any public statement with respect to this Agreement, any other Transaction Agreement or the Transactions (except to the extent the information included therein has previously been disclosed in a release or statement previously approved hereunder) and, except as may be required by applicable Law or any listing agreement with any national securities
Table of Contents
60
exchange or quotation system, will not issue any such press release or make any such public statement without the prior consent of the other parties, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any such press release or public statement that may be required by applicable Law or any listing agreement with any national securities exchange or quotation system may be issued without such consent, if the party hereto making such release or statement has used its reasonable efforts to consult with the other parties.
     8.4 Further Assurances. In addition to any other action required by this Agreement, subject to Section 7.4 in the case of any Disposition Trust (and its controlled Affiliates), AOLTW, AT&T and Comcast shall, and shall cause their respective Subsidiaries to, execute such further instruments and documents and perform such further acts as may be reasonably necessary, required or desirable to carry into effect the intent and purposes of this Agreement and the other Transaction Agreements.
     8.5 Acknowledgment Regarding Original Partnership Agreement. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Original Partnership Agreement or in any Transaction Agreement, each of the parties hereby acknowledges and agrees that AT&T or Comcast shall be deemed not restricted or prohibited hereunder or thereunder from consummating any of the transactions contemplated by the AT&T Comcast Merger Agreement or any Permitted AT&T [Transfer].
Disposition
     8.6 Pre-Closing Disclosures. If at the time that all conditions set forth in Sections 11.1, 11.2 and 11.3 are satisfied or waived (other than the condition specified in Section 11.2(c) and other than conditions that by their nature are to be satisfied at the Closing and will in fact be satisfied at the Closing) AOLTW in good faith notifies AT&T and Comcast in writing of the existence of breaches of representations and warranties made by the AOLTW Parties in Article V (setting forth with reasonable specificity the details of such breaches) that AOLTW acknowledges in such writing would result in the non-satisfaction of the condition to Closing set forth in Section 11.2(c) (with respect to Sections 5.24, 5.25, 5.26, 5.27, 5.28, 5.29, 5.30, 5.31, 5.32, 5.33 or 5.34) and, after receipt of such notice, AT&T waives such condition and the Closing occurs, none of the AT&T Parties, the Comcast Parties, the Company or any other Person shall have any rights hereunder (including under Section 13.3) or otherwise (including at Law) with respect to such breaches of representations and warranties (or any Losses arising therefrom), and such breaches of representations and warranties shall be disregarded for purposes of Section 13.5.
     8.7 Disposition Changes.
          (a) In connection with establishing the terms of any Disposition Trust or any Permitted AT&T Transferee upon which similar governmental restrictions, as described below, are applied (together with any Disposition Trust, a "Disposition Entity") with respect to AT&T's or its Affiliates' interest in the Company (the "Interest"), (i) prior to submitting any drafts of definitive documents relating to such Disposition Entity to the relevant Governmental Authority, AT&T and Comcast will provide AOLTW with copies of such drafts, (ii) the parties will consult with each other
Table of Contents
61
and AOLTW will (within five (5) days of receipt of such draft documents, or such shorter period as is appropriate given the materiality of changes in such draft or the status of the process with the relevant Governmental Authority) seek in good faith to identify any reasonable federal Income Tax-related objections to any proposed changes to the terms of the Disposition Entity relative to those set forth in the Original Trust Terms (as defined below), provided, that failure to make any such objection shall not limit AOLTW's rights hereunder and (iii) AT&T and Comcast shall use reasonable best efforts, subject to any customary limitations under applicable Law (including, without limitation, FCC and FTC rules), to cause the terms governing such Disposition Entity to provide that (A) the governing trustee of such Disposition Entity (the "Trustee") will have the right to exercise any voting rights of the Interest as described in paragraph 4 of Section 1A of the AT&T Disclosure Letter, (B) AT&T or one or more of its Affiliates will have the right to appoint (subject to notice to or approval of the relevant Governmental Authority) the Trustee and any successor trustee and (C) the Trustee will distribute to AT&T or its Affiliates all proceeds (other than Restricted Consideration as described in Section 1A of the Disclosure Letter and net of all fees and expenses owed to the Trustee) from any Disposition of the Interest or of any Restricted Consideration. Notwithstanding the foregoing, AT&T shall not be required to take any action that would reasonably be likely to, individually or in the aggregate, have a meaningful adverse effect (excluding effects by virtue of ownership interests in the Company) on AT&T or Comcast, as the case may be. "Original Trust Terms" means the trust terms, insofar as material to the federal Income Tax characterization of the trust and the Interest, set forth in Section 1A of the AT&T Disclosure Letter.
     (b)  Promptly upon determination of the definitive terms (the "Definitive Trust Terms") governing a Disposition Entity, AT&T shall provide AOLTW with a copy of such definitive terms (an "AT&T Disposition Notice"). If there is any material deviation (it being agreed and understood that any change in the duration, so long as the duration is no longer than seven (7) years, of the Disposition Entity or the divestiture period of the Interest shall not be considered a material deviation under this section) between the Definitive Trust Terms and the Original Trust Terms (the "Deviation") and AOLTW determines in its reasonable judgment (after consultation with AT&T and Comcast) that the Deviation results in a risk (other than of a de minimus nature) of a material adverse effect on the federal Income Tax treatment of any of the Transactions to any AOLTW Party relative to the risk under the Original Trust Terms then, within ten (10) days of delivery of the AT&T Disposition Notice, AOLTW may provide AT&T with an irrevocable written notice of AOLTW's decision to terminate this Agreement (an "AT&T Disposition Termination Notice"), which notice shall set forth in reasonable detail the legal and factual basis for AOLTW's determination, and any failure by AOLTW to deliver an AT&T Disposition Termination Notice in accordance with this Section 8.7 within such 10-day period shall constitute a waiver by AOLTW of its right to terminate this Agreement pursuant to this Section 8.7. Within ten (10) days following delivery of an AT&T Disposition Termination Notice, AT&T shall provide AOLTW with written notice of AT&T's determination either (i) to agree to indemnify (with contest provisions similar to those set forth in Section 14.1(i) (but reversing the roles of AOLTW and AT&T) and subject to Section 14.4(b)) AOLTW against any incremental Income Tax cost arising out of an adverse effect identified in the AT&T Disposition
Table of Contents
62
Termination Notice to the extent resulting from the Deviation or (ii) to terminate this Agreement, and any failure by AT&T to deliver such written notice within such 10-day period shall constitute a determination by AT&T to terminate this Agreement, and upon such determination this Agreement shall automatically terminate.
     9.1 High Speed Data Agreements.
          (a) As an inducement to the AOLTW Parties to enter into the Transactions, the parties hereto agree as follows:
               (i) If the AT&T-Comcast Merger is consummated prior to the Closing, then at the Closing AT&T Comcast shall, and AOLTW shall cause AOL and TWE to, execute and deliver the AOL High Speed Data Agreement in the form attached as Exhibit D hereto. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the parties agree that (x) following (A) consummation of the AT&T-Comcast Merger and prior to the Closing and (B) receipt of all required Authorizations of Governmental Authorities in connection with the execution, delivery and performance of, and the consummation of the transactions contemplated by, the AOL High Speed Data Agreement; AT&T Comcast may, in its sole discretion, elect (by delivering written notice to AOLTW) to enter into the AOL High Speed Data Agreement and (y) promptly following such election (and in any event within two Business Days), AT&T Comcast shall, and AOLTW shall cause AOL and TWE to execute and deliver the AOL High Speed Data Agreement.
               (ii) If the AT&T-Comcast Merger has not been consummated on or prior to March 1, 2003 and at any time thereafter all other conditions to the Closing are satisfied (or waived) (other than those conditions that by their nature are to be satisfied at the Closing and will in fact be satisfied at the Closing), then, in lieu of AT&T Comcast entering into the AOL High Speed Data Agreement in the Existing Form, at the Closing, AT&T shall, and AOLTW shall cause AOL and TWE to, execute and deliver the AOL High Speed Data Agreement in the form set forth on Section 9.1(a)(ii) of the AT&T Disclosure Letter.
               (b) To the extent permitted by Law, each of AOLTW, AT&T and Comcast agrees to begin operations implementation of the AOL High Speed Data Agreement, as applicable (including the Technical Specifications certification process) to prepare for the Initial Deployment Date within a reasonable period of time prior to the anticipated Effective Date to permit the Deployment of the ISP Service in the Initial Markets as soon as possible after the Effective Date (each capitalized term used in this sentence, unless otherwise defined in this Agreement, shall have the meaning assigned to such term in the AOL High Speed Data Agreement.
)
               (c) Notwithstanding anything else contained in this Agreement or any other Transaction Agreement, at the time when all conditions to Closing are satisfied or waived other than the execution and delivery of the AOL High Speed Data
Table of Contents
63
Agreement, if an administrative or judicial action or proceeding brought by the DOJ, the FTC or the FCC challenging or objecting to the AOL High Speed Data Agreement shall be pending (or overtly threatened) and any such action or proceeding shall have been commenced (and not withdrawn) by the DOJ, the FTC or the FCC, in each case which would be reasonably likely to result in changes or modifications to the AOL High Speed Data Agreement to which AT&T would not be required to agree to pursuant to Section 8.1(b)(ii) hereof then AT&T may elect at Closing, by delivery of written notice to AOLTW, not to execute and deliver the AOL High Speed Data Agreement and shall thereafter have no liability or obligation in respect of the AOL High Speed Data Agreement. Upon such election (the "ISP Termination Election"), the condition set forth in Section 11.3(d) shall be deemed incapable of being satisfied and AOLTW shall have the right to terminate this Agreement pursuant to Section 12.1(d)(iii).
     9.2 Interim Agreements with respect to Original TWE Partnership Agreement. Each of AT&T and AOLTW hereby agrees that following the execution of this Agreement and until Closing (or the earlier termination of this Agreement in accordance herewith), each such party shall, and shall cause their respective Affiliates to, refrain from Disposing of any Equity Securities of TWE or from pursuing any registration rights under Article XIII of the Original Partnership Agreement other than (i) transfers by AOLTW or its Affiliates to wholly owned Subsidiaries of AOLTW or to the Company, (ii) Permitted AT&T [Transfers]to Permitted AT&T Transferees and (iii) the AT&T Comcast Transactions. AOLTW, for itself and on behalf of its Affiliates, hereby waives its right of first refusal [it ]under Section 11.3 of the Original Partnership Agreement and any other transfer restrictions contained in Article XI of the Original Partnership Agreement in each case with respect to the Transactions, any of the AT&T Comcast Transactions or any Permitted AT&T [Transfer]. AOLTW, for itself and on behalf of its Affiliates, hereby agrees that[, following the Closing,] Section 5.5 of the Original Partnership Agreement shall have no application to the businesses of AT&T Comcast and its Affiliates after giving effect to the AT&T-Comcast Merger and the AT&T Comcast Transactions.
Dispositions
Disposition
     9.3 Certain Post-Closing Restrictions.
          (a) Neither AOLTW nor any of its Affiliates (other than the Company or its majority owned Subsidiaries) will (i) assume or otherwise repay the Company Indebtedness or any Indebtedness that is incurred to refinance the Company Indebtedness or guarantee the Company Indebtedness in each case for a period of two years following the Closing or (ii) guarantee any Indebtedness that is incurred to refinance the Company Indebtedness for a period of 30 days following the Closing.
          (b) For a period of six months following the Closing, the Company shall not, and neither AOLTW nor any of its Affiliates shall cause or permit the Company to, (i) amend the terms of the Company Class B Common Stock so that holders of the Company Class B Common Stock elect less than 80% of the directors of the Company, (ii) amend the terms of the Company Class A Common Stock so that holders of the Company Class A Common Stock elect less than the greater of (x) one-sixth of the directors of the Company or (y) one director, (iii) issue any additional shares of Company
Table of Contents
64
Class B Common Stock to any person other than AOLTW, (iv) sell or otherwise dispose of any of the Transferred Class B Common Stock, except for transfers described in Section 368(a)(2)(C) of the Code or Treas. Reg.  1.368-2(k), or (v) issue any new class of shares that are non-voting.
          (c) The Company shall not, and neither AOLTW nor any of its Affiliates shall cause or permit the Company to (other than in connection with the grant or exercise of compensatory stock options), (i) for a period of six months following the Closing, issue any of the Company's stock for cash, other than in connection with a public offering of the Company Class A Common Stock and (ii) for a period of 90 days following the Closing, enter into any agreement to issue the Company's stock for cash, other than in connection with a public offering of the Company's Class A Common Stock.
     [9.4 ][Company Fees and Expenses. If AOLTW determines in its good faith judgment that]
           ]the [terms of the Company Indebtedness at ]Closing [are not commercially reasonable and it notifies]AT&T[ and] Comcast [in writing (the "Objection Notice") of such determination by Closing, and within 135 days of Closing the Company refinances such Company Indebtedness, then AT&T shall, upon notice from the ][Company, promptly pay]the [Company cash in an amount equal] to[ all fees, costs and expenses (including commitment fees and counsel fees) incurred by the Company in ][connection with the incurrence of the Company Indebtedness (collectively, the "Company Fees and Expenses"); provided that if the Objection Notice is delivered but ][the Company has not closed the refinancing of the Company Indebtedness within such 135-day period, then the Company will promptly pay cash to] AT&T [Broadband equal to 50% of the Company Fees and Expenses.][ The Company]shall[ provide the definitive documents to be executed prior to Closing containing the terms of such Company Indebtedness, including the amount of all Company Fees and Expenses, to AOLTW at least two Business Days prior to Closing.]
(d)
From
Date until the conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock on the Conversion Date (as defined in the Certificate of Designations), (i) neither
nor any of its Affiliates shall Dispose of
share of Series A Preferred Stock (other than
AT&T Comcast or a direct or indirect wholly owned Subsidiary of
Comcast) and (ii) AT&T Comcast
not, and shall cause its Affiliates, agents and representatives acting on its behalf not to, engage in any Hedging Transaction.
     10.1 Release by AOLTW and TWE. Except as provided in Section 10.3, effective as of the Closing, each of AOLTW and TWE does hereby, for itself and each of its wholly owned Subsidiaries and their respective predecessors, successors and assigns, and all Persons who at any time prior to the Closing have been shareholders, directors, officers, members, agentsor employees of AOLTW, TWE or any of their respective Affiliates, predecessors, successors or assigns (in each
, trustees
Table of Contents
65
case, in their respective capacities as such and to the extent it may legally do so) (collectively, the "AOLTW Releasing Parties"), remise, release and forever discharge AT&T Corp., AT&T Comcast and each of their respective Subsidiaries and Affiliates, their respective predecessors, successors and assigns, and all Persons who at any time prior to the Closing have been shareholders, directors, officers, members, agentsor employees of AT&T Corp., AT&T Comcast or any of their respective Subsidiaries, Affiliates, predecessors, successors or assigns (in each case, in their respective capacities as such and to the extent it may legally do so), and their respective heirs, executors, administrators, predecessors, successors and assigns (collectively, the "AT&T Released Parties"), from any and all Liabilities whatsoever, whether at Law or in equity (including any right of contribution), whether arising under any Contract or agreement, by operation of Law or otherwise, existing or arising from any acts or events occurring or failing to occur or alleged to have occurred or to have failed to occur or any conditions existing or alleged to have existed on or before the Closing, whether or not known as of the Closing, related to, arising out of or resulting from the Original Partnership Agreement, the Engagement Letter, the Letter Agreements, any transactions contemplated thereby or AT&T's ownership, directly or indirectly, of TWE Partnership Interests, including, without limitation, any claims under the Original Partnership Agreement. Each of AOLTW and TWE agrees, on behalf of itself and each of the other AOLTW Releasing Parties, that it will not, and (to the extent it may legally do so) will not permit any AOLTW Releasing Party to, assert any claims against any AT&T Released Party with respect to matters covered by the foregoing release.
, trustees
     10.2 Release by AT&T Corp. and AT&T Comcast. Except as provided in Section 10.3, effective as of the Closing, each of AT&T Corp. and AT&T Comcast does hereby, for itself and each of its wholly owned Subsidiaries and their respective successors and assigns, and all Persons who at any time prior to the Closing have been shareholders, directors, officers, members, agents or employees of AT&T Corp., AT&T Comcast or any of their respective Affiliates, predecessors, successors or assigns (in each case, in their respective capacities as such and to the extent it may legally do so) (collectively, the "AT&T Releasing Parties"), remise, release and forever discharge AOLTW and each of its Subsidiaries and Affiliates, their respective predecessors, successors and assigns, and all Persons who at any time prior to the Closing have been shareholders, directors, officers, members, agentsor employees of AOLTW or any of its Subsidiaries, Affiliates, predecessors, successors or assigns (in each case, in their respective capacities as such and to the extent it may legally do so), and their respective heirs, executors, administrators, predecessors, successors and assigns (collectively, the "AOLTW Released Parties"), from any and all Liabilities whatsoever, whether at law or in equity (including any right of contribution), whether arising under any Contract or agreement, by operation of Law or otherwise, existing or arising from any acts or events occurring or failing to occur or alleged to have occurred or to have failed to occur or any conditions existing or alleged to have existed on or before the Closing, whether or not known as of the Closing, related to, arising out of or resulting from the Original Partnership Agreement, the Engagement Letter, the Letter Agreements, any transactions contemplated thereby or AOLTW's ownership, directly or indirectly, of TWE Partnership Interests or the service of AOLTW Subsidiaries as general partners of
, trustees
, trustees
Table of Contents
66
TWE, including, without limitation, any claims under the Original Partnership Agreement. Each of AT&T Corp. and AT&T Comcast agrees, on behalf of itself and each of the other AT&T Releasing Parties, that it will not, and (to the extent it may legally do so) will not permit any AT&T Releasing Party to, assert any claims against any AOLTW Released Party with respect to matters covered by the foregoing release.
     10.3 Liabilities Excluded from Release. Nothing contained in Section 10.1 or 10.2 shall impair any right of any Person to enforce this Agreement or any other Transaction Agreement, in each case in accordance with its terms.
     11.1 Conditions to the Obligations of Each Party. The obligations of each AT&T Party and AOLTW Party hereto to consummate the Transactions are subject to the satisfaction (or waiver by such parties) of the following conditions:
          (a) any applicable waiting period (and any extension thereof) under the HSR Act relating to the Transactions shall have expired or been terminated;
          (b) the FTC shall have granted any necessary approval or taken any necessary action to permit the issuance of the AOLTW Common Stock to MediaOne of Colorado (or one or more wholly owned Subsidiaries of MediaOne of Colorado or to a Disposition Trust) pursuant to Section 2.6 and the ownership of such AOLTW Common Stock by MediaOne of Colorado (or such Subsidiaries or Disposition Trust);
Series A Preferred Stock (and the
issuable upon conversion thereof)
Series A Preferred Stock (and the
issuable upon conversion thereof)
          (c) all FCC License Consents and other Required Approvals of Governmental Authorities (other than Franchise Consents) shall have been obtained, be in effect and be subject to no limitations, conditions, restrictions or obligations, except for such consents the failure of which to obtain would not, and such limitations, conditions, restrictions or obligations as would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect or would otherwise be inconsistent with Section 8.1(b);
          (d) no provision of any applicable Law (other than those having only an immaterial effect and that do not impose criminal liability or penalties) shall prohibit the consummation of the Transactions; provided that the failure of the parties to obtain Franchise Consents shall not be considered to prohibit the consummation of the Transactions;
          (e) no court, arbitrator or other Governmental Authority of competent jurisdiction shall have issued any order, and there shall not be any Law restraining or prohibiting the effective operation of the business of any of the AOLTW Parties, the AT&T Parties, the Comcast Parties or the Company after the Closing that
Table of Contents
67
would, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect;
          (f) the AT&T-Comcast Merger shall have been consummated; provided that, if the AT&T-Comcast Merger is not consummated on or prior to March 1, 2003 and all other conditions to the Closing have been satisfied (or waived) (other than those conditions that by their nature are to be satisfied at the Closing and will in fact be satisfied at the Closing), then this condition shall be automatically deemed waived by the parties; and
          (g) All Franchise Consents shall not be required or shall have been obtained, be in effect and be subject to no limitations, conditions, restrictions or obligations, except for such Franchise Consents the failure of which to obtain would not, and such limitations, conditions, restrictions or obligations as would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect.
     11.2 Further Conditions to the Obligations of the AT&T Parties. The obligations of the AT&T Parties to consummate the Transactions are subject to the satisfaction (or waiver by the AT&T Parties) of the following further conditions:
          (a) The AOLTW Parties shall have performed, in all material respects, their obligations hereunder and under the Transaction Agreements required to be performed by them at or prior to the Closing, and AT&T shall have received a certificate signed by an executive officer of AOLTW to the foregoing effect;
          (b) Each of the Transaction Agreements shall have been duly executed and delivered by each of the AOLTW Parties party to such Transaction Agreement;
          (c) Except for the representations and warranties referred to in Section 11.2(d), (i) the representations and warranties contained in Sections 5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 5.4, 5.5, 5.6, 5.7, 5.8, 5.9 and 5.13(b) shall be true and correct in all material respects (except to the extent such representation and warranty contains a materiality or Material Adverse Effect qualification or any similar standard or qualification, in which case that portion of such representation and warranty shall be true in all respects) at and as of the Closing, as if made at and as of such time (other than representations and warranties that address matters as of a certain date, which shall be true and correct in all material respects (except to the extent such representation and warranty contains a materiality or Material Adverse Effect qualification or any similar standard or qualification, in which case that portion of such representation and warranty shall be true in all respects) as of such date); (ii) the other representations and warranties of the AOLTW Parties contained in this Agreement or in any certificate delivered pursuant hereto, disregarding all qualifications and exceptions contained therein relating to materiality or Company Material Adverse Effect or TWIC Material Adverse Effect or any similar standard or qualification, shall be true and correct at and as of the Closing, as if made at and as of such time (other than representations and warranties that address matters as of a certain date, which shall be true and correct as of such date), with only such exceptions as,
Table of Contents
68
individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect, and (iii) AT&T shall have received a certificate signed by an executive officer of AOLTW to the foregoing effect;
          (d) The representations and warranties contained in Sections 5.10, 5.11, 5.12, 5.13(a), 5.14 and 5.15 of this Agreement, disregarding all qualifications and exceptions contained therein relating to materiality or AOLTW Material Adverse Effect or any similar standard or qualification, shall be true and correct at and as of the Closing, as if made at and as of such time and taking into account any additional disclosure made by AOLTW or its Subsidiaries after the date hereof and deemed to be included in the AOLTW Disclosure Letter pursuant to the definition thereof (other than representations and warranties that address matters only as of a certain date, which shall be true and correct as of such date), with only such exceptions as, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have an AOLTW Material Adverse Effect, and AT&T shall have received a certificate signed by an executive officer of AOLTW to the foregoing effect;
          (e) [The registration statement pursuant to which shares of AOLTW Common Stock issuable hereunder will be registered pursuant to the AOLTW Registration Rights Agreement shall have been declared effective by the SEC (unless the SEC rules and regulations or the Staff would not permit a re-sale shelf registration statement to be filed or declared effective prior to issuance of such shares) and no stop order suspending the effectiveness of such registration statement shall be in effect and no proceedings for such purpose shall be pending before or threatened by the SEC;]
[Intentionally Omitted.]
          (f) There shall have been no changes or proposed changes in the Code or the Treasury Regulations or the judicial or administrative interpretation thereof that would have a significant adverse effect on AT&T or the Transactions;
          (g) AT&T shall have received an affidavit of an officer of Holdco sworn under penalty of perjury, setting forth Holdco's address and federal tax identification number and stating that Holdco is not a "foreign person" within the meaning of Section 1445 of the Code; and
          (h) AT&T shall have received a certificate that, to the knowledge of the certifying officer, the AOLTW Broadband Business has taken or is taking all action necessary and appropriate to enforce all "most favored nations" provisions in Affiliate Agreements pursuant to which programming services are provided by an AOLTW Non-Broadband Business owned directly or indirectly 75% or more by AOLTW in each case to the extent in the best interests of the AOLTW Broadband Business (in such officer's good faith judgment), which certificate is executed by an executive officer of the Time Warner Cable division of AOLTW.
Table of Contents
69
     11.3 Further Conditions to the Obligations of the AOLTW Parties. The obligations of the AOLTW Parties to consummate the Transactions are subject to the satisfaction (or waiver by the AOLTW Parties) of the following further conditions:
          (a) The AT&T Parties shall have performed, in all material respects, their obligations hereunder required to be performed by them at or prior to the Closing, and AOLTW shall have received a certificate signed by an executive officer of AT&T to the foregoing effect;
          (b) Each of the Transaction Agreements shall have been duly executed and delivered by each of the AT&T Parties and Comcast Parties that are parties to such Transaction Agreement;
          (c) (i) The representations and warranties contained in Sections 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.4, 3.5, 3.7, 3.8, 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4 and 4.5 shall be true and correct in all material respects (except to the extent such representation and warranty contains a materiality or Material Adverse Effect qualification or any similar standard or qualification, in which case that portion of such representation and warranty shall be true in all respects) at and as of the Closing, as if made at and as of such time (other than representations and warranties that address matters as of a certain date, which shall be true and correct in all material respects (except to the extent such representation and warranty contains a materiality or Material Adverse Effect qualification or any similar standard or qualification, in which case that portion of such representation and warranty shall be true in all respects) as of such date); (ii) the other representations and warranties of the AT&T Parties contained in this Agreement or in any certificate delivered pursuant hereto, disregarding all qualifications and exceptions contained therein relating to materiality or Company Material Adverse Effect or any similar standard or qualification, shall be true and correct at and as of the Closing, as if made at and as of such time (other than representations and warranties that address matters only as of a certain date, which shall be true and correct as of such date), with only such exceptions as, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have Company Material Adverse Effect, and (iii) AOLTW shall have received a certificate signed by an executive officer of AT&T and Comcast, respectively to the foregoing effect;
          (d) (i) The AOL High Speed Data Agreement shall have become effective in accordance with its terms (subject to such changes as may be required by Section 8.1 and Section 9.1); and (ii) no administrative or judicial action or proceeding brought by the DOJ, the FTC or the FCC challenging or objecting to the AOL High Speed Data Agreement shall be pending (or overtly threatened) and no such action or proceeding shall have been commenced (and not withdrawn) by the DOJ, the FTC or the FCC, in each case which would be reasonably likely to result in changes or modifications to the AOL High Speed Data Agreement that AOLTW would not be required to agree to pursuant to Section 8.1(b)(ii) hereof;
          (e) There shall have been no changes or proposed changes in the Code or the Treasury Regulations or the judicial or administrative interpretation thereof that would have a significant adverse effect on AOLTW or the Transactions;
Table of Contents
70
          (f) AOLTW shall have received an affidavit of an officer of [MediaOne]of [Colorado sworn under penalty]of [perjury,] setting forth [MediaOne of Colorado]'s address and federal tax identification number and stating that [MediaOne of Colorado]is not a "foreign person" within the meaning of Section 1445 of the Code; and
(i)
MOC Holdco II, Inc., a Delaware corporation and (ii) an affidavit
a trustee
Trust II, in each case
such entity
such entity
          (g) Franchise Consents shall not be required or shall have been obtained, be in effect and be subject to no limitations, conditions, restrictions or obligations (other than those that may be required under Section 8.1(b)) in respect of Systems serving at least 90% of the aggregate number of subscribers in the AOLTW Broadband Business.
     11.4 Frustration of Closing Conditions. No condition set forth in Section 11.1, 11.2 or 11.3 shall be available to any party whose failure to fulfill its obligations under, or whose breach of any representation or warranty in, this Agreement or any other Transaction Agreement results in or materially contributes to the failure of such condition to be satisfied.
     12.1 Termination. This Agreement may be terminated and the Transactions may be abandoned at any time prior to the Closing by action taken by the Board of Directors of the terminating party or parties:
          (a) by mutual written agreement of AOLTW and AT&T;
          (b) by either AOLTW or AT&T, if:
               (i) the Closing shall not have occurred on or before June 30, 2003 (the "End Date"); provided that the right to terminate this Agreement pursuant to this Section 12.1(b)(i) shall not be available to any party hereto whose breach of any provision of this Agreement or any other Transaction Agreement results in or materially contributes to the failure of the Closing to occur on or before the End Date; or
               (ii) (A) there shall be any Law (other than any Law having only an immaterial effect and that does not impose criminal liability or penalties) that makes consummation of the Transactions illegal or otherwise prohibited (provided that solely for purposes of this clause the failure of the parties to obtain Franchise Consents shall be considered not to make consummation of the Transactions illegal or otherwise prohibited); or (B) any Governmental Authority (other than a Franchising Authority) having competent jurisdiction shall have issued an order, decree or ruling or taken any other action (which the terminating party shall have used its reasonable best efforts to resist, resolve or lift, as applicable, in accordance with Section 8.1) permanently restraining, enjoining or otherwise prohibiting any of the Transactions, and such order, decree, ruling or other action shall have become final and nonappealable; provided,
Table of Contents
71
however, that the right to terminate this Agreement under this Section 12.1(b)(ii) shall not be available to any party whose failure to comply with Section 8.1 results in or materially contributes to the circumstances set forth in clause (A) or (B) above existing;
          (c) by AT&T if:
               (i) a breach of any representation, warranty, covenant or agreement on the part of AOLTW set forth in this Agreement shall have occurred that would cause any of the conditions set forth in Section 11.2(a), (b), (c) or (d) not to be satisfied, and such condition shall be incapable of being satisfied by the End Date; or
               (ii) (A) the AT&T-Comcast Merger shall not have been consummated by January 15, 2003; (B) AOLTW shall have received a letter from Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz ("WLRK") to the effect that in WLRK's judgment, based on communications with applicable Governmental Authorities and outside FCC counsel, the transactions contemplated by this Agreement shall have been a primary reason for the failure of the AT&T-Comcast Merger to have been consummated prior to that time; and (C) such termination is elected by AT&T on or prior to February 1, 2003, by written notice to the parties hereto (any such termination an "AT&T Special Termination Event);
          (d) by AOLTW:
               (i) if a breach of any representation, warranty, covenant or agreement on the part of AT&T set forth in this Agreement shall have occurred that would cause the condition set forth in Section 11.3(a), (b) or (c) not to be satisfied, and such condition shall be incapable of being satisfied by the End Date;
               (ii) [if the AOLTW Stock Price is less than $6.665 as appropriately adjusted, if necessary, for any dividend or other distribution, subdivision, split or combination of shares with respect to the AOLTW Common Stock following the date hereof (the "Specified Price"); provided that if AOLTW desires to terminate this Agreement pursuant to this Section 12.1(d)(ii) it must deliver to AT&T and Comcast an irrevocable notice of termination pursuant to this Section 12.1(d)(ii) no later than 5:00 p.m. in New York City on the second Trading Day following the last Trading Day in the Valuation Period (which notice of termination will become automatically effective at 5:00 p.m. in New York City on the fourth Trading Day following the last Trading Day in the Valuation Period, unless, prior to such time, AT&T and Comcast agree, in an irrevocable written notice to AOLTW (the "Acceptance Notice"), to calculate the Specified Number by deeming the AOLTW Stock Price to be equal to the Specified Price, without duplication of any adjustments for dividends, distributions, stock splits, subdivisions or combinations (any such termination, an "AOLTW Special Termination Event"). If the Acceptance Notice is delivered, there shall be no AOLTW Special Termination Event;]
[Intentionally Omitted]
               (iii) upon delivery of an ISP Termination Notice; or
               (iv) as provided in and subject to Section 8.7.
Table of Contents
72
     The party hereto desiring to terminate this Agreement pursuant to this Section 12.1 (other than pursuant to Section 12.1(a)) shall give notice of such termination to the other parties.
     12.2 Effect of Termination. If this Agreement is terminated pursuant to Section 12.1, this Agreement shall become void and of no effect without liability of any party hereto (or any shareholder, director, officer, employee, agent, consultant or representative of such party) to the other parties hereto, except that (a) the agreements contained in Section 8.5, the last two sentences of Section 9.2, this Section 12.2, Section 12.3, Section 12.4 and Article XV (other than Section 15.14) shall survive the termination hereof and (b) no such termination shall relieve any party hereto of any liability or damages resulting from any willful breach by such party of this Agreement.
     12.3 Fees and Expenses. Except as otherwise provided in this Section 12.3 [and except for the Company Fees and Expenses (which shall be paid by the] [Company subject to Section 9.4), and except]as otherwise expressly provided in another Transaction Agreement, all Transaction Expenses incurred by AOLTW, AT&T Corp., Comcast (or any of their respective Affiliates) shall be paid by AOLTW, AT&T Corp. and Comcast, respectively, in each case regardless of whether the Transactions are consummated. Notwithstanding the foregoing, all excise, sales, use, value added, ad valorem, transfer, documentary, filing and other similar Taxes which may be imposed or assessed, and any other Transaction Expenses (except for fees and expenses of counsel and financial or other advisors) incurred by any of the AOLTW Group in connection with or related to the Transactions shall be paid by the Company if the Closing occurs; provided further that (a) any such Transaction Expenses consisting of fees and expenses of counsel or financial or other advisors of the AOLTW Group shall be paid by AOLTW and (b) any Transaction Expenses (except for fees and expenses of counsel and financial or other advisors) of the AOLTW Group related to the TWE Distribution, or if this Agreement is terminated, shall be paid by TWE.
or
; provided that the Company shall pay all fees, costs and expenses (including commitment fees and counsel fees) incurred by the Company in connection with the incurrence of Company Indebtedness (collectively, the "Company Fees and Expenses")
     12.4 TWE Article XIII Rights.
          (a) Subject to Section 12.4(b), if this Agreement is terminated pursuant to Section 12.1, the parties shall promptly (and in no event later than ten (10) Business Days after termination and in the event of an AT&T Special Termination or AOL Special Termination, no earlier than four Business Days following such termination) engage Banc of America Securities LLC ("BAS") to prepare and deliver a letter (the "New Valuation Letter") in form and substance consistent with the requirements for the Article 13 Valuation Letter set forth in the Engagement Letters, dated as of June 14, 2002, by and among TWE, the Company, AT&T Corp., AOLTW and BAS (the "Engagement Letter")), in accordance with the provisions of the Letter Agreements, dated June 14, 2002, July 29, 2002, August 14, 2002 and [the date hereof,]between AOLTW and AT&T Corp. executed in connection with such Engagement Letter (collectively the "Letter Agreements"); provided that the
September 6, 2002,
Table of Contents
73
New Valuation Letter and the determinations delivered therein shall speak as of the date of delivery of such letter.
          (b) If BAS is not eligible for such engagement due to a conflict of interest, then the parties agree to select and engage an alternative Investment Banking Firm no later than 30 days after the date on which it is determined by either party acting in good faith that BAS is not eligible for such engagement. In the event that an Investment Banking Firm has not been selected by written agreement of the parties within 30 days, either party may submit to the American Arbitration Association, which shall select an Investment Banking Firm within 10 Business Days. The parties shall promptly (and in any event within 10 days) engage the alternative Investment Banking Firm so selected on the same terms as BAS currently is engaged (with such reasonable changes as may be requested by such firm to reflect their customary terms of engagement; provided that such changes do not affect the scope or subject matter of the engagement or the determinations to be made thereunder); provided, further, that the parties will agree to negotiate in good faith appropriate fees for such engagement which shall be shared equally by TWE and AT&T.
          (c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, (a) AOLTW may, upon written notice to AT&T delivered within three Business Days of receipt of notice by AOLTW of an AT&T Special Termination Event, and (b) AT&T may, upon written notice to AOLTW delivered within three Business Days of receipt of notice by AT&T of an AOLTW Special Termination Event, elect (any such election an "Existing Valuation Election") to cause AOLTW, TWE, AT&T, MediaOne of Colorado and the Company (the "Engagement Parties") to be bound by the existing Article 13 Valuation Letter dated as of July 29, 2002 that BAS has prepared as contemplated by the Engagement Letter and held without delivery in accordance with the Letter Agreements (the "Existing Valuations"). Upon an Existing Valuation Election, the Engagement Parties shall promptly direct BAS to deliver the Existing Valuations to AT&T and AOLTW, whereupon the determinations contained therein shall be final and binding on the parties in accordance with the Engagement Letter and the Original Partnership Agreement and Sections 12.4(a) and 12.4(b) above shall be of no further force or effect. The parties hereby acknowledge and agree that nothing contained in this Agreement (other than Section 9.2) or in any other Transaction Agreement shall be deemed to supersede or in any way alter or amend the terms of the Letter Agreements or the Engagement Letter.
     13.1 Survival of Representations, Warranties, Covenants and Agreements. The representations and warranties of the AT&T Parties, the Comcast Parties and the AOLTW Parties in this Agreement or in any certificate delivered pursuant hereto will survive Closing for a period of 12 months after the Closing; provided that notwithstanding the foregoing (i) none of the representations and warranties contained in Section 5.10, 5.11, 5.12, 5.13, 5.14, 5.15, 5.17, 5.18, 5.19, 5.20, 5.21 or 5.22 shall survive
Table of Contents
74
the Closing; (ii) all representations and warranties with respect to any Taxes (including the representations and warranties in Sections 3.8 and 5.6) (other than the representations and warranties in Sections 3.8(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f) and (g) which will not survive the Closing and other than the representations and warranties contained in Section 5.33 that are not related to Income Taxes which will survive for a period of 12 months after the Closing), Environmental Law or ERISA matters will survive until 60 days after the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations (including any extensions) for such Taxes, Environmental Law or ERISA matters, respectively; and (iii) the representations and warranties contained in Section 3.7 shall survive in perpetuity. The periods of survival of the representations and warranties prescribed by this Section 13.1 are referred to as the "Survival Period." Liabilities under representations and warranties contained in this Agreement will expire as of the expiration of the applicable Survival Period; provided, however, that such expiration will not include, extend or apply to any representation or warranty, the breach of which has been asserted in a written notice in accordance with Section 15.1 before such expiration or about which proper notice has been given before such expiration, identifying with specificity any facts or conditions that exist which, with the passage of time or otherwise, could reasonably be expected to result in a breach (and describing such potential breach in reasonable detail). The covenants and agreements in this Agreement will survive the Closing and will continue in full force and effect without limitation. Any representation or warranty which, pursuant hereto, does not survive the Closing shall be from and after the Closing null and void and of no further force or effect, to the same extent as if never made hereunder. The parties expressly agree that the sole purpose of such representation and warranty ceases upon the Closing.
     13.2 Indemnification by AT&T. From and after the Closing, AT&T will indemnify and hold harmless the Company and its Affiliates, and its and their respective shareholders, officers, directors, partners, employees, agents, successors and assigns and any Person claiming by or through any of them, as the case may be, from and against any and all Losses incurred by such indemnified parties and arising out of, relating to or resulting from (a) any breach of any representation or warranty made by any of the AT&T Parties or, following consummation of the AT&T-Comcast Merger, the Comcast Parties in this Agreement or in any certificate delivered pursuant hereto, except pursuant to Section 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.4, 3.5, 3.8, 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4 or 4.5 and disregarding, for purposes of calculating Losses, all qualifications and exceptions contained therein relating to materiality or Company Material Adverse Effect or any similar standard other than those contained in Section 3.7; (b) any breach of any covenant, agreement or obligation of any of the AT&T Parties or, following consummation of the AT&T-Comcast Merger, the Comcast Parties contained in this Agreement; (c) without duplication of any indemnification claims or rights arising out of clause (a) above, any claims or rights with respect to employees, employment or any employee benefit plan or arrangement, in each case arising out of, relating to or resulting from any occurrence, practice, condition, action or inaction on or prior to the Closing involving the Company, any entity that is or was, on or prior to the Closing, a member of the Company's ERISA Group, or the predecessors of any of them, including, without limitation Losses incurred by reason of the Company having been, at any time on or prior to the Closing, a member
Table of Contents
75
of an ERISA Group (collectively, "Employee Claims"); provided, however, that Employee Claims shall not include any claims or rights (i) solely in connection with employment or termination thereof of any individual hired upon or following Closing by AOLTW or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or (ii) arising on or after Closing with respect to service on or after the Closing under any benefit plans maintained or sponsored by such entities; or (d) any failure of a Permitted AT&T Transferee to comply with its obligations under any Transaction Agreement or any Applicable Agreements (assuming, for purposes of this indemnity, that each Permitted AT&T Transferee assumed all obligations of the transferor hereunder and thereunder).
     13.3 Indemnification by AOLTW. From and after the Closing, AOLTW will indemnify and hold harmless the Company and its Affiliates, and its and their respective shareholders, officers, directors, partners, employees, agents, successors and assigns and any Person claiming by or through any of them, as the case may be, from and against any and all Losses incurred by such indemnified parties and arising out of, relating to or resulting from (a) any breach of any representation or warranty made by any of the AOLTW Parties in this Agreement or in any certificate delivered pursuant hereto, except pursuant to Section 5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 5.4, 5.5 or 5.6, and disregarding, for purposes of calculating Losses, all qualifications and exceptions contained therein (other than in Section 5.7, 5.8 or 5.9) relating to materiality or Company Material Adverse Effect or any similar standard or (b) any breach of any covenant, agreement or obligation of any of the AOLTW Parties contained in this Agreement (other than those contained in Section 9.3, which shall be governed by Section 14.1(c)).
     13.4 Third Party Claims. Promptly after the receipt of notice of any claim, action, suit or proceeding by any Third Party (collectively, an "Action"), which Action is subject to indemnification under Article XIII of this Agreement, the party receiving such notice (the "Indemnified Party") will give reasonable written notice to the party from whom indemnification is claimed (the "Indemnifying Party"). Notwithstanding the foregoing, the failure of any Indemnified Party to give notice as provided in the preceding sentence shall not relieve the related Indemnifying Party of its obligations under Section 13.2 or 13.3, as the case may be, except to the extent that such Indemnifying Party is actually prejudiced by such failure. The Indemnified Party will be entitled, at the sole expense and liability of the Indemnifying Party, to exercise full control of the defense, compromise or settlement of any such Action unless the Indemnifying Party, within a reasonable time (but in no event later than 30 days) after the giving of such notice by the Indemnified Party, (a) notifies the Indemnified Party in writing of the Indemnifying Party's intention to assume such defense and (b) retains legal counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Party to conduct the defense of such Action, in which case the Indemnifying Party will be entitled to exercise such full control. The other Party will cooperate with the Party assuming the defense, compromise or settlement of any such Action in accordance with this Agreement in any manner that such Party reasonably may request. If the Indemnifying Party so assumes the defense of any such Action, the Indemnified Party will have the right to employ separate counsel and to participate in (but not control) the defense, compromise or settlement of the Action, but the fees and expenses of such counsel will be at the expense of the
Table of Contents
76
Indemnified Party unless (i) the Indemnifying Party has agreed to pay such fees and expenses, (ii) any relief other than the payment of money damages is sought against the Indemnified Party or (iii) the Indemnified Party has been advised by its counsel that there may be one or more defenses available to it which are different from or additional to those available to the Indemnifying Party, and in any such case that portion of the fees and expenses of such separate counsel that are reasonably related to matters covered by the indemnity provided in this Article 13 will be paid by the Indemnifying Party; provided that the Indemnifying Party shall not be obligated to pay the expenses of more than one separate counsel in each jurisdiction for each Indemnified Party so entitled to separate counsel. Expenses of counsel to the Indemnified Party shall be reimbursed on a current basis by the Indemnifying Party. No Indemnified Party will settle or compromise any such Action for which it is entitled to indemnification under this Agreement without the prior written consent of the Indemnifying Party (not to be unreasonably withheld), unless the Indemnifying Party has failed to undertake control of such Action in the manner provided in this Section 13.4. No Indemnifying Party will settle or compromise any such Action in which any relief other than the payment of money damages is sought against any Indemnified Party, unless the Indemnified Party consents in writing to such compromise or settlement.
     13.5 Limitations on Indemnification. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein:
          (a) AT&T will not be liable for indemnification payments under Section 13.2(a) (other than with respect to Section 3.7) for any Losses of any Person entitled to indemnification payments from AT&T under such Section unless the amount of all such Losses for which AT&T would, but for the provisions of this sentence, be liable exceeds, on an aggregate basis, $500 million, in which case AT&T will be liable only for such Losses that exceed $500 million. AT&T will not be liable for indemnification payments under Section 13.2(a) (other than with respect to Section 3.7) in excess of $3 billion.
          (b) AOLTW will not be liable for indemnification payments under Section 13.3(a) (other than with respect to Sections 5.7, 5.8 and 5.9) for any Losses of any Person entitled to indemnification payments from AOLTW under such Section unless the amount of all such Losses for which AOLTW would, but for the provisions of this sentence, be liable exceeds, on an aggregate basis, $500 million, in which case AOLTW will be liable only for such Losses that exceed $500 million. AOLTW will not be liable for indemnification payments under Section 13.3(a) (other than with respect to Sections 5.7 and 5.9) in excess of $3 billion.
Table of Contents
77
     13.6 Payments for Indemnification Amounts. Amounts payable in respect of any Losses that are subject to the indemnification obligations under Section 13.2 or 13.3 will be payable by the Indemnifying Party as incurred by the Indemnified Party and will bear interest at the rate per annum publicly announced from time to time by The Bank of New York as its prime rate plus two percent from the date the Losses for which indemnification is sought were incurred until the date of payment of indemnification by the Indemnifying Party.
     13.7 Exclusive Remedy. The parties hereby agree that, after the Closing, the rights set forth in this Article 13 and Article 14 shall be their sole and exclusive remedies against each other for any claims relating to, arising out of or resulting from any breaches of the representations or warranties contained in this Agreement (except those pursuant to Sections 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.4, 3.5, 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 5.4, and 5.5.)
     13.8 Enforcement. AT&T (and any Disposition Trust that is a Permitted AT&T Transferee) shall have the right to enforce (on behalf and for the benefit of the Company and its Affiliates) the Company's and its Affiliates' rights to indemnification hereunder (other than pursuant to Section 13.2). The independent directors of the Company shall have the non-exclusive right to enforce the Company's and TWE's rights under the TWE Distribution Agreementand the TWIC Contribution Agreement.
, the Initial TWIC Contribution Agreement, the ATC Contribution Agreement, the ATC Assumption Agreement
     14.1 Tax Indemnification.
          (a) AT&T's Indemnification of the Company. From and after the Closing and without duplication, AT&T shall be liable for and indemnify the Company for all Losses arising out of (i) all Taxes attributable to, imposed on, or for which the Company may otherwise be liable (including, without limitation, Taxes for which the Company may be liable under Treasury Regulation 1.1502-6 or comparable provision of foreign, state, local or provincial Law) for events occurring or periods ending on or before the Closing and, with respect to any taxable year or period beginning before and ending after the Closing, the portion of such taxable year ending on and including the Closing including, in each case, the Transactions; and (ii) any breach of representation or warranty set forth in Section 3.8 of this Agreement. [Media One]of Colorado shall be entitled to any refund of Taxes of the Company received for such periods net of Taxes payable by the Company with respect to the receipt or accrual thereof and the Company shall cause such refund, net of any Taxes imposed on such refund amount, to be paid to [Media One]of Colorado promptly following any receipt thereof by the Company .
MediaOne
by the Company or any member of an affiliated, consolidated, combined or unitary group of which the Company is a member after the Closing (a "Company Group")
or other member of a Company Group
or other member of a Company Group
MediaOne
or other member of a Company Group
Table of Contents
78
          (b) The Company's Indemnification of AT&T. From and after the Closing and without duplication, the Company shall be liable for and indemnify AT&T and its Affiliates for the Taxes of the Company attributable to periods (or portions thereof) ending after the Closing other than those for which the Company is indemnified by [Media One of Colorado]under Section 14.1(a) of this Agreement. From and after the Closing, the Company shall be entitled to any refund of Taxes of the Company other than those refunds described in Section 14.1(a) and [AT&T]shall cause such refund , net of any Taxes imposed on such refund amount, to be paid to the Company promptly following any receipt thereof by [Media One]of Colorado .
AT&T
MediaOne of Colorado or any member of an affiliated, consolidated, combined or unitary group of which MediaOne of Colorado is a member (a "MediaOne of Colorado Group")
to the extent received by MediaOne of Colorado or any other member of a MediaOne of Colorado Group
MediaOne
or other member of a MediaOne of Colorado Group
          (c) AOLTW's Indemnification of AT&T. From and after the Closing, AOLTW shall be liable for and indemnify and hold harmless AT&T and its Affiliates from and against all Losses incurred by such indemnified parties and arising out of, relating to or resulting from any breach of (i) any representation or warranty made by any of the AOLTW Parties in Section 5.6 of this Agreement or (ii) any covenant, agreement or obligation of any of the AOLTW Parties contained in Section 9.3 of this Agreement.
          (d) Taxes for Straddle Period. For purposes of subsections (a) and (b) of this Section 14.1, whenever it is necessary to determine the liability for Taxes of the Company for a portion of a taxable year or period that begins before and ends after the Closing (the "Straddle Period"), and for any Tax period, the Tax for which is determined by the income of the period that begins before and ends after the Closing, (i) the determination of all Taxes of the Company that are either (x) based upon or related to income or receipts, or (y) imposed in connection with any sale, transfer or assignment or any deemed sale, transfer or assignment of property (real or personal, tangible or intangible), for the portion of the year or period ending on, and the portion of the year or period beginning after, the Closing generally shall be determined by assuming that the Company had a taxable year or period which ended at the close of the Closing, except that exemptions, allowances or deductions that are calculated on an annual basis, such as the deduction for depreciation, shall be apportioned on a time basis, and (ii) the determination of Taxes (other than those described in clause (i) above) that are imposed on a periodic basis with respect to the business or assets of the Company or otherwise measured by the level of any item of the Company for the portion of the year or period ending on, and the portion of the year or period beginning after, the Closing shall be determined by multiplying the amount of such Taxes for the entire Straddle Period (or, in the case of such Taxes determined on an arrears basis, the amount of such Taxes for the immediately preceding Tax period) by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of calendar days in the portion of the Straddle Period ending on the Closing and the denominator of which is the number of calendar days in the entire Straddle Period.
          (e) Carrybacks. Following the Closing, whether or not the Company waives the right to carryback any Tax losses, credits or similar items
Table of Contents
79
attributable to the Company from a taxable year or period that begins after the Closing to a taxable year or period that ends on or before the Closing, no payment with respect to such carrybacks shall be due from AT&T.
          (f) Tax Returns. AT&T shall prepare (or cause to be prepared) in the ordinary course of business and consistent with past practice (unless otherwise required by Law) to the extent they relate to the Company and timely file or cause to be filed when due all Tax Returns that are required to be filed by or with respect to the Company for taxable years or periods ending on or before the Closing and shall pay when due any Taxes due in respect of such Tax Returns. The Company shall prepare (or cause to be prepared) and file or cause to be filed when due all Tax Returns that are required to be filed by or with respect to the Company for taxable years or periods ending after the Closing and shall remit any Taxes due in respect of such Tax Returns, and, with respect to Tax Returns that are required to be filed by or with respect to the Company for Straddle Periods ("Straddle Returns"), such Straddle Returns shall be prepared in the ordinary course of business and consistent with past practice (unless otherwise required by a Law). The Company shall permit AT&T to review and comment on each Straddle Return, and shall make such revisions to such Tax Returns as are reasonably requested by AT&T. AT&T shall permit the Company to review and comment on each Tax Return filed by MediaOne of Colorado (or caused to be filed by [Media One]of Colorado) after the date hereof for taxable years or periods ending on or before the Closing pursuant to this Section 14.1(f) to the extent they relate to the Company. The Company or AT&T, as applicable, shall pay to the other as agent an amount equal to the Taxes for which the payor is liable pursuant to Section 14.1 but which are payable with Tax Returns to be filed by the payee at least 10 days prior to the due date for the filing of such Tax Returns. In the case of any Tax Return with respect to which the Company or AT&T (as the case may be) is permitted to review and comment pursuant to this Section 14.1(f), in the event the parties cannot agree on any Tax item covered in any such Tax Return, the parties shall negotiate in good faith to resolve such dispute. In the event the parties cannot reach agreement regarding such dispute within ten (10) days of the date on which one party notifies the other of its disagreement, such dispute shall be resolved by submitting the same to a national accounting firm that does not have a material relationship with either party.
MediaOne
          (g) Contest Provisions. The Company shall have sole and exclusive control over any Tax audit or administrative or court proceeding related to Taxes imposed with respect to the Company other than with respect to Tax Returns with respect to periods ending on or before the Closing. AT&T shall promptly notify the Company in writing upon receipt by MediaOne of Colorado or any of its Affiliates of written notice of any pending or threatened federal, state, local, provincial or foreign Tax audits or assessments with respect to the activities or income of the Company which may affect the tax liabilities of the Company for which AT&T would be required to indemnify the Company under Section 14.1(a) or for which the Company would be required to indemnify AT&T and its Affiliates under Section 14.1(b). Thereafter, from time to time, MediaOne of Colorado shall promptly notify the Company in the event any issue arises in connection with any such audits or assessments that relate specifically to the Company. The Company shall promptly notify AT&T in writing upon receipt by the Company or
Table of Contents
80
any of its Affiliates of written notice of any pending or threatened federal, state, local, provincial or foreign Tax audits or assessments which may affect the tax liabilities of the Company for which AT&T would be required to indemnify the Company pursuant to Section 14.1(a). The Company shall not be relieved of its obligations to indemnify MediaOne of Colorado if AT&T fails to timely deliver the written notice described above except to the extent the Company is actually prejudiced thereby. AT&T shall not be relieved of its obligations to indemnify the Company if the Company fails to timely deliver the written notice described above except to the extent AT&T is actually prejudiced thereby. For the avoidance of doubt, AT&T shall have the right to represent the Company interests in, manage, contest, litigate, compromise and settle any Income Tax audit or administrative or court proceeding relating to taxable years or periods ending on or before the Closing and to employ counsel of its choice at its expense; provided that AT&T shall provide prompt written notice to the Company that a Determination has been made with respect to any such audit or administrative or court proceeding and the Company shall have such rights as described in Section 14.1(h) hereof with respect to such matter. The Company shall be entitled to participate in the relevant portions of such audit or administrative or court proceeding to the extent reasonably practicable and at its own expense. AT&T shall be entitled to participate at its expense in the defense of any claim for Income Taxes for a year or period ending after the Closing which may be the subject of indemnification by AT&T pursuant to Section 14.1(a). The Company may not agree to settle any Income Tax claim for the portion of the year or period ending on the Closing which may be the subject of indemnification by AT&T under Section 14.1(a) without the prior written consent of AT&T, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.
          (h) Within thirty (30) days after the Company receives a notice described in Section 14.1(g) hereof from AT&T, the Company may provide written notice to AT&T that it believes the Determination with respect to the audit or administrative or court proceeding is reasonably expected to materially adversely impact the Company for a tax period or periods ending after the Closing, in which case the Company may seek a determination of the disputed item or items by a national accounting firm that does not have a material relationship with either party. The national accounting firm selected shall determine, and shall provide notice to AT&T and the Company stating, whether the Determination is a fair and appropriate outcome and whether the Determination has materially adversely impacted the Company. If the national accounting firm determines that the Determination is not a fair and appropriate outcome and is reasonably expected to materially adversely impact the Company for a tax period or periods ending after the Closing, AT&T shall indemnify the Company to the extent that the disputed item or items are reasonably expected to materially adversely impact the Company, as determined by the national accounting firm.
          (i) Contest Provisions with respect to Section 14.1(c) .
and Section 14.1(k)
               (i) Subject to Section 14(g), AT&T shall have sole and exclusive control over any Tax audit or administrative or court proceeding relating to AT&T's Tax Returns (a "Proceeding"); provided, however, that AOLTW shall have such
Table of Contents
81
participation rights as set forth in this paragraph ([h]) to the extent any such Proceeding relates to a tax issue, the resolution of which may give rise to a claim for Losses arising from a breach of the representations and warranties contained in Section 5.6 of this Agreement or a breach of the covenants contained in Section 9.3 of this Agreement (an "AOLTW Issue"). AT&T shall provide notice to AOLTW within thirty (30) days after an AOLTW Issue is raised by a Governmental Authority in connection with any Proceeding; provided, however, that AOLTW shall not be relieved of its obligations to indemnify AT&T in respect of any Loss arising out of the Exchange if AT&T fails to timely deliver the written notice required to be given under this paragraph (i) except to the extent AOLTW is actually prejudiced by such failure.
i
of this Agreement or an indemnity pursuant to Section 14.1(k)
               (ii) AOLTW shall have the right to (x) be present at any meeting or any Proceeding (or portion thereof) which relates solely to an AOLTW Issue, (y) review and comment on any written submissions by AT&T with respect to a Proceeding to the extent such submissions relate to an AOLTW Issue (which comments will be considered in good faith by AT&T), and (z) prepare for submission to AT&T written materials with respect to an AOLTW Issue which will be reviewed and considered in good faith by AT&T; provided that AT&T shall continue to have the sole and exclusive right to determine whether or not such materials will be submitted in the Proceeding. AT&T shall take reasonable steps to cause the AOLTW Issue to be considered in isolation from other issues in the Proceeding to the extent reasonably feasible.
               (iii) AT&T shall have the sole and exclusive right to settle, compromise and/or concede any Proceeding; provided, however, that AT&T must provide notice to AOLTW setting forth in reasonable detail the proposed settlement insofar as it relates to an AOLTW Issue.
               (iv) AOLTW shall pay its own costs in respect of its participation, as described in this paragraph ([h]).
i
               (v) In any dispute with respect to a claim by AT&T under Section 14.1(c) the appropriateness of the conduct of the parties in the Proceeding, including any settlement thereof, shall be taken into account.
or its Affiliates
or Section 14.1(k)
          (j) Special Tax Distribution.
               (i) If at any time, and from time to time, after the date of the Closing, the cumulative amount of Section 751 Income exceeds $ 300,000,000, then TWE shall pay to the Company and the Company shall pay to [Media One]of Colorado or TWE shall pay to MediaOne of Colorado an amount equal to the product of (y) the amount of such excess and (z) 50% of the Combined Effective Tax Rate, as defined in Annex A of the Original Partnership Agreement, for the year in which the Closing occurs, reduced by any amounts previously so paid under this Section 14.1([i])(i). The parties agree that each such payment shall be treated as a
MediaOne
j
Table of Contents
82
distribution by TWE (i) to the Company and by the Company to [Media One]of Colorado in each case occurring immediately prior to the Exchange or (ii) to MediaOne of Colorado occurring immediately prior to the Exchange, as applicable.
MediaOne
               (ii) If at any time, and from time to time, after the date of the Closing, the cumulative amount of Adjustment Income, exceeds $300,000,000, then TWE shall pay to the Company and the Company shall pay to [Media One]of Colorado an amount equal to the product of (y) the amount of such excess and (z) 50% of the Combined Effective Tax Rate, as defined in Annex A of the Original Partnership Agreement, for the year in which the Closing occurs, reduced by any amounts previously so paid hereunder. The parties agree that each such payment shall be treated as a distribution by TWE to the Company and by the Company to [Media One]of Colorado in each case occurring immediately prior to the Exchange.
MediaOne
MediaOne
               (iii) Appropriate and equitable adjustments shall be made hereunder in the event that subsequent to any payment or distribution hereunder there is a reduction in Section 751 Income or Adjustment income.
               (iv) "Section 751 Income" means the aggregate of the Company's and MediaOne of Colorado's share of income arising under Section 751 of the Code as a result of the Transactions and "Adjustment Income" means any adjustment occurring after the Closing resulting from any Tax audit or court proceeding or the filing of any amended Tax [return]of TWE to the Company's share of the taxable income of TWE for all periods or portions thereof ending on or before the date of the Closing, but determined without regard to the Transactions.
(other than any adjustment for which Taxes are subject to indemnification under Section 14.1(k) hereof)
Return
               (v) The fact and the amount of any liability to make any payment or distribution under this Section 14.1([i]) shall be determined exclusively by reference to the filing of a Tax Return by TWE or a Determination arrived at in connection with any Tax audit or other proceeding of TWE conducted by TWE or its Tax Matters Partner and without regard to any other proceeding, including any separate audit or other proceeding conducted by AT&T. AT&T shall have the right to attend all meetings and conferences between the TWE Tax Matters Partner and representatives of any Governmental Authority in connection with any such audit and to attend any hearing, trial or other proceedings arising in connection therewith; provided that the TWE Tax Matters Partner shall have the sole and exclusive right to control an audit or other proceeding and to settle, compromise and/or concede any matter therein. TWE shall give AT&T reasonable notice in advance of any such meeting, conference or other proceeding and shall provide AT&T with all information that AT&T may reasonably request from time to time in connection with the foregoing.
j
               (vi) After the Closing, TWE (or its Tax Matters Partner) shall file its Tax Returns consistent with past practice, except to the extent required by Law.
Table of Contents
83
               (vii) AT&T shall pay its own costs in respect of its participation, as described in this [paragraph](j).
Section 14.1
               (viii) Nothing in any Transaction Agreement shall prevent AT&T and its Affiliates (including MediaOne of Colorado and, for all periods or portions thereof ending on or before the Closing, the Company) from electing to take positions that are inconsistent with Tax Returns of TWE and not to be bound by any settlement or closing agreement entered into by TWE and any Governmental Authority; provided, that AT&T shall promptly notify TWE of any such action and shall keep TWE reasonably informed of the progress of any audit or other proceeding relating thereto.
          
(k) AOLTW shall be liable for and indemnify and hold harmless AT&T and its Affiliates (including, for periods prior to the Closing, the Company) from and against all Losses incurred by such indemnified parties and arising out of, related to or resulting from Taxes attributable to the transactions effectuating the transfer of the shares of Time Warner Entertainment Australia Pty Limited ("TWEA") to Holdco or one or more Subsidiaries of Holdco to the extent such Taxes exceed the Taxes which would otherwise have been imposed on such indemnified parties (as a result of being a partner in TWE or otherwise) had the shares of TWEA been distributed to Holdco (or to one or more Subsidiaries of Holdco designated by Holdco) as contemplated by Section 2.3 of this Agreement and the TWE Distribution Agreement.
     14.2 Assistance and Cooperation. After the Closing, each of AT&T, AOLTW and the Company shall:
          (a) assist (and cause their respective Affiliates to assist) the other party in preparing any Tax Returns or reports which such other party is responsible for preparing and filing in accordance with this Article 14;
          (b) cooperate fully in preparing for any audits of, or disputes with government authorities regarding, any Tax Returns of the Company;
          (c) make available to the other party and to any government authority, as reasonably requested, all information, records, and documents relating to Taxes of the Company;
          (d) furnish the other party with copies of all written correspondence received from any government authority in connection with any Tax audit or written information request with respect to any taxable period for which the other party may have a liability under this Article 14; and
          (e) cooperate in good faith to minimize the amount of Section 751 Income, if any, recognized by TWE and its partners, including, without limitation, pursuant to an agreement similar to that described in Treas. Reg. Section 1.751-1(g) Example (3)(c) specifying the particular items of property (if any) deemed exchanged.
Table of Contents
84
     Notwithstanding the above, a party shall not be relieved of its obligations to indemnify the other party if the other party fails to comply with this Section 14.2 except to the extent that such indemnitor is actually prejudiced thereby.
     14.3 Miscellaneous.
          (a) Any Tax sharing agreement or arrangement to which the Company is a party shall be terminated prior to the Closing.
          (b) Payment by an indemnitor of any amount due to an indemnitee under Section 14.1 shall be made within ten (10) days following written notice by the indemnitee that payment of such amounts to the appropriate government authority or other applicable third party is due by the indemnitee, provided that the indemnitor shall not be required to make any payment earlier than five (5) business days before it is due to the appropriate government authority or applicable third party.
          (c) All amounts required to be paid pursuant to Section 14.1 shall be paid promptly in immediately available funds by wire transfer to a bank account designated by the indemnified party.
     14.4 Tax Effects of Indemnification.
          (a) For all Tax purposes (unless required by a change in applicable Tax Law or good faith resolution of a contest) the parties hereto agree to treat, and to cause their respective affiliates to treat any payment (i) to the Company by AT&T pursuant to an indemnification, reimbursement or refund obligation provided for in this Agreement (an "AT&T Indemnification Payment"), or (ii) to MediaOne of Colorado by the Company pursuant to an indemnification, reimbursement or refund obligation provided for in this Agreement excluding any amount payable under Section 14.1(j) (a "Company Indemnification Payment" and, collectively with any AT&T Indemnification Payment, an "Indemnification Payment") as (x) with respect to an AT&T Indemnification Payment, a contribution by MediaOne of Colorado to the Company occurring immediately prior to the Exchange, and (y) with respect to a Company Indemnification Payment, a distribution by the Company to MediaOne of Colorado occurring immediately prior to the Exchange.
          (b) The amount of any Loss for which indemnification is provided under this Agreement (for the avoidance of doubt, not including any amount payable under Section 14.1(j)) shall be (i) increased to take account of the net Tax cost, if any, incurred by the indemnitee arising from the receipt or accrual of an Indemnification Payment hereunder (grossed up for such increase) and (ii) reduced to take account of the net Tax benefit, if any, realized by the indemnitee arising from incurring or paying such Loss. In computing the amount of any such Tax cost or benefit, the indemnitee shall be deemed to recognize all other items of income, gain, loss, deduction or credit before recognizing any item arising from the receipt or accrual of any Indemnification Payment hereunder or incurring or paying any indemnified Loss. Any Indemnification Payment hereunder shall initially be made without regard to this Section 14.4(b) and shall be
Table of Contents
85
increased or reduced to reflect any such net Tax cost (including gross-up) or net Tax benefit only after the indemnitee has actually realized such cost or benefit. For purposes of this Agreement, an indemnitee shall be deemed to have "actually realized" a net Tax cost or a net Tax benefit to the extent that, and at such time as, the amount of Taxes payable by such indemnitee is increased above or reduced below, as the case may be, the amount of Taxes that such indemnitee would be required to pay but for the receipt or accrual of the Indemnification Payment or the incurrence or payment of such Loss. The amount of any increase or reduction hereunder shall be adjusted to reflect any adjustment with respect to the indemnitee's liability for Taxes, and payments between the parties hereto to reflect such adjustment shall be made. In the event that the parties disagree regarding the appropriate application of this Section 14.4(b), such disagreement shall be resolved by submitting the same to a national accounting firm that does not have a material relationship with either party.
     14.5 Consistent Tax Treatment. The parties intend that the transaction described in Section 2.6 hereof will qualify as a reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a)(1) of the Code and that the transaction described in Section 2.7 hereof shall constitute an exchange within the meaning of Section 351 of the Code of the Company Transferred Assets in exchange for stock of the Company and the assumption of liabilities by the Company. The parties further intend that following the transactions contemplated hereby, TWE shall continue to qualify as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, and that the interests in TWE held by the Company, ATC and []of Colorado shall constitute partnership interests therein. The parties agree for all Tax purposes (unless required by a change in applicable tax Law or a good faith resolution of a contest) to treat the transactions described herein in the foregoing manner.
Media One
MediaOne
     14.6 Expenses. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, all fees and expenses with respect to any dispute, disagreement, determination or other matter referred to a national accounting firm pursuant to Article 14, regardless of which party has referred such dispute, disagreement, determination or other matter to such national accounting firm, shall be borne equally by the parties thereto.
     15.1 Notices. All notices, requests and other communications to any party hereto shall be in writing (including facsimile transmission) and shall be given,
Table of Contents
86
Table of Contents
87
or such other address or facsimile number as such party hereto may hereafter specify for such purpose by notice to the other parties hereto. All such notices, requests and other communications shall be deemed received on the date of receipt by the recipient thereof if received prior to 5 p.m. on a Business Day, in the place of receipt. Otherwise, any such notice, request or communication shall be deemed not to have been received until the next succeeding Business Day in the place of receipt.
Table of Contents
88
     15.2 Treatment of Advance-Newhouse and Content Businesses. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement or in any other Transaction Agreement, the parties acknowledge and agree that, for all purposes of this Agreement and the other Transaction Agreements: (i) the ownership and operation of TWEAN is currently in the process of being restructured, (ii) the assets, Liabilities and results of operations of the Selected Business shall not be deemed to be consolidated with those of TWE and none of the Company, any of the parties hereto or any of their respective Subsidiaries shall have any rights or responsibilities therefor, except to the extent contemplated by the Master Transaction Agreement, (iii) no Indebtedness, cash or cash equivalents attributable to the Selected Business shall be included in the calculations of AOLTW Broadband Permitted Indebtedness and (iv) no party makes any representation, warranty or covenant with respect to the TWEAN Restructuring or the Selected Business (except pursuant to Section 5.23). In addition, the AOLTW Parties make no representation or warranty and, except as expressly provided herein or in any of the other Transaction Agreements, no covenant with respect to the TWE Non-Broadband Business.
     15.3 Survival of Representations and Warranties. The representations and warranties contained herein and in any certificate or other writing delivered pursuant hereto shall not survive the Closing or the termination of this Agreement, except as provided under Article XIII.
     15.4 Amendments; No Waivers.
          (a) Subject to applicable Law, any provision of this Agreement may be amended or waived prior to the Closing if, but only if, such amendment or waiver is in writing and is signed, in the case of an amendment, by all parties hereto or, in the case of a waiver, by each party against whom the waiver is to be effective.
          (b) No failure or delay by any party hereto in exercising any right, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof nor shall any single or partial exercise thereof preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, power or privilege. The rights and remedies herein provided shall be cumulative and not exclusive of any rights or remedies provided by Law.
Table of Contents
89
     15.5 Successors and Assigns. The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns; provided that no party hereto may assign, delegate or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement without the consent of the other parties hereto; provided, that the AT&T Parties may assign their rights and obligations hereunder in a Permitted AT&T Disposition to any Permitted AT&T Transferee.
Comcast Parties and the
     15.6 Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, without regard to the conflicts of law rules of the State of New York.
     15.7 Jurisdiction. Any suit, action or proceeding seeking to enforce any provision of, or based on any matter arising out of or in connection with, this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby shall be brought in any federal court located in the State of New York or any New York state court, and each of the parties hereby consents to the exclusive jurisdiction of such courts (and of the appropriate appellate courts therefrom) in any such suit, action or proceeding and irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by Law, any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the laying of the venue of any such suit, action or proceeding in any such court or that any such suit, action or proceeding brought in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient form. Process in any such suit, action or proceeding may be served on either party hereto anywhere in the world, whether within or without the jurisdiction of any such court. Without limiting the foregoing, each party hereto agrees that service of process on such party as provided in Section 15.1 shall be deemed effective service of process on such party.
     15.8 WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATED TO THIS AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY.
     15.9 DISCLAIMER OF REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIESEXCEPT AS MAY EXPRESSLY BE SET FORTH HEREIN OR IN ANY OTHER TRANSACTION AGREEMENT, (A) NONE OF THE PARTIES HERETO OR ANY OTHER PERSON MAKES ANY REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY OF ANY KIND WHATSOEVER, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, WITH RESPECT TO ANY OF THE TRANSACTIONS (INCLUDING ANY CONSENTS OR APPROVALS REQUIRED IN CONNECTION THEREWITH) OR THE BUSINESS, ASSETS, CONDITION OR PROSPECTS (FINANCIAL OR OTHERWISE) OF, OR ANY OTHER MATTER INVOLVING, THE ASSETS, BUSINESSES OR LIABILITIES OF TWE, TWIC, HOLDCO, THE COMPANY OR THE AOLTW BROADBAND GROUP; (B) ALL OF THE ASSETS TO BE RETAINED OR TRANSFERRED OR THE LIABILITIES TO BE RETAINED, ASSUMED OR TRANSFERRED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE TRANSACTION AGREEMENTS SHALL BE TRANSFERRED OR ASSUMED ON AN "AS IS, WHERE IS BASIS," AND ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.
Table of Contents
90
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A SPECIFIC PURPOSE OR OTHERWISE ARE HEREBY EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMED, AND (C) NONE OF THE PARTIES HERETO OR ANY OTHER PERSON MAKES ANY REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY WITH RESPECT TO ANY INFORMATION, DOCUMENTS OR MATERIAL MADE AVAILABLE IN CONNECTION WITH THE TRANSACTIONS OR THE ENTERING INTO OF THE TRANSACTION AGREEMENTS. NOTWITHSTANDING ANYTHING TO THE CONTRARY HEREIN, [THE]AT&T [PARTIES ARE NOT]DISCLAIMING ANY RIGHTS IT MAY HAVE IN ITS CAPACITY AS A SHAREHOLDER OF AOLTW COMMON STOCK[, ] TO THE SAME EXTENT AS IF THE SHARES RECEIVED [HEREUNDER]WERE INSTEAD PURCHASED ON THE OPEN MARKET , UNDER [APPLICABLE SECURITIES LAWS, INCLUDING]SECTION 10(b) OF THE 1934 ACT AND RULE 10b-5 PROMULGATED THEREUNDER DURING THE PERIOD BEGINNING ON THE CLOSING AND ENDING ON THE 90TH DAY FOLLOWING THE CONTINUED EFFECTIVENESS OF THE SHELF REGISTRATION STATEMENT CONTEMPLATED BY THE AOLTW REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT AND AOLTW EXPRESSLY ACKNOWLEDGES THAT THE AT&T PARTIES SHALL BE ENTITLED TO ANY RIGHTS AND REMEDIES PROVIDED BY SUCH SECTION 10(b) OF THE 1934 ACT AND SUCH RULE AS IF THE AT&T PARTIES HAD SO PURCHASED SUCH SHARES ON THE OPEN MARKET PROVIDED THAT THE AT&T PARTIES ASSERT SUCH RIGHT OR REMEDY ON OR BEFORE SUCH 90 DAY.
NO
PARTY IS
ON CONVERSION OF THE SERIES A PREFERRED STOCK
DURING THE VALUATION PERIOD
OR, IF THE SERIES A PREFERRED IS CONVERTED ON OR AFTER THE 90
TH
DAY PRIOR TO THE SECOND ANNIVERSARY OF ITS ISSUANCE, 90 DAYS FOLLOWING SUCH CONVERSION,
DURING THE VALUATION PERIOD
TH
     15.10 Counterparts; Effectiveness. This Agreement may be signed in counterparts, each of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument. This Agreement shall become effective when each party hereto shall have received a counterpart hereof signed by the other parties hereto.
     15.11 Entire Agreement; No Third Party Beneficiaries.
          (a) This Agreement, together with the Confidentiality Agreements and the other Transaction Agreements, constitutes the entire agreement between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and thereof and supersedes all prior agreements and understandings, both oral and written, between the parties with respect to such subject matter.
          (b) This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure solely to the benefit of each party hereto and their respective successors and assigns, and, nothing in this Agreement, express or implied, is intended to or shall confer upon any other Person any right, benefit or remedy of any nature whatsoever under or by reason of this Agreement.
Table of Contents
91
     15.12 Effect of AT&T-Comcast Merger.
          (a) Upon consummation of the AT&T-Comcast Merger, the parties hereto acknowledge and agree that all of AT&T Corp.'s rights and obligations hereunder and under the other Transaction Agreements, including, without limitation, the AT&T Disclosure Letter, (other than the rights and obligations of AT&T Corp. under Article X) will automatically and without any further action of any of the parties hereto be assigned to and assumed by AT&T Comcast and AT&T Comcast will replace AT&T Corp. as a party thereto and AT&T Corp. shall be automatically released from any and all of its obligations, and shall automatically forfeit all of its rights, under this Agreement and other Transaction Agreements other than those contained in Article X hereof. Each of the parties hereto shall execute and deliver all instruments reasonably requested by any party hereto to evidence such release and termination.
          (b) In the event that the AT&T  Comcast Merger Agreement is terminated without a closing occurring thereunder, Comcast and AT&T Comcast shall automatically be released from any and all of their obligations under this Agreement and the other Transaction Agreements and all of Comcast's and AT&T Comcast's rights hereunder and thereunder shall terminate and each of Comcast and AT&T Comcast shall (on behalf of itself and its Affiliates) release AOLTW and its Affiliates from all claims and obligations hereunder or thereunder and all of the Transactions. Each of the parties hereto shall execute and deliver all instruments reasonably requested by any party hereto to evidence such release and termination. This Agreement shall remain in full force and effect in accordance with its terms notwithstanding any termination of the AT&T-Comcast Merger Agreement, and all references to Comcast or AT&T Comcast herein shall be deemed eliminated or reformed as appropriate to effectuate the intent of Section 11.1(f).
Table of Contents
92
     15.13 Severability. If any term, provision, covenant or restriction of this Agreement is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction or other authority to be invalid, void or unenforceable, the remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect and shall in no way be affected, impaired or invalidated so long as the economic or legal substance of the transactions contemplated hereby is not affected in any manner adverse to any party hereto. Upon such a determination, the parties hereto shall negotiate in good faith to modify this Agreement so as to effect the original intent of the parties as closely as possible in an acceptable manner so that the transactions contemplated hereby may be consummated as originally contemplated to the fullest extent possible.
     15.14 Specific Performance. The parties hereto agree that irreparable damage would occur if any provision of this Agreement were not performed in accordance with the terms hereof and that the parties shall be entitled to an injunction or injunctions to enforce specifically the performance of the terms and provisions hereof in any federal court located in the State of New York or any New York state court, in addition to any other remedy to which they are entitled at Law or in equity.
     15.15 Letters. Each of AOLTW, AT&T and Comcast has set forth information in the AOLTW Disclosure Letter, the AT&T Disclosure Letter and the Comcast Disclosure Letter, respectively, in a section thereof that corresponds to the Section of this Agreement to which it relates. A matter set forth in one section of either Disclosure Letter need not be set forth in any other section thereof so long as its relevance to the later section of the Disclosure Letter or Section of this Agreement is readily apparent on the face of the information disclosed in the Disclosure Letter. The fact that any item of information is disclosed in a Disclosure Letter shall not be construed to mean that such information is required to be disclosed by this Agreement. Such information and the dollar thresholds set forth herein shall not be used as a basis for interpreting the terms "material" or "Material Adverse Effect" or other similar terms in this Agreement except as otherwise expressly set forth in such Disclosure Letter.
Table of Contents
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed, or have caused to be executed, this Agreement on the date first written above.
Table of Contents

EXHIBIT: 2.3 EXECUTION COPY AMENDED AND RESTATED DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENT by and among Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P., Warner Communications Inc., AOL Time Warner Inc. and MOTH Holdings, Inc. Dated as of March 31, 2003
TABLE OF CONTENTS -i-
-ii-
-iii-
-iv-
-v-
AMENDED AND RESTATED DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENT THIS AMENDED AND RESTATED DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENT, dated as of March 31, 2003, is by and among Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership ("TWE"), Warner Communications Inc., a Delaware corporation ("HOLDCO"), AOL Time Warner Inc., a Delaware corporation ("AOLTW") (which is a party for purposes of Article IV only) and MOTH Holdings, Inc. (which is a party for the purposes of Article IV only). Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the respective meanings assigned to them in Article I. WHEREAS, TWE, Holdco and AOLTW are parties to the Distribution Agreement, dated as of August 20, 2002 (the "ORIGINAL DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENT"); WHEREAS, pursuant to the Restructuring Agreement, dated as of August 20, 2002 and amended as of the date hereof (the "RESTRUCTURING AGREEMENT"), by and among TWE, Holdco and the other parties named therein, the parties thereto agreed to, among other things, restructure TWE by distributing the TWE Non-Broadband Assets, subject to the TWE Non-Broadband Liabilities, to Holdco or other TWE Non-Broadband Members, in partial redemption of the general partnership and limited partnership interests in TWE (collectively, the "TWE PARTNERSHIP INTERESTS") held by Holdco; and WHEREAS, it is appropriate and desirable to set forth the principal corporate transactions required to effect certain transactions contemplated by the Restructuring Agreement and certain other agreements that will govern certain matters relating to such transactions and the relationship of the parties hereto and their respective Subsidiaries following the Closing. NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto, intending to be legally bound, agree to amend and restate the Original Distribution Agreement so that, as amended and restated, it reads in its entirety as follows: ARTICLE I DEFINITIONS For the purpose of this Agreement the following terms shall have the following meanings: 1.1. ACTION means any demand, action, suit, countersuit, arbitration, inquiry, proceeding or investigation by or before any federal, state, local, foreign or international Governmental Authority or any arbitration or mediation tribunal. 1.2. ADVANCE/NEWHOUSE means the Advance/Newhouse Partnership, a New York general partnership. 1.3. AFFILIATE means, with respect to any Person, any other Person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common control with, such Person; provided that, for purposes of this definition, "control" (including with correlative meanings, the terms
2 "controlled by" and "under common control with"), as used with respect to any Person, shall mean the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities or other Equity Securities, by Contract or otherwise; and provided, further, that, unless otherwise specified, for purposes of this Agreement, no TWE Broadband Member or TWE Non-Broadband Member shall be deemed to be an Affiliate of any member of the other Group and no employee plan or employee plan trust shall be deemed an Affiliate of any employer or of any Affiliate of any employer. 1.4. AGREEMENT means this Amended and Restated Distribution Agreement, including all of the Schedules and Exhibits hereto. 1.5. ANCILLARY AGREEMENTS means the Intellectual Property Agreement, the Patent Assignment, the Copyright and Technology Assignment, the Trademark and Service Mark Assignment and the Real Property Instruments. 1.6. AOLTW has the meaning set forth in the Preamble. 1.7. AOLTW BROADBAND PERMITTED INDEBTEDNESS has the meaning set forth in the Restructuring Agreement. 1.8. ASSETS means assets, properties and rights (including goodwill), wherever located (including in the possession of vendors or other third parties or elsewhere), whether real, personal or mixed, tangible, intangible or contingent, in each case whether or not recorded or reflected or required to be recorded or reflected on the books and records or financial statements of any Person, including the following: (a) all accounting and other books, records and files whether in paper, microfilm, microfiche, computer tape or disc, magnetic tape or any other form; (b) all apparatus, computers and other electronic data processing equipment, fixtures, machinery, equipment, furniture, office equipment, automobiles, trucks, aircraft, rolling stock, vessels, motor vehicles and other transportation equipment, special and general tools, test devices, prototypes and models and other tangible personal property; (c) all inventories of materials, parts, raw materials, supplies, work-in-process and finished goods and products; (d) all interests in real property of whatever nature, including easements and rights of way, whether as owner, mortgagee or holder of a Security Interest in real property, lessor, sublessor, lessee, sublessee or otherwise, and copies of all related documentation; (e) all interests in any capital stock or other equity interests of any Subsidiary or any other Person, all bonds, notes, debentures or other securities issued by any Subsidiary or any other Person, all loans, advances or other extensions of credit or capital contributions to any Subsidiary or any other Person and all other investments in securities of any Person;
3 (f) all license agreements, leases of personal property, open purchase orders for raw materials, supplies, parts or services, unfilled orders for the manufacture and sale of products and other contracts, agreements or commitments; (g) all deposits, letters of credit and performance and surety bonds; (h) all written technical information, data, specifications, research and development information, engineering drawings, operating and maintenance manuals, and materials and analyses prepared by consultants and other third parties; (i) all domestic and foreign patents, copyrights, trade names, trademarks, service marks and registrations and applications for any of the foregoing, mask works, trade secrets, inventions, other proprietary information and licenses from third Persons granting the right to use any of the foregoing; (j) all computer applications, programs and other software, including operating software, network software, firmware, middleware, design software, design tools, systems documentation and instructions; (k) all cost information, sales and pricing data, customer prospect lists, supplier records, customer and supplier lists, records pertaining to customers and customer accounts, customer and vendor data, correspondence and lists, product literature, artwork, design, development and manufacturing files, vendor and customer drawings, formulations and specifications, quality records and reports and other books, records, studies, surveys, reports, plans and documents; (l) all prepaid expenses, trade accounts and other accounts and notes receivable; (m) all rights under contracts or agreements, all claims or rights against any Person arising from the ownership of any Asset, all rights in connection with any bids or offers and all claims, choses in action or similar rights, whether accrued or contingent; (n) all insurance proceeds and rights under insurance policies and all rights in the nature of insurance, indemnification or contribution; (o) all licenses (including radio and similar licenses), permits, approvals and authorizations that have been issued by any Governmental Authority; (p) all cash or cash equivalents, bank accounts, lock boxes and other deposit arrangements; (q) copies of all documentation related to Insurance Policies; and (r) interest rate, currency, commodity or other swap, collar, cap or other hedging or similar agreements or arrangements.
4 1.9. AUTHORIZATION means any waiver, amendment, consent, approval, license, franchise, permit (including construction permits), certificate, exemption, variance or authorization of, expiration or termination of any waiting period requirement (including pursuant to the HSR Act) or other action by, or notice, filing, registration, qualification, declaration or designation with, any Person (including any Governmental Authority). 1.10. BENEFIT PLAN means any employee benefit plan, arrangement, policy or program (whether or not an employee benefit plan within the meaning of Section 3(3) of ERISA and whether or not written), including, without limitation, any employment, consulting or deferred compensation agreement, executive compensation, bonus, incentive, pension, profit-sharing, savings, retirement, stock option, stock purchase or severance pay plan, any life, health, disability or accident insurance plan or any holiday or vacation practice. 1.11. CLOSING has the meaning ascribed thereto in the Restructuring Agreement. 1.12. CODE means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. 1.13. COMMUNICATIONS ACT means the Communications Act of 1934. 1.14. COMPANY means, following the time of its incorporation, MOTH Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation formerly named New MOTH Holdings, Inc. and with respect to periods prior to the effective time of the Company Merger, "Company" shall also mean the Company Predecessor. 1.15. COMPANY MERGER means the merger of the Company Predecessor with and into MOTH Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation formerly named New MOTH Holdings, Inc., on March 26, 2003. 1.16. COMPANY PREDECESSOR means MOTH Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation formerly named MediaOne TWE Holdings, Inc. 1.17. CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS has the meaning ascribed thereto in the Restructuring Agreement. 1.18. CONSENTS means any consents, waivers or approvals from, or notification requirements to, any third parties. 1.19. CONTRACT means any contract, lease, agreement, covenant, indenture, note, security, instrument, arrangement, commitment or any other binding understanding, whether written or oral. 1.20. COPYRIGHT AND TECHNOLOGY ASSIGNMENT means the Copyright and Technology Assignment, dated as of the date hereof, by and between TWE and Holdco. 1.21. DELAYED NON-TRANSFERRED ASSETS means any Non-Transferred Assets that are to be transferred after the Closing pursuant to Section 2.6 of this Agreement or pursuant to any Ancillary Agreement.
5 1.22. DELAYED TRANSFER ASSETS means any TWE Non-Broadband Assets that are to be transferred after the Closing pursuant to Section 2.6 of this Agreement or pursuant to any Ancillary Agreement. 1.23. ENVIRONMENTAL LAW means any Law (including common law) relating to pollution or the protection of public health, safety, welfare or the pollution, protection or restoration of the environment, including Laws relating to emissions, discharges, releases or threatened releases of Hazardous Substances into the environment (including ambient air, surface water, ground water or land) or otherwise relating to the manufacture, processing, distribution, use, treatment, storage, disposal, transport or handling of Hazardous Substances. 1.24. ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITIES means all Liabilities relating to, arising out of or resulting from any Environmental Law or contract or agreement relating to environmental, health or safety matters (including all removal, remediation or cleanup costs, investigatory costs, governmental response costs, costs arising out of the actual or alleged violation of Environmental Laws, natural resources damages, property damages, personal injury damages, costs of compliance with any settlement, judgment or other determination of Liability and indemnity, contribution or similar obligations) and all costs and expenses, interest, fines, penalties or other monetary sanctions in connection therewith. 1.25. EQUITY SECURITY has the meaning ascribed to such term in Rule 405 promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933 as in effect on the date hereof and, in any event, shall also include (i) any capital stock of a corporation, any partnership interest, any limited liability company interest and any other equity interest; (ii) any security or Indebtedness having the attendant right to vote for directors or similar representatives; (iii) any security or right convertible into, exchangeable for, or evidencing the right to subscribe for any such stock, equity interest, security or Indebtedness referred to in clause (i) or (ii); (iv) any stock appreciation right, contingent value right or similar security or right that is derivative of any such stock, equity interest, security or Indebtedness referred to in clause (i), (ii) or (iii); and (v) any Contract to grant, issue, award, convey or sell any of the foregoing. 1.26. ERISA means the Employee Retirement Income Securities Act of 1974. 1.27. EXCEPTED THIRD PARTY CLAIM means a Third Party Claim (a) for injunctive or equitable relief against the Indemnitee or (b) in respect of which it is reasonably likely that, based on the financial condition of the Indemnifying Party and the maximum amount of Liability that could reasonably be expected to result from such Third Party Claim, the Indemnifying Party would not possess the financial resources to satisfy such Liability. 1.28. EXCLUDED ASSETS means (without duplication): (a) any Assets listed or described on Schedule 1.28(a); (b) any interests in and rights with respect to Equity Securities in any TWE Non-Broadband Member (other than TWE), unless disposed of after the date of the Original Agreement in compliance with the terms of the Restructuring Agreement;
6 (c) the rights, benefits and privileges of any TWE Non-Broadband Member (other than TWE) under this Agreement, any Ancillary Agreements or any other Contract delivered or entered into pursuant to this Agreement or to any Ancillary Agreement; and (d) all cash and cash equivalents held by (A) TWE, (B) TWEAN or (C) any wholly-owned Subsidiaries of TWE that, in each case, are generated in compliance with the Restructuring Agreement and, as of the Closing, are legally and contractually available for transfer to Holdco, other than any cash and cash equivalents included in the calculation of Net Indebtedness for purposes of calculating AOLTW Broadband Permitted Indebtedness. 1.29. EXCLUDED LIABILITIES means (without duplication) the following and, in each case, whether arising before, on or after the Closing: (a) any Liabilities arising out of, relating to or resulting from any consolidated Indebtedness of TWE other than the AOLTW Broadband Permitted Indebtedness; (b) all Liabilities arising out of, relating to or resulting from any Excluded Assets other than the Excluded Assets set forth in Section 1.28(d); and (c) any Liabilities listed or described on Schedule 1.29(c). 1.30. FRANCHISE means a written "franchise" within the meaning of Section 602(9) of the Communications Act. 1.31. FRANCHISE CONSENTS means the Authorization required from, by or with the relevant Franchising Authorities in respect of the Franchises for the Systems owned or operated by any TWE Broadband Member. 1.32. GAAP means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States in effect from time to time. 1.33. GOVERNMENTAL APPROVALS means any notices, reports or other filings to be made, or any consents, registrations, approvals, permits or authorizations to be obtained from, any Governmental Authority. 1.34. GOVERNMENTAL AUTHORITY means any supranational, national, state, municipal or local government, political subdivision or other governmental department, court, commission, board, bureau, agency, instrumentality, or other authority thereof, or any quasi-governmental or private body exercising any regulatory, taxing, importing or other governmental or quasi-governmental authority, whether domestic or foreign. 1.35. GROUP means the TWE Broadband Group or the TWE Non-Broadband Group as the context requires. Any Person in a Group may be referred to as a "MEMBER." 1.36. HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES means (a) any "hazardous waste" as defined by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 (RCRA) (42 U.S.C. Sections 6901 et seq.); (b) any "hazardous substance" as defined by the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. Sections 9601 et seq.) (CERCLA); (c) any
7 substance regulated by the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) (42 U.S.C. Section 2601 et seq.) or the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA) (7 U.S.C. Section 136 et seq.); (d) asbestos or asbestos-containing material of any kind or character; (e) polychlorinated biphenyls; (f) any substances regulated under the provisions of Subtitle I of RCRA relating to underground storage tanks; (g) any substance the presence, use, handling, treatment, storage, release or disposal of which on real property owned or leased by TWE is regulated or prohibited by any Environmental Law; and (h) any other substance which by any Environmental Law requires special handling, reporting or notification of any Governmental Authority in its collection, storage, release, use, treatment or disposal. 1.37. HOLDCO has the meaning set forth in the Preamble. 1.38. HSR ACT means the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976. 1.39. INCOME TAXES means any Tax which is based upon, measured by, or calculated with respect to net income or profits (including alternative minimum Tax). 1.40. INDEBTEDNESS means, with respect to any Person, (a) any obligation of such Person (i) for borrowed money, (ii) evidenced by a bond, note, debenture or similar instrument for value received or in settlement of claims, (iii) under conditional sale or other title retention agreements relating to property acquired by such Person, (iv) for the deferred purchase price of property or services, except trade accounts payable arising in the ordinary course of business, or (v) under any lease or similar arrangement that would be required to be accounted for by the lessee as a capital lease in accordance with GAAP, or (b) without duplication, any guarantee (or keepwell agreement) by such Person of any Indebtedness of others described in clause (a); provided, that in no event shall Indebtedness include letters of credit that are performance or surety bonds or similar instruments issued in the ordinary course of business or disclosed pursuant to Schedule 1.86(j). 1.41. INDEMNIFICATION PAYMENT has the meaning set forth in Section 4.8(a). 1.42. INDEMNIFYING PARTY has the meaning set forth in Section 4.3(a). 1.43. INDEMNITEE has the meaning set forth in Section 4.3(a). 1.44. INDEMNITY PAYMENT has the meaning set forth in Section 4.3(a). 1.45. INFORMATION means information, whether or not patentable or copyrightable, in written, oral, electronic or other tangible or intangible forms, stored in any medium, including studies, reports, records, books, Contracts, instruments, surveys, discoveries, ideas, concepts, know-how, techniques, designs, specifications, drawings, blueprints, diagrams, models, prototypes, samples, flow charts, data, computer data, disks, diskettes, tapes, computer programs or other software, marketing plans, customer names, communications by or to attorneys (including attorney-client privileged communications), memos and other materials prepared by attorneys or under their direction (including attorney work product) and other technical, financial, employee or business information or data.
8 1.46. INSURANCE POLICY means any insurance policy written by an insurance carrier under which, at any time prior to the Closing, any TWE Broadband Assets or any TWE Non-Broadband Assets were insured or TWE or any of its direct or indirect Subsidiaries (or any of such Persons' officers or directors) was an insured party, excluding any insurance policy funding Benefit Plans. 1.47. INSURANCE PROCEEDS means those monies: (a) received by an insured from an insurance carrier; or (b) paid by an insurance carrier on behalf of an insured; in any such case net of any costs or expenses incurred in the collection thereof. 1.48. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AGREEMENT means the Intellectual Property Agreement, dated as of August 20, 2002 and amended as of the date hereof, by and between TWE and Holdco. 1.49. IRS means the United States Internal Revenue Service. 1.50. JUDGMENT means any judicial decision, judgment, writ, order, injunction, stipulation, award or decree of any court, judge, justice or magistrate, including any bankruptcy court or judge or the arbitrator in any binding arbitration, and any order of or by any Governmental Authority. 1.51. LAW means any foreign or domestic law, statute, code, ordinance, rule, regulation, treaty, or Judgment, enacted, entered or promulgated by a Governmental Authority. 1.52. LIABILITIES means any and all losses, claims, charges, Indebtedness, demands, Actions, damages, obligations, payments, costs and expenses, bonds, indemnities and similar obligations, covenants, Contracts, controversies, omissions, make whole agreements and similar obligations, and other liabilities, including all Contractual obligations, whether due or to become due, absolute or contingent, inchoate or otherwise, matured or unmatured, liquidated or unliquidated, accrued or unaccrued, known or unknown, determined or determinable, whenever arising, and including those arising under any Law, principles of common law or equity (including negligence and strict liability), Action, threatened or contemplated Action (including the costs and expenses of demands, assessments, judgments, settlements and compromises relating thereto and attorneys' fees and any and all costs and expenses, whatsoever reasonably incurred in investigating, preparing or defending against any such Actions or threatened or contemplated Actions), order or consent decree of any Governmental Authority or any award of any arbitrator or mediator of any kind, and those arising under any Contract, commitment or undertaking, including those arising under this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement or incurred by a party hereto or thereto in connection with enforcing its rights to indemnification hereunder or thereunder, in each case, whether or not recorded or reflected or required to be recorded or reflected on the books and records or financial statements of any Person.
9 1.53. LIEN means, with respect to any property or asset, any mortgage, lien, pledge, charge, security interest, encumbrance or other adverse claim of any kind in respect of such property or asset. For purposes of this Agreement, a Person shall be deemed to own subject to a Lien any property or asset that it has acquired or holds subject to the interest of a vendor or lessor under any conditional sale agreement, capital lease or other title retention agreement relating to such property or asset. 1.54. MASTER TRANSACTION AGREEMENT means the Master Transaction Agreement, dated as of August 1, 2002, by and among TWEAN, TWE, Paragon Communications, a Colorado general partnership, and Advance/Newhouse Partnership, a New York general partnership. 1.55. MEMBER has the meaning set forth in the definition of Group. 1.56. NET INDEBTEDNESS has the meaning set forth in the Restructuring Agreement. 1.57. NON-INCOME TAXES shall mean all Taxes other than Income Taxes. For the avoidance of doubt, Non-Income Taxes shall include, but not be limited to, business and occupation, sales, use, ad valorem property, real property gains, real or personal property, intangibles, transfer, telecommunications, or similar Taxes. 1.58. NON-TRANSFERRED ASSETS means any TWE Broadband Assets held by the TWE Non-Broadband Group or any of its Members. 1.59. NON-TRANSFERRED LIABILITIES means any TWE Broadband Liabilities to which the TWE Non-Broadband Group or any of its Members are subject. 1.60. ORIGINAL DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENT has the meaning set forth in the recitals. 1.61. PASS-THROUGH ENTITY means an entity which, for federal income tax purposes, is treated as a partnership, disregarded entity or a grantor trust or any entity treated similarly to any of the foregoing for federal income tax purposes. 1.62. PATENT ASSIGNMENT means the Patent Assignment, dated as of the date hereof, by and between TWE and Holdco. 1.63. PERSON means an individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, association, trust, joint venture or other entity or organization, including a Governmental Authority. 1.64. PRIME RATE means the rate that the Bank of New York (or any successor thereto or other major money center commercial bank agreed to by the parties hereto) announces from time to time as its prime lending rate, as in effect from time to time. 1.65. REAL PROPERTY INSTRUMENTS has the meaning set forth in Section 2.4(a).
10 1.66. RESTRUCTURING AGREEMENT has the meaning set forth in the Recitals. 1.67. SECURITY INTEREST means any mortgage, security interest, pledge, lien, charge, claim, option, right to acquire, voting or other restriction, right-of-way, covenant, condition, easement, encroachment, restriction on transfer, or other encumbrance of any nature whatsoever. 1.68. SELECTED BUSINESS has the meaning ascribed thereto in the Master Transaction Agreement. 1.69. SUBSIDIARY means, with respect to any Person, an entity of which securities or other ownership interests having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the board of directors or other body performing similar functions are at any time directly or indirectly owned by such Person; provided, however, that no Person that is not directly or indirectly wholly owned by any other Person shall be a Subsidiary of such other Person unless such other Person controls, or has the right, power or ability to control, that Person. 1.70. SYSTEM means a "cable television system" within the meaning of Section 602(7) of the Communications Act. 1.71. TAX RETURN shall mean any report, return or other information (including any attached schedules or any amendments to such report, return or other information) required to be supplied to or filed with a Governmental Authority with respect to any Tax, including an information return, claim for refund, amended return, declaration, or estimated Tax return, in connection with the determination, assessment, collection or administration of any Tax. 1.72. TAXES shall mean all forms of taxes, fees, imposts, levies or other assessments whenever created or imposed, and whether of the United States or elsewhere, and whether imposed by any Governmental Authority and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, shall include income, gross receipts, business and occupation, property, sales, use, license, excise, franchise, capital stock, employment, payroll, unemployment insurance, social security, stamp, environmental, value added, alternative or added minimum, ad valorem, trade, recording, withholding, occupation or transfer tax, custom or duty or other like governmental assessment or charge of any kind whatsoever, whether computed on a separate, consolidated, unitary, combined or any other basis, together with any related interest, penalties and additions imposed by any Governmental Authority. 1.73. THIRD PARTY CLAIM has the meaning set forth in Section 4.4(a). 1.74. TRADEMARK AND SERVICE MARK ASSIGNMENT means the Trademark and Service Mark Assignment, dated as of the date hereof, by and between TWE and Holdco. 1.75. TRANSFEREE INDEMNIFICATION PAYMENT has the meaning set forth in Section 4.8(a). 1.76. TRANSFEROR INDEMNIFICATION PAYMENT has the meaning set forth in Section 4.8(a).
11 1.77. TRANSACTION AGREEMENTS has the meaning ascribed thereto in the Restructuring Agreement. 1.78. TWE has the meaning set forth in the Preamble. 1.79. TWEAN means Time Warner Entertainment - Advance/Newhouse Partnership, a New York general partnership. 1.80. TWEAN RESTRUCTURING means the transactions contemplated by the Master Transaction Agreement. 1.81. TWE BROADBAND ASSETS means (without duplication): (a) any Assets existing on the date of the Original Distribution Agreement, subject to any dispositions of such Assets subsequent to the date of the Original Distribution Agreement in compliance with the terms of the Restructuring Agreement, that are primarily related to or primarily used in the TWE Broadband Business; (b) any Assets acquired subsequent to the date of the Original Distribution Agreement, in compliance with the terms of the Restructuring Agreement, that are primarily related to the TWE Broadband Business; (c) any rights, benefits and privileges under any TWE Broadband Contract; (d) any interests in and rights with respect to Equity Securities in any TWE Broadband Member (other than TWE), unless disposed of after the date of the Original Distribution Agreement in compliance with the terms of the Restructuring Agreement; (e) any Authorizations of TWE or any of its Subsidiaries that are primarily related to or primarily used in the TWE Broadband Business, including the rights, benefits, privileges or other interests of TWE and its Subsidiaries in any Franchises (including those set forth on Schedule 1.81(e)); (f) any TWE Broadband Real Property and related Assets referred to in Section 2.4(b); (g) any other Assets that are expressly identified by this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement (or the Schedules hereto or thereto) as Assets to be assigned to, or retained by, any TWE Broadband Member, and any rights, benefits and privileges of any TWE Broadband Member under this Agreement, any Ancillary Agreements or any other Contract delivered or entered into pursuant to this Agreement or to any Ancillary Agreement, including any Assets to be conveyed to any TWE Broadband Member under the terms of any Ancillary Agreements; (h) any Assets comprising, and any rights, benefits, privileges or other interests in, the Systems set forth on Schedule 1.81(h) and all other Systems owned, managed or operated directly or indirectly by TWE or its Subsidiaries;
12 (i) any rights relating to, arising out of or resulting from any Actions to the extent related to the TWE Broadband Business, including those listed on Schedule 1.81(i) to the extent related to the TWE Broadband Business; (j) any monies, contracts or other funds relating to the participation of any current or former employees of TWE or its Subsidiaries who are or, in the case of former employees, were primarily employed in connection with the TWE Broadband Business, in any Benefit Plan but only to the extent such Assets are primarily related to the TWE Broadband Business; (k) any interest in and rights with respect to any Equity Security in a joint venture or similar investment primarily related to the TWE Broadband Business (including, without limitation, the interest of TWE and its Subsidiaries in Road Runner Holdco LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, TWEAN, Texas Cable Partners, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, Kansas City Cable Partners, a Colorado general partnership, or any joint venture the primary business of which is the ownership or management of Systems); (l) any interest in any other investments primarily related to the TWE Broadband Business; (m) any other Assets that are primarily used or primarily held for use in the TWE Broadband Business; and (n) any Assets listed or described on Schedule 1.81(n). Notwithstanding the foregoing, the TWE Broadband Assets shall not in any event include the Excluded Assets. 1.82. TWE BROADBAND BUSINESS means the businesses conducted directly or indirectly by TWE (either itself or through direct or indirect divisions, subsidiaries, affiliates, joint ventures or other investments, or any of their predecessors or successors) with, through, in or by (a) all of the business related to the ownership, management and operation of any Systems that are owned, managed or operated directly or indirectly by TWE or its Subsidiaries, including those set forth on Schedule 1.79(h) and any Systems divested by TWE or its Subsidiaries; (b) all of the business related to the ownership and operation of the Road Runner high speed data service business and TWE's interest in Road Runner Holdco LLC, a Delaware limited liability company; (c) any terminated, divested or discontinued businesses or operations that at the time of termination, divestiture or discontinuation primarily related to the TWE Broadband Business, including those listed on Schedule 1.82(c); (d) all of the businesses, Assets and Liabilities related to the ownership and operation of local news channels in the locations of the Systems described in clause (a); and (e) the businesses, Assets and Liabilities primarily related to the TWE Broadband Business, including the ownership interests in joint ventures that are primarily related to the TWE Broadband Business, including those listed or described on Schedule 1.82(e) that are primarily related to the TWE Broadband Business; provided that the TWE Broadband Business shall not include (x) any Assets disposed of or otherwise transferred from, or Liabilities discharged by, the TWE Broadband Group after the date of the Original Distribution Agreement
13 in compliance with the terms of the Restructuring Agreement or (y) the Excluded Assets, the Excluded Liabilities or the Excluded Tax Liabilities. 1.83. TWE BROADBAND CONTRACTS means the following Contracts to which TWE or any of its Subsidiaries is a party or by which it or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their respective Assets is bound (provided that none of (i) this Agreement, the Ancillary Agreements or any Contract entered into or delivered pursuant to this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement nor (ii) any contract or agreement that is expressly contemplated to be assigned to or retained by any TWE Non-Broadband Member pursuant to any provision of this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement shall be considered a TWE Broadband Contract): (a) any Contract that relates primarily to the TWE Broadband Business, including Contracts that may be extended, modified or terminated after the date of the Original Distribution Agreement; (b) any Contract to the extent representing AOLTW Broadband Permitted Indebtedness; (c) any Contract listed or described on Schedule 1.83(c) that relates primarily to the TWE Broadband Business; (d) any Contract that pursuant to this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement is otherwise to be expressly retained or assumed by any TWE Broadband Member; and (e) the Master Transaction Agreement, including all of the Exhibits thereto. Any Contract between the TWE Broadband Business and the TWE Non-Broadband Business will be treated (i) as a TWE Broadband Contract with respect to the rights and obligations of the TWE Broadband Business and (ii) as a TWE Non-Broadband Contract with respect to the rights and obligations of the TWE Non-Broadband Business. 1.84. TWE BROADBAND GROUP means, unless otherwise specified (a) with respect to periods before the Closing, including at the time of determination of TWE Broadband Assets or TWE Broadband Liabilities, TWE (other than any divisions of TWE that are not primarily engaged in the TWE Broadband Business) and any direct or indirect Subsidiary of TWE primarily engaged in the TWE Broadband Business and (b) with respect to periods at or following the Closing, TWE and its Subsidiaries (including their respective successors and assigns). Any Person in the TWE Broadband Group may be referred to as a "TWE BROADBAND MEMBER." 1.85. TWE BROADBAND INDEMNITEES has the meaning set forth in Section 4.1. 1.86. TWE BROADBAND LIABILITIES means (without duplication) the following and, in each case, whether arising before, on or after the Closing: (a) any Liabilities existing on the date of the Original Distribution Agreement, subject to any discharge of such Liabilities subsequent to the date of the Original Distribution Agreement, that are primarily related to the TWE Broadband Business;
14 (b) any Liabilities that are expressly identified by this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement (or the Schedules hereto or thereto) as Liabilities to be retained by, or assumed by, any TWE Broadband Member, subject to discharge of such Liabilities subsequent to the date of the Original Distribution Agreement and all agreements, obligations and Liabilities of any TWE Broadband Member under this Agreement or any of the Ancillary Agreements or any Contract entered into or delivered pursuant to this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement; (c) any Liabilities relating to, arising out of or resulting from any TWE Broadband Contract; (d) any Liabilities assumed, incurred or arising subsequent to the date of the Original Distribution Agreement (including with respect to periods prior to such date), that are primarily related to the TWE Broadband Business; (e) any Liabilities to the extent relating to, arising out of or resulting from any Actions related to the TWE Broadband Business, including those Actions listed on Schedule 1.81(i) to the extent related to the TWE Broadband Business; (f) any Liabilities, including any Environmental Liabilities and Liabilities for Non-Income Taxes and TWE Entity Level Income Taxes, primarily relating to: (i) the TWE Broadband Business, including the operation of the TWE Broadband Business, as conducted at any time prior to, on or after the Closing (including any such Liability relating to, arising out of or resulting from any act or failure to act by any director, officer, employee, agent or representative (whether or not such act or failure to act is or was within such Person's authority)); (ii) the operation of any business conducted by any TWE Broadband Member at any time after the Closing (including any such Liability relating to, arising out of or resulting from any act or failure to act by any director, officer, employee, agent or representative (whether or not such act or failure to act is or was within such Person's authority)); or (iii) any TWE Broadband Assets (including any TWE Broadband Contracts and any TWE Broadband Real Property); (g) any Liabilities relating to, arising out of, or resulting from any employee, employment activity or practice or Benefit Plan, with respect to any current or former employees of TWE or its Subsidiaries who are or, in the case of former employees, were primarily employed in connection with the TWE Broadband Business but only to the extent such Liabilities are primarily related to the TWE Broadband Business; (h) any Liability in respect of 55% of up to two months of accrued and unpaid management fee arising pursuant to Section 12.10 of the Original Partnership Agreement (as defined in the Restructuring Agreement); (i) any Liabilities arising out of, relating to or resulting from the AOLTW Broadband Permitted Indebtedness; and
15 (j) any Liabilities listed or described on Schedule 1.86(j) that are primarily related to the TWE Broadband Business. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the TWE Broadband Liabilities shall not include the Excluded Liabilities. 1.87. TWE BROADBAND MEMBER has the meaning set forth in the definition of TWE Broadband Group. 1.88. TWE BROADBAND REAL PROPERTY means all right, title and interest in real property primarily used in connection with the TWE Broadband Business, wherever located, of TWE or any of its Subsidiaries, including: (a) the real property listed on Schedule 1.88(a) that is primarily used or primarily held for use in connection with the TWE Broadband Business, (b) all land (the "LAND") owned by TWE or any of its Subsidiaries and primarily used or primarily held for use in connection with the TWE Broadband Business, together with all buildings, structures and other improvements (the "IMPROVEMENTS") now or hereafter located thereon (the Land and the Improvements, collectively, the "OWNED REAL PROPERTY"), (c) all real property leased, subleased or otherwise occupied by TWE or any of its Subsidiaries and primarily used or primarily held for use in connection with the TWE Broadband Business (the "LEASED REAL PROPERTY" and, together with the Owned Real Property, the "REAL PROPERTY"), (d) all easements, licenses, permits, rights of way, reservations, privileges, and other estates and rights of TWE or any of its Subsidiaries, either in gross or appurtenant pertaining to such Real Property or to any other real property and primarily used or primarily held for use in connection with the TWE Broadband Business, (e) all right, title and interest of TWE or any of its Subsidiaries in and to all strips and gores, all alleys adjoining land, and the land lying in the bed of any street, road or avenue, opened or proposed, in front of or adjoining the Land to the center line thereof, and all right, title and interest of TWE or any of its Subsidiaries in and to any award made or to be made in lieu thereof and in and to any unpaid award for any taking by condemnation or any damages to the Owned Real Property by reason of any change of grade of any street, road or avenue, in each case, primarily used or primarily held for use in connection with the TWE Broadband Business, (f) all right, title and interest of any of TWE or any of its Subsidiaries in and to the airspace above the Real Property (and the rights to use such airspace) and any transferable development or similar rights appurtenant to the Real Property by allocation under applicable Laws, by zoning lot merger or otherwise and (g) all rights, licenses, easements, leases, indefeasible rights of use, title, attachment rights, authorizations and other rights pertaining to poles, conduits and cable primarily used or primarily held for use in connection with the TWE Broadband Business and held by TWE or any of its Subsidiaries. 1.89. TWE DISTRIBUTION has the meaning ascribed thereto in the Restructuring Agreement. 1.90. TWE ENTITY LEVEL INCOME TAXES shall mean Income Taxes of TWE or any entity owned directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, by TWE to the extent that such Income Taxes are imposed by Law on such entity and not passed through to its owners by reason of such entity being a Pass-Through Entity.
16 1.91. TWE NON-BROADBAND ASSETS means all Assets of TWE, including (i) its ownership interest in its Subsidiaries and the TWE Non-Broadband Real Property and (ii) all rights, benefits and privileges of any TWE Non-Broadband Member under this Agreement, the Ancillary Agreements and each other Contract delivered or entered into pursuant to this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement, including any Assets to be conveyed to any TWE Non-Broadband Member under the terms of any Ancillary Agreements; but, in each case, excluding the TWE Broadband Assets; provided that, to the extent that any direct or indirect Subsidiary of TWE owns any assets other than TWE Broadband Assets, such other assets shall be deemed to be TWE Non-Broadband Assets hereunder, including for purposes of Section 2.1(c). Notwithstanding the foregoing, the TWE Non-Broadband Assets shall include the Excluded Assets. 1.92. TWE NON-BROADBAND BUSINESS means the businesses conducted (including any businesses or operations terminated, discontinued or divested) directly or indirectly by TWE (either itself or through direct or indirect divisions, subsidiaries, affiliates, joint ventures or other investments, or any of their predecessors or successors), other than the TWE Broadband Business. 1.93. TWE NON-BROADBAND CONTRACTS means any Contracts to which TWE or any of its Subsidiaries (which, for the avoidance of doubt includes the TWE Non-Broadband Members) is a party or by which it or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their respective Assets is bound, except for (i) the TWE Broadband Contracts and (ii) this Agreement, the Ancillary Agreements and any Contract entered into or delivered pursuant to this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement. Any Contract between the TWE Broadband Business and the TWE Non-Broadband Business will be treated (i) as a TWE Broadband Contract with respect to the rights and obligations of the TWE Broadband Business and (ii) as a TWE Non-Broadband Contract with respect to the rights and obligations of the TWE Non-Broadband Business. 1.94. TWE NON-BROADBAND GROUP means (a) with respect to periods before the Closing, including at the time of determination of TWE Broadband Assets or TWE Broadband Liabilities, TWE (other than any divisions of TWE that are primarily engaged in the TWE Broadband Business) and any direct or indirect Subsidiary of TWE that is not a TWE Broadband Member and (b) with respect to periods at or following the Closing, Holdco and its Subsidiaries, including their respective successors and assigns but excluding the Company, TWE and their respective Subsidiaries. Any Person in the TWE Non-Broadband Group may be referred to as a "TWE NON-BROADBAND MEMBER." 1.95. TWE NON-BROADBAND INDEMNITEES has the meaning set forth in Section 4.2. 1.96. TWE NON-BROADBAND LIABILITIES means all Liabilities of TWE and its Subsidiaries, including all Liabilities primarily relating to, arising out of or resulting from the TWE Non-Broadband Real Property but excluding the TWE Broadband Liabilities. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the TWE Non-Broadband Liabilities shall include the Excluded Liabilities.
17 1.97. TWE NON-BROADBAND MEMBER has the meaning set forth in the definition of TWE Non-Broadband Group. 1.98. TWE NON-BROADBAND REAL PROPERTY means all right, title and interest in real property, wherever located, of TWE and its Subsidiaries, other than the TWE Broadband Real Property. 1.99. TWE PARTNERSHIP INTERESTS has the meaning set forth in the Recitals. ARTICLE II THE DISTRIBUTION 2.1. TRANSFER OF ASSETS; ASSUMPTION OF LIABILITIES; REDEMPTION OF PARTNERSHIP INTERESTS (a) Subject to Section 3.1, at the Closing and immediately prior to the transactions contemplated in Section 2.1(c), TWE will cause the applicable TWE Non-Broadband Members to assign, transfer, convey and deliver to TWE (or to one or more TWE Broadband Members designated by TWE), and TWE (or such TWE Broadband Member(s)) will accept from such TWE Non-Broadband Members, all of each TWE Non-Broadband Member's respective right, title and interest in and to all of the Non-Transferred Assets, other than the Delayed Non-Transferred Assets. (b) Subject to Section 3.1, at the Closing and concurrently with the transactions contemplated in Section 2.1(a), TWE will cause the applicable TWE Non-Broadband Members to assign, transfer, convey and deliver to TWE (or one or more TWE Broadband Members designated by TWE) and TWE (or such TWE Broadband Member(s)) will assume and agree faithfully to perform and fulfill all the Non-Transferred Liabilities in accordance with their respective terms; provided that such Non-Transferred Liabilities shall not be assigned or otherwise transferred to the extent that such Non-Transferred Liabilities are already Liabilities of a TWE Broadband Member. TWE (or the TWE Broadband Member(s) receiving the corresponding Non-Transferred Assets) shall be responsible for all Non-Transferred Liabilities, regardless of when or where such Liabilities arose or arise, or whether the facts on which they are based occurred prior to, on or subsequent to the date hereof, regardless of where or against whom such Liabilities are asserted or determined or whether asserted or determined prior to the date hereof, and regardless of whether arising from or alleged to arise from negligence, recklessness, violation of Law, fraud, misrepresentation or any other cause by a Member of any Group or any of their respective directors, officers, employees, agents, Subsidiaries or Affiliates. (c) Subject to Section 2.1(h) and Section 3.1, at the Closing, TWE will assign, transfer, convey and deliver to Holdco, and will cause its applicable Subsidiaries to assign, transfer, convey and deliver to Holdco (or to such TWE Non-Broadband Member(s)), and Holdco will accept from TWE and its applicable Subsidiaries, all of each TWE Broadband Member's respective right, title and interest in and to all of the TWE Non-Broadband Assets, other than the Delayed Transfer Assets.
18 (d) Subject to Section 2.1(h) and Section 3.1, at the Closing and concurrently with the transactions contemplated in Section 2.1(c), TWE will assign, transfer, convey and deliver to Holdco and will cause its applicable Subsidiaries to assign, transfer, convey and deliver to Holdco, and Holdco will assume and agree faithfully to perform and fulfill all the TWE Non-Broadband Liabilities, in accordance with their respective terms; provided that such TWE Non-Broadband Liabilities shall not be assigned or otherwise transferred to the extent that such TWE Non-Broadband Liabilities are already Liabilities of a TWE Non-Broadband Member (other than TWE). Holdco (or the TWE Non-Broadband Member(s) holding the corresponding TWE Non-Broadband Assets) shall be responsible for all TWE Non-Broadband Liabilities, regardless of when or where such Liabilities arose or arise, or whether the facts on which they are based occurred prior to, on or subsequent to the date hereof, regardless of where or against whom such Liabilities are asserted or determined or whether asserted or determined prior to the date hereof, and regardless of whether arising from or alleged to arise from negligence, recklessness, violation of Law, fraud, misrepresentation or any other cause by a Member of any Group or any of their respective Subsidiaries, directors, officers, employees or agents or Affiliates. (e) Each of the parties hereto agrees that the Delayed Transfer Assets and the Delayed Non-Transferred Assets will be assigned, transferred, conveyed and delivered in accordance with the terms of Section 2.6 or other agreements that provide for such assignment, transfer, conveyance and delivery after the Closing. The parties hereto further agree (i) that all such Delayed Transfer Assets and Delayed Non-Transferred Assets shall be treated for all Tax purposes as assets of the beneficial owner and (ii) not to report or take any Tax position (on a Tax Return or otherwise) inconsistent with such treatment (unless required by a change in applicable Tax law or good faith resolution of a contest). Following the Closing, the Delayed Transfer Assets and Delayed Non-Transferred Assets shall (except where the context otherwise requires) be treated for all purposes of this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements as TWE Non-Broadband Assets and Non-Transferred Assets, respectively. (f) In the event that at any time or from time to time (whether prior to or after the Closing), any party hereto (or any Member of such party's respective Group) shall receive or otherwise possess any Asset that should have been assigned or transferred to or retained by any other Person pursuant to this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement, such party shall promptly transfer, or cause to be transferred, such Asset to the Person so entitled thereto. Prior to any such transfer, the Person receiving or possessing such Asset shall hold such Asset in trust for any such other Person. (g) Subject to Section 3.1, at the Closing, certain of the TWE Partnership Interests held by Holdco will be redeemed as set forth on Schedule 2.1(g). (h) The parties acknowledge and agree that any TWE Non-Broadband Assets to be assigned, transferred, conveyed and delivered hereunder and any TWE Non-Broadband Liabilities to be assumed hereunder, shall, if such Asset is owned directly by a TWE Non-Broadband Member (other than TWE) or such Liability is the direct obligation of a TWE Non-Broadband Member (other than TWE) be transferred or assumed, as applicable, by transferring, directly or indirectly, all of the Equity Securities in the Person that directly owns such TWE Non-Broadband Assets or is directly subject to such TWE Non-Broadband Liabilities, as
19 applicable (provided that if such Person owns any TWE Broadband Assets or is subject to any TWE Broadband Liabilities, such TWE Broadband Assets shall be transferred to a TWE Broadband Member, and such TWE Broadband Liabilities shall be assumed by a TWE Broadband Member, in each case prior to the Closing). Except as set forth in the preceding sentence, Assets will be assigned, transferred, conveyed and delivered directly and Liabilities will be assumed directly. (i) For the avoidance of doubt, the parties acknowledge and agree that, notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, it is the intent of this Section 2.1 that (i) all of the Equity Securities of each Subsidiary of TWE that is a TWE Broadband Member immediately prior to the Closing will, immediately after the Closing, be held directly or indirectly by TWE and (ii) all of the Equity Securities of each Subsidiary of TWE that is a TWE Non-Broadband Member immediately prior to the Closing will, immediately after the Closing, be held directly or indirectly by Holdco and not directly or indirectly by TWE. (j) Notwithstanding the foregoing, and subject to Section 4.1(a)(v), Holdco may elect to effect the change of ownership of Time Warner Entertainment Pty Limited from TWE to Holdco (or to one or more Subsidiaries of Holdco) by an alternate method rather than by distributing the Equity Securities of such Person in accordance with Section 2.1(c). 2.2. DISCLAIMER OF REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES. EXCEPT AS MAY EXPRESSLY BE SET FORTH HEREIN, IN ANY ANCILLARY AGREEMENT, IN THE RESTRUCTURING AGREEMENT, IN ANY TRANSACTION AGREEMENT (AND NOTWITHSTANDING ANYTHING TO THE CONTRARY IN ANY REAL PROPERTY INSTRUMENT) (A) NONE OF TWE, HOLDCO OR ANY OTHER PERSON MAKES ANY REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY OF ANY KIND WHATSOEVER, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, WITH RESPECT TO ANY OF THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY (INCLUDING ANY CONSENTS OR APPROVALS REQUIRED IN CONNECTION THEREWITH) OR THE BUSINESS, ASSETS, CONDITION OR PROSPECTS (FINANCIAL OR OTHERWISE) OF, OR ANY OTHER MATTER INVOLVING, THE ASSETS, BUSINESSES OR LIABILITIES OF TWE, HOLDCO, THE TWE NON-BROADBAND GROUP OR THE TWE BROADBAND GROUP; (B) ALL OF THE ASSETS TO BE RETAINED OR TRANSFERRED OR THE LIABILITIES TO BE RETAINED, ASSUMED OR TRANSFERRED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE TRANSFERRED OR ASSUMED ON AN "AS IS, WHERE IS BASIS," AND ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A SPECIFIC PURPOSE OR OTHERWISE ARE HEREBY EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMED, AND (C) NONE OF TWE, HOLDCO OR ANY OTHER PERSON MAKES ANY REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY WITH RESPECT TO ANY INFORMATION, DOCUMENTS OR MATERIAL MADE AVAILABLE IN CONNECTION WITH THE ENTERING INTO OF THIS AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY. 2.3. OTHER ANCILLARY AGREEMENTS. On or prior to the Closing, each of TWE and Holdco will execute and deliver, and will cause its Subsidiaries to execute and deliver, all Ancillary Agreements to which such Person is a party.
20 2.4. DOCUMENTS RELATING TO TRANSFER OF REAL PROPERTY INTERESTS AND TANGIBLE PROPERTY LOCATED THEREON. (a) To the extent necessary, in furtherance of the assignment, transfer and conveyance of the TWE Broadband Real Property and the assumption of the related Non-Transferred Liabilities pursuant to Sections 2.1(a) and (b) and the assignment, transfer and conveyance of the TWE Non-Broadband Real Property and the assumption of the related TWE Non-Broadband Liabilities pursuant to Sections 2.1(c) and (d), at the Closing (to the extent practicable) or promptly thereafter in accordance with Article VII hereof, each of TWE and Holdco, or their applicable Subsidiaries, will execute and deliver such deeds, lease assignments and assumptions, leases, subleases and sub-subleases, transfer tax returns, affidavits and similar instruments as may be necessary to effect the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, including this Section 2.4 (collectively, the "REAL PROPERTY INSTRUMENTS"), provided that the Real Property Instruments need not be delivered to the extent that the TWE Non-Broadband Real Property is already owned by or held in the name of any TWE Non-Broadband Member (other than TWE) or the TWE Broadband Real Property is wholly owned by, or held in the name of, any TWE Broadband Member. The applicable Real Property Instruments will be on mutually acceptable terms. (b) Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement or on Schedule 2.4(b), all leasehold improvements, fixtures, furniture, office equipment, servers, private branch exchanges, artwork and other tangible property (other than equipment subject to capital or operating equipment leases, which will be transferred or retained based on whether the associated capital or operating equipment lease is or is not a TWE Non-Broadband Contract) located as of the date hereof on any TWE Non-Broadband Real Property shall be included within the definition of TWE Non-Broadband Assets; provided that any such Assets that were acquired by or on behalf of a TWE Broadband Member and are primarily used or primarily held for use in the TWE Broadband Business shall not be considered TWE Non-Broadband Assets. (c) Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement or on Schedule 2.4(c), all leasehold improvements, fixtures, furniture, office equipment, servers, private branch exchanges, artwork and other tangible property (other than equipment subject to capital or operating equipment leases, which will be transferred or retained based on whether the associated capital or operating equipment lease is or is not a TWE Broadband Contract) located as of the date hereof on any TWE Broadband Real Property shall be included within the definition of TWE Broadband Assets; provided that any such Assets that were acquired by or on behalf of a TWE Non-Broadband Member and are not primarily used or primarily held for use in the TWE Broadband Business shall not be considered TWE Broadband Assets. (d) Any TWE Non-Broadband Real Property (including the TWE Non-Broadband Real Property listed on Schedule 2.4(d)) used in connection with both the TWE Broadband Business and the TWE Non-Broadband Business will be leased or subleased following the Closing by the relevant TWE Non-Broadband Member to the relevant TWE Broadband Member substantially on terms currently in effect for a reasonable transition period or such longer period as the parties may agree; provided that the terms of any such lease or sublease shall be subject to Section 7.6 of the Amended and Restated Partnership Agreement of TWE.
21 (e) Any TWE Broadband Real Property (including the TWE Broadband Real Property listed on Schedule 2.4(e)) used in connection with both the TWE Broadband Business and the TWE Non-Broadband Business will be leased or subleased following the Closing by the relevant TWE Broadband Member to the relevant TWE Non-Broadband Member substantially on terms currently in effect for a reasonable transition period or such longer period as the parties may agree; provided that the terms of any such lease or sublease shall be subject to Section 7.6 of the Amended and Restated Partnership Agreement of TWE. 2.5. DOCUMENTS RELATING TO OTHER TRANSFERS OF ASSETS AND ASSUMPTION OF LIABILITIES. In furtherance of the assignment, transfer and conveyance of TWE Non-Broadband Assets and Non-Transferred Assets and the assumption of TWE Non-Broadband Liabilities, and Non-Transferred Liabilities pursuant to Section 2.1(a), (b), (c) and (d), simultaneously with the Closing or, to the extent not capable of being delivered at such time, as promptly as practicable thereafter, (a) TWE and Holdco shall execute and deliver, and shall cause their respective Subsidiaries to execute and deliver, such bills of sale, stock powers, certificates of title, assignments and assumptions of contracts and other instruments of transfer, conveyance, assignment and assumption as and to the extent necessary to evidence (i) the transfer, conveyance and assignment of all of the TWE Broadband Members' right, title and interest in and to the TWE Non-Broadband Assets to Holdco (or the TWE Non-Broadband Member designated by Holdco), to the extent required by Section 2.1(c) and (ii) the valid and effective assumption of the Non-Transferred Liabilities by TWE (or the TWE Broadband Member receiving the corresponding Non-Transferred Asset), to the extent required by Section 2.1(b) (iii) the transfer, conveyance and assignment of all of Holdco and the TWE Non-Broadband Members' right, title and interest in and to the Non-Transferred Assets to TWE (or the TWE Broadband Member designated by TWE), to the extent required by Section 2.1(a) and (iv) the valid and effective assumption of the TWE Non-Broadband Liabilities by Holdco (or the TWE Non-Broadband Members receiving the corresponding Transferred Asset), to the extent required by Section 2.1(d). 2.6. GOVERNMENTAL APPROVALS AND CONSENTS. (a) If and to the extent that the valid, complete and perfected transfer or assignment to Holdco (or the applicable TWE Non-Broadband Member) of any TWE Non-Broadband Assets (or from any TWE Non-Broadband Member of any Non-Transferred Assets held by such Member) would be a violation of applicable Laws or require any Consent or Governmental Approval in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Restructuring Agreement, then, unless Holdco (in the case of a TWE Non-Broadband Asset) or TWE (in the case of a Non-Transferred Asset) shall otherwise determine, the transfer or assignment to Holdco (or such TWE Non-Broadband Member) of such TWE Non-Broadband Assets or from any TWE Non-Broadband Member of such Non-Transferred Asset shall be automatically deemed deferred and any such purported transfer or assignment shall be null and void until such time as all legal impediments are removed and/or such Consents or Governmental Approvals have been made or obtained. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any such Delayed Transferred Asset or Delayed Non-Transferred Asset shall be deemed an Asset of the TWE Non-Broadband Group or the TWE Broadband Group, respectively, for purposes of determining whether any Liability is a TWE Non-Broadband Liability or a TWE Broadband Liability, respectively.
22 (b) If the transfer or assignment of any Asset intended to be transferred or assigned hereunder is not consummated prior to or at the Closing, whether as a result of the provisions of Section 2.6(a) or for any other reason, then the Person retaining such Asset shall thereafter hold such Asset for the use and benefit, insofar as reasonably possible, of the Person entitled thereto (at the expense of the Person entitled thereto). In addition, the Person retaining such Asset shall take such other actions as may be reasonably requested by the Person to whom such Asset is to be transferred in order to place such Person, insofar as reasonably possible, in the same position as if such Asset had been transferred as contemplated hereby and so that all the benefits and burdens relating to such Assets including possession, use, risk of loss, potential for gain, and dominion, control and command over such TWE Non-Broadband Asset or Non-Transferred Assets, are to inure from and after the Closing to the TWE Non-Broadband Group or the TWE Broadband Group, respectively. To the extent permitted by Law and to the extent otherwise permissible in light of any required Consent and/or Governmental Approval, the TWE Non-Broadband Group, on the one hand, and the TWE Broadband Group, on the other, shall be entitled to, and shall be responsible for, the management of any TWE Non-Broadband Assets or Non-Transferred Asset, as the case may be, not yet transferred to it as a result of this Section 2.6(b) and the parties agree to use reasonable commercial efforts to cooperate and coordinate with respect thereto. (c) If and when the Consents and/or Governmental Approvals, the absence of which caused the deferral of transfer of any Asset pursuant to Section 2.6(a), are obtained, the transfer of the applicable Asset shall be effected in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and/or the applicable Ancillary Agreement. (d) The Person retaining an Asset due to the deferral of the transfer of such Asset shall not be obligated, in connection with the foregoing, to expend any money unless the necessary funds are advanced by the Person entitled to the Asset, other than reasonable out-of-pocket expenses, attorneys' fees and recording or similar fees, all of which shall be promptly reimbursed by the Person entitled to such Asset. 2.7. NOVATION OF TWE NON-BROADBAND LIABILITIES. (a) Each of TWE and Holdco, at the reasonable written request of the other, shall use its reasonable commercial efforts to obtain, or to cause to be obtained, any release, consent, substitution, approval or amendment required to novate and assign all obligations under agreements, leases, licenses and other obligations or Liabilities of any nature whatsoever that constitute TWE Non-Broadband Liabilities, or to obtain in writing the unconditional release of all parties to such arrangements other than Holdco (or the TWE Non-Broadband Member that received the corresponding TWE Non-Broadband Asset), so that, in any such case, Holdco (or such TWE Non-Broadband Member) will be solely responsible for such Liabilities; provided however, that none of the Members of any Group shall be obligated to pay any consideration or surrender, release or modify any rights or remedies therefor to any third party from whom such releases, consents, approvals, substitutions and amendments are requested, except as expressly set forth in the Restructuring Agreement or any other Transaction Agreement. (b) If TWE or Holdco is unable to obtain, or to cause to be obtained, any such required release, consent, substitution, approval or amendment, the applicable TWE Broadband Member shall continue to be bound by such Contracts, licenses and other obligations and, unless
23 not permitted by Law or the terms thereof, the applicable TWE Non-Broadband Member shall, as agent or subcontractor for such TWE Broadband Member pay, perform and discharge fully all the obligations or other Liabilities of such TWE Broadband Member thereunder from and after the Closing. Holdco shall indemnify each TWE Broadband Indemnitee and hold it harmless against any Liabilities arising in connection therewith. TWE shall, without further consideration, pay and remit, or cause to be paid or remitted, to the applicable TWE Non-Broadband Member promptly all money, rights and other consideration received by it or any TWE Broadband Member in respect of such performance (unless any such consideration is a Non-Transferred Asset). If and when any such release, consent, substitution, approval or amendment shall be obtained or such agreement, lease, license or other rights or obligations shall otherwise become assignable or able to be novated, TWE shall thereafter assign, or cause to be assigned, all of its rights, obligations and other Liabilities thereunder or any rights or obligations of any TWE Broadband Member to such TWE Non-Broadband Member without payment of further consideration and such TWE Non-Broadband Member shall, without the payment of any further consideration, assume such rights and obligations. Notwithstanding the foregoing, unless TWE shall so elect in writing, Holdco shall assume, or cause the assumption of, all TWE Non-Broadband Liabilities as of the Closing, except for Liabilities of another TWE Non-Broadband Member. 2.8. NOVATION OF NON-TRANSFERRED LIABILITIES. (a) Each of TWE and Holdco, at the reasonable written request of the other, shall use its reasonable commercial efforts to obtain, or to cause to be obtained, any release, consent, substitution, approval or amendment required to novate and assign all obligations under Contracts, licenses, and other obligations or Liabilities of any nature whatsoever that constitute Non-Transferred Liabilities by which any TWE Non-Broadband Member is bound, or to obtain in writing the unconditional release of all parties to such arrangements other than any TWE Broadband Member, so that, in any such case, TWE (or the TWE Broadband Member party to such arrangement) will be solely responsible for such Liabilities; provided, however, that none of the Members of any Group shall be obligated to pay any consideration therefor or surrender, release or modify any rights or remedies to any third party from whom such releases, consents, approvals, substitutions and amendments are requested, except as expressly set forth in the Restructuring Agreement or any other Transaction Agreement. (b) If TWE or Holdco is unable to obtain, or to cause to be obtained, any such required release, consent, approval, substitution or amendment, the applicable TWE Non-Broadband Member shall continue to be bound by such Contracts, licenses, and other obligations and, unless not permitted by Law or the terms thereof, the applicable TWE Broadband Member shall, as agent or subcontractor for such TWE Non-Broadband Member, pay, perform and discharge fully all the obligations or other Liabilities of such TWE Non-Broadband Member thereunder from and after the Closing. TWE shall indemnify each TWE Non-Broadband Indemnitee and hold each of them harmless against any Liabilities arising in connection therewith. Holdco shall cause each TWE Non-Broadband Member, without further consideration, to pay and remit, or cause to be paid or remitted, to TWE or another TWE Broadband Member specified by TWE, promptly all money, rights and other consideration received by such TWE Non-Broadband Member in respect of such performance (unless any such consideration is a TWE Non-Broadband Asset). If and when any such consent, approval, release, substitution or amendment shall be obtained or such agreement, lease, license or other
24 rights or obligations shall otherwise become assignable or able to be novated, Holdco shall promptly assign, or cause to be assigned, all of its rights, obligations and other Liabilities thereunder or any rights or obligations of any TWE Non-Broadband Member to such TWE Broadband Member without payment of further consideration and such TWE Broadband Member shall, without the payment of further consideration, assume such rights and obligations. Notwithstanding the foregoing, unless Holdco shall so elect in writing, TWE shall assume or cause the assumption of the Non-Transferred Liabilities as of the Closing, except for Liabilities of another TWE Broadband Member. 2.9. JOINT PURCHASING ARRANGEMENTS. (a) In the case of existing purchasing Contracts of TWE that prior to the Closing provide the TWE Broadband Group and the TWE Non-Broadband Group with volume discounts, until terminated by either TWE or Holdco, the parties agree to use their respective commercially reasonable efforts so that to the extent permitted under the terms of such existing agreements, after the Closing, the Members of each Group shall continue to be able to make purchases and obtain the benefits of the volume discounts. In the case of any other existing purchasing Contracts, the parties will, at the request of either party and subject to applicable law, cooperate reasonably in seeking modifications to such Contracts or alternative or substitute Contracts so that, to the extent practicable after the Closing, until terminated by either TWE or Holdco, the Members of each Group shall be able to make purchases and obtain the benefits of the volume discounts. Notwithstanding the foregoing, but subject to the terms of any TWE Broadband Contract or TWE Non-Broadband Contract, no Member of any Group shall be required to commit to any additional purchases or other obligations, make any payments or waive any rights in order to effect the foregoing. Each party hereby agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the other party, and if applicable the other party's Subsidiaries, with respect to any losses or claims arising from such first party's, or such first party's Subsidiaries', own purchases, commitments or other obligations under any such Contracts. (b) Subject to applicable law, each party will, if requested by the other party, use reasonable commercial efforts to cooperate with each other and, as applicable, with each other's Subsidiaries, to coordinate and combine their purchases in cases where they purchase common supplies or use the same supplier, in each case until terminated by either TWE or Holdco and to the extent permitted by Law from time to time. It is the intent of the parties that this coordination and cooperation will be focused on achieving more favorable pricing and terms for such supplies and from such suppliers by aggregating the combined purchases of the parties and their Subsidiaries. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no party shall be obligated to make, or cause its Subsidiaries to make, any specific purchases or to use any specific supplier except to the extent (i) it, or one of its Subsidiaries, has previously committed to make a specific purchase or to use a specific supplier or (ii) subsequent to the date of this Agreement, it, or one of its Subsidiaries, makes a commitment for a specific purchase or to use a specific supplier. Each party will be responsible for its own and its Subsidiaries' commitments and its own and its Subsidiaries' purchases and other obligations made under any common or shared Contracts with suppliers and will, in respect of such commitments, purchases or other obligations, indemnify and hold harmless the other party and the other party's Subsidiaries that use such Contracts. 2.10. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY MATTERS. To the extent that this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement contains provisions which purport to cover or address any matter addressed
25 in the Intellectual Property Agreement, the Patent Assignment, the Copyright and Technology Assignment or the Trademark and Service Mark Assignment, the Intellectual Property Agreement, the Patent Assignment, the Copyright and Technology Assignment and the Trademark and Service Mark Assignment, respectively, shall prevail. 2.11. EMPLOYEE MATTERS. As of immediately following the Closing, TWE and its Subsidiaries shall employ no individuals other than employees who are primarily employed in connection with the TWE Broadband Business. As of the Closing, all employees of TWE and its Subsidiaries (including individuals on a leave of absence, short term disability or long term disability) who are not primarily employed in connection with the TWE Broadband Business shall become or shall remain employees of Holdco or its Subsidiaries. TWE, Holdco and their Subsidiaries shall take such actions as are reasonably necessary to effectuate the transfers of employment contemplated by this Section 2.11, including, without limitation, Holdco or its Subsidiaries (other than the Company, TWE or their respective Subsidiaries) making a general offer of employment. The parties hereto shall take all steps reasonably necessary to give effect to the intent of this Section 2.11 and shall take no actions that would interfere therewith. ARTICLE III CONDITIONS 3.1. CONDITIONS. The obligations of each party hereto to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement are subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the conditions set forth in Article IX of the Restructuring Agreement. ARTICLE IV INDEMNIFICATION; TAXES 4.1. INDEMNIFICATION BY AOLTW AND HOLDCO. (a) Except as provided in Section 4.3, following the Closing, AOLTW and Holdco, on a joint and several basis, shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless TWE, each TWE Broadband Member and each of their respective partners, directors, officers, agents and employees, and each of the heirs, executors, successors and assigns of any of the foregoing (collectively, the "TWE BROADBAND INDEMNITEES"), from and against any and all Liabilities of the TWE Broadband Indemnitees relating to, arising out of or resulting from any of the following items (without duplication), whether arising prior to or after the Closing or the date hereof: (i) the failure of Holdco or any other TWE Non-Broadband Member or any other Person to pay, perform or otherwise promptly discharge any TWE Non-Broadband Liabilities in accordance with their respective terms; (ii) the TWE Non-Broadband Business, including the operation thereof; (iii) any breach by Holdco or any TWE Non-Broadband Member of this Agreement or any of the Ancillary Agreements;
26 (iv) any Third Party Claim in respect of any TWE Non-Broadband Liability; and (v) any Liabilities imposed on the TWE Broadband Indemnitees relating to, arising out of or resulting from any transaction effectuating the change of ownership of Time Warner Entertainment Pty Limited from TWE to Holdco (or one or more Subsidiaries of Holdco) by an alternative method pursuant to Section 2.1(j) to the extent such Liabilities exceed the Liabilities that would have been suffered by the TWE Broadband Indemnities had the Equity Securities of such Person been distributed to Holdco in accordance with Section 2.1(c). (b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, AOLTW in its sole discretion can elect at any time upon written notice to TWE to terminate this Section 4.1 with respect to Holdco (and only with respect to Holdco) and release Holdco from any and all of Holdco's Liabilities under this Section 4.1, and TWE shall execute and deliver all instruments reasonably requested by AOLTW to evidence such release and termination. 4.2. INDEMNIFICATION BY THE COMPANY AND TWE. Except as provided in Section 4.3, following the Closing, the Company and TWE, on a joint and several basis, shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless Holdco, each TWE Non-Broadband Member and each of their respective partners, directors, officers, agents and employees, and each of the heirs, executors, successors and assigns of any of the foregoing (collectively, the "TWE NON-BROADBAND INDEMNITEES"), from and against any and all Liabilities of the TWE Non-Broadband Indemnitees relating to, arising out of or resulting from any of the following items (without duplication), whether arising prior to or after the Closing or the date hereof: (a) the failure of TWE or any other TWE Broadband Member or any other Person to pay, perform or otherwise promptly discharge any TWE Broadband Liabilities (including any Non-Transferred Liabilities) in accordance with their respective terms; (b) the TWE Broadband Business, including the operation thereof; (c) any breach by TWE or any other TWE Broadband Member of this Agreement or any of the Ancillary Agreements; and (d) any Third Party Claim in respect of any TWE Broadband Liability. 4.3. INDEMNIFICATION OBLIGATIONS NET OF INSURANCE PROCEEDS AND OTHER AMOUNTS. (a) The parties intend that any indemnification or reimbursement obligation pursuant to this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement will be net of Insurance Proceeds that actually reduce the amount of the Liability. Accordingly, the amount which any party (an "INDEMNIFYING PARTY") is required to pay to any Person entitled to indemnification hereunder (an "INDEMNITEE") will be reduced by any Insurance Proceeds theretofore actually recovered by or on behalf of the Indemnitee in reduction of the related Liability. If an Indemnitee receives a payment (an "INDEMNITY PAYMENT") required by this Agreement from an Indemnifying Party in respect of any Liability and subsequently receives Insurance Proceeds, then the Indemnitee will pay to the Indemnifying Party an amount equal to the excess of the Indemnity Payment received
27 over the amount of the Indemnity Payment that would have been due if the Insurance Proceeds had been received, realized or recovered before the Indemnity Payment was made. (b) An insurer who would otherwise be obligated to defend or make payment in response to any claim shall not be relieved of the responsibility with respect thereto or, solely by virtue of the indemnification provisions hereof, have any subrogation rights with respect thereto, it being expressly understood and agreed that no insurer or any other third party shall be entitled to a "windfall" (i.e., a benefit it would not be entitled to receive in the absence of the indemnification provisions) by virtue of the indemnification provisions hereof. (c) With respect to all Insurance Policies, the parties agree to act in good faith and to use their reasonable best efforts to preserve and maximize the insurance benefits due to be provided thereunder and to cooperate with one another as necessary to permit each other to access or obtain the benefits under those policies, provided, however, that nothing in this Section 4.3 shall be construed to prevent any party or any other Person from asserting claims for insurance benefits or accepting insurance benefits provided by the policies. The parties agree to exchange information upon reasonable request of the other party regarding requests that they have made for insurance benefits, notices of claims, occurrences and circumstances that they have submitted to the insurance companies or other entities managing the policies, responses they have received from those insurance companies or entities, including any payments they have received from the insurance companies and any agreements by the insurance companies to make payments, and any other information that the parties may need to determine the status of the Insurance Policies and the continued availability of benefits thereunder. 4.4. PROCEDURES FOR INDEMNIFICATION OF THIRD PARTY CLAIMS. (a) If an Indemnitee shall receive notice or otherwise learn of the assertion by a Person (including any Governmental Authority) who is not a Member of either Group of any claim or of the commencement by any such Person of any Action (collectively, a "THIRD PARTY CLAIM") with respect to which an Indemnifying Party may be obligated to provide indemnification to such Indemnitee pursuant to Section 4.1 or 4.2, or any other Section of this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement (except as otherwise provided therein), such Indemnitee shall give such Indemnifying Party written notice thereof promptly after receipt of notice or senior executives actually becoming aware of such Third Party Claim. Any such notice shall describe the Third Party Claim in reasonable detail. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the failure of any Indemnitee to give notice as provided in this Section 4.4(a) shall not relieve the related Indemnifying Party of its obligations under this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement, except to the extent that such Indemnifying Party is actually prejudiced by such failure to give notice. (b) An Indemnifying Party may elect to defend (and, except as set out in clause (e), below, unless the Indemnifying Party has specified any reservations or exceptions, to seek to settle or compromise), at such Indemnifying Party's own expense and by such Indemnifying Party's own counsel (provided such counsel is reasonably acceptable to the Indemnitee), any Third Party Claim; provided that notwithstanding the foregoing, an Indemnitee may elect to defend any Excepted Third Party Claim and the Indemnifying Party shall have the right to elect to defend such Excepted Third Party Claim only if the Indemnitee does not elect to do so. Within 30 days after the receipt of notice from an Indemnitee in accordance with Section 4.4(a) (or sooner, if the nature of such Third Party Claim so requires), the Indemnifying Party
28 shall notify the Indemnitee of its election whether the Indemnifying Party will assume responsibility for defending such Third Party Claim, which election shall specify any reservations or exceptions. After notice from an Indemnifying Party to an Indemnitee of its election to assume the defense of a Third Party Claim, such Indemnitee shall have the right to employ separate counsel and to participate in (but not control) the defense, compromise, or settlement thereof, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be the expense of such Indemnitee, except as set forth in the next sentence. In the event that the Indemnifying Party has elected to assume the defense of the Third Party Claim but has specified and continues to assert, any reservations or exceptions in such notice, then, in any such case, the reasonable fees and expenses of one separate counsel (and one separate local counsel) for all Indemnitees shall be borne by the Indemnifying Party. (c) If an Indemnifying Party elects not to assume responsibility for defending a Third Party Claim, or fails to notify an Indemnitee of its election as provided in Section 4.4(b), or in the case of an Excepted Third Party Claim, such Indemnitee may defend such Third Party Claim at the reasonable cost and expense of the Indemnifying Party. (d) Unless the Indemnifying Party has failed to assume the defense of the Third Party Claim in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, no Indemnitee may settle or compromise any Third Party Claim (including any Excepted Third Party Claim) without the consent of the Indemnifying Party (not to be unreasonably withheld), unless such Indemnitee has waived any rights to indemnification hereunder in respect of such Third Party Claim. (e) Without the consent of the Indemnitee (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld), the Indemnifying Party shall not enter into or consent to any settlement or compromise of the Third Party Claim, unless such settlement or compromise involves only the payment of money damages concurrently with such settlement (and such amount is so paid by the Indemnifying Party), does not impose any equitable relief upon the Indemnitee or any of its Affiliates, or any of its or their respective officers or directors and contains an unconditional release of the Indemnitee, each of its Affiliates and each of its and their respective officers or directors in respect of such claim. 4.5. ADDITIONAL MATTERS. (a) Any claim on account of a Liability that does not result from a Third Party Claim shall be asserted by written notice given by the Indemnitee to the related Indemnifying Party. Such Indemnifying Party shall have a period of 30 days after the receipt of such notice within which to respond thereto (or sooner, if the nature of such claim so requires). If such Indemnifying Party does not respond within such period, such Indemnifying Party shall be deemed to have refused to accept responsibility to make payment. If such Indemnifying Party does not respond within such period or rejects such claim in whole or in part, such Indemnitee shall be free to pursue such other remedies as may be available to such party. (b) In the event of payment by or on behalf of any Indemnifying Party to any Indemnitee in connection with any Third Party Claim, such Indemnifying Party shall be subrogated to and shall stand in the place of such Indemnitee as to any events or circumstances in respect of which such Indemnitee may have any right, defense or claim relating to such Third Party Claim against any claimant or plaintiff asserting such Third Party Claim or against any other person but only to the extent of such payment. Such Indemnitee shall cooperate with such
29 Indemnifying Party in a reasonable manner, and at the reasonable cost and expense of such Indemnifying Party, in prosecuting any subrogated right, defense or claim. (c) In the event of an Action in which the Indemnifying Party is not a named defendant, if either the Indemnitee (in the case where the Indemnifying Party has not specified any reservations or exceptions) or Indemnifying Party shall so request, the parties shall endeavor to substitute the Indemnifying Party for the named defendant, if at all practicable. If such substitution or addition cannot be achieved for any reason or is not requested, the named defendant shall allow the Indemnifying Party to manage the Action as set forth in Section 4.4 and the Indemnifying Party shall fully indemnify the named defendant against all Liabilities in connection therewith, including costs of defending the Action (including court costs, sanctions imposed by a court, attorneys' fees, experts' fees and all other external expenses, the costs of any judgment or settlement, and the cost of any interest or penalties relating to any judgment or settlement. 4.6. REMEDIES CUMULATIVE. The remedies provided in this Article IV shall be cumulative and shall not preclude assertion by any Indemnitee of any other rights or the seeking of any and all other remedies against any Indemnifying Party. 4.7. SURVIVAL OF INDEMNITIES. The rights and obligations of AOLTW, each TWE Broadband Member, TWE Non-Broadband Member and their respective Indemnitees under this Article IV shall survive the sale or other transfer by any party of any Assets or businesses or the assignment by it of any Liabilities. 4.8. TAX EFFECTS OF INDEMNIFICATION. (a) For all Tax purposes (unless required by a change in applicable Tax law or good faith resolution of a contest), the parties hereto agree to treat, and to cause their respective Affiliates to treat any payment (i) to Holdco by TWE pursuant to an indemnification, reimbursement or refund obligation provided for in this Agreement (a "TRANSFEROR INDEMNIFICATION PAYMENT"), or (ii) to TWE by Holdco or AOLTW pursuant to an indemnification, reimbursement or refund obligation provided for in this Agreement (a "TRANSFEREE INDEMNIFICATION PAYMENT" and, collectively with any Transferor Indemnification Payment, an "INDEMNIFICATION PAYMENT") as (x) with respect to a Transferor Indemnification Payment, a distribution by TWE to Holdco as part of the distribution described in Section 2.1(c) of this Agreement, and (y) with respect to a Transferee Indemnification Payment, a payment by Holdco of a TWE Non-Broadband Liability. (b) The amount of any loss for which indemnification is provided under this Agreement shall be (i) increased to take account of the net Tax cost, if any, incurred by the indemnitee arising from the receipt or accrual of an Indemnification Payment hereunder (grossed up for such increase) and (ii) reduced to take account of the net Tax benefit, if any, realized by the indemnitee arising from incurring or paying such loss. In computing the amount of any such Tax cost or benefit, the indemnitee shall be deemed to recognize all other items of income, gain, loss, deduction or credit before recognizing any item arising from the receipt or accrual of any Indemnification Payment hereunder or incurring or paying any indemnified loss. Any Indemnification Payment hereunder shall initially be made without regard to this Section 4.8(b)
30 and shall be increased or reduced to reflect any such net Tax cost (including gross-up) or net Tax benefit only after the indemnitee has actually realized such cost or benefit. For purposes of this Agreement, an indemnitee shall be deemed to have "actually realized" a net Tax cost or a net Tax benefit to the extent that, and at such time as, the amount of Taxes payable by such indemnitee is increased above or reduced below, as the case may be, the amount of Taxes that such indemnitee would be required to pay but for the receipt or accrual of the Indemnification Payment or the incurrence or payment of such loss. The amount of any increase or reduction hereunder shall be adjusted to reflect any adjustment with respect to the indemnitee's liability for Taxes, and payments between the parties hereto to reflect such adjustment shall be made. In the event that the parties disagree regarding the appropriate application of this Section 4.8(b), such disagreement shall be resolved by submitting the same to a national accounting firm that does not have a material relationship with either party. 4.9. REFUNDS. TWE shall pay to Holdco all refunds or credits of Taxes received by TWE after the Closing that are attributable to the TWE Non-Broadband Business, net of any Taxes imposed on such refund amount, to be paid to Holdco promptly following any receipt thereof by TWE. In the event that the parties disagree regarding the appropriate application of this Section 4.9, such disagreement shall be resolved by submitting the same to a national accounting firm that does not have a material relationship with either party. ARTICLE V INSURANCE 5.1. INSURANCE MATTERS. (a) The parties intend that both TWE and Holdco and each other TWE Broadband Member and TWE Non-Broadband Member, after the Closing, shall be successors-in-interest to and retain all rights and interest (whether known, unknown, contingent or otherwise) that any of the parties has as of the Closing under any Insurance Policy issued to and/or providing coverage to TWE, as it existed immediately prior to the Closing, or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates, and any agreements related to such Insurance Policies executed and delivered prior to the Closing, including any rights or interests each has, as an insured, named insured, or additional named insured, Subsidiary, Affiliate, division or department, to avail itself of any benefit under any such Insurance Policy or any such agreement related to such policy as in effect prior to the Closing. The provisions of this Agreement are not intended to relieve any insurer of any Liability under any policy. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no TWE Broadband Member or TWE Non-Broadband Member shall be deemed to have made any representation or warranty as to the availability of any Insurance Policy or the rights and benefits provided thereunder. (b) This Agreement shall not be considered as an attempted assignment of (if such an assignment would be prohibited or would otherwise adversely affect the rights of the insured parties under such policies) any rights or interest under any policy of insurance or as a contract of insurance and shall not be construed to waive any right or remedy of any TWE Broadband Member or TWE Non-Broadband Member in respect of any Insurance Policy or any other contract or policy of insurance.
31 (c) Each of TWE and Holdco does hereby, for itself and each other TWE Broadband Member and TWE Non-Broadband Member, respectively, agree that, as and to the extent necessary to give effect to Section 5.1(a), it will assign any chose in action, claim, right or benefit under an Insurance Policy. (d) TWE does hereby, for itself and each other TWE Broadband Member, agree that no TWE Non-Broadband Member or TWE Non-Broadband Indemnitee shall have any Liability whatsoever to any TWE Broadband Member as a result of the insurance policies and practices of TWE and its Affiliates as in effect or undertaken at any time prior to the Closing, including as a result of the level or scope of any such insurance, the creditworthiness of any insurance carrier, the terms and conditions of any policy, the adequacy or timeliness of any notice to any insurance carrier with respect to any claim or potential claim or otherwise. (e) Holdco does hereby, for itself and each other TWE Non-Broadband Member, agree that no TWE Broadband Member or TWE Broadband Indemnitee shall have any Liability whatsoever to any TWE Non-Broadband Member as a result of the insurance policies and practices of TWE and its Affiliates as in effect or undertaken at any time prior to the Closing, including as a result of the level or scope of any such insurance, the creditworthiness of any insurance carrier, the terms and conditions of any policy, the adequacy or timeliness of any notice to any insurance carrier with respect to any claim or potential claim or otherwise. (f) Each of TWE and Holdco does hereby, for itself and each other TWE Broadband Member and TWE Non-Broadband Member, respectively, agree that all duties and obligations under any Insurance Policy, including the fulfillment of any conditions and the payment of any deductibles, retentions, co-insurance payment or retrospective premiums, that correspond in any way with or may be necessary to perfect, preserve or maintain an insured's right to obtain benefits under that Insurance Policy, will be performed by the insured that is seeking the benefits, subject to the indemnification provisions of Article IV. In the event Members of both Groups have claims under a given policy, any deductibles, retentions, co-insurance payments, retrospective premiums, caps, limitations on average and similar items will be appropriately allocated between such parties based on the recoveries they would have obtained in the absence of such items. ARTICLE VI EXCHANGE OF INFORMATION; CONFIDENTIALITY 6.1. AGREEMENT FOR EXCHANGE OF INFORMATION. (a) Each of TWE and Holdco, on behalf of itself and each other TWE Broadband Member and TWE Non-Broadband Member, respectively, agrees to provide, or cause to be provided, to each other Group, at any time before or after the Closing, as soon as reasonably practicable after written request therefor, any Information in the possession or under the control of such respective Group that the requesting party reasonably needs (i) to comply with reporting, disclosure, filing or other requirements imposed on the requesting party (including under applicable securities or Tax laws) by a Governmental Authority having jurisdiction over the requesting party, (ii) for use in any other judicial, regulatory, administrative, Tax or other proceeding or in order to satisfy audit, accounting, claims, regulatory, litigation, Tax or other similar requirements or (iii) to comply
32 with its obligations under this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement; provided, however, that in the event that any party determines that any such provision of Information could be commercially detrimental, violate any Law or agreement, or waive any attorney-client privilege, the parties shall take all reasonable measures to permit the compliance with such obligations in a manner that avoids any such harm or consequence. TWE and Holdco intend that any transfer of Information that would otherwise be within the attorney-client privilege shall not operate as a waiver of any potentially applicable privilege. (b) After the date hereof, each of TWE (and its Subsidiaries) and Holdco (and its Subsidiaries) shall maintain in effect adequate systems and controls to the extent necessary to enable the members of the other Group to satisfy their respective reporting, accounting, audit and other obligations. 6.2. OWNERSHIP OF INFORMATION. Any Information owned by one Group that is provided to a requesting party pursuant to Section 6.1 shall be deemed to remain the property of the providing party. Unless specifically set forth herein, nothing contained in this Agreement shall be construed as granting or conferring rights of license or otherwise in any such Information. 6.3. COMPENSATION FOR PROVIDING INFORMATION. The party requesting such Information agrees to reimburse the other party for the reasonable costs, if any, of creating, gathering and copying such Information, to the extent that such costs are incurred for the benefit of the requesting party. Except as may be otherwise specifically provided elsewhere in this Agreement or in any other agreement between the parties, such costs shall be computed in accordance with the providing party's standard methodology and procedures. 6.4. RECORD RETENTION. To facilitate the possible exchange of Information pursuant to this Article VI and other provisions of this Agreement after the Closing, the parties agree to use their reasonable best efforts to retain all Information in their respective possession or control on the Closing in accordance with their respective record retention policies as in effect on the Closing. No party will destroy, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to destroy, any Information that the other party may have the right to obtain pursuant to this Agreement prior to the third anniversary of the Closing without first using its reasonable best efforts to notify the other party of the proposed destruction and giving the other party the opportunity to take possession of such Information prior to such destruction; provided, however, that in the case of any Information relating to Taxes, employee-related matters or to Environmental Liabilities, such period shall be extended to the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations (giving effect to any extensions thereof). Moreover, no party will destroy, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to destroy, any policies of insurance (or records related to such insurance policies) without first using its reasonable best efforts to notify the other party of the proposed destruction and giving the other party reasonable opportunity to take possession of such Information prior to such destruction, if it is possible (in the first party's reasonable judgment) that the other party may be able to obtain coverage under such policies. (The foregoing includes "occurrence"-based liability policies, which continue to cover liability for alleged harm during their policy period, even if no claim is made based on such alleged harm until after the end of the policy period.)
33 6.5. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY. No party shall have any Liability to any other party in the event that any Information exchanged or provided pursuant to this Agreement that is an estimate or forecast, or that is based on an estimate or forecast, is found to be inaccurate, in the absence of willful misconduct by the party providing such Information. No party shall have any Liability to any other party if any Information is destroyed after reasonable best efforts by such party to comply with the provisions of Section 6.4. 6.6. OTHER AGREEMENTS PROVIDING FOR EXCHANGE OF INFORMATION. The rights and obligations granted under this Article VI are subject to any specific limitations, qualifications or additional provisions on the sharing, exchange or confidential treatment of Information set forth in any Ancillary Agreement. 6.7. PRODUCTION OF WITNESSES; RECORDS; COOPERATION. (a) After the Closing, except in the case of an adversarial Action by one party against the other party (which shall be governed by such discovery rules as may be applicable thereto), each party hereto shall take all reasonable steps to make available to the other party, upon written request, the former, current and future directors, officers, employees, other personnel and agents of the Members of its respective Group (whether as witnesses or otherwise) and any books, records or other documents within its control or that it otherwise has the ability to make available, to the extent that such person (giving consideration to business demands of such directors, officers, employees, other personnel and agents) or books, records or other documents may reasonably be required in connection with any Action (including preparation for such Action) in which the requesting party may from time to time be involved, regardless of whether such Action is a matter with respect to which indemnification may be sought hereunder. The requesting party shall bear all reasonable costs and expenses in connection therewith. (b) If an Indemnifying Party chooses to defend or to seek to compromise or settle any Third Party Claim, or if any party chooses or is required to prosecute, pursue, otherwise evaluate or defend any Action, the other party shall reasonably cooperate in such defense, settlement or compromise, or such prosecution, evaluation or pursuit, as the case may be. The requesting party shall bear all reasonable costs and expenses in connection therewith. (c) Without limiting the foregoing, the parties shall cooperate and consult to the extent reasonably necessary with respect to any Actions. (d) The obligation of the parties to make available former, current and future directors, officers, employees, other personnel and agents pursuant to this Section 6.7 is intended to be interpreted in a manner so as to facilitate cooperation and shall include the obligation to make available inventors and other officers without regard to whether such individual or the employer of such individual could assert a possible business conflict (subject to the exception set forth in the first sentence of Section 6.7(a)). Without limiting the foregoing, each party agrees that neither it nor any member of its respective Group will take any adverse action against any employee of its Group based on such employee's provision of assistance or information to the other party pursuant to Section 6.7(a).
34 (e) In connection with any Action contemplated by this Article VI, the parties will enter into a mutually acceptable joint defense agreement so as to maintain to the extent practicable any applicable attorney-client privilege or work product immunity of either Group. 6.8. CONFIDENTIALITY. (a) Subject to Section 6.9, each of TWE and Holdco, on behalf of itself and each Member of its respective Group, agrees to hold, and to cause its respective directors, officers, employees, agents, accountants, counsel and other advisors and representatives to hold, in strict confidence, with at least the same degree of care that it applies to TWE's confidential and proprietary information pursuant to policies in effect as of the Closing, all Information concerning the other Group that is either in its possession (including Information in its possession prior to the date hereof or of the Closing) or furnished by the other Group or its respective directors, officers, employees, agents, accountants, counsel and other advisors and representatives at any time pursuant to this Agreement, or any Ancillary Agreement, and shall not use any such Information other than for such purposes as shall be expressly permitted hereunder or thereunder, except, in each case, to the extent that such Information has been (i) in the public domain through no fault of such party or such party's Group or any of their respective directors, officers, employees, agents, accountants, counsel and other advisors and representatives, (ii) later lawfully acquired from other sources by such party (or such party's Group), which sources are not themselves bound by a confidentiality obligation) to the knowledge of such party or members of such party's Group or (iii) independently generated without reference to any proprietary or confidential Information of the other party. (b) Each party agrees not to release or disclose, or permit to be released or disclosed, any such Information concerning the other Group to any other Person, except its directors, officers, employees, agents, accountants, counsel and other advisors and representatives who need to know such Information (who shall be advised of their obligations hereunder with respect to such Information) and in compliance with Section 6.9. Without limiting the foregoing, when any Information is no longer needed for the purposes contemplated by this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement, each party will promptly after request of the other party either return to the other party all Information in a tangible form (including all copies thereof and all notes, extracts or summaries based thereon) or certify to the other party that it has destroyed such Information (and all electronic or other copies thereof and all notes, extracts or summaries based thereon). 6.9. PROTECTIVE ARRANGEMENTS. In the event that any party or any member of its Group either determines on the advice of its counsel that it is required to disclose any Information concerning the other Group pursuant to applicable Law or receives any demand under lawful process or from any Governmental Authority to disclose or provide Information concerning the other Group that is subject to the confidentiality provisions hereof, such party shall notify the other party prior to disclosing or providing such Information and shall cooperate at the expense of the requesting party in seeking any reasonable protective arrangements requested by such other party. Subject to the foregoing, the Person that received such request may thereafter disclose or provide Information to the extent required by such Law (as so advised by counsel) or by lawful process or such Governmental Authority.
35 ARTICLE VII FURTHER ASSURANCES 7.1. FURTHER ASSURANCES. (a) In addition to the actions specifically provided for elsewhere in this Agreement, the Ancillary Agreements, the Restructuring Agreement or the other Transaction Agreements, but subject to the provisions hereof and thereof, each of the parties hereto shall use its reasonable best efforts, prior to, on and after the Closing, to take, or cause to be taken, all actions, and to do, or cause to be done, all things, reasonably necessary, proper or advisable under applicable laws, regulations and agreements to consummate and make effective the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements. (b) Without limiting the foregoing, prior to, on and after the Closing, each party hereto shall cooperate with the other party, and without any further consideration, but at the expense of the requesting party, to execute and deliver, or use its reasonable best efforts to cause to be executed and delivered, all instruments, including instruments of conveyance, assignment and transfer, and to make all filings with, and to obtain all consents, approvals or authorizations of, any Governmental Authority or any other Person under any permit, license, agreement, indenture or other instrument (including any Consents or Governmental Approvals), and to take all such other actions as such party may reasonably be requested to take by any other party hereto from time to time, consistent with the terms of this Agreement, the Ancillary Agreements, the Restructuring Agreements or the other Transaction Agreements, in order to effectuate the provisions and purposes of this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements and the transfers of the TWE Non-Broadband Assets and Non-Transferred Assets and the assignment and assumption of the TWE Non-Broadband Liabilities and Non-Transferred Liabilities and the other transactions contemplated hereby and thereby. (c) On or prior to the Closing, TWE and Holdco in their respective capacities as direct and indirect shareholders of their respective Subsidiaries, shall each ratify any actions that are reasonably necessary or desirable to be taken by TWE and Holdco or any Subsidiary of TWE or Holdco, as the case may be, to effectuate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. ARTICLE VIII TERMINATION 8.1. TERMINATION. This Agreement shall automatically, and without further action by either party, terminate immediately upon the termination of the Restructuring Agreement in accordance with its terms. 8.2. EFFECT OF TERMINATION. In the event of any termination of this Agreement prior to the Closing, no Member of either Group (or any of its directors or officers) shall have any Liability or further obligation to any Member of the other Group with respect to this Agreement.
36 ARTICLE IX MISCELLANEOUS 9.1. COUNTERPARTS; ENTIRE AGREEMENT. (a) This Agreement and each Ancillary Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, all of which shall be considered one and the same agreement, and shall become effective when one or more counterparts have been signed by each of the parties and delivered to the other party. (b) This Agreement, together with the Ancillary Agreements, the Restructuring Agreement, the Transaction Agreements, the Confidentiality Agreements and the Exhibits, Schedules and Appendices hereto and thereto, constitutes the entire agreement between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and thereof and supersedes all prior agreements and understandings, both oral and written, between the parties with respect to such subject matter. 9.2. GOVERNING LAW. This Agreement and, unless expressly provided therein, each Ancillary Agreement, shall be governed by and construed and interpreted in accordance with the Laws of the State of New York, irrespective of the choice of laws principles of the State of New York, as to all matters, including matters of validity, construction, effect, enforceability, performance and remedies. 9.3. ASSIGNABILITY. Except as set forth in any Ancillary Agreement, this Agreement and each Ancillary Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and thereto, respectively, and their respective successors and assigns; provided, however, that no party hereto or thereto may assign its respective rights or delegate its respective obligations under this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement without the express prior written consent of each of the other parties hereto or thereto. 9.4. JURISDICTION. Any suit, action or proceeding seeking to enforce any provision of, or based on any matter arising out of or in connection with, this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby shall be brought in any federal court located in the State of New York or any New York state court, and each of the parties hereby consents to the exclusive jurisdiction of such courts (and of the appropriate appellate courts therefrom) in any such suit, action or proceeding and irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the laying of the venue of any such suit, action or proceeding in any such court or that any such suit, action or proceeding brought in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum. Process in any such suit, action or proceeding may be served on either party hereto anywhere in the world, whether within or without the jurisdiction of any such court. Without limiting the foregoing, each party hereto agrees that service of process on such party as provided in Section 9.7 shall be deemed effective service of process on such party. 9.5. WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATED TO THIS AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY.
37 9.6. THIRD PARTY BENEFICIARIES. Except for the indemnification rights under this Agreement of any TWE Broadband Indemnitee or TWE Non-Broadband Indemnitee in their respective capacities as such, (i) the provisions of this Agreement and each Ancillary Agreement are solely for the benefit of the relevant parties and are not intended to confer upon any Person except the relevant parties any rights or remedies hereunder or thereunder and (ii) there are no third party beneficiaries of this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement and neither this Agreement nor any Ancillary Agreement shall provide any third person with any remedy, claim, liability, reimbursement, claim of action or other right in excess of those existing without reference to this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement. 9.7. NOTICES. All notices, requests or other communications under this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement shall be in writing (including facsimile transmission) and shall be given: If to Holdco to: Warner Communications Inc. c/o AOL Time Warner Inc. 75 Rockefeller Plaza New York, NY 10019 Attn: General Counsel Fax: 212-258-3172 If to TWE to: Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P. c/o AOL Time Warner Inc. 75 Rockefeller Plaza New York, NY 10019 Attn: General Counsel Fax: 212-259-3172 In each case with a copy to: Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP 1285 Avenue of the Americas New York, New York 10019 Attn: Robert B. Schumer, Esq. Fax: 212-757-3990 and to: TWE Holdings I Trust c/o Edith E. Holiday 801 West Street 2nd Floor Wilmington, DE 19801
38 Fax: 302-428-1410 and to: Sullivan & Cromwell 125 Broad Street New York, New York 10004 Attn: James C. Morphy, Esq. Fax: 212-558-3588 or such other address or facsimile number as such party hereto may hereafter specify for such purpose by notice to the other parties hereto. All such notices, requests and other communications shall be deemed received on the date of receipt by the recipient thereof if received prior to 5 p.m. on a Business Day, in the place of receipt. Otherwise, any such notice, request or communication shall be deemed not to have been received until the next succeeding Business Day in the place of receipt. Any party may, by notice to the other party, change the address to which such notices are to be given. 9.8. TREATMENT OF ADVANCE-NEWHOUSE. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement or in any Ancillary Agreement, the parties acknowledge and agree that, for all purposes of this Agreement and the other Ancillary Agreements: (i) the ownership and operation of TWEAN has been restructured, (ii) the TWEAN Franchises and Systems in the Selected Business have been assigned to a third party (subject to the receipt of Franchise Consents), (iii) none of the parties hereto or its Subsidiaries shall have any rights or responsibilities with respect to the Selected Business, except to the extent contemplated by the Master Transaction Agreement, (iv) no Indebtedness, cash or cash equivalents attributable to the Selected Business shall be distributed to, or assumed by, Holdco and (v) no party makes any representation, warranty or covenant with respect to the TWEAN Restructuring or the Selected Business except as explicitly provided in the Restructuring Agreement. 9.9. SEVERABILITY. If any term, provision, covenant or restriction of this Agreement is held by a court of competent jurisdiction or other authority to be invalid, void or unenforceable, the remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect and shall in no way be affected, impaired or invalidated so long as the economic or legal substance of the transactions contemplated hereby is not affected in any manner adverse to any party hereto. Upon such a determination, the parties hereto shall negotiate in good faith to modify this Agreement so as to effect the original intent of the parties as closely as possible in an acceptable manner so that the transactions contemplated hereby be consummated as originally contemplated to the fullest extent possible. 9.10. PUBLIC ANNOUNCEMENTS. Prior to Closing, the parties hereto will consult with each other before issuing any press release or making any public statement with respect to, this Agreement, any Ancillary Agreements, the Restructuring Agreement or any other Transaction Agreement (except to the extent consistent with a release or statement previously
39 approved hereunder) and, except as may be required by applicable Law or any listing agreement with any national securities exchange or quotation system, will not issue any such press release or make any such public statement without the prior consent of the other parties, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any such press release or public statement that may be required by applicable Law or any listing agreement with any national securities exchange or quotation system may be issued without such consent, if the party hereto making such release or statement has used its reasonable efforts to consult with the other parties. 9.11. EXPENSES. Whether or not the transactions contemplated by this Agreement are consummated, all third party fees, costs and expenses (including governmental transfer taxes, recording fees and other similar fees and impositions) paid or incurred in connection with such transactions will be paid in accordance with Section 12.3 of the Restructuring Agreement. 9.12. HEADINGS. The Article, Section and paragraph headings contained in this Agreement and in the Ancillary Agreements are for reference purposes only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement. 9.13. WAIVERS OF DEFAULT. Waiver by any party of any default by the other party of any provision of this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement shall not be deemed a waiver by the waiving party of any subsequent or other default, nor shall it prejudice the rights of the other party. 9.14. SPECIFIC PERFORMANCE. In the event of any actual or threatened default in, or breach of, any of the terms, conditions and provisions of this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement, the party or parties who are or are to be thereby aggrieved shall have the right to specific performance and injunctive or other equitable relief of its rights under this Agreement or such Ancillary Agreement, in addition to any and all other rights and remedies at Law or in equity, and all such rights and remedies shall be cumulative. The parties agree that the remedies at Law for any breach or threatened breach, including monetary damages, are inadequate compensation for any loss and that any defense in any action for specific performance that a remedy at Law would be adequate is waived. Any requirements for the securing or posting of any bond with such remedy are waived. 9.15. AMENDMENTS. No provisions of this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement shall be deemed waived, amended, supplemented or modified by any party, unless such waiver, amendment, supplement or modification is in writing and signed by the authorized representative of the party against whom such waiver, amendment, supplement or modification it is sought to be enforced. 9.16. LATE PAYMENTS. Except as expressly provided to the contrary in this Agreement or in any Ancillary Agreement, any amount not paid when due pursuant to this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement (and any amounts billed or otherwise invoiced or demanded and properly payable that are not paid within 30 days of such bill, invoice or other demand) shall accrue interest at a rate per annum equal to the Prime Rate plus 2%.
40 9.17. INTERPRETATION. In this Agreement, unless otherwise specified or where the context otherwise requires: (a) a reference to a Recital is to the relevant Recital to this Agreement, to a Section is to the relevant Section of this Agreement and to an Exhibit is to the relevant Exhibit to this Agreement; (b) words importing any gender shall include other genders; (c) words importing the singular only shall include the plural and vice versa; (d) the words "include", "includes" or "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the words "without limitation"; (e) the words "hereof", "herein", "hereunder" and "herewith" and words of similar import shall, unless otherwise stated, be construed to refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision of this Agreement, and Article, clause and Exhibit references are to the Articles, clauses and Exhibits to this Agreement unless otherwise specified; (f) references to any Person or any other agreement or document shall include such Person's successors and permitted assigns; (g) the parties hereto have participated jointly in the negotiation and drafting of this Agreement, and, in the event an ambiguity or question of intent or interpretation arises, this Agreement shall be construed as if drafted jointly by the parties hereto, and no presumption or burden of proof shall arise favoring or disfavoring any party hereto by virtue of the authorship of any provisions of this Agreement; and (h) unless otherwise expressly provided herein, any Contract or Law defined or referred to herein or in any Contract that is referred to herein means such Contract or Law as from time to time amended, modified or supplemented, including (in the case of a Contract) by waiver or consent and (in the case of a Law) by succession of comparable successor Laws to all attachments thereto and instruments incorporated therein, and any reference in this Agreement to a Law shall be deemed to include any rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
41 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Distribution Agreement to be executed by their duly authorized representatives. TIME WARNER ENTERTAINMENT COMPANY, L.P. BY: AMERICAN TELEVISION AND COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION, ITS GENERAL PARTNER By: /s/ Spencer B. Hays -------------------------------------- Name: Spencer B. Hays Title: Senior Vice President WARNER COMMUNICATIONS INC. By: /s/ Douglas S. Phillips -------------------------------------- Name: Douglas S. Phillips Title: Vice President For purposes of Article IV only: AOL TIME WARNER INC. By: /s/ Spencer B. Hays ---------------------------- Name: Spencer B. Hays Title: Senior Vice President MOTH HOLDINGS, INC. By: /s/ Rosemarie S. Teta ---------------------------- Name: Rosemarie S. Teta Title: Vice President

EXHIBIT 2.4 EXECUTION COPY AMENDED AND RESTATED CONTRIBUTION AGREEMENT BY AND AMONG MOTH HOLDINGS, INC., WARNER COMMUNICATIONS INC. AND AOL TIME WARNER INC. DATED AS OF MARCH 31, 2003
TABLE OF CONTENTS i
ii
iii
iv
v
AMENDED AND RESTATED CONTRIBUTION AGREEMENT THIS AMENDED AND RESTATED CONTRIBUTION AGREEMENT, dated as of March 31, 2003, is by and among MOTH Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation, Warner Communications Inc., a Delaware corporation ("HOLDCO"), and AOL Time Warner Inc., a Delaware corporation ("AOLTW") (which is a party for purposes of Article IV only). Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the respective meanings assigned to them in Article I. WHEREAS, the Company, Holdco and AOLTW are parties to the Contribution Agreement, dated as of August 20, 2002 (the "ORIGINAL CONTRIBUTION AGREEMENT"); WHEREAS, pursuant to the Amended and Restated Initial TWIC Contribution Agreement, dated as of March 28, 2003 by and among TWIC, Holdco and AOLTW (the "INITIAL TWIC CONTRIBUTION AGREEMENT"), TWIC, among other things, transferred, directly or indirectly, to Holdco the TWIC Broadband Business (as defined therein) by contributing, and causing its Subsidiaries to contribute all of the TWIC Broadband Assets (as defined therein) (other than the Delayed Transfer Assets (as defined therein)), subject to the TWIC Broadband Liabilities (as defined therein), to Holdco such that, following such transfers, Holdco owns, directly or indirectly, all of the TWIC Broadband Assets (as defined therein), subject to the TWIC Broadband Liabilities (as defined therein) (collectively, the "INITIAL TWIC CONTRIBUTION"); WHEREAS, pursuant to the Agreement of Contribution, Bill of Sale and Assignment, dated March 28, 2003, by American Television and Communications Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("ATC"), to Holdco (the "ATC CONTRIBUTION AGREEMENT") and the Instrument of Assumption by Holdco in favor of ATC, dated March 28, 2003 (the "ATC ASSUMPTION AGREEMENT"), ATC contributed directly or indirectly to Holdco (i) the ATC Microwave Business, subject to the ATC Liabilities (as defined in the ATC Assumption Agreement), and (ii) all of the Equity Securities of Time Warner Connect held by ATC or its Subsidiaries, subject to the Time Warner Connect Partnership Liabilities (as defined in the ATC Assumption Agreement) (collectively, the "ATC CONTRIBUTION"); WHEREAS, pursuant to the Contribution Agreement, dated as of March 28, 2003, by and between ATC, AOLTW and Holdco, and acknowledged by TWE (the "TWE CONTRIBUTION AGREEMENT"), ATC contributed to Holdco the portion of ATC's general and limited partnership interests in TWE constituting the Transferred Interest (as defined therein), subject to the TWE Partnership Liabilities (as defined therein) (the "ATC TWE CONTRIBUTION"); WHEREAS, pursuant to the Restructuring Agreement, dated as of August 20, 2002, as amended as of the date hereof (the "RESTRUCTURING AGREEMENT"), by and among the Company, Holdco and the other parties named therein, the parties thereto agreed to, among other things, cause Holdco to contribute (i) all of its TWE Partnership
Interests, subject to Holdco's TWE Broadband Partnership Liabilities, and (ii) all of the TWIC Broadband Assets, subject to the TWIC Broadband Liabilities to the Company, in each case, in exchange for shares of Company Class A Common Stock; and WHEREAS, it is appropriate and desirable to set forth the principal corporate transactions required to effect certain transactions contemplated by the Restructuring Agreement and certain other agreements that will govern certain matters relating to such transactions and the relationship of the parties hereto and their respective Subsidiaries following the Closing. NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto, intending to be legally bound, agree to amend and restate the Original Contribution Agreement so that, as amended and restated, it reads in its entirety as follows: ARTICLE I DEFINITIONS For the purpose of this Agreement the following terms shall have the following meanings: 1.1. ACTION means any demand, action, suit, countersuit, arbitration, inquiry, proceeding or investigation by or before any federal, state, local, foreign or international Governmental Authority or any arbitration or mediation tribunal. 1.2. AFFILIATE means, with respect to any Person, any other Person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by or under common control with such Person; provided, that, for purposes of this definition, "control" (including with correlative meanings, the terms "controlled by" and "under common control with"), as used with respect to any Person, shall mean the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities or other Equity Securities, by Contract or otherwise; and provided, further, that, unless otherwise specified, for purposes of this Agreement, no Company Group Member or TWIC Broadband Member shall be deemed to be an Affiliate of any member of the other Group and no employee plan or employee plan trust shall be deemed an Affiliate of any employer or of any Affiliate of any employer. 1.3. AGREEMENT means this Amended and Restated Contribution Agreement, including all of the Schedules and Exhibits hereto. 1.4. ANCILLARY AGREEMENTS means the Intellectual Property Agreement, the Patent Assignment, the Copyright and Technology Assignment, the Trademark and Service Mark Assignment and the Real Property Instruments. 1.5. AOLTW has the meaning set forth in the preamble. -2-
1.6. ASSETS means assets, properties and rights (including goodwill), wherever located (including in the possession of vendors or other third parties or elsewhere), whether real, personal or mixed, tangible, intangible or contingent, in each case whether or not recorded or reflected or required to be recorded or reflected on the books and records or financial statements of any Person, including the following: (a) all accounting and other books, records and files whether in paper, microfilm, microfiche, computer tape or disc, magnetic tape or any other form; (b) all apparatus, computers and other electronic data processing equipment, fixtures, machinery, equipment, furniture, office equipment, automobiles, trucks, aircraft, rolling stock, vessels, motor vehicles and other transportation equipment, special and general tools, test devices, prototypes and models and other tangible personal property; (c) all inventories of materials, parts, raw materials, supplies, work-in-process and finished goods and products; (d) all interests in real property of whatever nature, including easements and rights of way, whether as owner, mortgagee or holder of a Security Interest in real property, lessor, sublessor, lessee, sublessee or otherwise, and copies of all related documentation; (e) all interests in any capital stock or other equity interests of any Subsidiary or any other Person, all bonds, notes, debentures or other securities issued by any Subsidiary or any other Person, all loans, advances or other extensions of credit or capital contributions to any Subsidiary or any other Person and all other investments in securities of any Person; (f) all license agreements, leases of personal property, open purchase orders for raw materials, supplies, parts or services, unfilled orders for the manufacture and sale of products and other contracts, agreements or commitments; (g) all deposits, letters of credit and performance and surety bonds; (h) all written technical information, data, specifications, research and development information, engineering drawings, operating and maintenance manuals, and materials and analyses prepared by consultants and other third parties; (i) all domestic and foreign patents, copyrights, trade names, trademarks, service marks and registrations and applications for any of the foregoing, mask works, trade secrets, inventions, other proprietary information and licenses from third Persons granting the right to use any of the foregoing; (j) all computer applications, programs and other software, including operating software, network software, firmware, middleware, design software, design tools, systems documentation and instructions; -3-
(k) all cost information, sales and pricing data, customer prospect lists, supplier records, customer and supplier lists, records pertaining to customers and customer accounts, customer and vendor data, correspondence and lists, product literature, artwork, design, development and manufacturing files, vendor and customer drawings, formulations and specifications, quality records and reports and other books, records, studies, surveys, reports, plans and documents; (l) all prepaid expenses, trade accounts and other accounts and notes receivable; (m) all rights under contracts or agreements, all claims or rights against any Person arising from the ownership of any Asset, all rights in connection with any bids or offers and all claims, choses in action or similar rights, whether accrued or contingent; (n) all insurance proceeds and rights under insurance policies and all rights in the nature of insurance, indemnification or contribution; (o) all licenses (including radio and similar licenses), permits, approvals and authorizations that have been issued by any Governmental Authority; (p) all cash or cash equivalents, bank accounts, lock boxes and other deposit arrangements; (q) copies of all documentation related to Insurance Policies; and (r) interest rate, currency, commodity or other swap, collar, cap or other hedging or similar agreements or arrangements. 1.7. ATC has the meaning set forth in the recitals. 1.8. ATC ASSETS means the ATC Assets (as defined in the ATC Contribution Agreement), together with all equity securities of Time Warner Connect. 1.9. ATC ASSUMPTION AGREEMENT has the meaning set forth in the recitals. 1.10. ATC CONTRIBUTION has the meaning set forth in the recitals. 1.11. ATC CONTRIBUTION AGREEMENT has the meaning set forth in the recitals. 1.12. ATC LIABILITIES means the ATC Liabilities (as defined in the ATC Assumption Agreement), together with the Time Warner Connect Partnership Liabilities (as defined in the ATC Assumption Agreement). 1.13. ATC TWE CONTRIBUTION has the meaning set forth in the recitals. -4-
1.14. AUTHORIZATION means any waiver, amendment, consent, approval, license, franchise, permit (including construction permits), certificate, exemption, variance or authorization of, expiration or termination of any waiting period requirement (including pursuant to the HSR Act) or other action by, or notice, filing, registration, qualification, declaration or designation with, any Person (including any Governmental Authority). 1.15. BENEFIT PLAN means any employee benefit plan, arrangement, policy or program (whether or not an employee benefit plan within the meaning of Section 3(3) of ERISA and whether or not written), including, without limitation, any employment, consulting or deferred compensation agreement, executive compensation, bonus, incentive, pension, profit-sharing, savings, retirement, stock option, stock purchase or severance pay plan, any life, health, disability or accident insurance plan or any holiday or vacation practice. 1.16. CLOSING has the meaning ascribed thereto in the Restructuring Agreement. 1.17. CODE means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. 1.18. COMMUNICATIONS ACT means the Communications Act of 1934. 1.19. COMPANY means, following the time of its incorporation, MOTH Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation formerly named New MOTH Holdings, Inc. and, with respect to periods prior to the effective time of the merger of MOTH Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation formerly named MediaOne TWE Holdings, Inc. (the "COMPANY PREDECESSOR") with and into the Company, "COMPANY" shall also mean the Company Predecessor. 1.20. COMPANY CLASS A COMMON STOCK means Class A Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company. 1.21. COMPANY GROUP means, unless otherwise specified, the Company and any direct or indirect Subsidiary of the Company (including their respective successors and assigns), whether before or after the Closing. For the avoidance of doubt, any Person that becomes a Subsidiary of the Company as the result of the direct or indirect contribution of Equity Securities of such Person to the Company pursuant to this Agreement shall, with respect to periods following such contribution, be a Person in the Company Group. Any Person in the Company Group may be referred to as a "COMPANY GROUP MEMBER." 1.22. COMPANY GROUP MEMBER has the meaning set forth in the definition of Company Group. 1.23. CONSENTS means any consents, waivers or approvals from, or notification requirements to, any third parties. -5-
1.24. CONTINUED TWIC EMPLOYEES has the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 2.9. 1.25. CONTRACT means any contract, lease, agreement, covenant, indenture, note, security, instrument, arrangement, commitment or any other binding understanding, whether written or oral. 1.26. COPYRIGHT AND TECHNOLOGY ASSIGNMENT means the Copyright and Technology Assignment, dated as of the date hereof, by and between the Company and Holdco. 1.27. DELAYED TRANSFER ASSETS means any TWIC Broadband Assets that are to be transferred after the Closing pursuant to Section 2.6 of this Agreement or pursuant to any Ancillary Agreement. 1.28. ENVIRONMENTAL LAW means any Law (including common law) relating to pollution or the protection of public health, safety, welfare or the pollution, protection or restoration of the environment, including Laws relating to emissions, discharges, releases or threatened releases of Hazardous Substances into the environment (including ambient air, surface water, ground water or land) or otherwise relating to the manufacture, processing, distribution, use, treatment, storage, disposal, transport or handling of Hazardous Substances. 1.29. ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITIES means all Liabilities relating to, arising out of or resulting from any Environmental Law or contract or agreement relating to environmental, health or safety matters (including all removal, remediation or cleanup costs, investigatory costs, governmental response costs, costs arising out of the actual or alleged violation of Environmental Laws, natural resources damages, property damages, personal injury damages, costs of compliance with any settlement, judgment or other determination of Liability and indemnity, contribution or similar obligations) and all costs and expenses, interest, fines, penalties or other monetary sanctions in connection therewith. 1.30. EQUITY SECURITY has the meaning ascribed to such term in Rule 405 promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933 as in effect on the date hereof and, in any event, shall also include (i) any capital stock of a corporation, any partnership interest, any limited liability company interest and any other equity interest; (ii) any security or Indebtedness having the attendant right to vote for directors or similar representatives; (iii) any security or right convertible into, exchangeable for, or evidencing the right to subscribe for any such stock, equity interest, security or Indebtedness referred to in clause (i) or (ii); (iv) any stock appreciation right, contingent value right or similar security or right that is derivative of any such stock, equity interest, security or Indebtedness referred to in clause (i), (ii) or (iii); and (v) any Contract to grant, issue, award, convey or sell any of the foregoing. 1.31. ERISA means the Employee Retirement Income Securities Act of 1974. -6-
1.32. EXCEPTED THIRD PARTY CLAIM means a Third Party Claim (a) for injunctive or equitable relief against the Indemnitee or (b) in respect of which it is reasonably likely that, based on the financial condition of the Indemnifying Party and the maximum amount of Liability that could reasonably be expected to result from such Third Party Claim, the Indemnifying Party would not possess the financial resources to satisfy such Liability. 1.33. EXCLUDED ASSETS means (without duplication): (a) any Assets listed or described on Schedule 1.33(a); (b) the rights, benefits and privileges of Holdco or any Non-Transferring TWIC Broadband Member under this Agreement, any Ancillary Agreements or any other Contract delivered or entered into pursuant to this Agreement or to any Ancillary Agreement; and (c) all cash and cash equivalents held by (A) TWIC, (B) Holdco or (C) any wholly-owned Subsidiaries of TWIC or Holdco that, in each case, are generated in compliance with the Restructuring Agreement and, in the case of Subsidiaries, are legally and contractually available for transfer to TWIC or Holdco, as applicable. 1.34. EXCLUDED LIABILITIES means (without duplication) the following and, in each case, whether arising before, on or after the Closing: (a) all Liabilities arising out of, relating to or resulting from any Excluded Assets (other than those Excluded Assets described in Section 1.33(c)); (b) any Liabilities listed or described on Schedule 1.34(b); (c) any Liabilities of Holdco or of any Non-Transferring TWIC Broadband Member arising under this Agreement, any Ancillary Agreement or any other Contract delivered or entered into pursuant to this Agreement or to any Ancillary Agreement; (d) any Liabilities of Holdco with respect to money damages payable to ATC or to any TWIC Broadband Indemnitees (as defined in the Initial TWIC Contribution Agreement) (other than in respect of liability to third parties (which, for the avoidance of doubt, shall not include ATC, TWIC, any Subsidiary of TWIC or ATC or any TWIC Broadband Member)) as a result of any breach of the Contracts pursuant to which the Initial TWIC Contribution, the ATC Contribution or the ATC TWE Contribution was effected by Holdco or any Subsidiary of Holdco (other than the Company and its Subsidiaries (other than Company Subsidiaries that were Subsidiaries of Holdco or TWIC at the time of such breach)) prior to the Closing; and (e) any Liabilities of Holdco with respect to Holdco's obligation to issue common stock to TWIC or ATC under the Initial TWIC Contribution Agreement or the ATC Contribution Agreement. 1.35. EXCLUDED TAX LIABILITIES shall mean all Income Taxes other than Pass-Through Entity Level Income Taxes arising out of the TWIC Broadband Business. 1.36. FCC means the Federal Communications Commission. -7-
1.37. FINAL TWIC CLOSING means the final closing of the Initial TWIC Contribution. 1.38. FIRST TWIC CLOSING means the first closing of the Initial TWIC Contribution. 1.39. FORMER TWIC EMPLOYEES has the meaning set forth in Section 2.9. 1.40. FRANCHISES means a written "franchise" within the meaning of Section 602(9) of the Communications Act. 1.41. GAAP means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States in effect from time to time. 1.42. GOVERNMENTAL APPROVALS means any notices, reports or other filings to be made, or any consents, registrations, approvals, permits or authorizations to be obtained from, any Governmental Authority. 1.43. GOVERNMENTAL AUTHORITY means any supranational, national, state, municipal or local government, political subdivision or other governmental department, court, commission, board, bureau, agency, instrumentality, or other authority thereof, or any quasi-governmental or private body exercising any regulatory, taxing, importing or other governmental or quasi-governmental authority, whether domestic or foreign. 1.44. GROUP means the TWIC Broadband Group or the Company Group as the context requires. Any Person in a Group may be referred to as a "MEMBER." 1.45. HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES means (a) any "hazardous waste" as defined by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 (RCRA) (42 U.S.C. Sections 6901 et seq.); (b) any "hazardous substance" as defined by the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. Sections 9601 et seq.) (CERCLA); (c) any substance regulated by the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) (42 U.S.C. Section 2601 et seq.) or the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA) (7 U.S.C. Section 136 et seq.); (d) asbestos or asbestos-containing material of any kind or character; (e) polychlorinated biphenyls; (f) any substances regulated under the provisions of Subtitle I of RCRA relating to underground storage tanks; (g) any substance the presence, use, handling, treatment, storage, release or disposal of which on real property owned or leased by TWIC is regulated or prohibited by any Environmental Law; and (h) any other substance which by any Environmental Law requires special handling, reporting or notification of any Governmental Authority in its collection, storage, release, use, treatment or disposal. 1.46. HOLDCO has the meaning set forth in the preamble. -8-
1.47. HSR ACT means the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976. 1.48. INCOME TAXES means any Tax which is based upon, measured by, or calculated with respect to net income or profits (including alternative minimum Tax). 1.49. INDEBTEDNESS means, with respect to any Person, (a) any obligation of such Person (i) for borrowed money, (ii) evidenced by a bond, note, debenture or similar instrument for value received or in settlement of claims, (iii) under conditional sale or other title retention agreements relating to property acquired by such Person, (iv) for the deferred purchase price of property or services, except trade accounts payable arising in the ordinary course of business, or (v) under any lease or similar arrangement that would be required to be accounted for by the lessee as a capital lease in accordance with GAAP, or (b) without duplication, any guarantee (or keepwell agreement) by such Person of any Indebtedness of others described in clause (a); provided, that in no event shall Indebtedness include letters of credit that are performance or surety bonds or similar instruments issued in the ordinary course of business or disclosed pursuant to Schedule 1.104(h). 1.50. INDEMNIFICATION PAYMENT has the meaning set forth in Section 4.8(a). 1.51. INDEMNIFYING PARTY has the meaning set forth in Section 4.3(a). 1.52. INDEMNITEE has the meaning set forth in Section 4.3(a). 1.53. INDEMNITY PAYMENT has the meaning set forth in Section 4.3(a). 1.54. INFORMATION means information, whether or not patentable or copyrightable, in written, oral, electronic or other tangible or intangible forms, stored in any medium, including studies, reports, records, books, Contracts, instruments, surveys, discoveries, ideas, concepts, know-how, techniques, designs, specifications, drawings, blueprints, diagrams, models, prototypes, samples, flow charts, data, computer data, disks, diskettes, tapes, computer programs or other software, marketing plans, customer names, communications by or to attorneys (including attorney-client privileged communications), memos and other materials prepared by attorneys or under their direction (including attorney work product) and other technical, financial, employee or business information or data. 1.55. INITIAL TWIC CONTRIBUTION has the meaning set forth in the recitals. 1.56. INITIAL TWIC CONTRIBUTION AGREEMENT has the meaning set forth in the recitals. -9-
1.57. INSURANCE POLICY means any insurance policy written by an insurance carrier under which, at any time prior to the Closing, any TWIC Broadband Assets were insured or TWIC, ATC, Time Warner Connect or any of their respective Subsidiaries (or any such Person's officers or directors) was an insured party, excluding insurance policies funding Benefit Plans. 1.58. INSURANCE PROCEEDS means those monies: (a) received by an insured from an insurance carrier; or (b) paid by an insurance carrier on behalf of an insured; in any such case net of any costs or expenses incurred in the collection thereof. 1.59. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AGREEMENT means the Intellectual Property Agreement, dated as of August 20, 2002 and as amended as of the date hereof, by and between the Company and Holdco. 1.60. JUDGMENT means any judicial decision, judgment, writ, order, injunction, stipulation, award or decree of any court, judge, justice or magistrate, including any bankruptcy court or judge or the arbitrator in any binding arbitration, and any order of or by any Governmental Authority. 1.61. LAW means any foreign or domestic law, statute, code, ordinance, rule, regulation, treaty or Judgment, enacted, entered, promulgated, applied or followed by a Governmental Authority. 1.62. LIABILITIES means any and all losses, claims, charges, Indebtedness, demands, Actions, damages, obligations, payments, costs and expenses, bonds, indemnities and similar obligations, covenants, Contracts, controversies, omissions, make whole agreements and similar obligations, and other liabilities, including all Contractual obligations, whether due or to become due, absolute or contingent, inchoate or otherwise, matured or unmatured, liquidated or unliquidated, accrued or unaccrued, known or unknown, determined or determinable, whenever arising, and including those arising under any Law, principles of common law or equity (including negligence and strict liability), Action, threatened or contemplated Action (including the costs and expenses of demands, assessments, judgments, settlements and compromises relating thereto and attorneys' fees and any and all costs and expenses, whatsoever reasonably incurred in investigating, preparing or defending against any such Actions or threatened or contemplated Actions), order or consent decree of any Governmental Authority or any award of any arbitrator or mediator of any kind, and those arising under any Contract, commitment or undertaking, including those arising under this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement or incurred by a party hereto or thereto in connection with enforcing its rights to indemnification hereunder or thereunder, in each case, whether or not recorded or reflected or required to be recorded or reflected on the books and records or financial statements of any Person. -10-
1.63. LIEN means, with respect to any property or asset, any mortgage, lien, pledge, charge, security interest, encumbrance or other adverse claim of any kind in respect of such property or asset. For purposes of this Agreement, a Person shall be deemed to own subject to a Lien any property or asset that it has acquired or holds subject to the interest of a vendor or lessor under any conditional sale agreement, capital lease or other title retention agreement relating to such property or asset. 1.64. MEMBER has the meaning set forth in the definition of Group. 1.65. NON-INCOME TAXES shall mean all Taxes other than Income Taxes. For the avoidance of doubt, Non-Income Taxes shall include, but not be limited to, business and occupation, sales, use, ad valorem property, real property gains, real or personal property, intangibles, transfer, telecommunications, or similar Taxes. 1.66. NON-TRANSFERRING TWIC BROADBAND MEMBER means any TWIC Broadband Member other than a Transferring TWIC Broadband Member and, for the avoidance of doubt, shall include any Surviving Transferring Pass-Through Entity (as defined in the Initial TWIC Contribution Agreement). 1.67. ORIGINAL PARTNERSHIP AGREEMENT means the Agreement of Limited Partnership of TWE, dated as of October 29, 1991, as amended, supplemented or modified in accordance with the terms thereof through the date hereof. 1.68. PASS-THROUGH ENTITY means an entity which, for federal income tax purposes, is treated as a partnership, disregarded entity or a grantor trust or any entity treated similarly to any of the foregoing for federal income tax purposes. 1.69. PASS-THROUGH ENTITY LEVEL INCOME TAXES shall mean Income Taxes of a Pass-Through Entity or any entity owned directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, by such Pass-Through Entity to the extent that such Income Taxes are imposed by Law on such entity and not passed through to its owners by reason of such entity being a Pass-Through Entity. 1.70. PATENT ASSIGNMENT means the Patent Assignment, dated as of the date hereof, by and between the Company and Holdco. 1.71. PERSON means an individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, association, trust, joint venture or other entity or organization, including a Governmental Authority. 1.72. PRIME RATE means the rate that the Bank of New York (or any successor thereto or other major money center commercial bank agreed to by the parties hereto) announces from time to time as its prime lending rate, as in effect from time to time. 1.73. REAL PROPERTY INSTRUMENTS has the meaning set forth in Section 2.4(a). -11-
1.74. RESTRUCTURING AGREEMENT has the meaning ascribed thereto in the recitals. 1.75. SECURITY INTEREST means any mortgage, security interest, pledge, lien, charge, claim, option, right to acquire, voting or other restriction, right-of-way, covenant, condition, easement, encroachment, restriction on transfer, or other encumbrance of any nature whatsoever. 1.76. SUBSIDIARY means, with respect to any Person, any entity of which securities or other ownership interests having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the board of directors or other body performing similar functions are at any time directly or indirectly owned by such Person; provided, however, that no Person that is not directly or indirectly wholly owned by any other Person shall be a Subsidiary of such other Person unless such other Person controls, or has the right, power or ability to control that Person. 1.77. SYSTEM means a "cable television system" within the meaning of Section 602(7) of the Communications Act. 1.78. TAX RETURN shall mean any report, return or other information (including any attached schedules or any amendments to such report, return or other information) required to be supplied to or filed with a Governmental Authority with respect to any Tax, including an information return, claim for refund, amended return, declaration or estimated Tax return, in connection with the determination, assessment, collection or administration of any Tax. 1.79. TAXES shall mean all forms of taxes, fees, imposts, levies or other assessments whenever created or imposed, and whether of the United States or elsewhere, and whether imposed by any Governmental Authority, and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, shall include income, gross receipts, business and occupation, property, sales, use, license, excise, franchise, capital stock, employment, payroll, unemployment insurance, social security, stamp, environmental, value added, alternative or added minimum, ad valorem, trade, recording, withholding, occupation or transfer tax, custom or duty or other like governmental assessment or charge of any kind whatsoever, whether computed on a separate, consolidated, unitary, combined or any other basis, together with any related interest, penalties and additions imposed by any Governmental Authority. 1.80. THIRD PARTY CLAIM has the meaning set forth in Section 4.4(a). 1.81. TIME WARNER CONNECT means Time Warner Connect, a New York general partnership. 1.82. TIME WARNER CONNECT BUSINESS has the meaning set forth in the definition of TWIC Broadband Business. -12-
1.83. TRADEMARK AND SERVICE MARK ASSIGNMENT means the Trademark and Service Mark Assignment, dated as of the date hereof, by and between the Company and Holdco. 1.84. TRANSACTION AGREEMENTS has the meaning set forth in the Restructuring Agreement. 1.85. TRANSFEREE INDEMNIFICATION PAYMENT has the meaning set forth in Section 4.8(a). 1.86. TRANSFERRING TWIC BROADBAND MEMBER means a TWIC Broadband Member the Equity Securities of which that are held, directly or indirectly, by Holdco are to be contributed, directly or indirectly, pursuant to Section 2.1(e). 1.87. TRANSFEROR INDEMNIFICATION PAYMENT has the meaning set forth in Section 4.8(a). 1.88. TWE means Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership. 1.89. TWE BROADBAND BUSINESS has the meaning set forth in the TWE Distribution Agreement. 1.90. TWE BROADBAND PARTNERSHIP LIABILITIES means all TWE Partnership Liabilities that are primarily related to the TWE Broadband Business. 1.91. TWE CONTRIBUTION AGREEMENT has the meaning set forth in the recitals. 1.92. TWE DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENT means the Amended and Restated TWE Distribution Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, by and among TWE, Holdco, AOLTW and the Company. 1.93. TWE ENTITY LEVEL INCOME TAXES shall mean Income Taxes of TWE or any entity owned directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, by TWE to the extent that such Income Taxes are imposed by Law on such entity and not passed through to its owners by reason of such entity being a Pass-Through Entity. 1.94. TWE NON-BROADBAND BUSINESS has the meaning set forth in the TWE Distribution Agreement. 1.95. TWE NON-BROADBAND PARTNERSHIP LIABILITIES means all TWE Partnership Liabilities other than TWE Broadband Partnership Liabilities. 1.96. TWE PARTNERSHIP INTERESTS means all of the general and limited partnership interests in TWE held by Holdco and all rights and interests of Holdco under the Original Partnership Agreement. -13-
1.97. TWE PARTNERSHIP LIABILITIES means, with respect to any partner of TWE, all Liabilities of such Person (or any predecessor in interest of such Person) relating to, arising out of, or resulting from such Person's (or such predecessor's) capacity as a partner of TWE or otherwise incurred for the benefit of TWE or its controlled Affiliates (including guarantees, keepwells or similar credit support issued in respect of Liabilities of TWE or its controlled Affiliates), including all Liabilities of such Person (or any predecessor in interest of such Person) under the Original Partnership Agreement, other than Liabilities for Income Taxes that are not TWE Entity Level Income Taxes. 1.98. TWIC means TWI Cable Inc., a Delaware corporation. 1.99. TWIC BROADBAND ASSETS means (without duplication): (a) any Assets existing on the date of the Original Contribution Agreement, subject to any dispositions of such Assets subsequent to the date of the Original Contribution Agreement in compliance with the terms of the Restructuring Agreement, that are primarily related to or primarily used in the TWIC Broadband Business; (b) any Assets acquired subsequent to the date of the Original Contribution Agreement, in compliance with the terms of the Restructuring Agreement, that are primarily related to the TWIC Broadband Business; (c) any rights, benefits and privileges of any TWIC Broadband Member under any TWIC Broadband Contract, and any rights, benefits and privileges of Holdco or its Subsidiaries arising under Contracts pursuant to which the Initial TWIC Contribution or the ATC Contribution was effected; (d) any interests in and rights with respect to any Equity Securities that are to be contributed, directly or indirectly, pursuant to Section 2.1(e); (e) any Authorizations of any TWIC Broadband Member, that are primarily related to or primarily used in the TWIC Broadband Business, including any rights, benefits, privileges or other interests of any TWIC Broadband Member in any Franchises (including those set forth on Schedule 1.99(e)); (f) any TWIC Broadband Real Property and related Assets referred to in Section 2.4(b); (g) any other Assets that are expressly identified by this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement (or the Schedules hereto or thereto) as Assets to be assigned to any Company Group Member or retained by any Transferring TWIC Broadband Member; (h) any Assets comprising, and any rights, benefits, privileges or other interests in, the Systems set forth on Schedule 1.99(h) and any and all other -14-
Systems owned, managed or operated directly or indirectly by any TWIC Broadband Member; (i) any rights relating to, arising out of or resulting from any Actions to the extent related to the TWIC Broadband Business, including those listed on Schedule 1.99(i) to the extent related to the TWIC Broadband Business; (j) any monies, contracts or other funds relating to the participation of any Continued TWIC Employee or Former TWIC Employees in any Benefit Plan, but only to the extent that such Assets are primarily related to the TWIC Broadband Business and except to the extent that sponsorship of a funded Benefit Plan is continued by AOLTW or any of its Affiliates (other than the Company or any Company Group Member); (k) any other Assets that are primarily used or primarily held for use in the TWIC Broadband Business; (l) any interest in and rights with respect to any Equity Security in a joint venture or similar investment primarily related to the TWIC Broadband Business (including, without limitation, the interest of any TWIC Broadband Member in Road Runner Holdco LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, Time Warner Entertainment-Advance/Newhouse Partnership, a New York general partnership, and any joint venture the primary business of which is the ownership or management of Systems); (m) any interest in any other investments related primarily to the TWIC Broadband Business; (n) any Assets received by Holdco or any Subsidiary of Holdco from TWIC, ATC or any of their respective Subsidiaries pursuant to the Initial TWIC Contribution Agreement or the ATC Contribution Agreement or any documents entered into pursuant to the terms thereof in order to effectuate the Initial TWIC Contribution or ATC Contribution, including Assets received by Holdco or any Subsidiary of Holdco from TWIC, ATC or any of their respective Subsidiaries pursuant to the Initial TWIC Contribution Agreement after the Final TWIC Closing or pursuant to the ATC Contribution Agreement after the date thereof; and (o) any Assets listed or described on Schedule 1.99(o). Notwithstanding the foregoing, the TWIC Broadband Assets shall not in any event include the Excluded Assets or the TWE Partnership Interests. 1.100. TWIC BROADBAND BUSINESS means the following businesses conducted directly or indirectly by TWIC and its Subsidiaries (or, in the case of clause (f), ATC and its Subsidiaries and, in the case of clause (g), Time Warner Connect and its Subsidiaries) at any time prior to the Final TWIC Closing (or, in the case of clauses (f) and (g), prior to the date of the ATC Contribution Agreement) or by any TWIC Broadband Member after the First TWIC Closing (in each case, either itself or through direct or indirect divisions, subsidiaries, affiliates, joint ventures, or other -15-
investments, or any of their predecessors or successors): (a) all of the business relating to the ownership, management and operation of any Systems that are owned, managed or operated directly or indirectly by any TWIC Broadband Member, including those described in Section 1.99(h) and any Systems divested by TWIC or any TWIC Broadband Members; (b) all of the business related to the ownership and operation of the Road Runner high speed data service business and the interest in Road Runner Holdco, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, held by TWIC, Holdco or any TWIC Broadband Member; (c) any terminated, divested or discontinued businesses or operations that at the time of termination, divestiture or discontinuation primarily related to the TWIC Broadband Business; (d) all of the business related to the ownership and operation of local news channels in the locations of the Systems described in clause (a); (e) the businesses, Assets and Liabilities primarily related to the TWIC Broadband Business, including the ownership interests in joint ventures that are primarily related to the TWIC Broadband Business, including those listed or described on Schedule 1.100(e) that are primarily related to the TWIC Broadband Business; (f) the businesses formerly conducted by ATC (either itself or through its divisions or Subsidiaries) related to the microwave transmission of video, voice and data signals pursuant to licenses and authorizations issued to ATC or its Subsidiaries by the FCC (the "ATC MICROWAVE BUSINESS"); and (g) the businesses formerly conducted by Time Warner Connect (either itself or through its divisions or Subsidiaries) (the "TIME WARNER CONNECT BUSINESS"); provided that the TWIC Broadband Business shall not include (x) any Assets disposed of or otherwise transferred from, or Liabilities discharged by, TWIC, ATC, Time Warner Connect or their respective Subsidiaries or by Holdco or the TWIC Broadband Group, in each case, after the date of the Original Contribution Agreement in compliance with the terms of the Restructuring Agreement or (y) the Excluded Assets, the Excluded Liabilities, the Excluded Tax Liabilities, the TWE Partnership Interests or Holdco's TWE Broadband Partnership Liabilities. 1.101. TWIC BROADBAND CONTRACTS means the following Contracts to which Holdco or any TWIC Broadband Member is a party or by which it or any TWIC Broadband Member or any of their respective Assets is bound or which have been assigned to Holdco pursuant to the Initial TWIC Contribution Agreement or to the ATC Contribution Agreement (or pursuant to any other documents entered into pursuant to the terms thereof in order to effectuate the Initial TWIC Contribution or the ATC Contribution), even if TWIC, ATC, Time Warner Connect or any of their Subsidiaries remains a party thereto (provided that neither (i) this Agreement, the Ancillary Agreements or any Contract entered into or delivered pursuant to this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement, nor (ii) any contract or agreement that is expressly contemplated to be retained by Holdco or any Non-Transferring TWIC Broadband Member pursuant to any provision of this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement, shall be considered a TWIC Broadband Contract): (a) any Contract that relates primarily to the TWIC Broadband Business including Contracts that may be extended, modified or terminated after the date of the Original Contribution Agreement; -16-
(b) any Contract listed or described on Schedule 1.101(b) that relates primarily to the TWIC Broadband Business; (c) any Contract that pursuant to this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement is otherwise to be expressly retained by any Transferring TWIC Broadband Member or assumed by any Company Group Member; and (d) subject to the limitations contained in Section 9.3. of the Initial TWIC Contribution Agreement, the rights and obligations of the TWIC Broadband Members under the Contracts pursuant to which the Initial TWIC Contribution and the ATC Contribution were effected. 1.102. TWIC BROADBAND GROUP means, unless otherwise specified, Holdco (other than any corporate functions of Holdco, or any divisions of Holdco that are not primarily engaged in the TWIC Broadband Business) and any direct or indirect Subsidiary of Holdco (other than TWE and its Subsidiaries) primarily engaged in the TWIC Broadband Business (including their respective successors and assigns and, for the avoidance of doubt, shall include any Surviving Transferring Pass-Through Entity (as defined in the Initial TWIC Contribution Agreement)). For the avoidance of doubt, any Person in the TWIC Broadband Group that becomes a Subsidiary of the Company as the result of the direct or indirect contribution of Equity Securities of such Person to the Company pursuant to this Agreement shall, with respect to periods following such contribution, cease to be a Person in the TWIC Broadband Group. The Company and its Subsidiaries (other than, with respect to periods prior to the Closing, Transferring TWIC Broadband Members) shall not be treated as members of the TWIC Broadband Group. Any Person in the TWIC Broadband Group may be referred to as a "TWIC BROADBAND MEMBER," but in the case of Holdco, such references shall only be to the extent of its divisions primarily engaged in the TWIC Broadband Business. 1.103. TWIC BROADBAND INDEMNITEES has the meaning set forth in Section 4.1. 1.104. TWIC BROADBAND LIABILITIES means (without duplication) the following and, in each case, whether arising before, on or after the Closing: (a) any Liabilities existing on the date of the Original Contribution Agreement, subject to any discharge of such Liabilities subsequent to the date of the Original Contribution Agreement, that are primarily related to the TWIC Broadband Business; (b) any Liabilities that are expressly identified by this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement (or the Schedules hereto or thereto) as Liabilities to be retained by any Transferring TWIC Broadband Member or assumed by any Company Group Member, subject to discharge of such Liabilities subsequent to the date of the Original Contribution Agreement; -17-
(c) any Liabilities relating to, arising out of or resulting from any TWIC Broadband Contract, including any such Liabilities of Holdco or its Subsidiaries relating to, arising out of or resulting from the Contracts pursuant to which the Initial TWIC Contribution or the ATC Contribution was effected; (d) any Liabilities assumed, incurred or arising subsequent to the date of the Original Contribution Agreement that are primarily related to the TWIC Broadband Business; (e) any Liabilities to the extent relating to, arising out of or resulting from any Actions related to the TWIC Broadband Business, including those Actions listed on Schedule 1.99(i) to the extent related to the TWIC Broadband Business; (f) any Liabilities, including any Environmental Liabilities, Liabilities for Non-Income Taxes and Pass Through Entity-Level Income Taxes, primarily relating to: (i) the TWIC Broadband Business, including the operation of the TWIC Broadband Business, as conducted at any time prior to, on or after the Closing (including any such Liability relating to, arising out of or resulting from any act or failure to act by any director, officer, employee, agent or representative (whether or not such act or failure to act is or was within such Person's authority)); (ii) the operation of the TWIC Broadband Business conducted by any Company Group Member at any time after the Closing (including any such Liability relating to, arising out of or resulting from any act or failure to act by any director, officer, employee, agent or representative (whether or not such act or failure to act is or was within such Person's authority)); or (iii) any TWIC Broadband Assets (including any TWIC Broadband Contracts and any TWIC Broadband Real Property); (g) except as set forth in Section 2.9, any Liabilities relating to, arising out of, or resulting from any employee, employment activity or practice or Benefit Plan, with respect to any Continued TWIC Employees or Former TWIC Employees, but only to the extent such Liabilities are primarily related to the TWIC Broadband Business; and (h) any Liabilities listed or described on Schedule 1.104(h) that are primarily related to the TWIC Broadband Business. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the TWIC Broadband Liabilities shall not include the Excluded Liabilities, the Excluded Tax Liabilities or the TWE Non-Broadband Partnership Liabilities. -18-
1.105. TWIC BROADBAND MEMBER has the meaning set forth in the definition of TWIC Broadband Group. 1.106. TWIC BROADBAND REAL PROPERTY means all right, title and interest in real property primarily used in connection with the TWIC Broadband Business, wherever located, of TWIC, ATC, Time Warner Connect or any of their respective Subsidiaries, Holdco or any TWIC Broadband Member, including: (a) the real property listed on Schedule 1.106(a) that is primarily used or primarily held for use in connection with the TWIC Broadband Business, (b) all land (the "LAND") owned by any TWIC Broadband Member and primarily used or primarily held for use in connection with the TWIC Broadband Business, together with all buildings, structures and other improvements (the "IMPROVEMENTS") now or hereafter located thereon (the Land and the Improvements, collectively, the "OWNED REAL PROPERTY"), (c) all real property leased, subleased or otherwise occupied by any TWIC Broadband Member and primarily used or primarily held for use in connection with the TWIC Broadband Business (the "LEASED REAL PROPERTY" and, together with the Owned Real Property, the "REAL PROPERTY"), (d) all easements, licenses, permits, rights of way, reservations, privileges, and other estates and rights of any TWIC Broadband Member, either in gross or appurtenant pertaining to such Real Property or to any other real property and primarily used or primarily held for use in connection with the TWIC Broadband Business, (e) all right, title and interest of any TWIC Broadband Member in and to all strips and gores, all alleys adjoining land, and the land lying in the bed of any street, road or avenue, opened or proposed, in front of or adjoining the Land to the center line thereof, and all right, title and interest of any TWIC Broadband Member in and to any award made or to be made in lieu thereof and in and to any unpaid award for any taking by condemnation or any damages to the Owned Real Property by reason of any change of grade of any street, road or avenue, in each case, primarily used or primarily held for use in connection with the TWIC Broadband Business, (f) all right, title and interest of any TWIC Broadband Member in and to the airspace above the Real Property (and the rights to use such airspace) and any transferable development or similar rights appurtenant to the Real Property by allocation under applicable Laws, by zoning lot merger or otherwise and (g) all rights, licenses, easements, leases, indefeasible rights of use, title, attachment rights, authorizations and other rights pertaining to poles, conduits and cable primarily used or primarily held for use in connection with the TWIC Broadband Business and held by any TWIC Broadband Member. 1.107. TWIC CLOSING means any closing of transactions comprising a part of the Initial TWIC Contribution, including the First TWIC Closing and the Final TWIC Closing. 1.108. TWIC CONTRIBUTION GROUP EMPLOYEES means (i) all employees of TWIC, ATC, Time Warner Connect and each of their respective Subsidiaries who are primarily employed in connection with the TWIC Broadband Business as of immediately prior to a TWIC Closing applicable to such employees, in the case of employees of ATC, Time Warner Connect or their Subsidiaries, the date of the ATC Contribution Agreement, and are employed by Holdco or its Subsidiaries as of -19-
immediately prior to the Closing; and (ii) all employees hired by Holdco or its Subsidiaries in the ordinary course of business on or after the First TWIC Closing who are primarily employed in connection with the TWIC Broadband Business as of immediately prior to the Closing, in each case, including individuals on leave of absence, short-term disability and long-term disability. 1.109. TWIC NON-BROADBAND ASSETS means all Assets of ATC, Time Warner Connect, TWIC, Holdco and their respective Subsidiaries, including their ownership interests in their respective Subsidiaries and TWIC Non-Broadband Real Property but, in each case, excluding the TWIC Broadband Assets and the TWE Partnership Interests; provided that, to the extent that any direct or indirect Subsidiary of TWIC or Holdco owns any assets other than TWIC Broadband Assets, such other assets shall be deemed to be TWIC Non-Broadband Assets hereunder, including for purposes of Section 2.1(a). Notwithstanding the foregoing, the TWIC Non-Broadband Assets shall include the Excluded Assets. 1.110. TWIC NON-BROADBAND BUSINESS means the businesses conducted (including any businesses or operations terminated, discontinued or divested) directly or indirectly by ATC, Time Warner Connect, TWIC or Holdco (in each case, either itself or through direct or indirect divisions, subsidiaries, affiliates, joint ventures or other investments, or any of their predecessors or successors), other than the TWIC Broadband Business and the TWE Partnership Interests. 1.111. TWIC NON-BROADBAND LIABILITIES means all Liabilities of ATC, Time Warner Connect, TWIC, Holdco or their respective Subsidiaries, including all Liabilities primarily relating to, arising out of or resulting from the TWIC Non-Broadband Real Property but excluding the TWIC Broadband Liabilities and the TWE Broadband Partnership Liabilities. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the TWIC Non-Broadband Liabilities shall include the Excluded Liabilities and Excluded Tax Liabilities. 1.112. TWIC NON-BROADBAND REAL PROPERTY means all right, title and interest in real property, wherever located, of ATC, Time Warner Connect, TWIC, Holdco or their respective Subsidiaries, other than the TWIC Broadband Real Property. ARTICLE II THE CONTRIBUTION 2.1. CONTRIBUTIONS OF ASSETS AND ASSUMPTION OF LIABILITIES (a) Subject to Section 2.1(e) and Section 3.1, at the Closing and immediately following the Exchange (as defined in the Restructuring Agreement), Holdco will contribute, assign, transfer, convey and deliver (herein "contribute"), or cause to be contributed, to the capital of the Company, and the Company will accept from Holdco and its applicable Subsidiaries, all of the TWIC Broadband Business by contributing all of each TWIC Broadband Member's respective right, title and interest in and to all of the TWIC Broadband Assets, other than the Delayed Transfer Assets. -20-
(b) Subject to Section 2.1(e) and Section 3.1, at the Closing and concurrently with the transactions contemplated in Section 2.1(a), Holdco will contribute, or cause to be contributed, to the Company, and the Company will assume and agree faithfully to perform and fulfill all the TWIC Broadband Liabilities in accordance with their respective terms; provided that such TWIC Broadband Liabilities shall not be assigned or otherwise transferred to the extent that such TWIC Broadband Liabilities are Liabilities of a Transferring TWIC Broadband Member but in such case shall remain Liabilities of such Transferring TWIC Broadband Member. The Company shall be responsible for all TWIC Broadband Liabilities, regardless of when or where such Liabilities arose or arise, or whether the facts on which they are based occurred prior to, on or subsequent to the date hereof, regardless of where or against whom such Liabilities are asserted or determined or whether asserted or determined prior to the date hereof, and regardless of whether arising from or alleged to arise from negligence, recklessness, violation of Law, fraud or misrepresentation by a Member of any Group or any of their respective directors, officers, employees or agents or Affiliates. (c) Each of the parties hereto agrees that the Delayed Transfer Assets will be contributed in accordance with the terms of Section 2.6 or other agreements that provide for such contribution after the Closing. The parties hereto further agree (i) that all such Delayed Transfer Assets shall be treated for all Tax purposes as assets of the beneficial owner and (ii) not to report or take any Tax position (on a Tax Return or otherwise) inconsistent with such treatment (unless required by a change in applicable Tax law or good faith resolution of a contest). Following the Closing, the Delayed Transfer Assets shall (except when the context otherwise requires) be treated for all purposes of this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements as TWIC Broadband Assets. (d) In the event that at any time or from time to time (whether prior to or after the Closing), Holdco or any of its Subsidiaries (other than, prior to the Closing, TWE or its Subsidiaries and after the Closing, the Company or its Subsidiaries) shall receive or otherwise possess any Asset that should have been assigned or transferred to the Company (or retained by any Transferring TWIC Broadband Member) pursuant to this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement, including Assets transferred to Holdco or any of its Subsidiaries pursuant to the Initial TWIC Contribution after consummation of such transaction, Holdco shall promptly transfer, or cause to be transferred, such Asset to the Company. Prior to any such transfer, Holdco shall, or shall cause its Subsidiary to, hold such Asset in trust for the Company. (e) The parties acknowledge and agree that any TWIC Broadband Asset to be contributed hereunder, that is already owned by a TWIC Broadband Member (other than Holdco) and any TWIC Broadband Liability to be assumed hereunder for which a TWIC Broadband Member (other than Holdco) is already liable, may be contributed or assumed, as applicable, at Holdco's option by either (i) contributing to the Company, directly or indirectly, all of the Equity Securities of the TWIC Broadband Member that directly or indirectly owns such TWIC Broadband Asset or is subject to such TWIC Broadband Liability, as applicable (provided that if such Person owns any Assets other than TWIC Broadband Assets such Assets will be transferred to, and if such -21-
Person is subject to any Liabilities other than TWIC Broadband Liabilities such Liabilities will be assumed by, Holdco (or one or more Subsidiaries of Holdco designated by Holdco the Equity Securities of which are not to be contributed pursuant to this Section 2.1(e)) prior to the Closing), or (ii) causing such TWIC Broadband Member to contribute or assign, as applicable, such TWIC Broadband Assets or TWIC Broadband Liabilities directly to the Company; provided that this Section 2.1(e) shall not authorize the contribution to the Company of Equity Securities or Assets that are Excluded Assets. (f) Subject to Section 3.1, at the Closing and concurrently with the contribution contemplated in Section 2.1(a), Holdco shall contribute to the capital of the Company, and the Company will accept from Holdco, all of Holdco's right, title and interest in and to all of the TWE Partnership Interests set forth on Schedule 2.1(f), which will constitute all of the TWE Partnership Interests. (g) Subject to Section 3.1, at the Closing and concurrently with the contribution contemplated in Section 2.1(a), Holdco will contribute to the Company and the Company will assume, and agree faithfully to perform and fulfill all of Holdco's TWE Broadband Partnership Liabilities. The Company shall be responsible for all of Holdco's TWE Broadband Partnership Liabilities, regardless of when or where such Liabilities arose or arise, or whether the facts on which they are based occurred prior to, on or subsequent to the date hereof, regardless of where or against whom such Liabilities are asserted or determined or whether asserted or determined prior to the date hereof, and regardless of whether arising from or alleged to arise from negligence, recklessness, violation of Law, fraud or misrepresentation by TWE or a Member of any Group or any of their respective directors, officers, employees or agents or Affiliates. (h) In consideration of the contributions in this Article II, at the Closing the Company shall issue to Holdco 746 shares of Company Class A Common Stock. The Company Class A Common Stock to be issued pursuant to the preceding sentence shall, when issued, be duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid, nonassessable and free and clear of all Liens other than Permitted Liens (as defined in the Restructuring Agreement). 2.2. DISCLAIMER OF REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES. EXCEPT AS MAY EXPRESSLY BE SET FORTH HEREIN, IN ANY ANCILLARY AGREEMENT, IN THE RESTRUCTURING AGREEMENT OR IN ANY OTHER TRANSACTION AGREEMENT (AND NOTWITHSTANDING ANYTHING TO THE CONTRARY SET FORTH IN ANY REAL PROPERTY INSTRUMENT), (A) NONE OF THE COMPANY, HOLDCO OR ANY OTHER PERSON MAKES ANY REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY OF ANY KIND WHATSOEVER, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, WITH RESPECT TO ANY OF THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY (INCLUDING ANY CONSENTS OR APPROVALS REQUIRED IN CONNECTION THEREWITH) OR THE BUSINESS, ASSETS, CONDITION OR PROSPECTS (FINANCIAL OR OTHERWISE) OF, OR ANY OTHER MATTER INVOLVING, THE ASSETS, BUSINESSES OR LIABILITIES OF THE COMPANY, THE COMPANY GROUP, HOLDCO, TWE OR THE TWIC BROADBAND GROUP; (B) ALL OF THE ASSETS TO BE RETAINED OR -22-
TRANSFERRED OR THE LIABILITIES TO BE RETAINED, ASSUMED OR TRANSFERRED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE TRANSFERRED OR ASSUMED ON AN "AS IS, WHERE IS BASIS," AND ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A SPECIFIC PURPOSE OR OTHERWISE ARE HEREBY EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMED AND (C) NONE OF THE COMPANY, HOLDCO OR ANY OTHER PERSON MAKES ANY REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY WITH RESPECT TO ANY INFORMATION, DOCUMENTS OR MATERIAL MADE AVAILABLE IN CONNECTION WITH THE ENTERING INTO OF THIS AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY. 2.3. OTHER ANCILLARY AGREEMENTS. On or prior to the Closing, each of the Company and Holdco will execute and deliver, and will cause its Subsidiaries to execute and deliver, all Ancillary Agreements to which such Person is a party. 2.4. DOCUMENTS RELATING TO TRANSFER OF REAL PROPERTY INTERESTS AND TANGIBLE PROPERTY LOCATED THEREON. (a) To the extent necessary, in furtherance of the assignment, transfer and conveyance of the TWIC Broadband Real Property and the assumption of the related TWIC Broadband Liabilities pursuant to Sections 2.1(a) and (b), at the Closing (to the extent practicable) or promptly thereafter in accordance with Article VII hereof, each of the Company and Holdco, or their applicable Subsidiaries, will execute and deliver such deeds, lease assignments and assumptions, leases, subleases and sub-subleases, transfer tax returns, affidavits and similar instruments as may be necessary to effect the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, including this Section 2.4 (collectively, the "REAL PROPERTY INSTRUMENTS"). The applicable Real Property Instruments will be on mutually acceptable terms. (b) Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement or on Schedule 2.4(b), all leasehold improvements, fixtures, furniture, office equipment, servers, private branch exchanges, artwork and other tangible property (other than equipment subject to capital or operating equipment leases, which will be transferred or retained based on whether the associated capital or operating equipment lease is or is not an TWIC Broadband Contract) located as of the date hereof on any TWIC Broadband Real Property shall be transferred to the Company and included within the definition of TWIC Broadband Assets. 2.5. DOCUMENTS RELATING TO OTHER TRANSFERS OF ASSETS AND ASSUMPTION OF LIABILITIES. In furtherance of the assignment, transfer and conveyance of TWIC Broadband Assets and TWE Partnership Interests and the assumption of TWIC Broadband Liabilities and Holdco's TWE Broadband Partnership Liabilities pursuant to Sections 2.1(a), (b), (f) and (g), simultaneously with the Closing or, to the extent not capable of being delivered at such time, as promptly as practicable thereafter, (a) Holdco shall execute and deliver, and shall cause its Subsidiaries to execute and deliver, such bills of sale, stock powers, certificates of title, assignments and assumptions of contracts and other instruments of transfer, conveyance, assignment and assumption as and to the extent necessary to evidence the contribution, transfer, conveyance and assignment of all of Holdco's and its Subsidiaries' right, title and interest in and to the TWIC Broadband -23-
Assets and TWE Partnership Interests to the Company and (b) the Company shall execute and deliver, and shall cause its Subsidiaries to execute and deliver, such bills of sale, stock powers, certificates of title, assignments and assumptions of contracts and other instruments of transfer, conveyance, assignment and assumption as and to the extent necessary to evidence the valid and effective assumption of the TWIC Broadband Liabilities and Holdco's TWE Broadband Partnership Liabilities by the Company, to the extent required by Section 2.1(b) or (g). 2.6. GOVERNMENTAL APPROVALS AND CONSENTS. (a) If and to the extent that the valid, complete and perfected transfer or assignment to the Company of any TWIC Broadband Assets would be a violation of applicable Laws or require any Consent or Governmental Approval in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Restructuring Agreement then, unless Holdco shall otherwise determine, the transfer or assignment to the Company of such TWIC Broadband Assets shall be automatically deemed deferred and any such purported transfer or assignment shall be null and void until such time as all legal impediments are removed and/or such Consents or Governmental Approvals have been made or obtained. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any such Delayed Transfer Asset shall be deemed a TWIC Broadband Asset for purposes of determining whether any Liability is a TWIC Broadband Liability. (b) If the transfer or assignment of any Asset intended to be transferred or assigned hereunder is not consummated prior to or at the Closing, whether as a result of the provisions of Section 2.6(a) or for any other reason, then Holdco or its Subsidiary shall thereafter hold such Asset for the use and benefit, insofar as reasonably possible, of the Company or its Subsidiary (at the expense of the Company). In addition, Holdco shall take such other actions as may be reasonably requested by the Company in order to place the Company or its Subsidiary, insofar as reasonably possible, in the same position as if such Asset had been transferred as contemplated hereby and so that all the benefits and burdens relating to such Assets including possession, use, risk of loss, potential for gain, and dominion, control and command over such Asset, are to inure from and after the Closing to the Company Group. To the extent permitted by Law and to the extent otherwise permissible in light of any required Consent and/or Governmental Approval, the Company Group shall be entitled to, and shall be responsible for, the management of any TWIC Broadband Assets not yet transferred to it as a result of this Section 2.6(b) and the parties agree to use reasonable commercial efforts to cooperate and coordinate with respect thereto. (c) If and when the Consents and/or Governmental Approvals, the absence of which caused the deferral of transfer of any Asset pursuant to Section 2.6(a), are obtained, the transfer of the applicable Asset shall be effected in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and/or the applicable Ancillary Agreement. (d) Holdco shall not be obligated, in connection with the foregoing, to expend any money unless the necessary funds are advanced by the Company, other than reasonable out-of-pocket expenses, attorneys' fees and recording or similar fees, all of which shall be promptly reimbursed by the Company. -24-
(e) At Closing, Holdco will deliver to the Company a list identifying, in reasonable detail and to Holdco's knowledge, the Delayed Transfer Assets and the Consents or Governmental Approvals required therefor. 2.7. NOVATION OF LIABILITIES. (a) Each of the Company and Holdco, at the reasonable written request of the other, shall use its reasonable commercial efforts to obtain, or to cause to be obtained, any release, consent, substitution, approval or amendment required to novate and assign all obligations under Contracts, licenses and other obligations or Liabilities of any nature whatsoever that constitute TWIC Broadband Liabilities or Holdco's TWE Broadband Partnership Liabilities, or to obtain in writing the unconditional release of all parties to such arrangements other than the Company (or any other Company Group Member party thereto), so that, in any such case, the Company (or such Company Group Member) will be solely responsible for such Liabilities; provided, however, that none of the Members of any Group shall be obligated to pay any consideration or surrender, release or modify any rights or remedies therefor to any third party from whom such releases, consents, approvals, substitutions and amendments are requested, except as explicitly set forth in the Restructuring Agreement or any other Transaction Agreement. (b) If the Company or Holdco is unable to obtain, or to cause to be obtained, any such required release, consent, substitution, approval or amendment, Holdco or the applicable TWIC Broadband Member shall continue to be bound by such Contracts, licenses and other obligations and, unless not permitted by Law or the terms thereof, the applicable Company Group Member shall, as agent or subcontractor for Holdco, pay, perform and discharge fully all the obligations or other Liabilities of Holdco or the applicable TWIC Broadband Member thereunder from and after the Closing. The Company shall indemnify each TWIC Broadband Indemnitee and hold it harmless against any Liabilities arising in connection therewith. Holdco or the applicable TWIC Broadband Member shall, without further consideration, pay and remit, or cause to be paid or remitted, to the applicable Company Group Member promptly all money, rights and other consideration received by it in respect of such performance. If and when any such release, consent, substitution, approval or amendment shall be obtained or such agreement, lease, license or other rights or obligations shall otherwise become assignable or able to be novated, Holdco or the applicable TWIC Broadband Member shall thereafter assign, or cause to be assigned, all of its rights, obligations and other Liabilities thereunder to the Company (or one or more Company Group Members designated by the Company) without payment of further consideration and such Company Group Member shall, without the payment of any further consideration, assume such rights and obligations. Notwithstanding the foregoing, unless Holdco or the applicable TWIC Broadband Member shall so elect in writing, the Company shall assume, or cause the assumption of, all TWIC Broadband Liabilities and TWE Broadband Partnership Liabilities of Holdco as of the Closing. 2.8. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY MATTERS. To the extent that this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement contains provisions which purport to cover or address any matter addressed in the Intellectual Property Agreement, the Intellectual Property Agreement, shall prevail. -25-
2.9. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS MATTERS. (a) All TWIC Contribution Group Employees shall become employees of the Company or one of the Company Group Members (or remain employees of a Transferring TWIC Broadband Member) as of the Closing. TWIC Contribution Group Employees who commence employment with the Company or any Company Group Member (or who are employees of a Transferring TWIC Broadband Member) as of the Closing shall be referred to herein as "CONTINUED TWIC EMPLOYEES." In order to effectuate the transfer of employment described in this Section, Holdco, the Company and the Company Group Members shall take such actions as are reasonably necessary, including, without limitation, the Company or the Company Group Members making a general offer of employment to each TWIC Contribution Group Employee (other than employees of any Transferring TWIC Broadband Member). The parties hereto shall not take any action that would interfere with such employees becoming employed by the Company or one of the Company Group Members (or remaining employed by a Transferring TWIC Broadband Member) as of the Closing. Such employment shall be at substantially the same compensation rates and terms and conditions of employment, including benefits under any Benefit Plan, as were provided to such Continued TWIC Employees immediately prior to the Closing. (b) Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, subject to applicable law and the terms of any employment or other agreement, the Company shall have the right, in its sole discretion, to modify the compensation rates and other terms and conditions of employment and to dismiss any employee at any time, with or without cause, and to modify or terminate any Benefit Plan it sponsors or its participation in any Benefit Plan at any time and for any reason after the Closing. (c) The Company shall recognize the period of service (without providing for the duplication of benefits) with AOLTW and any of its Affiliates prior to the Closing under all Benefit Plans maintained by the Company as of the Closing to the extent so recognized by AOLTW and its Affiliates prior to the Closing. (d) Notwithstanding any provision in this Agreement to the contrary, the parties hereto agree that, except to the extent used in connection with the funding of any Benefit Plan that is continued by AOLTW or any of its Affiliates (other than the Company or any Company Group Member), the parties hereto shall cause to be transferred to or held for the benefit of the Company and the Company Group Members their and their Affiliates' interests in all life, medical and other insurance policies to the extent relating to Continued TWIC Employees or Former TWIC Employees. (e) Subject to obtaining any necessary consents, as of the Closing, AOLTW and its Affiliates (other than the Company or any Company Group Member) shall assign to, and the Company or one of it Subsidiaries shall assume, all rights, obligations and Liabilities of AOLTW and its Affiliates (other than the Company or any Company Group Member) under all employment agreements and unfunded compensation arrangements relating to Continued TWIC Employees. -26-
(f) Notwithstanding any provision in this Agreement to the contrary, the parties hereto agree that, except to the extent that sponsorship of a funded Benefit Plan is continued by AOLTW or any of its Affiliates (other than the Company or any Company Group Member), the TWIC Broadband Assets shall include any moneys, contracts or other funds relating to the participation of any Continued TWIC Employees or any former employee of TWIC or its Subsidiaries (the "FORMER TWIC EMPLOYEES") in any Benefit Plan. (g) Notwithstanding any provision in this Agreement to the contrary, the parties hereto agree that, except to the extent that sponsorship of a funded Benefit Plan is continued by AOLTW or any of its Affiliates (other than the Company or any Company Group Member), the TWIC Broadband Liabilities shall include all Liabilities relating to the participation of any Continued TWIC Employee or Former TWIC Employee in any Benefit Plan. (h) Subject to any required notification, as of the Closing, the parties agree to take such action, and to cause their Affiliates to take such action, as is necessary to cause the Company (or any Company Group Member) to succeed to the rights and obligations of AOLTW and its Affiliates (other than the Company or any Company Group Member), including its rights and obligations with respect to any "multiemployer plan" (as defined in Section 3(37) of ERISA), under any collective bargaining agreement (if any so exist) to the extent such agreement covers Continued TWIC Employees or Former TWIC Employees. ARTICLE III CONDITIONS 3.1. CONDITIONS. The obligations of each party hereto to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement are subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the conditions set forth in Article XI of the Restructuring Agreement. ARTICLE IV INDEMNIFICATION 4.1. INDEMNIFICATION BY THE COMPANY. Except as provided in Section 4.3, following the Closing, the Company shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless Holdco, TWIC, ATC and each of their respective Subsidiaries (other than the Company and its Subsidiaries), directors, officers, agents and employees, and each of the heirs, executors, successors and assigns of any of the foregoing (collectively, the "TWIC BROADBAND INDEMNITEES"), from and against any and all Liabilities of the TWIC Broadband Indemnitees relating to, arising out of or resulting from any of the following items (without duplication), whether arising prior to or after the Closing or the date of the Original Contribution Agreement: -27-
(a) the failure of the Company or any other Company Group Member or any other Person to pay, perform or otherwise promptly discharge any TWIC Broadband Liabilities or any TWE Broadband Partnership Liabilities in accordance with their respective terms; (b) the TWIC Broadband Business, including the operation thereof; (c) any breach by the Company or any Company Group Member of this Agreement or any of the Ancillary Agreements; and (d) any Third Party Claim in respect of any TWIC Broadband Liability or any TWE Broadband Partnership Liability. 4.2. INDEMNIFICATION BY AOLTW AND HOLDCO. (a) Except as provided in Section 4.3, following the Closing, AOLTW and Holdco, on a joint and several basis, shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless the Company, each Company Group Member and each of their respective directors, officers, agents and employees, and each of the heirs, executors, successors and assigns of any of the foregoing (collectively, the "COMPANY INDEMNITEES"), from and against any and all Liabilities of the Company Indemnitees relating to, arising out of or resulting from any of the following items (without duplication), whether arising prior to or after the Closing or the date of the Original Contribution Agreement: (i) the failure of Holdco or any of its Subsidiaries or any other Person to pay, perform or otherwise promptly discharge any TWIC Non-Broadband Liabilities or any TWE Non-Broadband Partnership Liabilities in accordance with their respective terms; (ii) the TWIC Non-Broadband Business, including the operation thereof; (iii) any breach by Holdco or any of its Subsidiaries (other than the Company and its Subsidiaries) of this Agreement or any of the Ancillary Agreements; and (iv) any Third Party Claim in respect of any TWIC Non-Broadband Liability or any TWE Non-Broadband Partnership Liability. (b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, AOLTW in its sole discretion can elect at any time upon written notice to the Company to terminate this Section 4.2 with respect to Holdco (and only with respect to Holdco) and to release Holdco from any and all of Holdco's Liabilities under this Section 4.2, and the Company shall execute and deliver all instruments reasonably requested by AOLTW to evidence such release and termination. 4.3. INDEMNIFICATION OBLIGATIONS NET OF INSURANCE PROCEEDS AND OTHER AMOUNTS. (a) The parties intend that any indemnification or reimbursement -28-
obligation pursuant to this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement will be net of Insurance Proceeds that actually reduce the amount of the Liability. Accordingly, the amount which any party (an "INDEMNIFYING PARTY") is required to pay to any Person entitled to indemnification hereunder (an "INDEMNITEE") will be reduced by any Insurance Proceeds theretofore actually recovered by or on behalf of the Indemnitee in reduction of the related Liability. If an Indemnitee receives a payment (an "INDEMNITY PAYMENT") required by this Agreement from an Indemnifying Party in respect of any Liability and subsequently receives Insurance Proceeds, then the Indemnitee will pay to the Indemnifying Party an amount equal to the excess of the Indemnity Payment received over the amount of the Indemnity Payment that would have been due if the Insurance Proceeds had been received, realized or recovered before the Indemnity Payment was made. (b) An insurer who would otherwise be obligated to defend or make payment in response to any claim shall not be relieved of the responsibility with respect thereto or, solely by virtue of the indemnification provisions hereof, have any subrogation rights with respect thereto, it being expressly understood and agreed that no insurer or any other third party shall be entitled to a "windfall" (i.e., a benefit it would not be entitled to receive in the absence of the indemnification provisions) by virtue of the indemnification provisions hereof. (c) With respect to all policies of insurance with insurance companies, the parties agree to act in good faith and to use their reasonable best efforts to preserve and maximize the insurance benefits due to be provided thereunder and to cooperate with one another as necessary to permit each other to access or obtain the benefits under those policies, provided, however, that nothing in this Section 4.3 shall be construed to prevent any party or any other Person from asserting claims for insurance benefits or accepting insurance benefits provided by the policies. The parties agree to exchange information upon reasonable request of the other party regarding requests that they have made for insurance benefits, notices of claims, occurrences and circumstances that they have submitted to the insurance companies or other entities managing the policies, responses they have received from those insurance companies or entities, including any payments they have received from the insurance companies and any agreements by the insurance companies to make payments, and any other information that the parties may need to determine the status of the insurance policies and the continued availability of benefits thereunder. 4.4. PROCEDURES FOR INDEMNIFICATION OF THIRD PARTY CLAIMS. (a) If an Indemnitee shall receive notice or otherwise learn of the assertion by a Person (including any Governmental Authority) who is not a Member of either Group of any claim or of the commencement by any such Person of any Action (collectively, a "THIRD PARTY CLAIM") with respect to which an Indemnifying Party may be obligated to provide indemnification to such Indemnitee pursuant to Section 4.1 or 4.2, or any other Section of this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement (except as otherwise provided therein), such Indemnitee shall give such Indemnifying Party written notice thereof promptly after receipt of notice or senior executives actually becoming aware of such Third Party Claim. Any such notice shall describe the Third Party Claim in reasonable detail. -29-
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the failure of any Indemnitee to give notice as provided in this Section 4.4(a) shall not relieve the related Indemnifying Party of its obligations under this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement, except to the extent that such Indemnifying Party is actually prejudiced by such failure to give notice. (b) An Indemnifying Party may elect to defend (and, except as set out in (e) below, unless the Indemnifying Party has specified any reservations or exceptions, to seek to settle or compromise), at such Indemnifying Party's own expense and by such Indemnifying Party's own counsel (provided such counsel is reasonably acceptable to the Indemnitee), any Third Party Claim; provided that, notwithstanding the foregoing, an Indemnitee may elect to defend any Excepted Third Party Claim and the Indemnifying Party shall have the right to elect to defend such Excepted Third Party Claim only if the Indemnitee does not elect to do so. Within 30 days after the receipt of notice from an Indemnitee in accordance with Section 4.4(a) (or sooner, if the nature of such Third Party Claim so requires), the Indemnifying Party shall notify the Indemnitee of its election whether the Indemnifying Party will assume responsibility for defending such Third Party Claim, which election shall specify any reservations or exceptions. After notice from an Indemnifying Party to an Indemnitee of its election to assume the defense of a Third Party Claim, such Indemnitee shall have the right to employ separate counsel and to participate in (but not control) the defense, compromise or settlement thereof, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be the expense of such Indemnitee, except as set forth in the next sentence. In the event that the Indemnifying Party has elected to assume the defense of the Third Party Claim but has specified and continues to assert, any reservations or exceptions in such notice, then, in any such case, the reasonable fees and expenses of one separate counsel (and one separate local counsel) for all Indemnitees shall be borne by the Indemnifying Party. (c) If an Indemnifying Party elects not to assume responsibility for defending a Third Party Claim, or fails to notify an Indemnitee of its election as provided in Section 4.4(b), or in the case of an Excepted Third Party Claim, such Indemnitee may defend such Third Party Claim at the cost and expense of the Indemnifying Party. (d) Unless the Indemnifying Party has failed to assume the defense of the Third Party Claim in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, no Indemnitee may settle or compromise any Third Party Claim without the consent of the Indemnifying Party (not to be unreasonably withheld), unless such Indemnitee has waived any rights to indemnification hereunder in respect of such Third Party Claim. (e) Without the consent of the Indemnitee (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld), the Indemnifying Party shall not enter into or consent to any settlement or compromise of the Third Party Claim, unless such settlement or compromise involves only the payment of money damages concurrently with such settlement (and such amount is so paid by the Indemnifying Party), does not impose any equitable relief upon the Indemnitee or any of its Affiliates, or any of its or their respective officers or directors and contains an unconditional release of the Indemnitee, each of its Affiliates and each of its and their respective officers or directors in respect of such claim. -30-
4.5. ADDITIONAL MATTERS. (a) Any claim on account of a Liability that does not result from a Third Party Claim shall be asserted by written notice given by the Indemnitee to the related Indemnifying Party. Such Indemnifying Party shall have a period of 30 days after the receipt of such notice within which to respond thereto (or sooner, if the nature of such claim so requires). If such Indemnifying Party does not respond within such period, such Indemnifying Party shall be deemed to have refused to accept responsibility to make payment. If such Indemnifying Party does not respond within such period or rejects such claim in whole or in part, such Indemnitee shall be free to pursue such other remedies as may be available to such party. (b) In the event of payment by or on behalf of any Indemnifying Party to any Indemnitee in connection with any Third Party Claim, such Indemnifying Party shall be subrogated to and shall stand in the place of such Indemnitee as to any events or circumstances in respect of which such Indemnitee may have any right, defense or claim relating to such Third Party Claim against any claimant or plaintiff asserting such Third Party Claim or against any other person, but only to the extent of such payment. Such Indemnitee shall cooperate with such Indemnifying Party in a reasonable manner, and at the reasonable cost and expense of such Indemnifying Party, in prosecuting any subrogated right, defense or claim. (c) In the event of an Action in which the Indemnifying Party is not a named defendant, if either the Indemnitee or Indemnifying Party shall so request, the parties shall endeavor to substitute the Indemnifying Party for the named defendant, if at all practicable. If such substitution or addition cannot be achieved for any reason or is not requested, the named defendant shall allow the Indemnifying Party to manage the Action as set forth in Section 4.4 and the Indemnifying Party shall fully indemnify the named defendant against all Liabilities in connection therewith, including costs of defending the Action (including court costs, sanctions imposed by a court, attorneys' fees, experts' fees and all other external expenses), the costs of any judgment or settlement, and the cost of any interest or penalties relating to any judgment or settlement. 4.6. REMEDIES CUMULATIVE. The remedies provided in this Article IV shall be cumulative and shall not preclude assertion by any Indemnitee of any other rights or the seeking of any and all other remedies against any Indemnifying Party. 4.7. SURVIVAL OF INDEMNITIES. The rights and obligations of Holdco, ATC, AOLTW, each TWIC Broadband Member, the Company, each Company Group Member and their respective Indemnitees under this Article IV shall survive the sale or other transfer by any party of any Assets or businesses or the assignment by it of any Liabilities. 4.8. TAX EFFECTS OF INDEMNIFICATION. (a) For all Tax purposes (unless required by a change in applicable Tax law or good faith resolution of a contest), the parties hereto agree to treat, and to cause their respective Affiliates to treat any payment (i) to the Company or to any Company Group Member by AOLTW or Holdco pursuant to an indemnification, reimbursement or refund obligation provided for in this Agreement (a "TRANSFEROR INDEMNIFICATION PAYMENT"), or (ii) to Holdco or to any of -31-
Holdco's Subsidiaries (other than the Company or its Subsidiaries) by the Company pursuant to an indemnification, reimbursement or refund obligation provided for in this Agreement (a "TRANSFEREE INDEMNIFICATION PAYMENT" and, collectively with any Transferor Indemnification Payment, an "INDEMNIFICATION PAYMENT") as (x) with respect to a Transferor Indemnification Payment, a contribution by Holdco to the Company as part of the transfer described in Section 2.1(a), and (y) with respect to a Transferee Indemnification Payment, the retention by Holdco of the amount of such Indemnification Payment. (b) The amount of any loss for which indemnification is provided under this Agreement shall be (i) increased to take account of the net Tax cost, if any, incurred by the indemnitee arising from the receipt or accrual of an Indemnification Payment hereunder (grossed up for such increase) and (ii) reduced to take account of the net Tax benefit, if any, realized by the indemnitee arising from incurring or paying such loss. In computing the amount of any such Tax cost or benefit, the indemnitee shall be deemed to recognize all other items of income, gain, loss, deduction or credit before recognizing any item arising from the receipt or accrual of any Indemnification Payment hereunder, or incurring or paying any indemnified loss. Any Indemnification Payment hereunder shall initially be made without regard to this Section 4.8(b) and shall be increased or reduced to reflect any such net Tax cost (including gross-up) or net Tax benefit only after the indemnitee has actually realized such cost or benefit. For purposes of this Agreement, an indemnitee shall be deemed to have "actually realized" a net Tax cost or a net Tax benefit to the extent that, and at such time as, the amount of Taxes payable by such indemnitee is increased above or reduced below, as the case may be, the amount of Taxes that such indemnitee would be required to pay but for the receipt or accrual of the Indemnification Payment or the incurrence or payment of such loss. The amount of any increase or reduction hereunder shall be adjusted to reflect any adjustment with respect to the indemnitee's liability for Taxes, and payments between the parties hereto to reflect such adjustment shall be made. In the event that the parties disagree regarding the appropriate application of this Section 4.8(b), such disagreement shall be resolved by submitting the same to a national accounting firm that does not have a material relationship with any party. 4.9. REFUNDS. The Company shall pay to Holdco and/or the applicable TWIC Broadband Member all refunds or credits of Taxes received by the Company after the Closing that are attributable to the TWIC Non-Broadband Business, net of any Taxes imposed on such refund amount, which amounts shall be paid to Holdco and/or the applicable TWIC Broadband Member promptly following any receipt thereof by the Company. In the event that the parties disagree regarding the appropriate application of this Section 4.9, such disagreement shall be resolved by submitting the same to a national accounting firm that does not have a material relationship with any party. -32-
ARTICLE V INSURANCE 5.1. INSURANCE MATTERS. (a) The parties intend that both the Company and each other Company Group Member, after the Closing, shall be successors-in-interest to and retain all rights and interest (whether known, unknown, contingent or otherwise) that any of the parties has as of the Closing under any Insurance Policy issued to and/or providing coverage (i) to any TWIC Broadband Member, as it existed immediately prior to the Closing, or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates, (ii) to TWIC, as it existed immediately prior to the Initial TWIC Contribution, or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or (iii) to ATC or Time Warner Connect (as they exist immediately prior to the ATC Contribution) or any of their respective Subsidiaries, and any agreements related to such Insurance Policies executed and delivered prior to the Closing, including any rights or interests each has, as an insured, named insured, or additional named insured, Subsidiary, Affiliate, division or department, to avail itself of any benefit under any such Insurance Policy or any such agreement related to such policy as in effect prior to the Closing; provided that any rights and interests to which the Company and each other Company Group Member are entitled pursuant to this Section 5.1 shall be limited to the extent that those Insurance Policies provide or provided, as applicable, coverage with respect to the TWIC Broadband Business. The provisions of this Agreement are not intended to relieve any insurer of any Liability under any policy. Notwithstanding the foregoing, neither Holdco nor any other TWIC Broadband Member shall be deemed to have made any representation or warranty as to the availability of any Insurance Policy or the rights and benefits provided thereunder. (b) This Agreement shall not be considered as an attempted assignment (if such an assignment would be prohibited or would otherwise adversely affect the rights of the insured parties under such policies) of any rights or interest under any policy of insurance or as a contract of insurance and shall not be construed to waive any right or remedy of any TWIC Broadband Member or Company Group Member in respect of any Insurance Policy or any other contract or policy of insurance. (c) Holdco does hereby, for itself and each of its Subsidiaries (other than the Company and its Subsidiaries) agree that, as and to the extent necessary to give effect to Section 5.1(a), it will assign any chose in action, claim, right or benefit under an Insurance Policy. (d) Each of Holdco and the Company does hereby, for itself and each other TWIC Broadband Member and Company Group Member, respectively, agree that all duties and obligations under any Insurance Policy, including the fulfillment of any conditions and the payment of any deductibles, retentions, co-insurance payment or retrospective premiums, that correspond in any way with or may be necessary to perfect, preserve or maintain an insured's right to obtain benefits under that Insurance Policy, will be performed by the insured that is seeking the benefits, subject to the indemnification provisions of Article IV. In the event Members of both Groups have claims under a given policy, any deductibles, retentions, co-insurance payments, retrospective premiums, caps, limitations on average and similar items will be appropriately allocated -33-
between such parties based on the recoveries they would have obtained in the absence of such items. ARTICLE VI EXCHANGE OF INFORMATION; CONFIDENTIALITY 6.1. AGREEMENT FOR EXCHANGE OF INFORMATION. (a) Each of Holdco and the Company agrees to provide, or cause to be provided, to each other Group, at any time before or after the Closing, as soon as reasonably practicable after written request therefor, any Information in the possession or under the control of its respective Group that the requesting party reasonably needs (i) to comply with reporting, disclosure, filing or other requirements imposed on the requesting party (including under applicable securities or Tax Laws) by a Governmental Authority having jurisdiction over the requesting party, (ii) for use in any other judicial, regulatory, administrative, Tax or other proceeding or in order to satisfy audit, accounting, claims, regulatory, litigation, Tax or other similar requirements or (iii) to comply with its obligations under this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement; provided, however, that in the event that any party determines that any such provision of Information could be commercially detrimental, violate any Law or agreement, or waive any attorney-client privilege, the parties shall take all reasonable measures to permit the compliance with such obligations in a manner that avoids any such harm or consequence. Holdco and the Company intend that any transfer of Information that would otherwise be within the attorney-client privilege shall not operate as a waiver of any potentially applicable privilege. (b) After the date hereof, each of Holdco (and its Subsidiaries) and the Company (and its Subsidiaries) shall maintain in effect adequate systems and controls to the extent necessary to enable the members of the other Group to satisfy their respective reporting, accounting, audit and other obligations. 6.2. OWNERSHIP OF INFORMATION. Any Information owned by one Group that is provided to a requesting party pursuant to Section 6.1 shall be deemed to remain the property of the providing party. Unless specifically set forth herein, nothing contained in this Agreement shall be construed as granting or conferring rights of license or otherwise in any such Information. 6.3. COMPENSATION FOR PROVIDING INFORMATION. The party requesting such Information agrees to reimburse the other party for the reasonable costs, if any, of creating, gathering and copying such Information, to the extent that such costs are incurred for the benefit of the requesting party. Except as may be otherwise specifically provided elsewhere in this Agreement or in any other agreement between the parties, such costs shall be computed in accordance with the providing party's standard methodology and procedures. 6.4. RECORD RETENTION. To facilitate the possible exchange of Information pursuant to this Article VI and other provisions of this Agreement after the date hereof, the parties agree to use their reasonable best efforts to retain all Information -34-
in their respective possession or control on the date hereof in accordance with their respective record retention policies as in effect on the date hereof. No party will destroy, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to destroy, any Information that the other party may have the right to obtain pursuant to this Agreement prior to the third anniversary of the Closing without first using its reasonable best efforts to notify the other party of the proposed destruction and giving the other party the opportunity to take possession of such Information prior to such destruction; provided, however, that in the case of any Information relating to Taxes, employee-related matters or to Environmental Liabilities, such period shall be extended to the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations (giving effect to any extensions thereof). Moreover, no party will destroy, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to destroy, any policies of insurance (or records related to such insurance policies) without first using its reasonable best efforts to notify the other party of the proposed destruction and giving the other party reasonable opportunity to take possession of such Information prior to such destruction, if it is possible (in the first party's reasonable judgment) that the other party may be able to obtain coverage under such policies. (The foregoing includes "occurrence"-based liability policies, which continue to cover liability for alleged harm during their policy period, even if no claim is made based on such alleged harm until after the end of the policy period.) 6.5. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY. No party shall have any Liability to any other party in the event that any Information exchanged or provided pursuant to this Agreement that is an estimate or forecast, or that is based on an estimate or forecast, is found to be inaccurate, in the absence of willful misconduct by the party providing such Information. No party shall have any Liability to any other party if any Information is destroyed after reasonable best efforts by such party to comply with the provisions of Section 6.4. 6.6. OTHER AGREEMENTS PROVIDING FOR EXCHANGE OF INFORMATION. The rights and obligations granted under this Article VI are subject to any specific limitations, qualifications or additional provisions on the sharing, exchange or confidential treatment of Information set forth in any Ancillary Agreement. 6.7. PRODUCTION OF WITNESSES; RECORDS; COOPERATION. (a) After the Closing, except in the case of an adversarial Action by one party against the other party (which shall be governed by such discovery rules as may be applicable thereto), each party hereto shall take all reasonable steps to make available to the other party, upon written request, the former, current and future directors, officers, employees, other personnel and agents of the Members of its respective Group (whether as witnesses or otherwise) and any books, records or other documents within its control or that it otherwise has the ability to make available, to the extent that such person (giving consideration to business demands of such directors, officers, employees, other personnel and agents) or books, records or other documents may reasonably be required in connection with any Action (including preparation for such Action) in which the requesting party may from time to time be involved, regardless of whether such Action is a matter with respect to which indemnification may be sought hereunder. The requesting -35-
party shall bear all reasonable costs and expenses (including allocated costs of in-house counsel and other personnel) in connection therewith. (b) If an Indemnifying Party chooses to defend or to seek to compromise or settle any Third Party Claim, or if any party chooses or is required to prosecute, pursue, otherwise evaluate or defend any Action, the other party shall reasonably cooperate in such defense, settlement or compromise, or such prosecution, evaluation or pursuit, as the case may be. The requesting party shall bear all reasonable costs and expenses in connection therewith. (c) Without limiting the foregoing, the parties shall cooperate and consult to the extent reasonably necessary with respect to any Actions. (d) The obligation of the parties to make available former, current and future directors, officers, employees and other personnel and agents pursuant to this Section 6.7 is intended to be interpreted in a manner so as to facilitate cooperation and shall include the obligation to make available inventors and other officers without regard to whether such individual or the employer of such individual could assert a possible business conflict (subject to the exception set forth in the first sentence of Section 6.7(a)). Without limiting the foregoing, each party agrees that neither it nor any member of its respective Group will take any adverse action against any employee of its Group based on such employee's provision of assistance or information to the other party pursuant to Section 6.7(a). (e) In connection with any Action contemplated by this Article VI, the parties will enter into a mutually acceptable joint defense agreement so as to maintain to the extent practicable any applicable attorney-client privilege or work product immunity of either Group. 6.8. CONFIDENTIALITY. (a) Subject to Section 6.9, each of the Company and Holdco, on behalf of itself and each Member of its respective Group, agrees to hold, and to cause its respective directors, officers, employees, agents, accountants, counsel and other advisors and representatives to hold, in strict confidence, with at least the same degree of care that it applies to Holdco's confidential and proprietary information pursuant to policies in effect as of the Closing, all Information concerning the other Group that is either in its possession (including Information in its possession prior to the date of the Original Contribution Agreement or of the Closing) or furnished by the other Group or its respective directors, officers, employees, agents, accountants, counsel and other advisors and representatives at any time pursuant to this Agreement, or any Ancillary Agreement, and shall not use any such Information other than for such purposes as shall be expressly permitted hereunder or thereunder, except, in each case, to the extent that such Information has been (i) in the public domain through no fault of such party or such party's Group or any of their respective directors, officers, employees, agents, accountants, counsel and other advisors and representatives, (ii) later lawfully acquired from other sources by such party (or such party's Group), which sources are not themselves bound by a confidentiality obligation to the knowledge of -36-
such party or members of such party's Group or (iii) independently generated without reference to any proprietary or confidential Information of the other party. (b) Each party agrees not to release or disclose, or permit to be released or disclosed, any such Information concerning the other Group to any other Person, except its directors, officers, employees, agents, accountants, counsel and other advisors and representatives who need to know such Information (who shall be advised of their obligations hereunder with respect to such Information) and in compliance with Section 6.9. Without limiting the foregoing, when any Information is no longer needed for the purposes contemplated by this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement, each party will promptly after request of the other party either return to the other party all Information in a tangible form (including all copies thereof and all notes, extracts or summaries based thereon) or certify to the other party that it has destroyed such Information (and all electronic or other copies thereof and all notes, extracts or summaries based thereon). 6.9. PROTECTIVE ARRANGEMENTS. In the event that any party or any member of its Group either determines on the advice of its counsel that it is required to disclose any Information concerning the other Group pursuant to applicable Law or receives any demand under lawful process or from any Governmental Authority to disclose or provide Information concerning the other Group that is subject to the confidentiality provisions hereof, such party shall notify the other party prior to disclosing or providing such Information and shall cooperate at the expense of the requesting party in seeking any reasonable protective arrangements requested by such other party. Subject to the foregoing, the Person that received such request may thereafter disclose or provide Information to the extent required by such Law (as so advised by counsel) or by lawful process or such Governmental Authority. ARTICLE VII FURTHER ASSURANCES; ADDITIONAL COVENANTS 7.1. FURTHER ASSURANCES. (a) In addition to the actions specifically provided for elsewhere in this Agreement, the Ancillary Agreements, the Restructuring Agreement or any Transaction Agreement, but subject to the provisions hereof and thereof, each of the parties hereto shall use its reasonable best efforts, prior to, on and after the Closing, to take, or cause to be taken, all actions, and to do, or cause to be done, all things, reasonably necessary, proper or advisable under applicable laws, regulations and agreements to consummate and make effective the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements. (b) Without limiting the foregoing, prior to, on and after the Closing, each party hereto shall cooperate with the other party, and without any further consideration, but at the expense of the requesting party, to execute and deliver, or use its reasonable best efforts to cause to be executed and delivered, all instruments, including instruments of conveyance, assignment and transfer, and to make all filings with, and to obtain all consents, approvals or authorizations of, any Governmental Authority or any -37-
other Person under any permit, license, agreement, indenture or other instrument (including any Consents or Governmental Approvals), and to take all such other actions as such party may reasonably be requested to take by any other party hereto from time to time, consistent with the terms of this Agreement, the Ancillary Agreements, the Restructuring Agreement and the Transaction Agreements, in order to effectuate the provisions and purposes of this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements and the transfers of the TWIC Broadband Assets and the TWE Partnership Interests and the assignment and assumption of the TWIC Broadband Liabilities and Holdco's TWE Broadband Partnership Liabilities and the other transactions contemplated hereby and thereby. (c) On or prior to the Closing, Holdco and the Company in their respective capacities as direct and indirect shareholders of their respective Subsidiaries, shall each ratify any actions that are reasonably necessary or desirable to be taken by Holdco and the Company or any of their respective Subsidiaries, as the case may be, to effectuate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. (d) Holdco hereby agrees that, at any time following the Initial TWIC Contribution and through to the Holdco Contribution (i) it will not, and will not permit any TWIC Broadband Members to, assign, transfer, convey and deliver any TWIC Broadband Asset or TWE Partnership Interest to any Affiliate of Holdco, or any division of Holdco, that is not also a TWIC Broadband Member and (ii) except through the TWIC Broadband Members, no Subsidiary of Holdco will own or hold any TWIC Broadband Asset or conduct the TWIC Broadband Business. ARTICLE VIII TERMINATION 8.1. TERMINATION. This Agreement shall automatically, and without any further action by either party, terminate immediately upon the termination of the Restructuring Agreement in accordance with its terms. 8.2. EFFECT OF TERMINATION. In the event of any termination of this Agreement prior to the Closing, no Member of either Group (or any of its directors or officers) shall have any Liability or further obligation to any Member of the other Group with respect to this Agreement. ARTICLE IX MISCELLANEOUS 9.1. COUNTERPARTS; ENTIRE AGREEMENT. (a) This Agreement and each Ancillary Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, all of which shall be considered one and the same agreement, and shall become effective when one or more counterparts have been signed by each of the parties and delivered to the other party. -38-
(b) This Agreement, together with the Ancillary Agreements, the Restructuring Agreement, the Transaction Agreements and the Confidentiality Agreements (as defined in the Restructuring Agreement) and the Exhibits, Schedules and Appendices hereto and thereto constitute the entire agreement between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof or thereof and supersede all prior agreements and understandings, both oral and written, between the parties with respect to such subject matter. 9.2. GOVERNING LAW. This Agreement and, unless expressly provided therein, each Ancillary Agreement, shall be governed by and construed and interpreted in accordance with the Laws of the State of New York, irrespective of the choice of laws principles of the State of New York, as to all matters, including matters of validity, construction, effect, enforceability, performance and remedies. 9.3. ASSIGNABILITY. Except as set forth in any Ancillary Agreement, this Agreement and each Ancillary Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and thereto, respectively, and their respective successors and assigns; provided, however, that no party hereto or thereto may assign its respective rights or delegate its respective obligations under this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement without the express prior written consent of each of the other parties hereto or thereto. 9.4. JURISDICTION. Any suit, action or proceeding seeking to enforce any provision of, or based on any matter arising out of or in connection with, this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby shall be brought in any federal court located in the State of New York or any New York state court, and each of the parties hereby consents to the exclusive jurisdiction of such courts (and of the appropriate appellate courts therefrom) in any such suit, action or proceeding and irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the laying of the venue of any such suit, action or proceeding in any such court or that any such suit, action or proceeding brought in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum. Process in any such suit, action or proceeding may be served on either party hereto anywhere in the world, whether within or without the jurisdiction of any such court. Without limiting the foregoing, each party hereto agrees that service of process on such party as provided in Section 9.7 shall be deemed effective service of process on such party. 9.5. WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATED TO THIS AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY. 9.6. THIRD PARTY BENEFICIARIES. Except for the indemnification rights under this Agreement of any TWIC Broadband Indemnitee or Company Indemnitee in their respective capacities as such (i) the provisions of this Agreement and each Ancillary Agreement are solely for the benefit of the relevant parties and are not intended to confer upon any Person except the relevant parties any rights or remedies -39-
hereunder or thereunder and (ii) there are no third party beneficiaries of this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement and neither this Agreement nor any Ancillary Agreement shall provide any third person with any remedy, claim, liability, reimbursement, claim of action or other right in excess of those existing without reference to this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement. 9.7. NOTICES. All notices, requests or other communications under this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement shall be in writing (including facsimile transmission) and shall be given: If to the Company to: Time Warner Cable Inc. 290 Harbor Drive Stamford, Connecticut 06902 Attn: Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Fax: (203) 328-4094 With a copy to TWE Holdings II Trust c/o Edith E. Holiday 801 West Street 2nd Floor Wilmington, DE 19801 Fax: (302) 428-1410 With a copy to: Sullivan & Cromwell 125 Broad Street New York, NY 10004 Attn: James C. Morphy, Esq. Fax: (212) 558-3588 If to Holdco to: Warner Communications Inc. c/o AOL Time Warner Inc. 75 Rockefeller Plaza New York, NY 10019 Attn: Executive Vice President and General Counsel Fax: (212) 258-3172 -40-
With a copy to: Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP 1285 Avenue of the Americas New York, New York 10019-6064 Attn: Robert B. Schumer, Esq. Fax: 212-757-3990 or such other address or facsimile number as such party hereto may hereafter specify for such purpose by notice to the other parties hereto. All such notices, requests and other communications shall be deemed received on the date of receipt by the recipient thereof if received prior to 5 p.m. on a Business Day, in the place of receipt. Otherwise, any such notice, request or communication shall be deemed not to have been received until the next succeeding Business Day in the place of receipt. Any party may, by notice to the other party, change the address to which such notices are to be given. 9.8. SEVERABILITY. If any term, provision, covenant or restriction of this Agreement is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction or other authority to be invalid, void or unenforceable, the remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect and shall in no way be affected, impaired or invalidated so long as the economic or legal substance of the transactions contemplated hereby is not affected in any manner adverse to any party hereto. Upon such a determination, the parties hereto shall negotiate in good faith to modify this Agreement so as to effect the original intent of the parties as closely as possible in an acceptable manner so that the transactions contemplated hereby be consummated as originally contemplated to the fullest extent possible. 9.9. EXPENSES. Whether or not the transactions contemplated by this Agreement are consummated, all third party fees, costs and expenses (including governmental transfer taxes, recording fees and other similar fees and impositions) paid or incurred in connection with such transactions will be paid in accordance with Section 12.3 of the Restructuring Agreement. 9.10. HEADINGS. The Article, Section and paragraph headings contained in this Agreement and in the Ancillary Agreements are for reference purposes only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement. 9.11. WAIVERS OF DEFAULT. Waiver by any party of any default by the other party of any provision of this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement shall not be deemed a waiver by the waiving party of any subsequent or other default, nor shall it prejudice the rights of the other party. 9.12. SPECIFIC PERFORMANCE. In the event of any actual or threatened default in, or breach of, any of the terms, conditions and provisions of this -41-
Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement, the party or parties who are or are to be thereby aggrieved shall have the right to specific performance and injunctive or other equitable relief of its rights under this Agreement or such Ancillary Agreement, in addition to any and all other rights and remedies at Law or in equity, and all such rights and remedies shall be cumulative. The parties agree that the remedies at Law for any breach or threatened breach, including monetary damages, are inadequate compensation for any loss and that any defense in any action for specific performance that a remedy at Law would be adequate is waived. Any requirements for the securing or posting of any bond with such remedy are waived. 9.13. AMENDMENTS. No provisions of this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement shall be deemed waived, amended, supplemented or modified by any party, unless such waiver, amendment, supplement or modification is in writing and signed by the authorized representative of the party against whom such waiver, amendment, supplement or modification it is sought to be enforced. 9.14. LATE PAYMENTS. Except as expressly provided to the contrary in this Agreement or in any Ancillary Agreement, any amount not paid when due pursuant to this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement (and any amounts billed or otherwise invoiced or demanded and properly payable that are not paid within 30 days of such bill, invoice or other demand) shall accrue interest at a rate per annum equal to the Prime Rate plus 2%. 9.15. INTERPRETATION. In this Agreement, unless otherwise specified or where the context otherwise requires: (a) a reference to a Recital is to the relevant Recital to this Agreement, to a Section is to the relevant Section of this Agreement and to an Exhibit is to the relevant Exhibit to this Agreement; (b) words importing any gender shall include other genders; (c) words importing the singular only shall include the plural and vice versa; (d) the words "include," "includes" or "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the words "without limitation"; (e) the words "hereof," "herein," "hereunder" and "herewith" and words of similar import shall, unless otherwise stated, be construed to refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision of this Agreement, and Article, clause and Exhibit references are to the Articles, clauses and Exhibits to this Agreement unless otherwise specified; (f) references to any Person or any other agreement or document shall include such Person's successors and permitted assigns; -42-
(g) the parties hereto have participated jointly in the negotiation and drafting of this Agreement, and, in the event an ambiguity or question of intent or interpretation arises, this Agreement shall be construed as if drafted jointly by the parties hereto, and no presumption or burden of proof shall arise favoring or disfavoring any party hereto by virtue of the authorship of any provisions of this Agreement; and (h) unless otherwise expressly provided herein, any Contract or Law defined or referred to herein or in any Contract that is referred to herein means such Contract or Law as from time to time amended, modified or supplemented, including (in the case of a Contract) by waiver or consent and (in the case of a Law) by succession of comparable successor Laws to all attachments thereto and instruments incorporated therein, and any reference in this Agreement to a Law shall be deemed to include any rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. -43-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Amended and Restated Contribution Agreement to be executed by their duly authorized representatives. MOTH HOLDINGS, INC. By: /s/ Rosemarie S. Teta --------------------------------- Name: Rosemarie S. Teta Title: Vice President WARNER COMMUNICATIONS INC. By: /s/ Douglas S. Phillips --------------------------------- Name: Douglas S. Phillips Title: Vice President For purposes of Article IV only: AOL TIME WARNER INC. By: /s/ Spencer B. Hays ----------------------------- Name: Spencer B. Hays Title: Senior Vice President -44-

EXHIBIT: 3.1 EXECUTION COPY RESTATED CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION OF MOTH HOLDINGS, INC. (ORIGINALLY INCORPORATED MARCH 21, 2003) MOTH HOLDINGS, INC., a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware and originally incorporated as New MOTH Holdings, Inc., DOES HEREBY CERTIFY THAT: This Restated Certificate of Incorporation (hereinafter, this "Restated Certificate of Incorporation"), having been duly adopted in accordance with Sections 242 and 245 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "DGCL") and by the written consent of stockholders in accordance with Section 228 of the DGCL, restates and integrates and further amends the provisions of the certificate of incorporation of MOTH Holdings, Inc. to read as follows: ARTICLE I The name of the corporation (hereinafter called the "Corporation") is TIME WARNER CABLE INC. ARTICLE II The address of the Corporation's registered office in the State of Delaware is 1209 Orange Street, City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, Delaware 19801. The name of the Corporation's registered agent at such address is The Corporation Trust Company. ARTICLE III The purpose of the Corporation is to engage in any lawful act or activity for which corporations may be organized under the DGCL. ARTICLE IV Section 1. Authorized Capital. The total number of shares of all classes of stock which the Corporation shall have authority to issue is 2000 shares, consisting of (1) 1000 shares of Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share (the "Preferred Stock"), (2) 925 shares of Class A Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share (the "Class A Common Stock"), and (3) 75 shares of Class B Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share (the "Class B Common Stock" and, together with the Class A Common Stock, the "Common Stock").
Section 2. Certain Defined Terms. For purposes of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation: "Affiliate" shall mean, with respect to any specified Person, any other Person who or which, directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by or is under common control with such specified Person. "AOLTW" shall mean AOL Time Warner Inc. and all Affiliates thereof (other than the Corporation or its Subsidiaries). "Initial Offering Date" shall mean the date upon which shares of the Common Stock shall have been sold in an initial public offering (whether a primary or secondary offering) of the Corporation pursuant to an effective registration statement filed by the Corporation. "Subsidiary" means, with respect to any Person, any other Person of which securities or other ownership interests having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the board of directors or other body performing similar functions are at any time directly or indirectly owned by such Person. "Voting Stock" shall mean, for all purposes under this Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the Class A Common Stock and the Class B Common Stock and any other securities of the Corporation entitled to vote on all matters on which both the Class A Common Stock and the Class B Common Stock are generally entitled to vote. "Whole Board" shall mean the total number of authorized directors, including any vacancies or unfilled newly-created directorships, excluding any Preferred Stock Directors (as hereinafter defined). Section 3. Preferred Stock. The Board of Directors of the Corporation (the "Board of Directors") is hereby expressly authorized to provide, out of the unissued shares of Preferred Stock, for one or more series of Preferred Stock and, with respect to each such series, to fix the number of shares constituting such series and the designation of such series, the voting powers (if any) of the shares of such series, and the preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, if any, and any qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series. The powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights of each series of Preferred Stock, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, if any, may differ from those of any and all other series at any time outstanding. Section 4. Priority of Preferred Stock. Each of the Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock is subject to all the powers, rights, privileges, preferences and priorities of any series of Preferred Stock as shall be stated and expressed herein or as shall be stated and expressed in any Certificates of Designations filed with respect to any series of Preferred Stock pursuant to the authority expressly granted to and vested in the Board of Directors by the provisions of Section 3 of this Article IV. 2
Section 5. Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. (a) Voting Rights. (i) Except as otherwise required by the DGCL or as provided by or pursuant to the provisions of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation (including, without limitation, any certificate filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware establishing the terms of a series of Preferred Stock in accordance with Section 3 of this Article IV): (1) each holder of Class A Common Stock, as such, shall be entitled to one (1) vote for each share of Class A Common Stock held of record by such holder with respect to the election of Class A Directors (as hereinafter defined) as provided in Article V of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation and on all other matters on which holders of Class A Common Stock are entitled to vote; and (2) each holder of Class B Common Stock, as such, shall be entitled to ten (10) votes for each share of Class B Common Stock held of record by such holder with respect to the election of Class B Directors (as hereinafter defined) as provided in Article V of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation and on all other matters on which holders of Class B Common Stock are entitled to vote. (ii) The holders of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock shall vote together as a single class on all matters on which stockholders are generally entitled to vote, except as otherwise required by the DGCL or as provided by or pursuant to this Restated Certificate of Incorporation (including, without limitation, as provided in Article V of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation). (b) Dividends. Subject to the DGCL and the rights, if any, of the holders of any outstanding series of Preferred Stock or any class or series of stock having a preference over or the right to participate with the Common Stock with respect to the payment of dividends, dividends may be declared and paid on the Class A Common Stock and the Class B Common Stock at such times and in such amounts as the Board of Directors in its discretion shall determine; provided that the Board of Directors shall declare no dividend, and no dividend shall be paid, with respect to any outstanding share of Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock, whether paid in cash or property (including, without limitation, shares of Class A Common Stock paid on or with respect to shares of Class A Common Stock or shares of Class B Common Stock paid on or with respect to shares of Class B Common Stock (collectively, "Stock Dividends")), unless, simultaneously, the same dividend (which, in the case of Stock Dividends, shall be stock of the class on or with respect to which the dividend is paid) is paid with respect to each share of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. Stock Dividends with respect to Class A Common Stock may only be paid with shares of Class A Common Stock. Stock Dividends with respect to Class B Common Stock may only be paid with shares of Class B Common Stock. 3
(c) Liquidation Rights. Upon the dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation, subject to the rights, if any, of the holders of any outstanding series of Preferred Stock or any class or series of stock having a preference over or the right to participate with the Common Stock with respect to the distribution of assets of the Corporation upon such dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation, the holders of the Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock, as such, shall be entitled to receive the assets of the Corporation available for distribution to its stockholders ratably in proportion to the number of shares held by them, as a single class. Section 6. Reclassifications. Neither the Class A Common Stock nor the Class B Common Stock may be subdivided, consolidated, reclassified or otherwise changed unless contemporaneously therewith the other class of Common Stock is subdivided, consolidated, reclassified or otherwise changed in the same proportion and in the same manner. Section 7. Mergers, Consolidations, etc. In addition to any other vote required by law, the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the combined voting power of the then outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock, voting together as a single class, shall be required to approve (i) any merger, consolidation or business combination of the Corporation with or into another corporation, whether or not the Corporation is the surviving corporation; provided that any such transaction in which the holders of shares of Class A Common Stock do not receive per share consideration identical (other than with respect to voting rights) to that received by the holders of Class B Common Stock or that would otherwise adversely affect the specific rights and privileges of holders of the Class A Common Stock relative to the effect on the specific rights and privileges of the holders of Class B Common Stock shall also require the approval of the holders of a majority of the voting power of the then outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock held by persons other than AOLTW or (ii) any sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, in each case only if such action is otherwise required to be approved by the stockholders of the Corporation under the DGCL or any other applicable law or stock exchange rule or regulation. Prior to the Initial Offering Date, no merger, consolidation or business combination of the Corporation with or into another corporation shall be made unless the surviving corporation, whether or not the Corporation is the surviving corporation, shall have a certificate of incorporation and bylaws containing provisions that are substantially identical to the provisions in this Restated Certificate of Incorporation or the By-Laws, respectively, the amendment of which, in addition to any other approval, also specifically requires the approval of any holders of Class A Common Stock pursuant to Article VI or Article IX of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation. Section 8. Other. Except as otherwise set forth in this Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the Class A Common Stock and the Class B Common Stock shall be identical in all respects. 4
ARTICLE V Section 1. Certain Defined Terms. (a) For purposes of this Article V: "By-laws" shall mean the by-laws of the Corporation, as amended from time to time. "Class A Directors" shall mean those persons elected as Class A Directors to the Board of Directors pursuant to this Article V. The number of authorized Class A Directors shall at no time constitute (i) less than one-sixth (1/6) of the Whole Board or one (1), whichever is greater, or (ii) greater than one-fifth (1/5) of the Whole Board. "Class B Directors" shall mean those persons elected as Class B Directors pursuant to this Article V. The number of authorized Class B Directors shall at no time constitute less than four-fifths (4/5) of the Whole Board. "Closing Date" shall mean the date upon which the transactions contemplated by the Restructuring Agreement are consummated. "Independent Director" means a director who is "Independent," as that term is defined in Section 303.01 or successor provision of the Listed Company Manual of the New York Stock Exchange, as such rules may be amended from time to time. "Preferred Stock Directors" shall mean directors elected by the holders of any series of Preferred Stock provided for or fixed pursuant to the provisions of Article IV hereof. "Restructuring Agreement" shall mean the Restructuring Agreement, dated as of August 20, 2002, as amended, among AOL Time Warner Inc., the Corporation and the other parties thereto. Section 2. General Powers of Directors. Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the property, affairs and business of the Corporation shall be managed under the direction of the Board of Directors and, except as otherwise expressly provided by the DGCL or this Restated Certificate of Incorporation, all of the powers of the Corporation shall be vested in such Board of Directors. Section 3. Number of Directors. Except as otherwise fixed by or pursuant to the provisions of Article IV of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation relating to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock or any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up, the number of the directors of the Corporation shall be as fixed from time to time pursuant to the By-laws of the Corporation. 5
Section 4. Election of Directors. (a) Class A Directors. The Class A Directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes of the shares of Class A Common Stock present in person or represented by proxy at each annual meeting of stockholders and entitled to vote on the election of Class A Directors. Each Class A Director so elected shall hold office for a term expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders of the Corporation and until such director's successor shall have been duly elected and qualified or until such director's earlier death, resignation, disqualification or removal. (b) Class B Directors. The Class B Directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes of the shares of Class B Common Stock, present in person or represented by proxy at each annual meeting of stockholders and entitled to vote on the election of Class B Directors. Each Class B Director so elected shall hold office for a term expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders of the Corporation and until such director's successor shall have been duly elected and qualified or until such director's earlier death, resignation, disqualification or removal. (c) Removal of Directors; Qualification. Any Class A Director or Class B Director may be removed from office without cause by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the votes represented by the shares then outstanding and entitled to vote in the election of such Class A Directors or Class B Directors, as the case may be. In addition, any Class A Director or Class B Director may be removed for cause as provided in the DGCL. Prior to the Initial Offering Date, notice shall be sent to any Independent Director whose removal is being proposed at least 5 days' prior to such removal. (d) Vacancies. Any and all vacancies and newly created directorships in respect of Class A Directors, however occurring, including, without limitation, by reason of an increase in the size of the Board of Directors, or the death, resignation, disqualification or removal of a director, shall be filled by a majority of Class A Directors then serving on the Board of Directors or, if no Class A Director is then serving on the Board of Directors, by a majority of all directors then serving on the Board of Directors. Any and all vacancies and newly created directorships in respect of Class B Directors, however occurring, including, without limitation, by reason of an increase in the size of the Board of Directors, or the death, resignation, disqualification or removal of a director, shall be filled by a majority of Class B Directors then serving on the Board of Directors or, if no Class B Director is then serving on the Board of Directors, by a majority of all directors then serving on the Board of Directors. Any director elected in accordance with this Section 4(d) of this Article V shall hold office until the next annual meeting of stockholders and until such director's successor shall have been duly elected and qualified or until such director's earlier death, resignation, disqualification or removal. In the event of a vacancy in the Board of Directors, the remaining directors, except as otherwise provided by law, may exercise the powers of the full Board of Directors until such vacancy is filled. 6
Section 5. Notice. Advance notice of nominations for the election of directors shall be given in the manner and to the extent provided in the By-laws of the Corporation. Section 6. Independence of Board of Directors. Prior to the Initial Offering Date, there shall at all times be at least two Independent Directors on the Board of Directors. Following the Initial Offering Date, the requirements of the New York Stock Exchange governing board composition will be met; provided that, in any event, at least 50% of the Board of Directors of the Corporation will consist of Independent Directors for at least three years following the Initial Offering Date. ARTICLE VI Subject to the proviso to the second sentence of this Article VI, in furtherance and not in limitation of the powers conferred upon it by law, the Board of Directors is expressly authorized to adopt, repeal, alter or amend the By-laws of the Corporation. In addition to any requirements of law and any other provision of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation or any resolution or resolutions of the Board of Directors duly adopted pursuant to Article IV of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation with respect to any Preferred Stock (and notwithstanding the fact that a lesser percentage may be specified by law, this Restated Certificate of Incorporation or any such resolution or resolutions), the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the combined voting power of the then outstanding shares of the Voting Stock, voting together as a single class, shall be required for stockholders to adopt, amend, alter or repeal any provision of the By-laws of the Corporation; provided that, in addition to any vote required under this Restated Certificate of Incorporation, Article VI of the By-laws (Transactions With Affiliates) may not be repealed, altered or amended, and no provision of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or the By-laws inconsistent therewith may be adopted, except (A) through and until the fifth anniversary of the Initial Offering Date, by the stockholders of the Corporation (as provided above) and the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the voting power of the then outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock held by persons other than AOLTW and (B) after the fifth anniversary of the Initial Offering Date, by (i) the Board of Directors (as provided above) and the approval of a majority of the total number of the Independent Directors then serving on the Board of Directors or (ii) the stockholders of the Corporation (as provided above) and the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the voting power of the then outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock held by persons other than AOLTW. ARTICLE VII The Corporation hereby expressly states that it shall not be bound or governed by, or otherwise subject to, Section 203 of the DGCL. 7
ARTICLE VIII Section 1. Defined Terms. For purposes of this Article VIII: "Corporate Opportunity" shall mean an investment or business opportunity or prospective economic advantage in which the Corporation could, but for the provisions of this Article VIII, have an interest or expectancy. Section 2. Competing Activities. Except as otherwise expressly provided in an agreement between or among the Corporation and any stockholder or stockholders or in a general policy of the Corporation applicable to the employees of the Corporation, (i) the stockholders of the Corporation (including, without limitation AOLTW and its officers, employees, directors, agents, stockholders, members, partners and Affiliates) may engage or invest in, independently or with others, any business activity of any type or description, including without limitation those that might be the same as or similar to the Corporation's business; (ii) neither the Corporation nor any other stockholder of the Corporation shall have any right in or to such business activities or ventures or to receive or share in any income or proceeds derived therefrom; and (iii) the Corporation shall have no interest or expectancy, and hereby specifically renounces any interest or expectancy, in any such business activities or ventures. Section 3. Corporate Opportunities. (a) If AOLTW (or any of its officers, employees, directors, agents, stockholders, members or partners) acquires knowledge of a potential transaction or matter which may be a Corporate Opportunity or otherwise is then exploiting any Corporate Opportunity, subject to Section 3(b) below, the Corporation shall have no interest in such Corporate Opportunity and no expectancy that such Corporate Opportunity be offered to the Corporation, any such interest or expectancy being hereby renounced, so that, as a result of such renunciation, and for the avoidance of doubt, such Person (i) shall have no duty to communicate or present such Corporate Opportunity to the Corporation, (ii) shall have the right to hold any such Corporate Opportunity for its (and/or its officers', directors', agents', stockholders', members' or partners') own account or to recommend, sell, assign or transfer such Corporate Opportunity to Persons other than the Corporation, and (iii) shall not breach any fiduciary duty to the Corporation, in such Person's capacity as a stockholder of the Corporation, by reason of the fact that such Person pursues or acquires such Corporate Opportunity for itself, directs, sells, assigns or transfers such Corporate Opportunity to another Person, or does not communicate information regarding such Corporate Opportunity to the Corporation. (b) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 3(a) of this Article VIII, the Corporation does not renounce any interest or expectancy it may have in any Corporate Opportunity that is offered to any Person who is an officer or employee of the Corporation, even if such Person is a stockholder of AOLTW, if such opportunity is expressly offered to such person in his or her capacity as an officer or employee of the Corporation. 8
(c) For purposes of this Article VIII only, (i) a director of the Corporation who is Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Corporation or of a committee thereof shall not be deemed to be an officer of the Corporation by reason of holding such position (without regard to whether such position is deemed to be the position of an officer of the corporation under the By-laws of the Corporation), unless such person is a full-time employee of the Corporation; and (ii) the term "Corporation" shall mean the Corporation and all corporations, partnerships, joint ventures, associations and other entities in which the Corporation beneficially owns (directly or indirectly) 50% or more of the outstanding voting stock, voting power, partnership interests or similar voting interests. Section 4. Notice to Holders. Any person purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of the capital stock of the Corporation shall be deemed to have notice of and to have consented to the provisions of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation, including, without limitation, this Article VIII. ARTICLE IX In addition to any requirements of law and any other provisions of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation or any resolution or resolutions of the Board of Directors adopted pursuant to Article IV of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation with respect to any Preferred Stock (and notwithstanding the fact that a lesser percentage may be specified by law, this Restated Certificate of Incorporation or any such resolution or resolutions), both the approval of the Board of Directors and the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the combined voting power of the then outstanding shares of Voting Stock, voting together as a single class, shall be required to amend, alter or repeal, or adopt any provision inconsistent with, this Restated Certificate of Incorporation; provided that, in addition to any vote required by law or under this Restated Certificate of Incorporation, both the affirmative vote of a majority of the voting power of the then outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock held by persons other than AOLTW and the approval of a majority of the total number of Independent Directors then serving on the Board of Directors shall be required to amend, alter or repeal, or adopt any provision inconsistent with, (a) this Restated Certificate of Incorporation, if such action would have a material adverse effect on the rights of the holders of the Class A Common Stock in a manner different from the effect on the rights of the holders of the Class B Common Stock or (b) Section 7 of Article IV (Mergers, Consolidations etc.), Section 6 of Article V (Independence of Board of Directors), Article VI or this Article IX, in each case, of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation. Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Article IX, the Corporation reserves the right to amend, alter or repeal any provision contained in this Restated Certificate of Incorporation, in the manner now or hereafter prescribed by statute, and all rights conferred upon stockholders herein are subject to this reservation. ARTICLE X To the fullest extent that the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware as it exists or as it may hereafter be amended permits the limitation or elimination of the liability of directors, no director of the Corporation shall be liable to 9
the Corporation or its stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director. No amendment to or repeal of this Article X shall apply to or have any effect on the liability or alleged liability of any director of the Corporation for or with respect to any acts or omissions of such director occurring prior to such amendment or repeal. ARTICLE XI At the time this Restated Certificate of Incorporation becomes effective, each of the shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation outstanding immediately prior thereto shall, without any action on the part of the holders thereof, be reclassified into and become 17.9 shares of Class A Common Stock and 7.5 shares of Class B Common Stock. 10

EXHIBIT 3.2 EXECUTION COPY TIME WARNER CABLE INC. BY-LAWS ARTICLE I OFFICES Section 1. Registered Office. The registered office of TIME WARNER CABLE INC. (hereinafter called the "Corporation") in the State of Delaware shall be at 1209 Orange Street, City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, Delaware 19801, and the registered agent shall be The Corporation Trust Company, or such other office or agent as the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the "Board") shall from time to time select. Section 2. Other Offices. The Corporation may also have an office or offices, and keep the books and records of the Corporation, except as may otherwise be required by law, at such other place or places, either within or without the State of Delaware, as the Board may from time to time determine or the business of the Corporation may require. ARTICLE II MEETINGS OF STOCKHOLDERS Section 1. Place of Meeting. All meetings of the stockholders of the Corporation (the "stockholders") shall be held at such place as may be determined by the Board. Section 2. Annual Meetings. The annual meeting of the stockholders for the election of directors and for the transaction of such other business as may properly come before the meeting shall be held on such date and at such hour as shall from time to time be fixed by the Board. Any previously scheduled annual meeting of the stockholders may be postponed by action of the Board taken prior to the time previously scheduled for such annual meeting of the stockholders. Section 3. Special Meetings. Except as otherwise required by law or the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation (the "Certificate") and subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock (as defined in the Certificate) or any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock (as defined in the Certificate) as to dividends or upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up, special meetings of the stockholders for any purpose or purposes may be called by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or a majority of the Board, excluding any vacancies or unfilled newly-created directorships (the "Existing Board"). Only such
2 business as is specified in the notice of any special meeting of the stockholders shall come before such meeting. Section 4. Notice of Meetings. Except as otherwise provided by law, notice of each meeting of the stockholders, whether annual or special, shall be given not less than 10 days nor more than 60 days before the date of the meeting to each stockholder of record entitled to notice of the meeting. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed given when deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, directed to the stockholder at such stockholder's address as it appears on the records of the Corporation. Each such notice shall state the place, date and hour of the meeting, and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called. Notice of any meeting of the stockholders shall not be required to be given to any stockholder who shall attend such meeting in person or by proxy without protesting, prior to or at the commencement of the meeting, the lack of proper notice to such stockholder, or who shall waive notice thereof as provided in Article XI of these By-laws. Notice of adjournment of a meeting of the stockholders need not be given if the date, time and place to which it is adjourned are announced at such meeting, unless the adjournment is for more than 30 days or, after adjournment, a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting. Section 5. Quorum. Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Certificate, the holders of a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of all outstanding shares of stock which are entitled to vote on any particular matter, present in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at any meeting of the stockholders with respect to such matter; provided, however, that in the case of any vote to be taken by classes or series, the holders of a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of the outstanding shares of the particular class or series, present in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum of such class or series. Section 6. Adjournments. The chairman of the meeting or the holders of a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by the stockholders who are present in person or by proxy may adjourn the meeting from time to time whether or not a quorum is present. In the event that a quorum does not exist with respect to any vote to be taken by a particular class or series, the chairman of the meeting or the holders of a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by the stockholders of such class or series who are present in person or by proxy may adjourn the meeting with respect to the vote(s) to be taken by such class or series. At any such adjourned meeting at which a quorum may be present, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally called. Section 7. Order of Business. At each meeting of the stockholders, the Chairman of the Board or, in the absence of the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or, in the absence of the Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer, such person as shall be selected by the Board shall act as chairman of the meeting. The order of business at each such meeting shall be as determined by the chairman of the meeting. The chairman of the meeting shall have the right and authority to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts and things as
3 are necessary or desirable for the proper conduct of the meeting, including, without limitation, the establishment of procedures for the maintenance of order and safety, limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments on the affairs of the Corporation, restrictions on entry to such meeting after the time prescribed for the commencement thereof and the opening and closing of the voting polls. At any annual meeting of the stockholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall have been brought before the annual meeting (i) by or at the direction of the chairman of the meeting or (ii) by any stockholder who is a holder of record at the time of the giving of the notice provided for in this Section 7, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who complies with the procedures set forth in this Section 7. For business properly to be brought before an annual meeting of stockholders by a stockholder, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in proper written form to the Secretary of the Corporation (the "Secretary"). To be timely, a stockholder's notice must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than 90 days nor more than 120 days prior to the first anniversary of the date of the immediately preceding annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than 30 days earlier or more than 60 days later than such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so delivered or received not earlier than the 120th day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such annual meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made; provided, further, that for the purpose of calculating the timeliness of stockholder notices for the first annual meeting of stockholders after the Closing Date (as defined in Section 1 of Article V of the Certificate), the date of the immediately preceding annual meeting shall be deemed to be May 16, 2002. No adjournment or postponement of any meeting shall be deemed to affect any of the time periods set forth in the previous sentence. To be in proper written form, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary shall set forth in writing as to each matter the stockholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting: (i) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the annual meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting; (ii) the name and address, as they appear on the Corporation's books, of the stockholder proposing such business; (iii) the class or series and number of shares of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by the stockholder; (iv) any material interest of the stockholder in such business; and (v) if the stockholder intends to solicit proxies in support of such stockholder's proposal, a representation to that effect. The foregoing notice requirements shall be deemed satisfied by a stockholder if the stockholder has notified the Corporation of his or her intention to present a proposal at an annual meeting and such stockholder's proposal has been included in a proxy statement that has been prepared by management of the Corporation to solicit proxies for such annual meeting; provided, however, that if such stockholder does not appear or send a qualified representative to present such proposal at such annual meeting, the Corporation need not present such proposal for a vote at such meeting, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such vote may have been received by the Corporation. Notwithstanding anything in these By-laws to the contrary, no business shall be conducted at any annual
4 meeting except in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 7. The chairman of an annual meeting may refuse to permit any business to be brought before an annual meeting which fails to comply with the foregoing procedures or, in the case of a stockholder proposal, if the stockholder solicits proxies in support of such stockholder's proposal without having made the representation required by clause (v) of the third preceding sentence. Section 8. List of Stockholders. It shall be the duty of the Secretary or other officer who has charge of the stock ledger to prepare and make, at least 10 days before each meeting of the stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote thereat, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in such stockholder's name. Such list shall be produced and kept available at the times and places required by law. Section 9. Voting. Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Certificate (including, without limitation, Article V of the Certificate), each stockholder of record of any series of Preferred Stock shall be entitled at each meeting of the stockholders to such number of votes, if any, for each share of such stock as may be fixed in the Certificate or in the resolution or resolutions adopted by the Board providing for the issuance of such stock, each stockholder of record of Class B Common Stock (as defined in the Certificate) shall be entitled at each meeting of the stockholders to ten votes for each such share of such stock and each stockholder of record of Class A Common Stock (as defined in the Certificate) shall be entitled at each meeting of the stockholders to one vote for each share of such stock, in each case, registered in such stockholder's name on the books of the Corporation: (1) on the date fixed pursuant to Section 6 of Article VIII of these By-laws as the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to notice of and to vote at such meeting; or (2) if no such record date shall have been so fixed, then at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice of such meeting is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held. Each stockholder entitled to vote at any meeting of the stockholders may authorize not in excess of three persons to act for such stockholder by proxy. Any such proxy shall be delivered to the secretary of such meeting at or prior to the time designated for holding such meeting, but in any event not later than the time designated in the order of business for so delivering such proxies. No such proxy shall be voted or acted upon after three years from its date, unless the proxy provides for a longer period. At each meeting of the stockholders, all corporate actions to be taken by vote of the stockholders (except as otherwise required by law and except as otherwise provided in the Certificate or these By-laws) shall be authorized by a majority of the votes cast by the stockholders entitled to vote thereon who are present in person or represented by proxy, and where a separate vote by class or series is required, a majority
5 of the votes cast by the stockholders of such class or series who are present in person or represented by proxy shall be the act of such class or series. Unless required by law or determined by the chairman of the meeting to be advisable, the vote on any matter, including the election of directors, need not be by written ballot. Section 10. Inspectors. The chairman of the meeting shall appoint two or more inspectors to act at any meeting of the stockholders. Such inspectors shall perform such duties as shall be required by law or specified by the chairman of the meeting. Inspectors need not be stockholders. No director or nominee for the office of director shall be appointed such inspector. Section 11. Public Announcements. For the purpose of Section 7 of this Article II and Section 3 of Article III, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure (i) in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Reuters Information Service or any similar or successor news wire service or (ii) in a communication distributed generally to stockholders and in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Sections 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or any successor provisions thereto. ARTICLE III BOARD OF DIRECTORS Section 1. General Powers. Except as otherwise provided in the Certificate, the business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of the Board, which may exercise all such powers of the Corporation and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by law or by the Certificate directed or required to be exercised or done by the stockholders. Section 2. Number, Qualification and Election. Subject to Article V of the Certificate and except as otherwise fixed by or pursuant to the provisions of Article IV of the Certificate relating to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock or any class or series of stock having preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up, the number of directors constituting the Authorized Board shall initially be 6, and shall thereafter be as determined from time to time by resolution of the Board. The term "Authorized Board" shall mean the total number of authorized directors, whether or not there exist any vacancies or unfilled newly-created directorships. The directors, other than those who may be elected by the holders of shares of any series of Preferred Stock or any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock of the Corporation as to dividends or upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up pursuant to the terms of Article IV of the Certificate or any
6 resolution or resolutions providing for the issuance of such stock adopted by the Board, shall be elected in the manner provided in Article V of the Certificate. Each director shall be at least 21 years of age. Directors need not be stockholders of the Corporation. In any election of directors, the persons receiving a plurality of the votes cast, up to the number of directors to be elected in such election, shall be deemed elected. Section 3. Notification of Nominations. Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock or any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up, nominations for the election of directors may be made by the Board or by any stockholder who is a stockholder of record at the time of giving of the notice of nomination provided for in this Section 3 and who is entitled to vote for the election of directors. Any stockholder of record entitled to vote for the election of directors at a meeting may nominate persons for election as directors only if timely written notice of such stockholder's intent to make such nomination is given, either by personal delivery or by United States mail, postage prepaid, to the Secretary. To be timely, a stockholder's notice must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation (i) with respect to an election to be held at an annual meeting of the stockholders, not less than 90 days nor more than 120 days prior to the first anniversary of the date of the immediately preceding annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than 30 days earlier or more than 60 days later than such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so delivered or received not earlier than the 120th day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such annual meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made; provided, further, that for the purpose of calculating the timeliness of stockholder notices for the first annual meeting of stockholders after the Closing Date (as defined in the Certificate), the date of the immediately preceding annual meeting shall be deemed to be May 16, 2002 and (ii) with respect to an election to be held at a special meeting of the stockholders for the election of directors, not earlier than the 90th day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 60th day prior to such special meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees to be elected at such meeting. No adjournment or postponement of any meeting shall be deemed to affect any of the time periods set forth in the previous sentence. Each such notice shall set forth: (a) the name and address, as they appear on the Corporation's books, of the stockholder who intends to make the nomination and the name and address of the person or persons to be nominated; (b) the class or series and numbers of shares of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by the stockholder; (c) a representation that the stockholder is a holder of record of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote in the election of directors and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to nominate the person or persons specified in the notice; (d) a description of all arrangements or understandings between the stockholder and each nominee and any other person or persons (naming such person or persons) pursuant to which the nomination or
7 nominations are to be made by the stockholder; (e) such other information regarding each nominee proposed by such stockholder as would have been required to be included in a proxy statement filed pursuant to the proxy rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission had each nominee been nominated, or intended to be nominated, by the Board; (f) the executed written consent of each nominee to serve as a director of the Corporation if so elected; and (g) if the stockholder intends to solicit proxies in support of such stockholder's nominee(s), a representation to that effect. The chairman of the meeting may refuse to acknowledge the nomination of any person not made in compliance with the foregoing procedure or if the stockholder solicits proxies in favor of such stockholder's nominee(s) without having made the representations required by the immediately preceding sentence. Only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 3 shall be eligible to serve as directors of the Corporation. Notwithstanding anything in the immediately preceding paragraph of this Section 3 to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board at an annual meeting of the stockholders is increased and there is no public announcement naming all of the nominees for directors or specifying the size of the increased Board made by the Corporation at least 90 days prior to the first anniversary of the date of the immediately preceding annual meeting, a stockholder's notice required by this Section 3 shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to or mailed to and received by the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the 10th day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the Corporation. Section 4. Quorum and Manner of Acting. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Certificate or these By-laws, a majority of the Existing Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of the Board, and the vote of a majority of the directors present at any meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board. The chairman of the meeting or a majority of the directors present may adjourn the meeting to another time and place whether or not a quorum is present. At any adjourned meeting at which a quorum is present, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally called. Section 5. Place of Meeting. Subject to Sections 6 and 7 of this Article III, the Board may hold its meetings at such place or places within or without the State of Delaware as the Board may from time to time determine or as shall be specified or fixed in the respective notices or waivers of notice thereof. Section 6. Regular Meetings. No fewer than one regular meeting per year of the Board shall be held at such times as the Board shall from time to time by resolution determine. If any day fixed for a regular meeting shall be a legal holiday under the laws of the place where the meeting is to be held, the meeting which would otherwise be held on that day shall be held at the same hour on the next succeeding business day.
8 Section 7. Special Meetings. Special meetings of the Board shall be held whenever called by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or by a majority of the Existing Board, and shall be held at such place, on such date and at such time as he or they, as applicable, shall fix. Section 8. Notice of Meetings. Notice of regular meetings of the Board or of any adjourned meeting thereof need not be given. Notice of each special meeting of the Board shall be given by overnight delivery service or by overnight mail to each director, in either case addressed to such director at such director's residence or usual place of business, at least two days before the day on which the meeting is to be held or shall be sent to such director at such place by telecopy or by electronic transmission or shall be given personally or by telephone, not later than the day before the meeting is to be held, but notice need not be given to any director who shall, either before or after the meeting, submit a waiver of such notice or who shall attend such meeting without protesting, prior to or at its commencement, the lack of notice to such director. Unless otherwise required by these By-laws, every such notice shall state the time and place but need not state the purpose of the meeting. Section 9. Rules and Regulations. The Board shall adopt such rules and regulations not inconsistent with the provisions of law, the Certificate or these By-laws for the conduct of its meetings and management of the affairs of the Corporation as the Board may deem proper. Section 10. Participation in Meeting by Means of Communications Equipment. Any one or more members of the Board or any committee thereof may participate in any meeting of the Board or of any such committee by means of conference telephone or other communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other or as otherwise permitted by law, and such participation in a meeting shall constitute presence in person at such meeting. Section 11. Action Without Meeting. Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board or any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting if all of the members of the Board or of any such committee consent thereto in writing or by electronic transmission, and the writing or writings or electronic transmission or transmissions are filed with the minutes or proceedings of the Board or of such committee. Such filing shall be in paper form if the minutes are maintained in paper form and shall be in electronic form if the minutes are maintained in electronic form. Section 12. Resignations. Any director of the Corporation may at any time resign by giving notice to the Board, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the Secretary in writing or by electronic transmission. Such resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein or, if the time be not specified therein, upon receipt thereof; and, unless otherwise specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective. Section 13. Vacancies. Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock or any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common
9 Stock of the Corporation as to dividends or upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up, any vacancies on the Board resulting from death, resignation, removal or other cause shall only be filled as contemplated by Article V of the Certificate. Section 14. Compensation. Each director, in consideration of such person serving as a director, shall be entitled to receive from the Corporation such amount per annum and such fees (payable in cash or stock-based compensation) for attendance at meetings of the Board or of committees of the Board, or both, as the Board shall from time to time determine. In addition, each director shall be entitled to receive from the Corporation reimbursement for the reasonable expenses incurred by such person in connection with the performance of such person's duties as a director. Nothing contained in this Section 14 shall preclude any director from serving the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor. ARTICLE IV COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Section 1. Establishment of Committees of the Board of Directors. (a) Except as otherwise provided by law, the Board may, by resolution passed by a majority of the Existing Board, designate one or more committees, each committee to consist of one or more of the directors of the Corporation. The Board may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. (b) In the absence or disqualification of a member of a committee, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he or they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member. (c) Any such committee, to the extent provided in the resolution of the Board, shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board to the extent provided by Section 141(c)(2) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "DGCL") as it exists now or may hereafter be amended. (d) Each committee of the Board shall keep regular minutes of its meetings and report the same to the Board when required. Section 2. Procedure. Any committee of the Board may adopt such rules and regulations not inconsistent with the provisions of law, the Certificate or these By-laws for the conduct of its meetings as such committee of the Board may deem proper.
10 ARTICLE V OFFICERS Section 1. Number; Term of Office. The officers of the Corporation shall be elected by the Board and shall consist of: a Chairman of the Board, a Chief Executive Officer, a Chief Financial Officer, a Treasurer, a Secretary and a Controller and, as the Board may from time to time determine, one or more Vice Chairmen and Vice Presidents (including, without limitation, Assistant, Executive, Senior and Group Vice Presidents) and such other officers or agents with such titles and such duties as the Board may from time to time determine, each to have such authority, functions or duties as set forth in these By-laws or as determined by the Board, and each to hold office for such term as may be prescribed by the Board and until such person's successor shall have been chosen and shall qualify, or until such person's death or resignation, or until such person's removal in the manner hereinafter provided. One person may hold the offices and perform the duties of any two or more of said officers; provided, however, that no officer shall execute, acknowledge or verify any instrument in more than one capacity if such instrument is required by law, the Certificate or these By-laws to be executed, acknowledged or verified by two or more officers. The Board may require any officer or agent to give security for the faithful performance of such person's duties. Section 2. Removal. Any officer may be removed, either with or without cause, by the Board at any meeting thereof called for such purpose. Section 3. Resignation. Any officer may resign at any time by giving notice to the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the Secretary. Any such resignation shall take effect at the date of receipt of such notice or at any later date specified therein; and, unless otherwise specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective. Section 4. Chairman of the Board. The Chairman of the Board shall be deemed an officer of the Corporation, subject to the control of the Board, and shall report directly to the Board. Section 5. Chief Executive Officer. The Chief Executive Officer shall have general supervision and direction of the business and affairs of the Corporation, shall be responsible for corporate policy and strategy, and shall report directly to the Chairman of the Board. Unless otherwise provided in these By-laws, all other officers of the Corporation shall report directly to the Chief Executive Officer or as otherwise determined by the Chief Executive Officer. The Chief Executive Officer shall, if present and in the absence of the Chairman of the Board, preside at meetings of the stockholders and of the Board. Section 6. Chief Financial Officer. The Chief Financial Officer, if any, shall exercise all the powers and perform the duties of the office of the chief financial officer and in general have overall supervision of the financial operations of the Corporation. The Chief Financial Officer shall, when requested, counsel with and advise
11 the other officers of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties as he may agree with the Chief Executive Officer or as the Board may from time to time determine. Section 7. Vice Presidents. The Vice President, if any, shall have such powers and duties as shall be prescribed by his superior officer or the Chief Executive Officer. A Vice President shall, when requested, counsel with and advise the other officers of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties as he may agree with the Chief Executive Officer or as the Board may from time to time determine. A Vice President need not be an officer of the Corporation and shall not be deemed an officer of the Corporation unless elected by the Board. Section 8. Treasurer. The Treasurer, if any, shall supervise and be responsible for all the funds and securities of the Corporation; the deposit of all moneys and other valuables to the credit of the Corporation in depositories of the Corporation; borrowings and compliance with the provisions of all indentures, agreements and instruments governing such borrowings to which the Corporation is a party; the disbursement of funds of the Corporation and the investment of its funds; and in general shall perform all of the duties incident to the office of the Treasurer. The Treasurer shall, when requested, counsel with and advise the other officers of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties as he may agree with the Chief Executive Officer or as the Board may from time to time determine. Section 9. Controller. The Controller, if any, shall be the chief accounting officer of the Corporation. The Controller shall, when requested, counsel with and advise the other officers of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties as he may agree with the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer or as the Board may from time to time determine. Section 10. Secretary. It shall be the duty of the Secretary, if any, to act as secretary at all meetings of the Board, of the committees of the Board and of the stockholders and to record the proceedings of such meetings in a book or books to be kept for that purpose; the Secretary shall see that all notices required to be given by the Corporation are duly given and served; the Secretary shall be custodian of the seal of the Corporation and shall affix the seal or cause it to be affixed to all certificates of stock of the Corporation (unless the seal of the Corporation on such certificates shall be a facsimile, as hereinafter provided) and to all documents, the execution of which on behalf of the Corporation under its seal is duly authorized in accordance with the provisions of these By-laws; the Secretary shall have charge of the books, records and papers of the Corporation and shall see that the reports, statements and other documents required by law to be kept and filed are properly kept and filed; and in general shall perform all of the duties incident to the office of Secretary. The Secretary shall, when requested, counsel with and advise the other officers of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties as he may agree with the Chief Executive Officer or as the Board may from time to time determine. Section 11. Assistant Treasurers, Assistant Controllers and Assistant Secretaries. Any Assistant Treasurers, Assistant Controllers and Assistant Secretaries
12 shall perform such duties as shall be assigned to them by the Board or by the Treasurer, Controller or Secretary, respectively, or by the Chief Executive Officer. An Assistant Treasurer, Assistant Controller or Assistant Secretary need not be an officer of the Corporation and shall not be deemed an officer of the Corporation unless elected by the Board. Section 12. Additional Matters. The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer of the Corporation shall have the authority to designate employees of the corporation to have the title of Vice President, Assistant Vice President, Assistant Treasurer, Assistant Controller or Assistant Secretary. Any employee so designated shall have the powers and duties determined by the officer making such designation. The persons upon whom such titles are conferred shall not be deemed officers of the Corporation unless elected by the Board. ARTICLE VI TRANSACTIONS WITH AFFILIATES Section 1. Defined Terms. For purposes of this Article VI: "Affiliate" shall mean, with respect to any specified Person, any other Person who or which, directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by or is under common control with such specified Person. "AOLTW" shall mean AOL Time Warner Inc. and all Affiliates thereof (other than the Corporation and its Subsidiaries). "Closing Date" has the meaning ascribed to it in Section 1 of Article V of the Certificate. "Independent Director" has the meaning ascribed to it in Section 1 of Article V of the Certificate. "Person" shall mean any individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, firm, group (as such term is used under Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended), joint venture, association, trust, unincorporated organization, estate, trust or other entity. "Restructuring Agreement" shall mean the Restructuring Agreement, dated as of August 20, 2002, among AOL Time Warner Inc., the Corporation and the other parties thereto, as amended from time to time. "Subsidiary" shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Section 2 of Article IV of the Certificate.
13 Section 2. Affiliate Transactions. (a) Neither the Corporation nor any of its Subsidiaries shall enter into, extend or renew any transaction, agreement or arrangement or series of transactions, agreements or arrangements or amend in any material respect any previously existing transaction, agreement or arrangement with AOLTW (each, an "Affiliate Transaction"), unless: (i) such Affiliate Transaction is on terms that, when taken as a whole, are substantially as favorable to the Corporation or such Subsidiary as the Corporation or such Subsidiary would be able to obtain at the time of entering into the Affiliate Transaction in a comparable arm's-length transaction, agreement or arrangement with a third party other than AOLTW; and (ii) in the case of an Affiliate Transaction involving reasonably anticipated payments or other consideration to be made or provided by the Corporation over the term of such Affiliate Transaction of $50 million or greater, a majority of the Independent Directors then in office approve such Affiliate Transaction; provided, however, that nothing contained in this Article VI shall be deemed to prohibit, restrict or invalidate any Affiliate Transaction entered into prior to the Closing Date or any Affiliate Transaction expressly contemplated by the Restructuring Agreement or any other Transaction Agreement (as defined in the Restructuring Agreement). (b) This Article VI shall terminate on the first date upon which the Corporation is no longer an Affiliate of AOLTW. ARTICLE VII INDEMNIFICATION Section 1. Right to Indemnification. The Corporation, to the fullest extent permitted or required by the DGCL or other applicable law, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended, shall indemnify and hold harmless any person who is or was a director or officer of the Corporation and who is or was involved in any manner (including, without limitation, as a party or a witness) or is threatened to be made so involved in any threatened, pending or completed investigation, claim, action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (including, without limitation, any action, suit or proceedings by or in the right of the Corporation to procure a judgment in its favor) (a "Proceeding") by reason of the fact that such person is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise (including, without limitation, any employee benefit plan) (a "Covered Entity") against all expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection with such Proceeding; provided, however, that the foregoing shall not apply to a director or officer of the Corporation with
14 respect to a Proceeding that was commenced by such director or officer unless the proceeding was commenced either with the approval of the Board or after a Change in Control (as hereinafter defined in Section 5(d) of this Article VII). Any director or officer of the Corporation eligible for indemnification as provided in this Section 1 is hereinafter called an "Indemnitee." Any right of an Indemnitee to indemnification shall be a contract right and shall include the right to receive, prior to the conclusion of any Proceeding, payment of any expenses incurred by the Indemnitee in connection with such Proceeding, consistent with the provisions of applicable law as then in effect and the other provisions of this Article VII. Section 2. Insurance, Contracts and Funding. The Corporation may purchase and maintain insurance to protect itself and any director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation or of any Covered Entity against any expenses, judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement as specified in Section 1 of this Article VII or incurred by any such director, officer, employee or agent in connection with any Proceeding referred to in Section 1 of this Article VII, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify such person against such expense, liability or loss under the DGCL. The Corporation may enter into contracts with any director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation or of any Covered Entity in furtherance of the provisions of this Article VII and may create a trust fund, grant a security interest or use other means (including, without limitation, a letter of credit) to ensure the payment of such amounts as may be necessary to effect indemnification as provided or authorized in this Article VII. Section 3. Advancement of Expenses. All reasonable expenses (including attorneys' fees) incurred by or on behalf of the Indemnitee in connection with any Proceeding shall be advanced to the Indemnitee by the Corporation within 20 days after the receipt by the Corporation of a statement or statements from the Indemnitee requesting such advance or advances from time to time, whether prior to or after final disposition of such Proceeding. Such statement or statements shall reasonably evidence the expenses incurred by the Indemnitee and shall include or be accompanied by an undertaking by or on behalf of the Indemnitee to repay the amounts advanced if ultimately it should be determined that the Indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified against such expenses pursuant to this Article VII. Section 4. Not Exclusive Rights. The rights of indemnification and advancement of expenses provided in this Article VII shall not be exclusive of any other rights to which an Indemnitee may otherwise be entitled, and the provisions of this Article VII shall inure to the benefit of the heirs and legal representatives of any Indemnitee under this Article VII and shall be applicable to Proceedings commenced or continuing after the adoption of this Article VII, whether arising from acts or omissions occurring before or after such adoption. Section 5. Procedures; Presumptions and Effect of Certain Proceedings; Remedies. In furtherance, but not in limitation of the foregoing provisions, the following procedures, presumptions and remedies shall apply with respect to the right to indemnification under this Article VII:
15 (a) Procedure for Determination of Entitlement to Indemnification. (i) To obtain indemnification under this Article VII, an Indemnitee shall submit to the Secretary a written request, including such documentation and information as is reasonably available to the Indemnitee and reasonably necessary to determine whether and to what extent the Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification (the "Supporting Documentation"). The determination of the Indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification shall be made not later than 60 days after receipt by the Corporation of the written request for indemnification together with the Supporting Documentation. The Secretary shall, promptly upon receipt of such a request for indemnification, advise the Board in writing that the Indemnitee has requested indemnification. (ii) The Indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification under this Article VII shall be determined in any of the following ways: (A) by a majority vote of the Disinterested Directors (as hereinafter defined in Section 5(d) of this Article VII), whether or not they constitute a quorum of the Board, or by a committee of Disinterested Directors designated by a majority vote of the Disinterested Directors; (B) by a written opinion of Independent Counsel (as hereinafter defined in Section 5(d) of this Article VII) if (x) a Change in Control shall have occurred and the Indemnitee so requests or (y) there are no Disinterested Directors or a majority of such Disinterested Directors so directs; (C) by the stockholders of the Corporation; or (D) as provided in Section 5(b) of this Article VII. (iii) In the event the determination of entitlement to indemnification is to be made by Independent Counsel pursuant to Section 5(a)(ii) of this Article VII, such Independent Counsel shall be selected by: (x) a majority of the Board, if such selection is made prior to the Initial Offering Date (as defined in Section 2 of Article IV of the Certificate); or (y) a majority of the audit committee of the Board, if such selection is made following the Initial Offering Date, but only, in each case, an Independent Counsel to which the Indemnitee does not reasonably object; provided, however, that if a Change in Control shall have occurred, the Indemnitee shall select such Independent Counsel, but only an Independent Counsel to which a majority of the Disinterested Directors or, if there are no such Disinterested Directors, a majority of the audit committee of the Board, do not reasonably object. (b) Presumptions and Effect of Certain Proceedings. Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Article VII, if a Change in Control shall have occurred, the Indemnitee shall be presumed to be entitled to indemnification under this Article VII (with respect to actions or omissions occurring prior to such Change in Control) upon submission of a request for indemnification together with the Supporting Documentation in accordance with Section 5(a)(i) of this Article VII, and thereafter the Corporation shall have the burden of proof to overcome that presumption in reaching a contrary determination. In any event, if the person or persons empowered under Section 5(a) of this Article VII to determine entitlement to indemnification shall not have
16 been appointed or shall not have made a determination within 60 days after receipt by the Corporation of the request therefor, together with the Supporting Documentation, the Indemnitee shall be deemed to be, and shall be, entitled to indemnification unless (A) the Indemnitee misrepresented or failed to disclose a material fact in making the request for indemnification or in the Supporting Documentation or (B) such indemnification is prohibited by law. The termination of any Proceeding described in Section 1 of this Article VII, or of any claim, issue or matter therein, by judgment, order, settlement or conviction, or upon a plea of nolo contendere or its equivalent, shall not, of itself, adversely affect the right of the Indemnitee to indemnification or create a presumption that the Indemnitee did not act in good faith and in a manner which the Indemnitee reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation or, with respect to any criminal proceeding, that the Indemnitee had reasonable cause to believe that such conduct was unlawful. (c) Remedies of Indemnitee. (i) In the event that a determination is made pursuant to Section 5(a) of this Article VII that the Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification under this Article VII, (A) the Indemnitee shall be entitled to seek an adjudication of entitlement to such indemnification either, at the Indemnitee's sole option, in (x) an appropriate court of the State of Delaware or any other court of competent jurisdiction or (y) an arbitration to be conducted by a single arbitrator pursuant to the rules of the American Arbitration Association; (B) any such judicial proceeding or arbitration shall be de novo and the Indemnitee shall not be prejudiced by reason of such adverse determination; and (C) if a Change in Control shall have occurred, in any such judicial proceeding or arbitration, the Corporation shall have the burden of proving that the Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification under this Article VII (with respect to actions or omissions occurring prior to such Change in Control). (ii) If a determination shall have been made or deemed to have been made, pursuant to Section 5(a) or (b) of this Article VII, that the Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification, the Corporation shall be obligated to pay the amounts constituting such indemnification within five days after such determination has been made or deemed to have been made and shall be conclusively bound by such determination unless (A) the Indemnitee misrepresented or failed to disclose a material fact in making the request for indemnification or in the Supporting Documentation or (B) such indemnification is prohibited by law. In the event that (X) advancement of expenses is not timely made pursuant to Section 3 of this Article VII or (Y) payment of indemnification is not made within five days after a determination of entitlement to indemnification has been made or deemed to have been made pursuant to Section 5(a) or (b) of this Article VII, the Indemnitee shall be entitled to seek judicial enforcement of the Corporation's obligation to pay to the Indemnitee such advancement of expenses or indemnification. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Corporation may bring an action, in an appropriate court in the State of Delaware or any other court of competent jurisdiction, contesting the right of the Indemnitee to receive indemnification hereunder due to the occurrence of an event described in sub-clause (A) or (B) of this clause (ii) (a "Disqualifying Event"); provided, however, that in any such action the Corporation shall have the burden of proving the occurrence of such Disqualifying Event.
17 (iii) The Corporation shall be precluded from asserting in any judicial proceeding or arbitration commenced pursuant to this Section 5(c) that the procedures and presumptions of this Article VII are not valid, binding and enforceable and shall stipulate in any such court or before any such arbitrator that the Corporation is bound by all the provisions of this Article VII. (iv) In the event that the Indemnitee, pursuant to this Section 5(c), seeks a judicial adjudication of or an award in arbitration to enforce rights under, or to recover damages for breach of, this Article VII, the Indemnitee shall be entitled to recover from the Corporation, and shall be indemnified by the Corporation against, any expenses actually and reasonably incurred by the Indemnitee if the Indemnitee prevails in such judicial adjudication or arbitration. If it shall be determined in such judicial adjudication or arbitration that the Indemnitee is entitled to receive part but not all of the indemnification or advancement of expenses sought, the expenses incurred by the Indemnitee in connection with such judicial adjudication or arbitration shall be prorated accordingly. (d) Definitions. For purposes of this Article VII: "Authorized Officer" means any one of the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, any Vice President or the Secretary of the Corporation. "Change in Control" means the occurrence of any of the following: (w) any merger or consolidation of the Corporation in which the Corporation is not the continuing or surviving corporation or pursuant to which shares of the Common Stock would be converted into cash, securities or other property, other than a merger of the Corporation in which the holders of the Common Stock immediately prior to the merger have the same proportionate ownership of common stock of the surviving corporation immediately after the merger, (x) any sale, lease, exchange or other transfer (in one transaction or a series of related transactions) of all, or substantially all, the assets of the Corporation, or the liquidation or dissolution of the Corporation or (y) individuals who would constitute a majority of the members of the Board elected at any meeting of stockholders or by written consent (excluding any Preferred Stock Directors, as defined in the Certificate) shall be elected to the Board and the election or the nomination for election by the stockholders of such directors was not approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors in office immediately prior to such election. "Disinterested Director" means a director of the Corporation who is not or was not a party to the Proceeding in respect of which indemnification is sought by the Indemnitee. "Independent Counsel" means a law firm or a member of a law firm that neither currently is, nor in the past five years has been, retained to represent: (x) the Corporation or the Indemnitee in any matter material to either such party or (y) any other party to the Proceeding giving rise to a claim for indemnification under this Article VII. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the term "Independent Counsel" shall not include any
18 person who, under the applicable standards of professional conduct would have a conflict of interest in representing either the Corporation or the Indemnitee in an action to determine the Indemnitee's rights under this Article VII. Section 6. Severability. If any provision or provisions of this Article VII shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever: (a) the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Article VII (including, without limitation, all portions of any paragraph of this Article VII containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, that are not themselves invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby; and (b) to the fullest extent possible, the provisions of this Article VII (including, without limitation, all portions of any paragraph of this Article VII containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, that are not themselves invalid, illegal or enforceable) shall be construed so as to give effect to the intent manifested by the provision held invalid, illegal or unenforceable. Section 7. Indemnification of Employees Serving as Directors. The Corporation, to the fullest extent of the provisions of this Article VII with respect to the indemnification of directors and officers of the Corporation, shall indemnify any person who is or was an employee of the Corporation and who is or was involved in any manner (including, without limitation, as a party or a witness) or is threatened to be made so involved in any threatened, pending or completed Proceeding by reason of the fact that such employee is or was serving (a) as a director of a corporation in which the Corporation had at the time of such service, directly or indirectly, a 50% or greater equity interest (a "Subsidiary Director") or (b) at the written request of an Authorized Officer, as a director of another corporation in which the Corporation had at the time of such service, directly or indirectly, a less than 50% equity interest (or no equity interest at all) or in a capacity equivalent to that of a director for any partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise (including, without limitation, any employee benefit plan) in which the Corporation has an interest (a "Requested Employee"), against all expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by such Subsidiary Director or Requested Employee in connection with such Proceeding. The Corporation shall also advance expenses incurred by any such Subsidiary Director or Requested Employee in connection with any such Proceeding, consistent with the provisions of this Article VII with respect to the advancement of expenses of directors and officers of the Corporation. Section 8. Indemnification of Employees and Agents. Notwithstanding any other provision or provisions of this Article VII, the Corporation, to the fullest extent of the provisions of this Article VII with respect to the indemnification of directors and officers of the Corporation, may indemnify any person other than a director or officer of the Corporation, a Subsidiary Director or a Requested Employee, who is or was an employee or agent of the Corporation and who is or was involved in any manner (including, without limitation, as a party or a witness) or is threatened to be made so involved in any threatened, pending or completed Proceeding by reason of the fact that such person is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation or of a Covered Entity against all expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and
19 amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection with such Proceeding. The Corporation may also advance expenses incurred by such employee or agent in connection with any such Proceeding, consistent with the provisions of this Article VII with respect to the advancement of expenses of directors and officers of the Corporation. ARTICLE VIII CAPITAL STOCK Section 1. Certificates for Shares. The shares of stock of the Corporation shall be represented by certificates, or shall be uncertificated shares that may be evidenced by a book-entry system maintained by the registrar of such stock, or a combination of both. To the extent that shares are represented by certificates, such certificates shall be in such form as shall be approved by the Board. The certificates representing shares of stock of each class shall be signed by, or in the name of, the Corporation by the Chairman of the Board or by any Vice President, and by the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary or the Treasurer or any Assistant Treasurer of the Corporation, and sealed with the seal of the Corporation, which may be a facsimile thereof. Any or all such signatures may be facsimiles. Although any officer, transfer agent or registrar whose manual or facsimile signature is affixed to such a certificate ceases to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate has been issued, it may nevertheless be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if such officer, transfer agent or registrar were still such at the date of its issue. The stock ledger and blank share certificates shall be kept by the Secretary or by a transfer agent or by a registrar or by any other officer or agent designated by the Board. Section 2. Transfer of Shares. Transfers of shares of stock of each class of the Corporation shall be made only on the books of the Corporation upon authorization by the registered holder thereof, or by such holder's attorney thereunto authorized by a power of attorney duly executed and filed with the Secretary or a transfer agent for such stock, if any, and if such shares are represented by a certificate, upon surrender of the certificate or certificates for such shares properly endorsed or accompanied by a duly executed stock transfer power (or by proper evidence of succession, assignment or authority to transfer) and the payment of any taxes thereon; provided, however, that the Corporation shall be entitled to recognize and enforce any lawful restriction on transfer. The person in whose name shares are registered on the books of the Corporation shall be deemed the owner thereof for all purposes as regards the Corporation; provided, however, that whenever any transfer of shares shall be made for collateral security and not absolutely, and written notice thereof shall be given to the Secretary or to such transfer agent, such fact shall be stated in the entry of the transfer. No transfer of shares shall be valid as against the Corporation, its stockholders and creditors for any purpose, except to render the transferee liable for the debts of the
20 Corporation to the extent provided by law, until it shall have been entered in the stock records of the Corporation by an entry showing from and to whom transferred. Section 3. Registered Stockholders and Addresses of Stockholders. The Corporation shall be entitled to recognize the exclusive right of a person registered on its records as the owner of shares of stock to receive dividends and to vote as such owner, shall be entitled to hold liable for calls and assessments a person registered on its records as the owner of shares of stock, and shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share or shares of stock on the part of any other person, whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof, except as otherwise provided by the laws of Delaware. Each stockholder shall designate to the Secretary or transfer agent of the Corporation an address at which notices of meetings and all other corporate notices may be given to such person, and, if any stockholder shall fail to designate such address, corporate notices may be given to such person by mail directed to such person at such person's post office address, if any, as the same appears on the stock record books of the Corporation or at such person's last known post office address. Section 4. Lost, Destroyed and Mutilated Certificates. The holder of any certificate representing any shares of stock of the Corporation shall immediately notify the Corporation of any loss, theft, destruction or mutilation of such certificate; the Corporation may issue to such holder a new certificate or certificates for shares, upon the surrender of the mutilated certificate or, in the case of loss, theft or destruction of the certificate, upon satisfactory proof of such loss, theft or destruction; the Board, or a committee designated thereby, or the transfer agents and registrars for the stock, may, in their discretion, require the owner of the lost, stolen or destroyed certificate, or such person's legal representative, to give the Corporation a bond in such sum and with such surety or sureties as they may direct to indemnify the Corporation and said transfer agents and registrars against any claim that may be made on account of the alleged loss, theft or destruction of any such certificate or the issuance of such new certificate. Section 5. Regulations. The Board may make such additional rules and regulations as it may deem expedient concerning the issue, transfer and registration of certificated or uncertificated shares of stock of each class and series of the Corporation and may make such rules and take such action as it may deem expedient concerning the issue of certificates in lieu of certificates claimed to have been lost, destroyed, stolen or mutilated. Section 6. Fixing Date for Determination of Stockholders of Record. In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of the stockholders or any adjournment thereof, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board may fix, in advance, a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board, and which shall not be more than 60 days nor less than 10 days
21 before the date of such meeting. A determination of stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of the stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting. Section 7. Transfer Agents and Registrars. The Board may appoint, or authorize any officer or officers to appoint, one or more transfer agents and one or more registrars. ARTICLE IX SEAL The Board shall approve a suitable corporate seal, which shall be in the form of a circle and shall bear the full name of the Corporation and shall be in the charge of the Secretary. The seal may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or in any other manner reproduced. ARTICLE X FISCAL YEAR The fiscal year of the Corporation shall end on the 31st day of December in each year. ARTICLE XI WAIVER OF NOTICE Whenever any notice whatsoever is required to be given by these By-laws, by the Certificate or by law, the person entitled thereto may, either before or after the meeting or other matter in respect of which such notice is to be given, waive such notice in writing or as otherwise permitted by law, which shall be filed with or entered upon the records of the meeting or the records kept with respect to such other matter, as the case may be, and in such event such notice need not be given to such person and such waiver shall be deemed equivalent to such notice. ARTICLE XII AMENDMENTS These By-laws may be altered, amended or repealed, in whole or in part, or new By-laws may be adopted by the stockholders or by the Board at any meeting thereof in accordance with the terms of Article VI of the Certificate; provided, however, that notice of such alteration, amendment, repeal or adoption of new By-laws is contained
22 in the notice of such meeting of the stockholders or in the notice of such meeting of the Board and, in the latter case, such notice is given not less than twenty-four hours prior to the meeting. ARTICLE XIII MISCELLANEOUS Section 1. Execution of Documents. The Board or any committee thereof shall designate the officers, employees and agents of the Corporation who shall have power to execute and deliver deeds, contracts, mortgages, bonds, debentures, notes, checks, drafts and other orders for the payment of money and other documents for and in the name of the Corporation and may authorize (including authority to redelegate) by written instrument to other officers, employees or agents of the Corporation. Such delegation may be by resolution or otherwise and the authority granted shall be general or confined to specific matters, all as the Board or any such committee may determine. In the absence of such designation referred to in the first sentence of this Section, the officers of the Corporation shall have such power so referred to, to the extent incident to the normal performance of their duties. Section 2. Deposits. All funds of the Corporation not otherwise employed shall be deposited from time to time to the credit of the Corporation or otherwise as the Board or any committee thereof or any officer of the Corporation to whom power in respect of financial operations shall have been delegated by the Board or any such committee or in these By-laws shall select. Section 3. Checks. All checks, drafts and other orders for the payment of money out of the funds of the Corporation, and all notes or other evidences of indebtedness of the Corporation, shall be signed on behalf of the Corporation in such manner as shall from time to time be determined by resolution of the Board or of any committee thereof or by any officer of the Corporation to whom power in respect of financial operations shall have been delegated by the Board or any such committee thereof or as set forth in these By-laws. Section 4. Proxies in Respect of Stock or Other Securities of Other Corporations. The Board or any committee thereof shall designate the officers of the Corporation who shall have authority from time to time to appoint an agent or agents of the Corporation to exercise in the name and on behalf of the Corporation the powers and rights which the Corporation may have as the holder of stock or other securities in any other corporation or other entity, and to vote or consent in respect of such stock or securities; such designated officers may instruct the person or persons so appointed as to the manner of exercising such powers and rights; and such designated officers may execute or cause to be executed in the name and on behalf of the Corporation and under its corporate seal, or otherwise, such written proxies, powers of attorney or other instruments as they may deem necessary or proper in order that the Corporation may exercise its said powers and rights.
23 Section 5. Subject to Law and Certificate of Incorporation. All powers, duties and responsibilities provided for in these By-laws, whether or not explicitly so qualified, are qualified by the provisions of the Certificate and applicable laws.

EXHIBIT 3.3 EXECUTION COPY TIME WARNER ENTERTAINMENT COMPANY, L.P. AMENDED AND RESTATED AGREEMENT OF LIMITED PARTNERSHIP DATED AS OF MARCH 31, 2003
TABLE OF CONTENTS i
ii
AMENDED AND RESTATED AGREEMENT OF LIMITED PARTNERSHIP AMENDED AND RESTATED AGREEMENT OF LIMITED PARTNERSHIP ("Agreement"), dated as of March 31, 2003, of TIME WARNER ENTERTAINMENT COMPANY, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (the "Partnership"), by and among Time Warner Cable Inc., a Delaware corporation, as the general partner of the Partnership ("TWC" or the "General Partner"), and TWE Holdings I Trust, a Delaware statutory trust ("Trust I"), American Television & Communications Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("ATC"), and solely for the purposes of being bound by Section 10.12 of this Agreement, Comcast Corporation, a Pennsylvania corporation (formerly named AT&T Comcast Corporation, "Comcast"), and AOL Time Warner Inc., a Delaware corporation ("AOLTW"), and solely for the purpose of Section 9.4 of this Agreement, Warner Communications Inc., a Delaware corporation ("WCI"). WHEREAS, the Partnership has heretofore been formed as a limited partnership under the Delaware Act (as defined herein); WHEREAS, the General Partner and the Limited Partners now wish to amend and restate, in its entirety, the Agreement of Limited Partnership, dated as of October 29, 1991, as amended to date (the "Original Agreement") as set forth below. NOW, THEREFORE, the General Partner and the Limited Partners hereby amend and restate the Original Agreement in its entirety to read as follows: ARTICLE I DEFINITIONS 1.1 Definitions. When used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below (all terms used in this Agreement that are not defined in this Article I shall have the meanings set forth elsewhere in this Agreement): "Accountants" means Ernst & Young LLP or such other nationally recognized public accountants of the Partnership as may be selected from time to time by the General Partner. "Act" means the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act (Del. Code Ann. tit. 6 Section 17-101 et seq.). "Adjusted Capital Account Deficit" means, with respect to each Partner, the deficit balance, if any, in such Partner's Capital Account as of the end of the relevant Fiscal Year, after giving effect to the following adjustments: (a) Credit to such Capital Account any amount which such Partner is obligated to restore or is deemed obligated to restore pursuant to Treasury Regulations Section 1.704-2(g)(1) and (without duplication) 1.704-2(i)(5); and
(b) Debit to such Capital Account the items described in Treasury Regulations Sections 1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(d)(4), (5) and (6). The foregoing definition of Adjusted Capital Account Deficit is intended to comply with the provisions of Treasury Regulations Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(d) and shall be interpreted consistently therewith. "Affiliate" means, as to any Person, any other Person directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries, controlling, controlled by, or under common control with such Person; provided that, for purposes of this definition (and the definitions of the terms "Parent" and "Subsidiary"), "control" (including with correlative meanings, the terms "controlled by" and "under common control with"), as used with respect to any Person, shall mean the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of equities securities, by contract or otherwise; provided, further, that, solely for purposes of this definition of Affiliate, Trust I (and its controlled Affiliates) shall be deemed to be controlled by any Person who, directly or indirectly, holds a majority of the beneficial interests of Trust I (and any Person who controls such Person). "Agent" means, with respect to any Person, such Person's officers, directors, employees, consultants, attorneys, accountants, representatives and agents. "Agreement" means this Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership, as amended, restated or modified from time to time, including any Exhibits or Schedules attached hereto. "AOLTW" has the meaning set forth in the preamble. "AOLTW Partner" means ATC in its capacity as a limited partner of the Partnership and shall include any transferee thereof admitted to the partnership in accordance with Section 3.1. "Applicable Law" means, with respect to any Person, any statute, law, regulation, ordinance, rule, injunction, order, decree, Governmental Approval, directive, requirement, or other governmental restriction or any similar form of decision of, or determination by, or any interpretation or administration of any of the foregoing by, any Governmental Authority, applicable to such Person or its Subsidiaries or their respective assets. "ATC" has the meaning set forth in the preamble. "ATC Capital Account" means the Capital Account of the ATC Partnership Interest. "ATC Partnership Interest" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(a). "ATC Common Sub-Account" means the excess of the ATC Capital Account over the ATC Preferred Sub-Account. "ATC Percentage Interest" means 1%. 2
"ATC Preferred Sub-Account" means, prior to the Preferred Redemption Date, the portion of the ATC Capital Account that includes the Preferred Amount plus (x) all allocations of Preferred Net Profit pursuant to Section 6.2(a), minus (y) (i) all distributions pursuant to Section 5.1 and (ii) all allocations of Residual Net Loss pursuant to Section 6.3(b)(ii). "Bankruptcy" of a Partner means (i) the filing by such Partner of a voluntary petition seeking liquidation, reorganization, arrangement or readjustment, in any form, of its debts under Title 11 of the United States Code (or corresponding provisions of future laws) or any other bankruptcy or insolvency law, or such Partner's filing an answer consenting to or acquiescing in any such petition, (ii) the making by such Partner of any assignment for the benefit of its creditors or the admission by such Partner in writing of its inability to pay its debts as they mature or (iii) the expiration of 60 days after the filing of an involuntary petition under Title 11 of the United States Code (or corresponding provisions of future laws), an application for the appointment of a receiver for the assets of such Partner, or an involuntary petition seeking liquidation, reorganization, arrangements, composition, dissolution or readjustment of its debts or similar relief under any bankruptcy or insolvency law, provided that the same shall not have been vacated, set aside or stayed within such 60-day period. "Business Day" means a day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in New York City are authorized or required by law or executive order to close. "Broadband Transferee Ultimate Parent" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.12. "Capital Account" means, for each Partner, the Capital Account established for such Partner pursuant to Article VI. The Capital Account of each Partner on the date hereof (after giving effect to the conversion described in Section 4.1) shall be as follows: (1) The Capital Account of ATC with respect to the Preferred Component of the ATC Partnership Interest shall be equal to the Preferred Amount. (2) The Capital Account of Trust I with respect to the Trust I Partnership Interest shall be equal to the Capital Account with respect to its Prior Partnership Interest that would result under the provisions of the Original Agreement following a revaluation, as of the date hereof, of the Partnership's assets pursuant to Treasury Regulations Section 1.704-1(b)(iv)(f). (3) The Capital Account of ATC with respect to the Common Component of the ATC Partnership Interest shall be equal to the product of (x) 1/95.3 and (y) the excess of (A) the Fair Market Value of the Partnership assets (net of liabilities not otherwise taken into account) as of the date hereof, over (B) the sum of the Preferred Amount and the Capital Account balance of Trust I, as computed in accordance with the immediately preceding clause (2). 3
(4) The Capital Account of TWC with respect to the TWC Partnership Interest shall be equal to the product of (x) 94.3/95.3 and (y) the excess of (A) the Fair Market Value of the Partnership assets (net of liabilities not otherwise taken into account) as of the date hereof, over (B) the sum of the Preferred Amount and the Capital Account balance of Trust I, as computed in accordance with clause (2) above. Following the date hereof, the Capital Accounts shall be adjusted as follows: (a) to each Partner's Capital Account there shall be credited (i) such Partner's Capital Contributions after the date hereof, if any, allocated to such Capital Account when and as received and (ii) the Preferred Profit, the Residual Net Profit and other items of Partnership income and gain allocated to such Capital Account pursuant to Article 6; (b) to each Partner's Capital Account there shall be debited (i) the aggregate amount of cash distributed to such Partner with respect to such Capital Account after the date hereof, (ii) the Residual Net Loss and other items of Partnership loss and deduction allocated to such Partner pursuant to Article 6 with respect to such Capital Account and (iii) the Gross Asset Value of any Partnership assets (other than cash) distributed to such Partner in kind (net of any liabilities secured by such distributed property that the Partner is considered to assume or "take subject to" under Section 752 of the Code) with respect to such Capital Account after the date hereof; (c) Capital Accounts shall be otherwise adjusted in accordance with Treasury Regulations Section 1.704-1(b); and (d) if Partnership Interests are transferred in accordance with the terms of this Agreement after the date hereof, the transferee shall succeed to the Capital Account or Accounts of the transferor to the extent it relates to the transferred Partnership Interests. The foregoing provisions and the other provisions of this Agreement relating to the maintenance of Capital Accounts are intended to comply with Treasury Regulations Section 1.704-1(b), and shall be interpreted and applied in a manner consistent with such Treasury Regulations. For the avoidance of doubt, after the date hereof, no adjustments shall be made to the Capital Accounts of the Partners pursuant to the provisions of the Original Agreement. "Catch-Up Date" shall mean the date that is twenty-seven (27) months following the date hereof. "C Corporation" means a corporation subject to taxation under Section 11 of the Code. "Capital Contribution" means for each Partner the total amount of cash and the Gross Asset Value of property contributed to the Partnership by such Partner pursuant to 4
Section 4.1 or otherwise, net of any liabilities associated with such contributed property that the Partnership is considered to assume or "take subject to" under Section 752 of the Code. "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. "Comcast" has the meaning set forth in the preamble. "Common Component" means the portion of the ATC Partnership Interest that corresponds to the ATC Common Sub-Account. "Corporate Opportunity" means an investment or business opportunity or prospective economic advantage in which the Partnership could, but for the provisions of Section 10.11, have an interest or expectancy. "Depreciation" means, for each Fiscal Year, an amount equal to the depreciation, amortization, or other cost recovery deduction allowable with respect to an asset for such Fiscal Year, except that if the Gross Asset Value of an asset differs from its adjusted basis for federal income tax purposes at the beginning of such Fiscal Year, Depreciation shall be an amount which bears the same ratio to such beginning Gross Asset Value as the federal income tax depreciation, amortization, or other cost recovery deduction for such Fiscal Year bears to such beginning adjusted tax basis; provided, that if the adjusted basis for federal income tax purposes of an asset at the beginning of such Fiscal Year is zero and the Gross Asset Value of the asset is positive, Depreciation shall be determined with reference to such beginning Gross Asset Value using any permitted method selected by the General Partner. "Determination" means a settlement, compromise, or other agreement with the Internal Revenue Service or the relevant state or local Governmental Authorities, whether contained in an Internal Revenue Service Form 870 or other comparable form, or otherwise, or such procedurally later event, such as a closing agreement with the Internal Revenue Service or the relevant state and local Governmental Authorities, an agreement contained in Internal Revenue Service Form 870-D or other comparable form, an agreement that constitutes a determination under Section 1313(a)(4) of the Code, a deficiency notice with respect to which the period for filing a petition with the Tax Court or the relevant state or local tribunal has expired or a decision of any court of competent jurisdiction that is not subject to appeal or as to which the time for appeal has expired. "Disposition" means any direct or indirect sale, assignment, alienation, gift, exchange, conveyance, transfer, pledge, hypothecation or other disposition, monetization or encumbrance whatsoever, whether voluntary or involuntary, direct or indirect, including through a Subsidiary or by means of an equity offering by any such Subsidiary. The term "Dispose" shall mean to make a Disposition. "Dissolution Action" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.1. "Fair Market Value" means, as of any date, the fair market value on such date as determined in good faith by the General Partner. For this purpose, securities that are restricted by law, contract, market conditions (including trading volume relative to the 5
Partnership's holding) or otherwise as to salability or transferability may be valued at an appropriate discount, based on the nature and term of such restrictions. "Fiscal Year" means (i) the taxable year of the Partnership, which shall be the calendar year unless otherwise required (or, in the General Partner's reasonable discretion, permitted) by the Code, and (ii) the portion of any Fiscal Year for which the Partnership is required to (or does) allocate Gross Income, Net Profit, Net Loss, or other items. "GAAP" means United States generally accepted accounting principles as in effect in the United States from time to time consistently applied. "General Partner" has the meaning set forth in the preamble. "Governmental Approval" means any action, order, authorization, consent, approval, license, ruling, permit, tariff, rate, certification, exemption, filing or registration by or with any Governmental Authority. "Governmental Authority" means any government or political subdivision thereof, governmental department, commission, board, bureau, agency, regulatory authority, instrumentality, judicial or administrative body having jurisdiction over the matter or matters in question. "Gross Asset Value" means: (i) in the case of any asset held by the Partnership on the date hereof, the gross Fair Market Value of such asset as of the date hereof, and (ii) in the case of any asset acquired by the Partnership after the date hereof, the adjusted basis of such asset for Federal income tax purposes, except as follows: (a) the initial Gross Asset Value of any Partnership asset contributed by a Partner to the Partnership shall be the gross Fair Market Value of such Partnership asset as of the date of such contribution; (b) the Gross Asset Value of each Partnership asset shall be adjusted to equal its respective gross Fair Market Value, as of the following times: (i) the acquisition of an additional interest in the Partnership by any new or existing Partner in exchange for more than a de minimis Capital Contribution; (ii) the distribution by the Partnership to a Partner of more than a de minimis amount of Partnership assets as consideration for all or part of its Interests unless the General Partner reasonably determines that such adjustment is not necessary to reflect the relative economic interests of the Partners in the Partnership; and (iii) the liquidation of the Partnership within the meaning of Treasury Regulations Section Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(g); (c) the Gross Asset Value of a Partnership asset distributed to any Partner shall be the Fair Market Value of such Partnership asset as of the date of distribution thereof; (d) the Gross Asset Value of each Partnership asset shall be increased or decreased, as the case may be, to reflect any adjustments to the adjusted basis of such 6
Partnership asset pursuant to Section 734(b) or Section 743(b) of the Code, but only to the extent that such adjustments are taken into account in determining Capital Account balances pursuant to Treasury Regulations Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv)(m); provided that Gross Asset Values shall not be adjusted pursuant to this subparagraph (d) to the extent that an adjustment pursuant to subparagraph (b) above is made in conjunction with a transaction that would otherwise result in an adjustment pursuant to this subparagraph (d); and (e) if the Gross Asset Value of a Partnership asset has been determined or adjusted above (other than pursuant to clause (c) above), such Gross Asset Value shall thereafter be adjusted to reflect the Depreciation taken into account with respect to such Partnership asset for purposes of computing Net Profits and Net Losses. "Liabilities" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.4(b)(i). "Limited Partners" means the Trust I Partner and the AOLTW Partner. "Net Profit and Net Loss" means, for each Fiscal Year, an amount equal to the Partnership's taxable income or loss for such Fiscal Year, determined in accordance with Code Section 703(a) (including for this purpose, all items of income, gain, loss or deduction required to be separately stated pursuant to Code Section 703(a)(1)), with the following adjustments (without duplication): (a) any income of the Partnership that is exempt from Federal income tax and not otherwise taken into account in computing Net Profit or Net Loss pursuant to this definition shall be added to such taxable income or loss; (b) any expenditures of the Partnership described in Section 705(a)(2)(B) of the Code or treated as Section 705(a)(2)(B) of the Code expenditures pursuant to Treasury Regulations Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv)(i) (other than expenses in respect of which an election is properly made under Section 709 of the Code), and not otherwise taken into account in computing Net Profit or Net Loss pursuant to this definition shall be subtracted from such taxable income or loss; (c) in the event the Gross Asset Value of any Partnership asset is adjusted pursuant to subparagraphs (b), (c) or (d) of the definition of Gross Asset Value, the amount of such adjustment shall be taken into account as gain (if the adjustment increases the Gross Asset Value of an asset) or loss (if the adjustment decreases the Gross Asset Value of an asset) from the disposition of such Partnership asset for purposes of computing Net Profit or Net Loss; (d) gain or loss resulting from any disposition of any Partnership asset with respect to which gain or loss is recognized for Federal income tax purposes shall be computed by reference to the Gross Asset Value of the Partnership asset disposed of, notwithstanding that the adjusted tax basis of such Partnership asset may differ from its Gross Asset Value; 7
(e) in lieu of the depreciation, amortization, and other cost recovery deductions taken into account in computing such taxable income or loss, there shall be taken into account Depreciation for such Fiscal Year, computed in accordance with the definition of Depreciation; (f) to the extent an adjustment to the adjusted tax basis of any Partnership asset pursuant to Code Section 734(b) is required, pursuant to Treasury Regulation Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv)(m)(4), to be taken into account in determining Capital Accounts as a result of a distribution other than in liquidation of a Partner's interest in the Partnership, the amount of such adjustment shall be treated as an item of gain (if the adjustment increases the basis of the asset) or loss (if the adjustment decreases such basis) from the disposition of such asset and shall be taken into account for purposes of computing Net Profit or Net Loss; and (g) any items of income, gain, loss or deduction specially allocated under Section 6.4 shall be excluded. "Original Agreement" has the meaning set forth in the recitals. "Parent" means, with respect to any Person, any other Person that owns, directly or indirectly, securities or other ownership interests having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the board of directors or other body performing similar functions of such Person; provided that any Person who, directly or indirectly, holds a majority of the beneficial interests of Trust I (and any Person who controls such Person) shall be deemed to be a Parent of Trust I and its Subsidiaries. "Partner" means each Person that (a) is an initial signatory to this Agreement (other than AOLTW, Comcast and WCI), or has been admitted to the Partnership as a Partner of the Partnership in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and (b) has not ceased to be a Partner of the Partnership in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement or for any other reason. No Person that is not a Partner shall be deemed a "Partner" under the Act. "Partnership Business" means the ownership, operation and exploitation of the various businesses, assets and rights owned or held from time to time by the Partnership. "Partnership Interest" means any ownership interest of a Partner in the Partnership, including the right of such Partner to benefits to which it may be entitled under, and the obligations of such Partner to comply with, all the terms and conditions of this Agreement. "Partnership Interest Sale Agreement" means the Partnership Interest Sale Agreement, dated the date hereof, among Trust I, AOLTW and the General Partner. "Partnership" has the meaning set forth in the preamble. "Percentage Interest" means the ATC Percentage Interest, the Trust I Percentage Interest and the TWC Percentage Interest. 8
"Permitted Transfer" means a Disposition by a Partner of all or any part of such Partner's Partnership Interest: (i) with the consent of the General Partner; (ii) to an Affiliate of such Partner; (iii) pursuant to and in accordance with the Partnership Interest Sale Agreement; or (iv) in a pledge by the Partner of all or any portion of such Partner's Partnership Interest to a bank or other financial institution (the "Lender") in connection with securing a bona fide loan made to such Partner; provided that, in each such case (other than clause (i)), any transferee of such Disposition provides a written agreement (in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Partnership) to the Partnership by which it agrees to become a party to and otherwise be bound by the terms and provisions of this Agreement and the Partnership Interest Sale Agreement; and provided, further, that the Lender shall only be required to provide such agreement in the event that the Lender realizes upon its collateral or otherwise takes title to the pledged Partnership Interest. "Person" means an individual, a partnership, a corporation, an association, a joint stock company, a limited liability company, a trust, a joint venture, an unincorporated organization and a governmental entity or any department, agency or political subdivision thereof. "Preferred Amount" means $2.4 billion. "Preferred Component" means the portion of the ATC Partnership Interest that corresponds to the ATC Preferred Sub-Account. "Preferred Profit" for a Fiscal Year means the Net Profit of the Partnership (as defined herein) for such Fiscal Year, adjusted to exclude any Depreciation amounts taken into account in computing Net Profit for such Fiscal Year. "Preferred Redemption Date" means the day after the twentieth (20th) anniversary of the date hereof. "Preferred Redemption Value" means an amount equal to (x) the Preferred Amount, plus (y) any accrued and unpaid Preferred Return. "Preferred Return" means, with respect to the ATC Partnership Interest, an amount equal to 8.059%, cumulative and compounded on each Quarterly Payment Date to the extent unpaid, on the amount of the Preferred Amount, commencing on the date hereof. "Pre-Transfer Date Permitted Transfer" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.1. "Prior Partnership Interest" means a Partnership Interest in the Partnership held by a Partner prior to the exchange described in Section 4.1 hereof. "Pro Rata Time" means the time at which the Trust I Capital Account balance is equal to the Trust I Target Capital Account Balance. "Protected Person" shall mean each of the following Persons: the Partners and their Affiliates and their respective stockholders and Agents. 9
"Quarterly Payment Date" means March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31, provided that, at any time that any such date falls on a day other than a Business Day, the Quarterly Payment Date shall mean the first Business Day following such date. In the event that a December 31 Quarterly Payment Date is adjusted pursuant to the proviso of the preceding sentence, for purposes of allocations of Preferred Profit pursuant to Section 6, the payment shall be deemed to be paid on December 31. "Residual Net Loss" for a Fiscal Year means (a) in any Fiscal Year for which the Partnership has a Net Loss, an amount equal to (w) the Net Loss of the Partnership for such Fiscal Year, minus (i.e., the amount of the Net Loss is increased by) (x) the aggregate amount of Preferred Profit allocated pursuant to Section 6.2(a) for such Fiscal Year; and (b) in any Fiscal Year for which the Partnership has Net Profit, an amount equal to the excess, if any, of (y) the amount of Preferred Profit allocated pursuant to Section 6.2(a) for such Fiscal Year, over (z) the Net Profit of the Partnership for such Fiscal Year. "Residual Net Profit" for a Fiscal Year means the excess, if any, of (a) the Net Profit of the Partnership for such Fiscal Year, over (b) the aggregate amount of Preferred Profit allocated pursuant to Section 6.2(a) for such Fiscal Year. "Restructuring Agreement" means the Restructuring Agreement, dated as of August 20, 2002, as amended, by and among AOLTW, Comcast, the Partnership and the other parties thereto. "Subsidiary" means, with respect to any Person, any other Person of which securities or other ownership interests having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the board of directors or other body performing similar functions are, directly or indirectly, owned by such Person; provided that Trust I (and any Subsidiary of Trust I) shall be deemed to be a Subsidiary of any Person who, directly or indirectly, holds a majority of the beneficial interests of Trust I (and any Person who controls such Person). "Tax Advance Amount" for any Partner means the Tax Amount for the relevant Fiscal Year, multiplied by such Partner's Percentage Interest. "Tax Amount" means, for any Fiscal Year, the amount obtained by multiplying (x) the Tax Rate for such Fiscal Year by (y) the excess, if any, of (i) the cumulative taxable income of the Partnership for all Fiscal Years, or portions thereof commencing on or after the date hereof, including the current Fiscal Year, allocated to all Partners other than with respect to the Preferred Component, over (ii) the cumulative taxable loss of the Partnership for all prior Fiscal Years or portions thereof commencing on or after the date hereof, allocated to all Partners other than with respect to the Preferred Component, to the extent such excess has not previously been taken into account in determining the Tax Amount for a prior Fiscal Year or a portion thereof. "Tax Matters Partner" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.4(b). "Tax Rate" means, at any time, and from time to time, the effective combined federal, state and local income and franchise tax that the Partnership would be required to 10
pay on its taxable income for such year, if it were a corporation for Federal income tax purposes. "Term" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.2. "Transfer Date" means the second anniversary of the date hereof. "Treasury Regulations" means the final or temporary regulations that have been issued by the U.S. Department of Treasury pursuant to its authority under the Code, and any successor regulations. "Trust I" has the meaning set forth in the preamble. "Trust I Partner" means Trust I in its capacity as a limited partner of the Partnership and shall include any transferee thereof admitted to the Partnership in accordance with Section 3.1. "Trust I Partnership Interest" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(b). "Trust I Percentage Interest" means 4.7%. "Trust I Target Capital Account Balance" means a Capital Account balance at the time equal to (x) 4.7%, multiplied by (y) the sum of (A) the ATC Common Sub-Account balance, plus (B) the TWC Capital Account balance, plus (C) the Trust I Capital Account balance. "TWC Partnership Interest" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(c). "TWC Percentage Interest" means 94.3%. "Ultimate Parent" means with respect to any Person, any Parent of such Person who is not a Subsidiary of another Person. 1.2 Interpretation. In this Agreement, unless otherwise specified or where the context otherwise requires: (a) a reference to a Recital is to the relevant Recital to this Agreement, to a Section is to the relevant Section of this Agreement and to an Exhibit is to the relevant Exhibit to this Agreement; (b) words importing any gender shall include other genders; (c) words importing the singular only shall include the plural and vice versa; (d) the words "include", "includes" or "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the words "without limitation"; 11
(e) the words "hereof", "herein", "hereunder" and "herewith" and words of similar import shall, unless otherwise stated, be construed to refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision of this Agreement, and Article, clause and Exhibit references are to the Articles, clauses and Exhibits to this Agreement unless otherwise specified; (f) references to any party hereto or any other agreement or document shall include such party's successors and permitted assigns; (g) the parties hereto have participated jointly in the negotiation and drafting of this Agreement. In the event an ambiguity or question of intent or interpretation arises, this Agreement shall be construed as if drafted jointly by the parties hereto, and no presumption or burden of proof shall arise favoring or disfavoring any party hereto by virtue of the authorship of any provisions of this Agreement; (h) unless otherwise expressly provided herein, any contract or law defined or referred to herein or in any contract that is referred to herein means such contract or law as from time to time amended, modified or supplemented, including (in the case of a contract) by waiver or consent and (in the case of a law) by succession of comparable successor laws, and all attachments thereto and instruments incorporated therein, and any reference in this Agreement to a law shall be deemed to include any rules and regulations promulgated thereunder; and (i) the headings to Sections are inserted for convenience only and shall not affect the construction of this Agreement. ARTICLE II ORGANIZATION; PURPOSE AND POWERS 2.1 Name. (a) The business of the Partnership shall be conducted under the name of "Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P." or such other name or names as the General Partner shall hereafter from time to time determine. No Limited Partner shall be deemed to have the right to use, and each Limited Partner agrees not to use, any of the names, marks, emblems or logos used by the Partnership, other than on behalf of the Partnership. (b) There shall be filed on behalf of the Partnership such assumed or fictitious name certificates or similar documents as may be required by Applicable Law to evidence the use of any names under which the Partnership may operate. 2.2 Term. The Partnership shall continue until dissolved as provided in Section 8.1. Such period of time as the Partnership shall remain in existence is referred to herein as the "Term." 12
2.3 Principal Office. The principal office of the Partnership shall be located at 75 Rockefeller Plaza, New York, New York 10019, or at such other or additional place or places as the General Partner shall from time to time determine. 2.4 Delaware Office; Agent for Service of Process. The address of the Partnership's registered office in the State of Delaware is Corporation Trust Company, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware 19801, and the name of the registered agent for service of process of the Partnership is Corporation Trust Company, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware 19801. 2.5 Purpose and Powers. (a) The nature or purpose of the business to be conducted or promoted by the Partnership is to engage in any lawful act or activity for which a limited partnership may be formed under the Act. The Partnership may engage in any and all activities necessary, desirable or incidental to the accomplishment of the foregoing. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, nothing set forth herein shall be construed as authorizing the Partnership to possess any purpose or power, or to do any act or thing, forbidden by law to a limited partnership formed under the laws of the State of Delaware. (b) Subject to the provisions of this Agreement, the Partnership shall have the power and authority to take any and all actions necessary, appropriate, proper, advisable, convenient or incidental to, or for the furtherance of, the purposes set forth in Section 2.5(a). ARTICLE III DISPOSITION; ADDITIONAL PARTNERS; RIGHT OF FIRST REFUSAL; WITHDRAWAL 3.1 Disposition; Additional Partners. (a) No Trust I Partner shall Dispose of all or any of its Partnership Interest (and no additional Trust I Partner shall be admitted to the Partnership) other than pursuant to a Permitted Transfer, provided that, in each case, any such Disposition may only occur after the Transfer Date (and prior to the Transfer Date, no Trust I Partner shall attempt to Dispose of or enter into an agreement to Dispose of all or any portion of its Partnership Interest) and that the Trust I Partner provides reasonably sufficient information to the Partnership with respect to and prior to any such proposed Disposition, including, without limitation, information concerning any Prospective Purchaser (as defined in the Partnership Interest Sale Agreement), to enable the Partnership to determine that such proposed Disposition complies with all of the provisions of this Section 3.1; provided, however, that, notwithstanding any other provision of this Section 3.1(a), any Trust I Partner may, at any time (whether before or after the Transfer Date), Dispose of all or any of its Partnership Interest in a Permitted Transfer to Comcast (or a Broadband Transferee Ultimate Parent, if applicable) or a Subsidiary of Comcast (or of a Broadband Transferee Ultimate Parent) (any transfer permitted by this second proviso is referred to herein as a "Pre-Transfer Date Permitted Transfer"). 13
(b) Any Limited Partner (other than a Trust I Partner) may Dispose of all or a portion of its Partnership Interests to one or more transferees, and such transferees shall be admitted to the Partnership as additional or substitute Limited Partners. (c) Except as provided in Section 3.1(a) or 3.1(b), no additional Limited Partner shall be admitted to the Partnership without the prior written consent of the General Partner. (d) A Person admitted as a Limited Partner in accordance with this Section 3.1 shall be deemed admitted at the time that such Person (x) executes an amendment, counterpart or supplement to this Agreement (and, in the case of a transferee of a Trust I Partner, the Partnership Interest Sale Agreement) and such other instruments as the General Partner may reasonably deem necessary or desirable to evidence such Person's agreement to be bound by and to comply with the terms and provisions hereof and (y) is named on the books and records of the Partnership. (e) A transferee of a Trust I Partner admitted as a Limited Partner pursuant to Section 3.1(a) shall succeed to all of the rights, and expressly assume all of the obligations of such Trust I Partner set forth in this Agreement and the Partnership Interest Sale Agreement (or the portion of such rights and obligations being transferred as part of any partial transfer of such Trust I Partner's Partnership Interest), and a transferee of an AOLTW Partner admitted as a Limited Partner pursuant to Section 3.1(b) shall succeed to all of the rights and expressly assume all of the obligations of such AOLTW Partner (or the portion of such rights and obligations being transferred as part of any partial transfer of such AOLTW Partner's Partnership Interest) set forth in this Agreement, in each case, including, without limitation, the rights and obligations set forth in Section 5.3. (f) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, no transfer, within the meaning of Treas. Reg. Section 1.7704-1(a)(3), by any Partner of all or any part of its Partnership Interest may be made to any Person if such transfer (i) is effectuated through an "established securities market" or a "secondary market (or the substantial equivalent thereof)" within the meaning of Section 7704 of the Code, (ii) would result in the Partnership having more than 100 partners, determined in accordance with Treas. Reg. 1.7704-1(h), or (iii) would result in the Partnership being, or would result in a material risk that the Partnership would be, in the opinion of legal counsel to the Partnership, treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. 3.2 Withdrawal by Partner. Upon the withdrawal of a Partner from the Partnership for any reason, such Partner shall cease to have any further right to or interest in distributions pursuant to Article V. 3.3 Substitution of General Partner. The General Partner may Dispose all or a portion of its Partnership Interest to one or more assignees, and such assignees shall be admitted to the Partnership as additional or substitute General Partners and shall (x) succeed to all of the rights and expressly assume all of the obligations of the General Partner (or the portion of such rights and obligations being transferred as part of any partial transfer of General Partner's Partnership Interests) set forth in this Agreement and 14
(y) be subject to all of the terms and conditions applicable to General Partners of the Partnership. If the General Partner withdraws from the Partnership as the result of any such Disposition, the General Partner nonetheless shall remain liable for obligations and liabilities incurred by it as General Partner prior to the time of such withdrawal, but, from and after the time of such withdrawal, it shall be free of any obligation or liability incurred on account of the activities of the Partnership. 3.4 Change in Interests. Upon any change in the relative interests of the Partners, whether by reason of the admission or withdrawal of a Partner or otherwise, the Partners' shares of all Partnership items shall be determined, except as otherwise required by law, by an interim closing of the Partnership's books. ARTICLE IV PARTNERSHIP CAPITAL 4.1 Recapitalization of Partnership Interests. In connection with consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Restructuring Agreement, the Partnership shall be recapitalized as of the date hereof as follows: (a) ATC's Prior Partnership Interest, as described in Schedule 4.1, shall be converted into a Partnership Interest (the "ATC Partnership Interest"), which shall consist of a Preferred Component and a Common Component, and shall entitle it to distributions and allocations as provided in Articles V and VI herein; (b) Trust I's Prior Partnership Interest, as described in Schedule 4.1, shall be converted into a Partnership Interest (the "Trust I Partnership Interest"), which shall entitle it to distributions and allocations as provided in Articles V and VI herein; and (c) TWC's Prior Partnership Interest, as described in Schedule 4.1, shall be converted into a Partnership Interest (the "TWC Partnership Interest"), which shall entitle it to distributions and allocations as provided in Articles V and VI herein. ARTICLE V DISTRIBUTIONS 5.1 Mandatory Distribution of Preferred Return. The Partnership shall distribute to ATC, with respect to the Preferred Component of its Partnership Interest, on each Quarterly Payment Date, an amount equal to the Preferred Return for such quarterly period, plus any unpaid Preferred Return for any prior quarterly period. In the case of the dissolution or winding-up of the Partnership pursuant to Section 8.3, the Partnership shall distribute to ATC, with respect to its Preferred Sub-Account, on the date of such dissolution or winding-up an amount equal to the product of (i) the Preferred Return for such quarterly period and (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days from the last day of the quarter immediately preceding the dissolution or winding-up 15
through (and including) the date of such dissolution or winding-up, and the denominator of which is 91.25. 5.2 Mandatory Redemption of Preferred Component. On the Preferred Redemption Date, the Partnership shall distribute to ATC, in complete redemption of the Preferred Component of its Partnership Interest, an amount equal to the Preferred Redemption Value. 5.3 Tax Distributions. (a) After the Partnership has made distributions described in Section 5.1 and, when applicable, Section 5.2 above, the Partnership shall, at least quarterly, distribute to each Partner an amount equal to 25 percent of such Partner's Tax Advance Amount for the Fiscal Year that includes such calendar quarter (as estimated in good faith by the General Partner). (b) The General Partner's computation of each Partner's Tax Advance Amount for each year shall be revised (x) prior to each distribution pursuant to Section 5.3(a) for such year, (y) upon the filing of the Partnership's Federal income tax return for such year, and (z) upon any Determination of the taxable income of the Partnership for such year. Following such revision, (A) the Partnership shall distribute to each Partner the excess (if any) of the amount that should have been distributed to such Partner pursuant to Section 5.3(a) based on such revised estimate, over the amount actually distributed to such Partner pursuant to Section 5.3(a); or (B) each Partner shall contribute to the Partnership the excess (if any) of the amount actually distributed to such Partner pursuant to Section 5.3(a) over the amount that should have been distributed to such Partner pursuant to Section 5.3(b) based on such revised estimate. 5.4 Discretionary Distributions. Provided that, at or prior to such time, the Partnership has made in full all distributions required to have been made through such date under Sections 5.1, 5.2 and 5.3, and subject to Section 8.3, the Partnership may, in the sole and absolute discretion of the General Partner, make distributions to the Partners in proportion to their Percentage Interests. 5.5 Limitation on Distributions. (a) In no event shall a distribution be made to a Partner pursuant to Sections 5.1 through 5.4 or Section 8.3 if such distribution would cause or increase an Adjusted Capital Account Deficit with respect to the applicable Partner; provided that such distribution, plus (except with respect to distributions pursuant to Sections 5.1 or 5.2) an amount equal to interest compounded quarterly on such delayed distribution at a rate equal to the percentage used in computing the Preferred Return, shall be made as soon as, and to the extent, such distribution plus such amount would not so cause or increase an Adjusted Account Deficit; and provided, further, the General Partner is authorized to make appropriate adjustments in the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction as necessary to prevent the operation of this sentence from limiting the amount otherwise distributable under this Agreement. 16
(b) Notwithstanding any provision in this Agreement to the contrary, the Partnership shall not make a distribution to any Partner on account of its Partnership Interest if such distribution would violate the Act. 5.6 No Distributions Under Original Agreement. (a) For the avoidance of doubt, as of the date hereof, the provisions contained in Sections 8.4 and 8.5 of the Original Agreement (along with all other provisions of the Original Agreement) shall have no further force and effect. (b) In the event that, following the date hereof, an adjustment is made by any Governmental Authority that results in an increase or decrease in tax owed by any Partner with respect to its Partnership Interest (as defined in the Original Agreement) for any taxable year (or portion thereof) ending on or prior to the date hereof: (i) no Partner shall have any right to additional distributions from the Partnership for any such increase in tax; and (ii) no Partner shall have any obligation to make additional contributions to the Partnership in respect of any such decrease in tax. ARTICLE VI CAPITAL ACCOUNTS; ALLOCATIONS 6.1 Capital Accounts. "Capital Accounts" shall be established and maintained for each Partner on the books of the Partnership and shall be maintained as provided in the definition of Capital Account. 6.2 Allocations of Preferred Profit; Residual Net Profit. The Partnership's Preferred Profit and Residual Net Profit for each Fiscal Year shall be allocated annually (and at such other times that such allocation would make a difference in connection with another allocation, distribution or other event under this Agreement) to the Partners in the following order: (a) Preferred Profit Allocation. First, Preferred Profit of the Partnership shall be allocated to ATC until ATC has been allocated Preferred Profit with respect to the Preferred Component of its Partnership Interest in the following amounts: (i) First, until ATC has received aggregate allocations of Preferred Profit pursuant to this clause (a)(i) equal to the amount of Residual Net Loss previously allocated under Subsection 6.3(b)(ii) below not previously offset by an allocation of Preferred Profit under this subsection (a)(i); and (ii) Second, until ATC has received allocations of Preferred Profit pursuant to this clause (a)(ii) equal to the cumulative amounts distributed pursuant to Section 5.1 through the end of the such Fiscal Year (or portion thereof). 17
(b) Residual Net Profit Allocation. Thereafter, Residual Net Profit of the Partnership shall be allocated as follows: (i) For all Fiscal Years or portions thereof commencing on the date hereof and ending on or before the Catch-Up Date, Residual Net Profit shall be allocated to the Partners in proportion to their Percentage Interests; (ii) For all Fiscal Years or portions thereof beginning after the Catch-Up Date and prior to the Pro Rata Time: (A) 100% of Residual Net Profit shall be allocated to Trust I, until the Capital Account balance of Trust I is equal to the Trust I Target Capital Account Balance; and (B) Thereafter, Residual Net Profit shall be allocated to the Partners in proportion to their Percentage Interests. (iii) Following the Pro Rata Date, Residual Net Profit shall be allocated to the Partners in proportion to their Percentage Interests. 6.3 Allocations of Residual Net Loss. Residual Net Loss of the Partnership for each Fiscal Year shall be allocated annually (and at such other times that such allocation would make a difference in connection with another allocation, distribution or other event under this Agreement) to the Partners in the following order: (a) Allocations Prior to Pro Rata Time. Prior to the Pro Rata Time, Residual Net Loss of the Partnership shall be allocated between ATC and TWC, in proportion to their Percentage Interests. (b) Allocations After the Pro Rata Time. After the Pro Rata Time, Residual Net Loss of the Partnership shall be allocated as follows: (i) First, to the Partners, in proportion to their Percentage Interests, to the extent of (A) in the case of Trust I and TWC, their positive Capital Account balances, and (B) in the case of ATC, its positive Common Sub-Account balance; (ii) Next, to ATC, to the extent of its positive Preferred Sub-Account balance; and (iii) Thereafter, to the Partners, in proportion to their Percentage Interests. 6.4 Regulatory Tax Allocations. Section 704 of the Code and the Treasury Regulations issued thereunder, including the provisions of such Treasury Regulations addressing qualified income offset provisions, minimum gain chargeback requirements and allocations of deductions attributable to non-recourse debt and partner non-recourse debt, are hereby incorporated by reference. If, as a result of the provisions of Section 704 18
of the Code and such Treasury Regulations, items of income, gain, deduction or loss are allocated to the Partners in a manner that is inconsistent with the manner in which they intend to divide such items as reflected in Sections 6.2 and 6.3, to the extent permitted under such Treasury Regulations, items of future income and loss shall be allocated among the Partners so as to prevent such allocations from distorting the manner in which the net amounts of Partnership income, gain, deduction and loss will be divided among the Partners pursuant to this Agreement; provided, that nothing in Section 704 of the Code and such Treasury Regulations shall require a Partner to restore a deficit balance in its Capital Account. 6.5 Allocations for Tax Purposes. (a) In accordance with Section 704(c) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations thereunder, income, gain, loss, and deduction with respect to any property contributed to the capital of the Partnership shall, solely for tax purposes, be allocated among the Partners so as to take account of any variation between the adjusted basis of such property to the Partnership for Federal income tax purposes and its initial Gross Asset Value using the traditional method described in Treasury Regulations Section 1.704-3(b) in a manner consistent with the application of such method under prior practice of the Partnership. (b) In the event the Gross Asset Value of any Partnership asset is adjusted pursuant to subparagraph (b) of the definition of Gross Asset Value, subsequent allocations of income, gain, loss, and deduction with respect to such asset shall take account of any variation between the adjusted basis of such asset for Federal income tax purposes and its Gross Asset Value in the same manner as under Section 704(c) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations thereunder. (c) Subject to the preceding paragraphs (a) and (b), for United States Federal, state and local income tax purposes, the income, gains, losses and deductions of the Partnership shall, for each taxable period, be allocated among the Partners in the same manner and in the same proportion that such items have been allocated among the Partners' respective Capital Accounts. ARTICLE VII MANAGEMENT 7.1 Powers of the General Partner. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, the management and operation of the Partnership shall be vested exclusively in the General Partner, who shall have the power on behalf and in the name of the Partnership to carry out any and all of the purposes of the Partnership and to perform all acts and enter into and perform all contracts and other undertakings that it may deem necessary or advisable or incidental thereto. Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement, the General Partner shall have, and shall have full authority in its discretion to exercise, on behalf of and in the name of the Partnership, all rights and 19
powers of a general partner of a limited partnership under the Act necessary or convenient to carry out the purposes of the Partnership. Any person not a party to this Agreement dealing with the Partnership shall be entitled to rely conclusively upon the power and authority of the General Partner to bind the Partnership in all respects, and to execute any and all agreements, instruments and other writings on behalf of and in the name of the Partnership. 7.2 Powers of Limited Partners. The Limited Partners shall not participate in the management or control of the business of the Partnership, or have any rights or powers with respect thereto, except those rights or powers expressly granted to them by the terms of this Agreement or those conferred on them by law. The Limited Partners shall not have the authority to bind the Partnership. 7.3 Liability of Partners. The liability of the Limited Partners shall be limited as provided in the Act and as set forth in this Agreement. Neither the General Partner nor any Limited Partner shall be obligated to restore by way of capital contribution or otherwise any deficits in its Capital Account or the Capital Account of any other Partner (if such deficits occur). 7.4 Exculpation and Indemnification. (a) Exculpation. To fullest extent permitted under the Act, no Protected Person shall be liable to the Partnership or any Partner for any action taken or omitted to be taken by it or by any other Partner or other Person with respect to the Partnership. Notwithstanding the immediately preceding sentence and except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement (including, without limitation, in Sections 10.10 and 10.11 hereof), nothing herein is intended to limit, or relieve any Partner from, any fiduciary duty applicable to such Partner under Applicable Law. Any Protected Person may (but shall not be obligated to) consult with legal counsel and accountants with respect to Partnership affairs (including interpretations of this Agreement) and shall be fully protected and justified in any action or inaction which is taken or omitted in good faith, in reliance upon and in accordance with the opinion or advice of such counsel or accountants. In determining whether a Protected Person acted with the requisite degree of care, such Protected Person shall be entitled to rely on written or oral reports, opinions, certificates and other statements of the directors, officers, employees, consultants, attorneys, accountants and professional advisors of the Partnership selected with reasonable care; provided that no such Protected Person may rely upon such statements to the extent it believed that such statements were false. This Section 7.4(a) shall not be deemed to impose on any Protected Person any liability to which such Protected Person would not be subject absent this Section 7.4. (b) Indemnification. (i) To the fullest extent permitted by law, the Partnership shall indemnify, hold harmless, protect and defend each Protected Person against any losses, claims, damages or liabilities, including reasonable legal fees or other expenses incurred in investigating or defending against any such losses, claims, 20
damages or liabilities, and any amounts expended in settlement of any claims approved by the General Partner, such approval not to be unreasonably withheld (collectively, "Liabilities"), to which any Protected Person may become subject: (A) by reason of any act or omission or alleged act or omission (even if negligent) performed or omitted to be performed in connection with the activities of the Partnership; (B) by reason of the fact that it is or was acting in connection with the activities of the Partnership in any capacity or that it is or was serving at the request of the Partnership as a partner, stockholder or Agent of any Person; or (C) by reason of any other act or omission or alleged act or omission (even if negligent) arising out of or in connection with the activities of the Partnership; unless such Liability results from such Protected Person's own willful misconduct, fraud, gross negligence or willful or material breach of this Agreement. (ii) The Partnership shall promptly reimburse as incurred (and advance to the extent reasonably requested) each Protected Person for reasonable legal or other expenses of each Protected Person in connection with investigating, preparing to defend or defending any claim, lawsuit or other proceeding relating to any Liabilities for which the Protected Person may be indemnified pursuant to this Section 7.4(b); provided that such Protected Person executes a written undertaking to repay the Partnership for such reimbursed or advanced expenses if it is finally judicially determined that such Protected Person is not entitled to the indemnification provided by this Section 7.4(b). (iii) The provisions of this Section 7.4(b) shall continue to afford protection to each Protected Person regardless of whether such Protected Person remains in the position or capacity pursuant to which such Protected Person became entitled to indemnification under this Section 7.4(b) and regardless of any subsequent amendment to this Agreement; provided that no such amendment shall reduce or restrict the extent to which these indemnification provisions apply to actions taken or omissions made prior to the date of such amendment. (iv) To the extent available on commercially reasonable terms, the General Partner may purchase, at the Partnership's expense, insurance (including liability insurance policies and errors and omissions policies) to cover Liabilities covered by the foregoing indemnification provisions and to otherwise cover Liabilities for any breach or alleged breach by any Protected Person of its duties in such amount and with such deductibles as the General Partner may determine in its discretion; the failure to obtain such insurance shall not affect the right to indemnification of any Protected Person under the indemnification provisions 21
contained herein. Any such insurance may extend beyond the termination of the Partnership. 7.5 Certain Tax Matters. (a) Change in Law. In the event that a change in Applicable Law could result in taxation of the Partnership as a C Corporation, the Limited Partners and the General Partner shall cooperate in good faith to restructure the Partnership to avoid such treatment. (b) Section 754 Election. The General Partner may make an election under Section 754 of the Code. The Partnership shall make an election under Section 754 of the Code in connection with any transfer of Partnership Interests permitted under this Agreement if such election is requested by the transferring party. 7.6 Transactions with General Partner. Except as provided in this Agreement, all transactions between the General Partner or any of its Subsidiaries (other than the Partnership and its Subsidiaries), on the one hand, and the Partnership or any of its Subsidiaries, on the other hand, shall be conducted on an arm's-length basis, except that any management, corporate or similar services provided to the Partnership by the General Partner shall be provided on a no mark-up basis, it being understood that the foregoing shall not preclude fair allocations of administrative and other costs and general overhead. 7.7 Officers of the Partnership. Except as otherwise determined by the General Partner, the Partnership and any Subsidiary of the Partnership may have officers (who shall be deemed employees and agents of the Partnership), who shall (i) be appointed by, serve at the pleasure of, and be subject to removal by, the General Partner, (ii) have such powers as are usually exercised by comparable designated officers of a Delaware corporation and (iii) have the power to bind the Partnership (or in the case of officers of a specific division, business or system of the Partnership or a Subsidiary of the Partnership, the power to bind only such division, business or system or Subsidiary, as applicable) through the exercise of such powers to the extent consistent with the terms hereof. ARTICLE VIII DISSOLUTION OF THE PARTNERSHIP 8.1 Dissolution. A dissolution of the Partnership shall take place upon the first to occur of: (i) a determination by the General Partner in its sole and absolute discretion to dissolve the Partnership; (ii) the transfer or sale of all or substantially all of the Partnership's assets; or (iii) the occurrence of any circumstances that by Applicable Law requires a dissolution of the Partnership; provided that the General Partner shall not, without the consent of the Trust I Partners holding a majority of the Trust I Partnership Interest, take any action which would cause, or would reasonably be expected to cause, the liquidation, dissolution, winding up or Bankruptcy (under clause (i) of the definition thereof) of the Partnership (each a "Dissolution Action"), or permit any Dissolution Action to be taken prior to the third anniversary of the date hereof, and thereafter only 22
upon at least five (5) days' notice to the Trust I Partners; provided, further, that the General Partner shall not, without the consent of the Trust I Partners holding a majority of the Trust I Partnership Interest, take or permit to be taken any Dissolution Action, unless a Dissolution Action has previously been commenced in accordance with this Section 8.1, during any period commencing on the date that any Trust I Partner initiates its right to Dispose of its Partnership Interest pursuant to Section 3 or 4 of the Partnership Interest Sale Agreement through and until the earlier of (i) the closing of such Disposition in accordance with Section 3 or 4, as applicable, of the Partnership Interest Sale Agreement and (ii) the final date upon which Section 3 or 4, as applicable, of the Partnership Interest Sale Agreement requires such a closing to take place (provided that the General Partner shall not take or permit to be taken any Dissolution Action during any period of delay in such closing which results directly from a breach by AOLTW or TWC of its obligations under the Partnership Interest Sale Agreement). 8.2 Resignation. Subject to Section 8.1, each Partner covenants and agrees that it will not withdraw or resign from the Partnership or do anything that would otherwise terminate the Partnership without the prior consent of the other Partners (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed). 8.3 Winding-Up of the Partnership. Upon any dissolution of the Partnership, the following shall be accomplished: (a) The chief financial officer of the Partnership shall be directed to prepare a balance sheet of the Partnership in accordance with GAAP as of the date of dissolution, which shall be reported upon by the Accountants. (b) To the extent that the General Partner determines that any or all of the assets of the Partnership shall be sold, such assets shall be sold as promptly as possible, but in an orderly and business-like manner so as not to involve undue sacrifice. Prior to any such determination, the Partners shall discuss in good faith the in-kind distribution of some or all of the Partnership's assets, to the extent one or more Partners desire to acquire such assets. If the Partners are unable to agree on an equitable distribution of such assets among the Partners, such assets shall be sold in accordance with the first sentence of this clause (b); provided that each Partner shall be given the right to submit a bid for such assets and shall be entitled to purchase such assets if its bid, as reasonably determined by the General Partner, is the most favorable to the Partnership of all bids submitted. In connection with the foregoing, the General Partner shall take reasonable steps to provide each Partner with the opportunity to submit a bid for the purchase of the Partnership's assets or any portion thereof. (c) The Capital Account of each Partner shall be adjusted to take into account the Net Profit or Net Loss resulting from the sale or distribution in-kind of the assets of the Partnership. (d) The proceeds of sale of the assets of the Partnership and all other remaining assets of the Partnership shall be applied and distributed as follows, and in the following order of priority: 23
(i) first, to the extent not otherwise adequately provided for, to the payment of all debts and liabilities of the Partnership and the expenses of liquidation and to the setting up of any reserves which are reasonably necessary for any contingent liabilities or obligations of the Partnership or Partners arising out of, or in connection with, the Partnership; and (ii) second, to ATC with respect to its Preferred Sub-Account to the extent of the Preferred Redemption Value; (iii) third, pro rata to the Partners with respect to their Capital Account balances, to the extent of their positive Capital Account balances; and (iv) thereafter, to the Partners, in proportion to their Percentage Interests. (e) The Partnership shall terminate when all property and assets owned by the Partnership to be sold or distributed shall have been disposed of, and the net sale proceeds, after payment of or provision for the amounts specified in Sections 8.3(d)(i) and 8.3(d)(ii), and any assets to be distributed in-kind shall have been distributed to the Partners as provided herein. 8.4 No Recourse Against any Partner. A Partner shall look solely to the assets of the Partnership for the return of its investment, and if the property of the Partnership remaining after the payment or discharge of the debts and liabilities of the Partnership is insufficient to return such investment, it shall have no recourse against any other Partner. Distributions upon dissolution of the Partnership will constitute a complete return to the Partners of their interests in the profits of the Partnership and their Capital Contributions, a final and complete distribution to the Partners of all of their interests in the Partnership properties and its other assets and a final termination and settlement of all of the Partners' other interests in the Partnership. ARTICLE IX BOOKS AND RECORDS 9.1 Fiscal Year. The books and records of the Partnership shall be kept on an accrual basis consistent with the Fiscal Year of the Partnership. 9.2 Maintenance of Books and Records. At all times during the Term, the General Partner shall cause to be kept, at the principal office of the Partnership, full and complete books of account. The books of account shall be maintained in a manner that provides sufficient assurance that: (a) transactions of the Partnership are executed in accordance with the general or specific authorization of the General Partner or the officers of the Partnership, consistent with the provisions of this Agreement; and 24
(b) transactions of the Partnership are recorded in such form and manner as will (i) permit preparation of income and franchise tax returns of the Partners in their respective appropriate jurisdictions and information returns in accordance with this Agreement and as required by law, (ii) permit preparation of the Partnership's financial statements in a manner consistent with the manner in which AOLTW prepares its financial statements, subject to such changes as are necessitated by the transactions contemplated hereby, and (iii) maintain accountability for the Partnership's assets. 9.3 Financial Statements; Tax Matters. (a) Annual Statements. As soon as practicable following the end of each fiscal year but in any event within 120 days after the end of such fiscal year, the General Partner shall cause to be prepared and delivered to each Partner an audited statement of income (loss) of the Partnership and a statement of cash flow for such fiscal year, and an audited balance sheet of the Partnership as of the end of such fiscal year, including the footnotes thereto, each prepared in accordance with GAAP and accompanied by the Accountants' report thereon. (b) Quarterly Statements. As soon as practicable following the end of each fiscal quarter (other than the last fiscal quarter of each fiscal year) but in any event within 60 days after the end of such fiscal quarter, the General Partner shall cause to be prepared and delivered to each Partner a statement of income (loss) of the Partnership for such quarter and for the year to date and an unaudited balance sheet of the Partnership as of the end of such quarter, together with a certificate of the chief financial officer of the Partnership to the effect that such financial statements have been prepared under his supervision and that, although such financial statements do not contain the footnotes and other disclosures required by GAAP, such financial statements, in his judgment, except as disclosed in the notes to such financial statements, fairly present in all material respects the interim results of operations and financial position of the Partnership for the period and as of the date indicated, subject to normal audit adjustments. (c) Estimated Returns. The Partnership shall provide each Partner with such information as such Partner shall reasonably request to enable it to comply on a timely basis with its estimated tax obligations. 9.4 Tax Allocations and Reports. (a) As soon as practicable following the end of each Fiscal Year, but in no event later than seven calendar months following the end of such Fiscal Year, the General Partner shall cause to be prepared and delivered to each Partner a preliminary draft Schedule K-1 of the Partnership. As soon as practicable thereafter, the General Partner shall cause to be prepared and delivered to each Partner a final Schedule K-1. Upon the written request of any such Partner and at the expense of such Partner, the Partnership will use reasonable efforts to deliver or cause to be delivered, at such time and in the format as such Partner shall reasonably request, any additional information necessary for the preparation of any state, local and foreign income tax return which must be filed by such Partner. 25
(b) To the extent applicable, the Partnership hereby designates the General Partner to act as the "Tax Matters Partner" (as defined in Section 6231(a)(7) of the Code) in accordance with Sections 6221 through 6233 of the Code for all Fiscal Years or portions thereof commencing on or after the date hereof. The Tax Matters Partner for all Fiscal Years or portions thereof ending on or prior to the date hereof shall be a former General Partner of the Partnership, WCI. The Tax Matters Partner is authorized and required to represent the Partnership (at the Partnership's expense) in connection with all examinations of the Partnership's affairs by tax authorities, including resulting administrative and judicial proceedings, and to expend Partnership funds for professional services and costs associated therewith. Each Partner agrees to cooperate with the Tax Matters Partner and to do or refrain from doing any or all things reasonably requested by the Tax Matters Partner with respect to the conduct of such proceedings. Subject to the foregoing proviso, the Tax Matters Partner will have reasonable discretion to determine whether the Partnership (either on its own behalf or on behalf of the Partners) will contest or continue to contest any tax deficiencies assessed or proposed to be assessed by any taxing authority. Any deficiency for taxes imposed on any Partner (including penalties, additions to tax or interest imposed with respect to such taxes) will be paid by such Partner, and if paid by the Partnership, will be recoverable from such Partner (including by offset against distributions otherwise payable to such Partner). The Tax Matters Partner shall take reasonable action to cause each other Partner to be treated as a "notice partner" within the meaning of Section 6231(a)(8) of the Code. Each such Partner shall have the right to participate in any administrative proceeding and any discussions with the Internal Revenue Service at its own expense. The Tax Matters Partner shall determine in good faith and consistent with any fiduciary duties it has to all Partners whether to make or revoke any available election pursuant to the Code. Each Partner will, upon request, supply the information necessary to give proper effect to any such election. (c) Each of the Partners and the Partnership shall take no action or position (whether on a tax return or otherwise) inconsistent with, and shall make or cause to be made all applicable elections with respect to (i) the treatment of the Partnership as a partnership; and (ii) the treatment of the Partnership as not a publicly traded partnership for federal income tax purposes. ARTICLE X MISCELLANEOUS 10.1 Confidential Information. For so long as any Limited Partner is a party to this Agreement each Limited Partner shall, and shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause its Affiliates and its and their respective Agents to, keep secret and hold in strictest confidence any and all confidential information relating to the Partnership Business that is proprietary to the Partnership, other than the following: (i) information that has become generally available to the public other than as a result of a disclosure by such Limited Partner, its Affiliates or its Agents; 26
(ii) information that becomes available to such Limited Partner or an Agent of such Limited Partner on a nonconfidential basis from a third party having, to such Partner's knowledge, no obligation of confidentiality to a party to this Agreement or the Partnership and which, to such Partner's knowledge, has not itself received such information directly or indirectly in breach of any such obligation of confidentiality; (iii) information that is required to be disclosed by Applicable Law, judicial order or pursuant to any listing agreement with, or the rules or regulations of, any securities exchange or quotation system on which securities of such Limited Partner or any such Affiliate are listed or traded; provided that the party making such disclosure or whose Affiliates or Agents are making such disclosure shall notify the other parties and the Partnership as promptly as practicable (and, if possible, prior to making such disclosure) and shall use its reasonable best efforts to limit the scope of such disclosure and seek confidential treatment of the information to be disclosed; and (iv) reasonable disclosures made in good faith to a prospective transferee of such Partner's Partnership Interest in connection with a potential Permitted Transfer; provided that prior to any such disclosure such prospective transferee executes a confidentiality agreement in form and substance reasonably acceptable to the Partnership. 10.2 Amendments; Waiver. Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement, any provision of this Agreement (other than this Section 10.2, Section 10.3, Section 10.10 and Section 10.12) may be amended or waived if, but only if, such amendment is in writing and signed by the General Partner; provided, however, that: (a) any amendment to or waiver of any provision of this Agreement that would increase the liabilities or obligations of any Limited Partner shall require the written consent of such Limited Partner; (b) any amendment to or waiver of any provision that would alter the allocations to Capital Accounts, or the distributions from the Partnership shall require the written consent of each Limited Partner who would be adversely affected by such amendment; (c) any amendment to or waiver of any provision which discriminates against any Limited Partner, or adversely affects the value or rights of one Limited Partner in the Partnership, in relation to one or more of the other Partners shall require the written consent of such Limited Partner; and (d) any amendment of Section 7.4, 7.6 or 8.1 shall require the consent of the Trust I Partners holding a majority of the Trust I Partnership Interests. Promptly after any change or amendment or waiver in accordance with this Section 10.2, the General Partner shall send a written notice to each Limited Partner describing such change or 27
amendment or waiver in reasonable detail. Any amendment of this Section 10.2 shall require the written consent of all of the Partners. 10.3 Additional Issuances. The Partnership, in the sole and absolute discretion of the General Partner, shall be permitted to issue additional equity of the Partnership, provided, that any Partnership Interest so issued shall be at Fair Market Value. Notwithstanding Section 10.2, the General Partner may authorize the amendment of this Agreement as necessary to reflect any such issuance of equity of the Partnership. Any amendment of this Section 10.3 shall require the written consent of all of the Partners. To the extent applicable, the provisions of this Section 10.3 shall be subject to the provisions of Article VI of the Bylaws of the General Partner or Section 7.6 of this Agreement. 10.4 Successors and Assigns. This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the successors and permitted assigns of the Partners. 10.5 No Waiver. No failure or delay by any Partner in exercising any right, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver hereof nor shall any single or partial exercise thereof preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, power or privilege. The rights and remedies herein provided shall be cumulative and not exclusive of any rights or remedies provided by Applicable Law. 10.6 Severability. If any term, provision, covenant or restriction of this Agreement is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction or other authority to be invalid, void or unenforceable, the remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect and shall in no way be affected, impaired or invalidated so long as the economic or legal substance of the transactions contemplated hereby is not affected in any manner adverse to any party hereto. Upon such a determination, the parties hereto shall negotiate in good faith to modify this Agreement so as to effect the original intent of the parties as closely as possible in an acceptable manner so that the transactions contemplated hereby may be consummated as originally contemplated to the fullest extent possible. 10.7 No Right to Set-Off. No Partner shall be entitled to offset against any of its financial obligations to the Partnership under this Agreement, any obligation owed to it or any of its Affiliates by any other Partner or any of such other Partner's Affiliates. 10.8 Survival of Rights, Duties and Obligations. The dissolution or termination of the Partnership for any reason shall not release any Partner from any liability, which at the time of dissolution or termination had already accrued to any other party or parties or which thereafter may accrue in respect of any act or omission prior to such dissolution or termination. 10.9 Further Assurances. Each of the parties to this Agreement hereby agrees to execute and deliver all such other and additional instruments and documents and to do such other acts and things as may be reasonably necessary more fully to effectuate the Partnership and this Agreement. In addition, each party hereto agrees to use its 28
commercially reasonable efforts to cooperate with the other parties in obtaining any regulatory approvals necessary for any Disposition of Partnership Interests permitted by this Agreement. 10.10 Competing Activities. Except as otherwise expressly provided in an agreement between or among the Partnership and any Partner or Partners, (i) the Partners, including, the General Partner and its officers, directors, agents, stockholders, members, partners and Affiliates, may engage or invest in, independently or with others, any business activity of any type or description, including those that might be the same as or similar to the Partnership Business or the business of any Subsidiary of the Partnership; (ii) neither the Partnership, any Subsidiary of the Partnership nor any Partner of the Partnership shall have any right in or to such business activities or ventures or to receive or share in any income or proceeds derived therefrom; and (iii) to the extent required by applicable law in order to effectuate the purpose of this provision, the Partnership shall have no interest or expectancy, and specifically renounces any interest or expectancy, in any such business activities or ventures. 10.11 Corporate Opportunities. If any Protected Person (or, as set forth below, any of such Protected Person's officers, directors, agents, stockholders, members or partners) acquires knowledge of a potential transaction or matter which may be a Corporate Opportunity or otherwise is then exploiting any Corporate Opportunity, the Partnership shall have no interest in such Corporate Opportunity and no expectancy that such Corporate Opportunity be offered to the Partnership, any such interest or expectancy being hereby renounced, so that, as a result of such renunciation, and for the avoidance of doubt, such Person (i) shall have no duty to communicate or present such Corporate Opportunity to the Partnership, (ii) shall have the right to hold any such Corporate Opportunity for its (and/or its officers', directors', agents', stockholders', members' or partners') own account or to recommend, sell, assign or transfer such Corporate Opportunity to Persons other than the Partnership or any Subsidiary of the Partnership, and (iii) shall not breach any fiduciary duty to the Partnership, in such Person's capacity as the General Partner of the Partnership or otherwise, by reason of the fact that such Person pursues or acquires such Corporate Opportunity for itself, directs, sells, assigns or transfers such Corporate Opportunity to another Person, or does not communicate information regarding such Corporate Opportunity to the Partnership. 10.12 Guarantees. Each of AOLTW and Comcast agrees that it shall cause the AOLTW Partner and the Trust I Partner, as applicable (and any direct or indirect transferee of such Partner), to comply with all of the obligations of such Partner hereunder. Comcast further agrees that it will continue to own directly or indirectly a majority of the equity and other ownership interests of each Trust I Partner (or, if such Trust I Partner is a statutory trust, Comcast (A) will continue to own directly or indirectly a majority of the equity and other ownership interests of the Person that directly owns all of the beneficial or other ownership interests of such statutory trust and (B) shall cause one Person to own all of the beneficial or other ownership interests of such statutory trust); provided that this sentence shall not apply to any Trust I Partner that became a Trust I Partner as a result of a Permitted Transfer from a transferor who was not, at the 29
time of such Permitted Transfer, an Affiliate of such Trust I Partner; provided, further, that Comcast may Dispose of all of its equity interests in the Trust I Partner or any Parent thereof in connection with a sale or transfer of all or substantially all of its broadband business if the transferee thereof (and, if such transferee is a Subsidiary of another Person, then such transferee's Ultimate Parent (a "Broadband Transferee Ultimate Parent")) agrees in writing to succeed to the benefits of and be bound by all of the terms and conditions binding upon or to the benefit of Comcast under this Agreement and the Partnership Interest Sale Agreement. TWC will continue to own, directly or indirectly, a majority of the equity of the Partnership through and until the third anniversary of the date hereof and thereafter shall not take any action that would result in TWC ceasing to own, directly or indirectly, a majority of the equity of the Partnership unless it provides at least five (5) days' notice to the Trust I Partners; provided, however, that TWC shall not, without the consent of the Trust I Partners holding a majority of the Trust I Partnership Interest, take any such action, unless such action has previously been commenced in accordance with this Section 10.12, during any period commencing on the date that any Trust I Partner initiates its right to Dispose of its Partnership Interest pursuant to Section 3 or 4 of the Partnership Interest Sale Agreement through and until the earlier of (i) the closing of such Disposition in accordance with Section 3 or 4, as applicable, of the Partnership Interest Sale Agreement and (ii) the final date upon which Section 3 or 4, as applicable, of the Partnership Interest Sale Agreement requires such a closing to take place (provided that TWC shall not take or permit to be taken any such action during any period of delay in such closing which results directly from a breach by AOLTW or TWC of its obligations under the Partnership Interest Sale Agreement). 10.13 Notices. All notices, requests and other communications to any party hereto shall be in writing (including facsimile transmission) and shall be given, if to AOLTW, ATC, WCI or the General AOL Time Warner Inc. Partner: 75 Rockefeller Plaza New York, New York 10019 Attention: Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Fax: (212) 258-3172 Time Warner Cable Inc. 75 Rockefeller Plaza New York, New York 10019 Attention: Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Fax: (212) 258-3172 30
With a copy to: Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP 1285 Avenue of the Americas New York, NY 10019 Attention: Robert B. Schumer Fax: (212) 757-3990 if to Trust I: TWE Holdings I Trust c/o Edith E. Holiday 801 West Street 2nd Floor Wilmington, DE 19801 Fax: (302) 428-1410 With a copy to: Sullivan & Cromwell LLP 125 Broad Street New York, NY 10004 Attention: James C. Morphy, Esq. Fax: (212) 558-3588 And a copy to: Potter Anderson & Corroon LLP Hercules Plaza, 1313 N. Market Street P.O. Box 951 Wilmington, Delaware 19899-0951 Attention: Leonard S. Togman Fax: (302) 658-1192 if to Comcast: Comcast Corporation 1500 Market Street Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19102 Attention: General Counsel Fax: (215) 981-7794 With a copy to: Davis Polk & Wardwell 450 Lexington Avenue New York, New York 10017 Attention: Dennis S. Hersch William L. Taylor Fax: (212) 450-4800 or such other address or facsimile number as such party hereto may hereafter specify for such purpose by notice to the other parties hereto. All such notices, requests and other 31
communications shall be deemed received on the date of receipt by the recipient thereof if received prior to 5 p.m. on a Business Day, in the place of receipt. Otherwise, any such notice, request or communication shall be deemed not to have been received until the next succeeding Business Day in the place of receipt. 10.14 Counterparts; Effectiveness. This Agreement may be signed in counterparts, each of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument. This Agreement shall become effective when each party hereto shall have received a counterpart hereof signed by the other parties hereto. 10.15 No Right to Partition. The Partners, on behalf of themselves and their shareholders, partners, successors and assigns, if any, hereby specifically renounce, waive and forfeit all rights, whether arising under contract or statute or by operation of law, except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement, to seek, bring or maintain any action in any court of law or equity for partition of the Partnership or any asset of the Partnership, or any interest which is considered to be Partnership property, regardless of the manner in which title to such property may be held. 10.16 Entire Agreement; No Third Party Beneficiaries. (a) This Agreement (together with the Partnership Interest Sale Agreement) constitutes the entire agreement among the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior agreements and understandings, both oral and written, between the parties with respect to such subject matter. (b) This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure solely to the benefit of each party hereto and their respective successors and assigns, and, except as contemplated by Section 7.4 of this Agreement, nothing in this Agreement, express or implied, is intended to or shall confer upon any other Person any right, benefit or remedy of any nature whatsoever under or by reason of this Agreement. 10.17 Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware (other than its rules of conflicts of laws to the extent that the application of the laws of another jurisdiction would be required thereby), and specifically, the Partnership shall be subject to the provisions of the Act, except to the extent modified by the provisions hereof. 32
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, all of the parties hereto have executed this Agreement, effective as of the date first written above; provided, however, Comcast and AOLTW are parties to this Agreement solely for purposes of being bound by Section 10.12 hereof and WCI is a party to this Agreement solely for purposes of Section 9.4 hereof. TIME WARNER CABLE INC. By: /s/ Marc J. Apfelbaum ------------------------------ Name: Marc J. Apfelbaum Title: Executive Vice President, General Counsel & Secretary AMERICAN TELEVISION & COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION By: /s/ Spencer B. Hays ------------------------------ Name: Spener B. Hays Title: Senior Vice President TWE HOLDINGS I TRUST By: /s/ Edith E. Holiday ------------------------------ Name: Edith E. Holiday, solely in her capacity as operating trustee COMCAST CORPORATION By: /s/ Robert S. Pick ------------------------------ Name: Robert S. Pick Title: Senior Vice President AOL TIME WARNER INC. By: /s/ Spencer B. Hays ------------------------------ Name: Spencer B. Hays Title: Senior Vice President 33
WARNER COMMUNICATIONS INC. By: /s/ Douglas S. Phillips ------------------------------ Name: Douglas S. Phillips Title: Vice President 34
SCHEDULE 4.1(1) A. ATC's Prior Partnership Interest shall be a portion of ATC's A Sub-Account (as defined in the Original Agreement) with a value equal to the Preferred Amount plus 1% of the value of the equity of TWE net of the Preferred Amount immediately following the TWE Distribution. B. Trust I's Prior Partnership Interest shall be the interest of Trust I prior to the transactions contemplated by the Restructuring Agreement. C. TWC's Prior Partnership Interest shall be the aggregate partnership interests of (i) ATC and WCI (other than ATC's Prior Partnership Interest as described above in this Schedule 4.1) immediately following the TWE Distribution and (ii) TWC (directly or indirectly through TWE Holdings III Trust, a Delaware statutory trust), prior to the transactions contemplated by the Restructuring Agreement. - ---------------------- (1) All capitalized terms used in this Schedule 4.1 unless defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Restructuring Agreement.

EXHIBIT: 4.1 EXECUTION COPY CERTIFICATE OF THE VOTING POWERS, DESIGNATIONS, PREFERENCES AND RELATIVE, PARTICIPATING, OPTIONAL OR OTHER SPECIAL RIGHTS AND QUALIFICATIONS, LIMITATIONS OR RESTRICTIONS THEREOF, OF SERIES A MANDATORILY CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK OF AOL TIME WARNER INC. ----------------------------------------------------- Pursuant to Section 151 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware ----------------------------------------------------- AOL Time Warner Inc., a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "CORPORATION"), does hereby certify that the following resolution was duly adopted by action of a Special Committee (the "SPECIAL COMMITTEE") of the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the "BOARD OF DIRECTORS"), vested with the requisite authority by the Board of Directors. RESOLVED that pursuant to the authority expressly granted to and vested in the Special Committee by the Board of Directors, by the provisions of Section 2 of Article IV of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended from time to time (the "CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION"), and Section 151(g) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, the Special Committee hereby creates, from the authorized shares of Preferred Stock, par value $0.10 per share ("PREFERRED STOCK"), of the Corporation authorized to be issued pursuant to the Certificate of Incorporation, a series of Preferred Stock, and hereby fixes the voting powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series as follows: 1. Definitions. As used herein, the following terms shall have the indicated meanings: 1.1. "1933 ACT" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended from time to time. 1.2. "AOLTW COMMON STOCK" means the Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation, or any successor securities or securities into which such Common Stock is converted (whether pursuant to a merger, reclassification or otherwise) prior to the conversion on the Conversion Date. 1.3. "AOLTW REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT" means the Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of August 20, 2002, by and between the Corporation and TWE Holdings II Trust (as assignee of Comcast of Georgia, Inc., formerly named MediaOne of Colorado, Inc.), as amended.
1.4. "AOLTW STOCK PRICE" means the simple average (rounded to the nearest 1/10,000) of the Trading Values of AOLTW Common Stock for each Trading Day during the Valuation Period (as appropriately adjusted, if necessary (without duplication of any other such adjustment), for any dividend or other distribution on, any subdivision, split or combination of, or any conversion in a merger, reclassification or other similar transaction of, the AOLTW Common Stock that is effected, that has a record date with respect thereto or in respect of which the AOLTW Common Stock first trades on an ex-basis with respect thereto, at any time after the day before the Valuation Period begins and ending at the time of conversion); provided that if the AOLTW Stock Price as so computed is less than the Specified Price, then the AOLTW Stock Price shall be deemed to be equal to the Specified Price. 1.5. "BUSINESS DAY" means a day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in New York City are authorized or required by Law or executive order to close. 1.6. "CLOSING DATE" has the meaning specified in the Restructuring Agreement. 1.7. "CONVERSION AMOUNT" equals the Specified Number. 1.8. "CONVERSION DATE" means the earliest of (i) the date on which the Registration Statement is declared effective, (ii) the second anniversary of the Closing Date, (iii) immediately prior to the effective time of any merger or consolidation of the Corporation in which the holders of shares of AOLTW Common Stock are entitled to receive only cash, securities that have been registered under the 1933 Act or a combination thereof and (iv) the date immediately prior to any record date fixed by the Board of Directors for purposes of determining the holders of AOLTW Common Stock entitled to participate in any extraordinary or non-recurring dividend (other than a dividend declared in connection with the adoption of a customary stockholder rights plan) declared by the Board of Directors in respect of the AOLTW Common Stock; provided, that the event described in clause (iv) shall not consititute a Conversion Date unless the holder of Series A Preferred Stock shall have delivered notice to the Corporation electing to so-convert its Series A Preferred Stock at least 2 Trading Days prior to such record date. 1.9. "DESIGNATED NUMBER" means 134,245,006, as appropriately adjusted, if necessary (and without duplication of any other such adjustment), for any subdivision, split or combination of, or conversion in a merger, reclassification or other similar transaction of the AOLTW Common Stock that is effected after the Closing Date and prior to the conversion on the Conversion Date. 1.10. "LIEN" means, with respect to any property or asset, any mortgage, lien, pledge, charge, security interest, encumbrance or other adverse claim of any kind in respect of such property or asset. For purposes hereof, a person shall be deemed to own subject to a Lien any property or asset that it has acquired or holds 2
subject to the interest of a vendor or lessor under any conditional sale agreement, capital lease or other title retention agreement relating to such property or asset. 1.11. "NYSE" means the New York Stock Exchange; provided, that if the AOLTW Common Stock is not listed on the New York Stock Exchange, the "NYSE" shall mean the principal market on which the AOLTW Common Stock is listed. 1.12. "PERMITTED LIENS" means, with respect to the Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock, any restrictions arising under the Transaction Agreements (as defined in the Restructuring Agreement) or any applicable federal or state securities laws. 1.13. "REGISTRATION STATEMENT" means the "shelf" registration statement prepared and filed by the Corporation pursuant to AOLTW Registration Rights Agreement with respect to the shares of AOLTW Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock. 1.14. "RESTRUCTURING AGREEMENT" means the Restructuring Agreement, dated as of August 20, 2002, by and among the Corporation, Comcast Corporation (formerly named AT&T Comcast Corporation) and the other parties named therein, as amended. 1.15. "SPECIFIED NUMBER" means the number of shares of AOLTW Common Stock (rounded to the nearest whole share) equal to the quotient obtained by dividing $1,500,000,000 by the AOLTW Stock Price. 1.16. "SPECIFIED PRICE" means $6.665, as appropriately adjusted, if necessary (and without duplication of any other such adjustment), for any dividend or other distribution on, or any subdivision, split or combination of, or conversion in a merger, reclassification or other similar transaction of, the AOLTW Common Stock occuring after August 20, 2002 and prior to the conversion on the Conversion Date. 1.17. "TRADING DAY" means any day on which AOLTW Common Stock is traded on the NYSE. 1.18. "TRADING VALUE" means, with respect to AOLTW Common Stock on any given Trading Day, the volume weighted trading price (rounded to the nearest 1/10,000) of AOLTW Common Stock on the NYSE, as reported by Bloomberg Financial Markets (or such other source as the Corporation and the holder of Series A Preferred Stock may agree) for that Trading Day; provided, that if volume-weighted pricing information is not reasonably available then the Corporation and the holder of the Series A Preferred Stock will agree on another method for determining the Trading Value.. 1.19. "VALUATION PERIOD" means the 15 consecutive Trading Days ending on the first Trading Day immediately prior to the Conversion Date. 3
2. Number and Designation. The series of Preferred Stock hereby established shall consist of one (1) share designated as Series A Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock (the "SERIES A PREFERRED STOCK"). 3. Rank. The Series A Preferred Stock shall, with respect to dividend rights, rank on a parity with, and with respect to rights on liquidation, dissolution and winding-up pursuant to Section 5(a) hereof, rank prior to, the AOLTW Common Stock. All equity securities of the Corporation with which the Series A Preferred Stock ranks on a parity (whether with respect to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution, winding-up or otherwise) are collectively the "PARITY SECURITIES". 4. Dividends. Except as set forth in Section 9, the holder of Series A Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to receive dividends or any other distributions, whether declared in respect of the AOLTW Common Stock or otherwise. If the Corporation declares a dividend in connection with the adoption of a customary stockholder rights plan with a record date prior to the Conversion Date, appropriate actions shall be taken by the Board of Directors to ensure that the holder of Series A Preferred Stock shall be entitled, upon conversion of the share of Series A Preferred Stock, to receive rights as though it had participated in such dividend in respect of each share of AOLTW Common Stock received. 5. Liquidation. (a) Unless the Board of Directors determines that its fiduciary duties otherwise require, the Corporation shall not voluntarily effect a liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation from and including the Closing Date through and including the Conversion Date. In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, before any payment or distribution of the Corporation's assets (whether capital or surplus) shall be made to or set apart for the holders of AOLTW Common Stock, the holder of Series A Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive an amount for the share of Series A Preferred Stock equal to $0.10 (the "LIQUIDATION PREFERENCE"). If, upon any involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation, the Corporation's assets, or proceeds thereof, distributable to the holder of Series A Preferred Stock are insufficient to pay in full the preferential amount aforesaid and liquidating payments on any Parity Securities, then such assets, or the proceeds thereof, shall be distributed among the holders of Series A Preferred Stock and any other Parity Securities ratably in accordance with the respective amounts that would be payable on such share of Series A Preferred Stock and any such other Parity Securities if all amounts payable thereon were paid in full. (b) Upon the completion of the distribution required by Section 5(a) above and any other distribution to any other class or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the AOLTW Common Stock, any remaining assets of the Corporation available for distribution to stockholders shall be distributed among the holder of the share of Series A Preferred Stock, the holders of shares of any other capital stock which ranks on parity with the AOLTW Common Stock and the holders of 4
AOLTW Common Stock pro rata based on the number of shares of the AOLTW Common Stock held by each (assuming conversion of the share of Series A Preferred Stock into the Conversion Amount, as calculated ending the Valuation Period on (and including) the Trading Day immediately prior to the distribution required by this Section 5(b), in accordance with Section 7 below). 6. Redemption. The Series A Preferred Stock shall not at any time be redeemable by the Corporation. 7. Conversion. 7.1. Subject to the provisions of this Section 7, on the Conversion Date, the outstanding share of Series A Preferred Stock shall automatically and without any action on the part of the holder thereof convert in full into a number of shares of AOLTW Common Stock equal to the Conversion Amount. The conversion shall be deemed to have been effected at 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on the Conversion Date, except that any conversion occuring in connection with a merger of the Corporation of the type described in clause (iii) of the definition of "Conversion Date" shall be deemed to have been effected immediately prior to the effective time of such merger. The person in whose name or names any shares of AOLTW Common Stock are issuable upon such conversion shall be deemed to have become the holder of record of such shares of AOLTW Common Stock at such time on such date. 7.2. As promptly as practicable after the conversion of the share of Series A Preferred Stock pursuant to Section 7.1 (and in any event prior to the close of business on the Conversion Date), the Corporation shall cause to be issued and delivered to the former holder of Series A Preferred Stock a share ownership statement (or if requested by such holder or otherwise required by applicable law, a physical certificate) representing the whole number of shares of AOLTW Common Stock issuable upon conversion of such holder's share of Series A Preferred Stock. The deliveries specified in the preceding sentence shall be conditioned on prior delivery by the applicable holder of such holder's share of Series A Preferred Stock to the Corporation. From and after the Conversion Date, such share of Series A Preferred Stock shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding and all rights of the holder with respect to such share of Series A Preferred Stock shall immediately terminate except the right to receive a share ownership statement or certificate for AOLTW Common Stock and other amounts payable pursuant to this Section 7. 7.3. The Corporation shall at all times reserve and keep available, free of all Liens, such number of authorized but unissued shares of AOLTW Common Stock as may be required to effect conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock pursuant to this Section 7. All shares of AOLTW Common Stock delivered upon conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock will upon delivery be duly and validly issued and fully paid and non-assessable, and free of all Liens other than Permitted Liens. 5
7.4. The Corporation shall pay any and all issuance, delivery and transfer taxes in respect of the issuance or delivery of shares of AOLTW Common Stock on conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock pursuant to Section 7. The Corporation shall not, however, be required to pay any tax in respect of any transfer involved in the issuance or delivery of shares of AOLTW Common Stock in a name other than that of the holder of the Series A Preferred Stock so converted, and no such issuance or delivery shall be made unless and until the holder requesting such issuance or delivery has paid to the Corporation the amount of any such tax or has established to the Corporation's reasonable satisfaction that such tax has been paid. 7.5. No fractions of shares of AOLTW Common Stock shall be issued upon conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock. Instead the Corporation shall pay a cash amount in lieu of any fractional interest to which the holder of Series A Preferred Stock would otherwise be entitled in an amount equal to such fractional interest multiplied by the AOLTW Stock Price. For purposes of determining the fractional interest (if any) to which the holder of Series A Preferred Stock would be entitled, all shares (including fractional shares) of AOLTW Common Stock to which such holder is entitled upon conversion of such holder's Series A Preferred Stock shall first be aggregated. 8. Voting Rights. 8.1. Except as set forth in this Section 8 or as otherwise provided by law, but subject to Section 9, the holder of record of the share of Series A Preferred Stock (i) shall be entitled to vote, together with the holders of AOLTW Common Stock as a single class, on all matters submitted for a vote of the holders of AOLTW Common Stock; (ii) shall be entitled to a number of votes for its share of Series A Preferred Stock equal to the Designated Number; and (iii) shall be entitled to notice of any stockholders' meeting in the same manner provided to holders of AOLTW Common Stock and in accordance with the Certificate of Incorporation and bylaws of the Corporation. 8.2. So long as the share of Series A Preferred Stock is outstanding, the Corporation shall not, without the affirmative vote of the holder of the outstanding share of Series A Preferred Stock either at a meeting of the holder of Series A Preferred Stock duly called for such purpose or by written consent (i) amend, alter or repeal (by merger, consolidation, combination, reclassification or otherwise) the terms of the Series A Preferred Stock, its Certificate of Incorporation or its bylaws so as to adversely affect the preferences, rights or powers of the Series A Preferred Stock or (ii) issue any additional shares of Series A Preferred Stock. 8.3. The vote required by Section 8.2 shall be in addition to any approval of stockholders of the Corporation required by law 9. Failure of Conversion. If the Series A Preferred Stock is not converted into AOLTW Common Stock on the Conversion Date for any reason 6
whatsoever, from and after the Conversion Date until the time that the Series A Preferred Stock is so converted (which will be as promptly thereafter as practicable), the share of Series A Preferred Stock shall be treated for purposes of dividends, voting and liquidation, dissolution, winding up and otherwise, as if such share had been converted into a number of shares of AOLTW Common Stock equal to the Conversion Amount. 10. Notices. All notices, requests and other communications to the holder of Series A Preferred Stock (except for any notices of stockholders meetings of the holders of AOLTW Common Stock, which shall be given in the manner provided in Section 8.1) shall be in writing (including facsimile transmission) and shall be given at the address of such holder as shown on the books of the Corporation. The holder of the outstanding share of Series A Preferred Stock may waive any notice required hereunder by a writing signed before or after the time required for notice or the action in question. Subject to applicable law, the Corporation shall give the holder of Series A Preferred Stock notice of any dividend described in clause (iv) of the definition of "Conversion Date" at least five Trading Days prior to the record date for such dividend. 7

 
Exhibit 4.3
     This AMENDMENT NO. 1 (this "Amendment") to the REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT (the "Registration Rights Agreement"), dated as of August 20, 2002, by and between TWE Holdings II Trust, a Delaware statutory trust (together with its predecessor Delaware limited liability company, "Trust II") (as assignee of Comcast of Georgia, Inc., a Colorado corporation (formerly named MediaOne of Colorado, Inc., "Comcast of Georgia")) and AOL Time Warner Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Issuer"), is made as of March 31, 2003, by and between the Issuer and Trust II. Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the respective meanings assigned to them in the Registration Rights Agreement.
     WHEREAS, certain of the parties hereto (or their assignors) have previously entered into the Registration Rights Agreement that provided for certain registration rights relating to Issuer Common Stock;
     WHEREAS, in connection with the AT&T-Comcast Merger, (i) Comcast of Georgia transferred to a wholly owned subsidiary, and such subsidiary subsequently transferred to Trust II, all of the Equity Securities (the "MOTH Equity") of the predecessor to MOTH Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and (ii) in connection with such transfer, Trust II and Comcast of Georgia entered into the Assignment and Assumption Agreement, dated as of November 18, 2002, by and among Comcast of Georgia, Trust II and the other parties thereto, and acknowledged by the Issuer and the other acknowledging parties thereto (the "Trust Assignment");
     WHEREAS, pursuant to the Trust Assignment, (i) Comcast of Georgia assigned its rights under the Transaction Agreements to Trust II (including, without limitation, the right to receive shares of Issuer Common Stock pursuant to Section 2.6(a) of the Restructuring Agreement), and Trust II agreed to assume Comcast of Georgia's obligations under the Transaction Agreements, but in each case only to the extent relating to the MOTH Equity, (ii) in accordance with Section 4.7 of the Registration Rights Agreement, Trust II agreed to be bound by, and became entitled to the benefits of, the terms and provisions applicable to Comcast of Georgia under the Registration Rights Agreement and (iii) Trust II replaced Comcast of Georgia as party to the Registration Rights Agreement and Comcast of Georgia was released from any and all obligations under the Registration Rights Agreement;
     WHEREAS, the parties to the Restructuring Agreement are agreeing to certain amendments to the terms of the Restructuring Agreement, including to provide that one share of Series A Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock, par value $0.10 per share, of the Issuer (the "Issuer Preferred Stock") will be issued to Trust II under Section 2.6(a) of the Restructuring Agreement (as so amended), in lieu of shares of Issuer Common Stock;
     WHEREAS, the Issuer Preferred Stock will be mandatorily convertible into Issuer Common Stock; and
     WHEREAS, in accordance with Section 4.8 of the Registration Rights Agreement, the parties hereto also wish to amend the Registration Rights Agreement as provided herein.
 
2
     NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto, intending to be legally bound, agree as follows:
     1.1 Change of Name of Comcast Corporation. All references in the Registration Rights Agreement to "Comcast Corporation" are hereby changed to "Comcast Holdings Corporation."
     1.2 Additional Amendments to the Registration Rights Agreement. The document attached hereto as Annex A reflects the amendments to the Registration Rights Agreement agreed to by the parties hereto that are not otherwise reflected in this Amendment.
     1.3 Deletion of Schedule A. The Registration Rights Agreement is hereby amended by deleting Schedule A thereto.
     2.1 Successors and Assigns. The provisions of this Amendment shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns; provided that no party hereto may assign, delegate or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations under this Amendment without the consent of the other parties hereto.
     2.2 Governing Law. This Amendment shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, without regard to the conflicts of law rules of the State of New York.
     2.3 Counterparts; Effectiveness. This Amendment may be signed in counterparts, each of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument. This Amendment shall become effective when each party hereto shall have received a counterpart hereof signed by the other parties hereto.
     2.4 Headings. The headings in this Amendment are for reference only and shall not affect the interpretation of this Amendment.
     2.5 Ratification. Except as otherwise expressly provided by this Amendment, all of the terms and conditions of the Registration Rights Agreement are hereby ratified and shall remain unchanged and continue in full force and effect.
 
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed, or have caused to be executed, this Amendment on the date first written above.
 
 
Annex A
     REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT, dated as of August 20, 2002 (the "Agreement"), by and between (""), and AOL Time Warner Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Issuer").
MediaOne of Colorado, Inc., a Colorado corporation
TWE Holdings II Trust, a Delaware statutory trust
MediaOne
Trust II
     WHEREAS, concurrently with the execution of this Agreement, , the Issuer and certain other parties are entering into a Restructuring Agreementof (the "Restructuring Agreement"), pursuant to which, among other things, the Issuer will shares of Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share(the "Issuer Common Stock"), in exchange for shares of Class B Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation; and
MediaOne
Comcast of Georgia, Inc., a Colorado corporation (formerly named MediaOne of Colorado, Inc.)
, dated as
even date herewith
August 20, 2002
as amended,
transfer
issue to Trust II one share of Series A Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock, par value $0.10 per share, of the Issuer (the "Issuer Preferred Stock"), which share will be mandatorily convertible upon the occurrence of certain specified events into
its
, of the Issuer
all of the outstanding
MediaOne TWE
MOTH
     WHEREAS, this Agreement in order to provide for certain registration rights relating to the Issuer Common Stock to be issued to
the Issuer and the MediaOne are entering into
is being entered into
MediaOne.
Trust II.
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the respective representations, warranties, covenants and agreements set forth below, the parties hereby agree, severally and not jointly, as follows:
     1.1 Certain Definitions. As used herein, unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms have the following respective meanings:
     "Affiliate" means, with respect to a Person, any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such Person. For purposes of this definition, "control" (including, with correlative meanings, the terms "controlling," "controlled by" and "under common control with"), as used with respect to a Person, shall mean the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by agreement or otherwise
; provided, that, solely for purposes of this definition, if any Person or Persons
 
2
.
beneficially own directly or indirectly a majority of the beneficial interests of Trust II or of TWE Holdings I Trust, a Delaware statutory trust, then such trust (and any Person controlled by such trust) will be deemed to be controlled by such Person and by any other Person who controls such Person
     "beneficially own" means to possess beneficial ownership as determined under Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act.
     "Board of Directors" means the board of directors of the Issuer or any committee thereof.
     "Business Day" means a day of the year other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which banks are required or authorized to close in New York City.
     "Closing" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.1 of the Restructuring Agreement.
     "Commission" means the Securities and Exchange Commission or any other federal agency at the time administering the Securities Act.
     "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder, all as the same shall be in effect at the time.
     "Governmental Entity" means any supranational, national, state, municipal or local government, political subdivision or other governmental department, court, commission, board, bureau, agency, instrumentality or other authority thereof, or any quasi-governmental or private body (including any self-regulatory organization) exercising any regulatory, taxing, importing or other governmental authority, whether domestic or foreign.
     "Hedging Counterparty" means a broker-dealer registered under Section 15(b) of the Exchange Act or an Affiliate thereof.
     "Hedging Transaction" means any transaction involving a security linked to the Registrable Class Securities or any security that would be deemed to be a "derivative security" (as defined in Rule 16a-1(c) under the Exchange Act) with respect to the Registrable Class Securities or transaction (even if not a security) which would (were it a security) be considered such a derivative security, or which transfers some or all of the economic risk of ownership of the Registrable Class Securities, including, without limitation, any forward contract, equity swap, put or call, put or call equivalent position, collar, non-recourse loan, sale of exchangeable security or similar transaction. For the avoidance of doubt, the following transactions shall be deemed to be Hedging Transactions:
     (a)  transactions by a Stockholder in which a Hedging Counterparty engages in short sales of Registrable Class Securities pursuant to a Prospectus and may use Registrable Securities to close out its short position;
 
3
     (b)  transactions pursuant to which a Stockholder sells short Registrable Class Securities pursuant to a Prospectus and delivers Registrable Securities to close out its short position;
     (c)  transactions by a Stockholder in which the Stockholder delivers, in a transaction exempt from registration under the Securities Act, Registrable Securities to the Hedging Counterparty who will then publicly resell or otherwise transfer such Registrable Securities pursuant to a Prospectus or an exemption from registration under the Securities Act; and
     (d)  a loan or pledge of Registrable Securities to a Hedging Counterparty who may then become a selling stockholder and sell the loaned shares or, in an event of default in the case of a pledge, then sell the pledged shares, in each case, in a public transaction pursuant to a Prospectus.
     "Issuer Common Stock" has the meaning set forth in the recitals to this Agreement.
     
"Issuer Preferred Stock" has the meaning set forth in the recitals to this Agreement.
     "Lien" means any lien, pledge, charge, encumbrance or security interest.
     "OTC Hedging Transaction" means any Hedging Transaction that is privately negotiated, and entered into on a principal-to-principal basis, between a Stockholder and a Hedging Counterparty, including (i) any swap agreement, put option, call option, collar transaction, call spread, put spread or forward contract or any combination of any of the foregoing, in each case whether to be settled by the delivery of securities, cash or otherwise, (ii) any option to enter into any of the foregoing, and (iii) any other similar agreement, contract or transaction that, in the case of this clause (iii) only, would (in the reasonable, good-faith judgment of one nationally-recognized investment banking firm selected by each of the Issuer, on the one hand, and the Stockholders holding a majority of the securities proposed to be included in such Hedging Transaction, on the other hand) make it commercially impracticable for more than one Hedging Counterparty to jointly effect such agreement, contract or transaction or any related market hedge of the Hedging Counterparty's economic exposure thereunder.
     "Permitted Transferee" means any Person to whom a Stockholder has transferred, in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, Registrable Securities.
     "Person" means any individual, firm, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, "group" (as such term is used in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), trust, incorporated or unincorporated association, joint venture, joint stock company, Governmental Entity or other entity of any kind, and shall include any successor (by merger or otherwise) of such entity.
 
4
     "Prospectus" means the prospectus related to any Registration Statement (including, without limitation, a prospectus that discloses information previously omitted from a prospectus filed as part of an effective registration statement in reliance on Rule 415 under the Securities Act), as amended or supplemented by any amendment or prospectus supplement, including post-effective amendments, and all materials incorporated by reference in such prospectus.
     "Registrable Class Securities" means securities of the Issuer that are of the same class as the Registrable Securities.
     "Registrable Securities" means each of the following: (a) any and all shares of Issuer Common Stock issued or issuable to or any of its Affiliates the , (b) any securities of the Issuer issued or issuable to or any of its Affiliates with respect to such Issuer Common Stock by way of a conversion, exchange, replacement, stock dividend or stock split or other distribution in connection with a combination of shares, recapitalization, merger, consolidation or other reorganizationor otherwiseand (c) all shares of Issuer Common Stock or other securities described in (b) above owned by any Permitted Transferee that were transferred in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and were Registrable Securities at the time such shares or securities were transferred to such Permitted Transferee; provided that the term "Registrable Securities" shall not include any such securities received in a transaction registered under the Securities Act.
MediaOne
Trust II
under
upon conversion of
Restructuring Agreement
Issuer Preferred Stock
or any of its Affiliates
MediaOne
Trust II
, spin-off
,
     Subject to Section 3.4(b), as to any particular Registrable Securities, once issued, such securities shall cease to be Registrable Securities when (a) a registration statement with respect to the sale of such securities shall have become effective under the Securities Act and such securities shall have been disposed of in accordance with such registration statement, (b) they shall have been distributed to the public pursuant to Rule 144 (or any successor provision) under the Securities Act, (c) they shall have been otherwise transferred or disposed of, and in accordance with Section 2.2 new certificates for them not bearing a legend restricting further transfer shall have been delivered, ) they shall have ceased to be outstanding.
or (d
(d) they shall have become freely transferable without registration under the Securities Act or (e
     "Registration Expenses" means all costs, fees and expenses incident to the Issuer's performance of or compliance with Section 3.1, including without limitation, (i) the fees, disbursements and expenses of Issuer's counsel and accountants in connection with this Agreement and the performance of Issuer's obligations hereunder; (ii) all expenses, including filing fees, in connection with the preparation, printing and filing of any Registration Statement, any Prospectus or preliminary Prospectus, any other offering document and amendments and supplements thereto and the mailing and delivering of copies thereof; (iii) the cost of printing or producing any blue sky or legal investment memoranda, any selling agreements and any other documents in connection with the offering, sale or delivery of the securities to be disposed of; (iv) all expenses in connection with the qualification of the securities to be disposed of for offering and sale
 
5
under state securities laws; (v) transfer agents' and registrars' fees and expenses; (vi) all security engraving and security printing expenses; (vii) all fees and expenses payable in connection with the listing of the Registrable Securities on any securities exchange; and (viii) the costs and expenses of the Issuer relating to analyst or investor presentations or any "road show" undertaken in connection with the registration and/or marketing of any Registrable Securities.
     "Registration Statement" means the Shelf Registration Statement and any Subsequent Registration Statement.
     "Requisite Holders" means, as of any date, holders of at least 50% of the shares of Registrable Securities held by all holders of Registrable Securities outstanding as of such date.
     "Securities Act" means the Securities Act of 1933 and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder, all as the same shall be in effect at the time.
     "Stockholder" means a holder of Registrable Securities that has been made a party to this Agreement pursuant to Section 3.4.
     "Stockholder Counsel" means a firm of legal counsel appointed by the Requisite Holders.
     1.2 Capitalized Terms. Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein or in the schedules hereto shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them in the Restructuring Agreement.
     1.3 Successor Laws, Rules, Regulations and Forms. All references to laws, rules, regulations and forms in this Agreement shall be deemed to be references to the comparable successor thereto in effect at the time.
     1.4 Other Definitions. The following capitalized terms are defined in the following sections of this Agreement:
 
6
     2.1 Representations and Warranties of . represents and warrants to the Issuer with respect to itself and its ownership of Issueras follows:
MediaOne
Trust II
MediaOne
Trust II
its
the
Common Stock
's securities
          (a) Organization, Power and Authority, Binding Agreement. is a duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of and has all requisite power and authority to enter into this Agreement. This Agreement has been duly and validly authorized by all necessary action and has been duly executed and delivered by , and this Agreement (assuming due execution and delivery by the other party hereto) constitutes the valid and binding obligation of , enforceable in accordance with its terms, except as the indemnification and contribution provisions of Section 3.3 may be held to be unenforceable as against public policy and except as such enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent conveyance, reorganization, moratorium and other similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and by general equitable principles (whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
MediaOne
Trust II
corporation
statutory trust
incorporation
formation
corporate
trust
corporate
trust
MediaOne
Trust II
MediaOne
Trust II
          (b) No Conflicts.
               (i) execution and delivery of this Agreement by does not and the consummation by of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement will not (1) conflict with, or result in any violation or breach of, any provision of the organizational of , (2) conflict with, or result in any violation or breach of, or constitute (with or without notice or lapse of time, or both) a default (or give rise to a right of termination, cancellation or acceleration of any obligation) under, require a consent or waiver under, constitute a change in control under, or result in the imposition of any Lien on 's shares of Issuer Common Stock under, any of the terms, conditions or provisions of any note, bond, mortgage, indenture, lease, license, contract, agreement or instrument to which such Stockholder is a party or by which it or any of its properties or assets may be bound or (3) conflict with or violate any permit, concession, franchise, license, judgment, injunction, order, decree, statute, law, ordinance, rule or regulation applicable to or any of its properties or
Except as set forth on Schedule A hereto, the
The
MediaOne
Trust II
MediaOne
Trust II
charter, by-laws or other
document
documents
MediaOne
Trust II
MediaOne
Trust II
MediaOne
Trust II
 
7
assets, except in the case of clauses (2) and (3) of this Section 2.1(b)(i) for any such conflicts, violations, breaches, defaults, terminations, cancellations, accelerations or Liens as would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the ability of to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the effectiveness of any Registration Statement.
MediaOne
Trust II
               (ii)  consent, approval, license, permit, order or authorization of, or registration, declaration, notice or filing with, any Governmental Entity is required by or with respect to in connection with the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement by and the consummation by of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, other than filings required by the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or any self-regulatory organization.
Except as set forth on Schedule A hereto, no
No
MediaOne
Trust II
MediaOne
Trust II
MediaOne
Trust II
     2.2 Certain Acknowledgments of each Stockholder. Each Stockholder acknowledges that all Registrable Securities will be issued pursuant to an exemption from registration under the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws and agrees not to sell or otherwise dispose of such Registrable Securities in any transaction which would be in violation of the Securities Act or applicable state securities laws. Each Stockholder acknowledges that the following legend will appear on the certificates for the Registrable Securities reflecting the foregoing restriction. The Issuer shall, at the request of any Stockholder, remove from each certificate evidencing Registrable Securities the following legend if the Issuer is reasonably satisfied (based upon an opinion of counsel or other evidence) that the securities evidenced thereby may be publicly sold without registration under the Securities Act; provided, however, that the Issuer or Issuer's counsel shall not be required to deliver an opinion of counsel to the effect that the securities evidenced thereby may be publicly sold without registration under the Securities Act unless Stockholder Counsel shall have delivered an opinion, upon which the Issuer and Issuer's counsel are entitled to rely, to the effect that the securities evidenced thereby may be publicly sold without registration under the Securities Act.
 
8
     2.3 Representations and Warranties of the Issuer. The Issuer hereby represents and warrants to each Stockholder as follows:
          (a) Power, Binding Agreement. The Issuer is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of incorporation and has all requisite corporate power and authority to enter into this Agreement. This Agreement has been duly and validly authorized by all necessary corporate action and has been duly executed and delivered by the Issuer, and this Agreement (assuming due execution and delivery by the other party hereto), constitutes the valid and binding obligation of the Issuer, enforceable in accordance with its terms, except as the indemnification and contribution provisions contained in Section 3.3 may be held to be unenforceable as against public policy and except as such enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent conveyance, reorganization, moratorium and other similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and by general equitable principles (whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
          (b) No Conflicts.
               (i) The execution and delivery of this Agreement by the Issuer does not and the consummation by the Issuer of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement will not, (1) conflict with, or result in any violation or breach of, any provision of the charter, by-laws or other organizational document of the Issuer, (2) conflict with, or result in any violation or breach of, or constitute (with or without notice or lapse of time, or both) a default (or give rise to a right of termination, cancellation or acceleration of any obligation) under, require a consent or waiver under, constitute a change in control under, or result in the imposition of any Lien on the Issuer's assets under, any of the terms, conditions or provisions of any note, bond, mortgage, indenture, lease, license, contract, agreement or instrument to which the Issuer is a party or by which it or any of its properties or assets may be bound or (3) conflict with or violate any permit, concession, franchise, license, judgment, injunction, order, decree, statute, law, ordinance, rule or regulation applicable to the Issuer or any of its properties or assets, except in the case of clauses (2) and (3) of this Section 2.3(b)(i) for any such conflicts, violations, breaches, defaults, terminations, cancellations, accelerations or Liens which would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the ability of the Issuer to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the effectiveness of any Registration Statement.
               (ii) No consent, approval, license, permit, order or authorization of, or registration, declaration, notice or filing with, any Governmental Entity is required by or with respect to the Issuer in connection with the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement by the Issuer or the consummation by the Issuer of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, other than filings and other actions required by the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, the rules of any stock exchange or automated quotation system on which the Registrable Securities are to be listed, the rules of any self-regulatory organization and state securities or "blue sky" laws.
 
9
     3.1 Shelf Registration.
          (a) The Issuer shall prepare and file a "shelf" registration statement (the "Shelf Registration Statement") with respect to the Registrable Securities on Form S-3 for an offering to be made on a delayed or continuous basis pursuant to Rule 415 under the Securities Act. The Issuer agrees to give not less than 10 days advance notice of its intent to file the Shelf Registration Statement.
MediaOne
Trust II
          (b) Subject to the provisions of Section 3.5, the Issuer shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to file the Shelf Registration Statement no later than 30 days prior to the date it reasonably anticipates the Closing will occur; provided that no such filing shall be required to be made prior to the Closing, or, if made, such filing may be withdrawn, if the Issuer determines in good faith, based on the advice of outside securities counsel to the Issuer, that either (1) such filing would reasonably be expected to prevent the offer and sale of the Issuer Common Stock to under the Restructuring Agreement from being eligible for an exemption from registration under the Securities Act or (2) the Commission's rules and regulations or the Staff of the Commission would not permit a re-sale shelf Registration Statement to be filed or declared effective prior to issuance of the Registrable Securities. Subject to Section 3.5(b), if , to the preceding sentence, the Issuer does not file the Shelf Registration Statement prior to the Closing, the Issuer agrees that it shall file the Shelf Registration Statement promptly (and in no event more than three Business Days) after the Closing and use all commercially reasonable efforts to have the Shelf Registration Statement declared effective as soon as practicable thereafter.
MediaOne
Trust II
purusant
pursuant
          (c) Subject to Section 3.1(b), the Issuer shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to have the Shelf Registration Statement declared effective the Closing and shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to keep the Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective, subject to the provisions of Section 3.5, during the time (the "Effectiveness Period") commencing on the date such Shelf Registration Statement is declared effective (the "Effective Time") and ending on the to occur of (i) the Closing(ii) such time as all of the Registrable Securities cease to be Registrable Securities; provided, however, that (1) before filing a Registration Statement or Prospectus or any amendments or supplements thereto, the Issuer shall provide counsel to with a reasonable opportunity to review and comment on such Registration Statement and each Prospectus included therein (and each amendment and supplement thereto) to be filed with the Commission, subject to such documents being under the Issuer's control, and (2) the Issuer shall notify and counsel to of any stop order issued or threatened by the Commission and take all commercially reasonable actions required to prevent the entry of such stop order or to remove it if entered. The -
on
as soon as practicable after
Date or promptly thereafter
earlier
earliest
one year after
the second anniversary of
and
,
) the date that is six months after the Effective Time and (iii
MediaOne
Trust II
MediaOne
Trust II
MediaOne
Trust II
one
six
year
month
 
10
period in clause () of shall be extended for a number of days equal to the number of days that elapse from (x) the date any written notice contemplated by Section 3.5(a) is given by the Issuer to (y) the date on which the Issuer delivers to the Stockholders the supplement or amendment contemplated by Section 3.5(a).
specified
i
ii
this Section 3.1(c)
the preceding sentence
          (d) At the Effective Time, each Stockholder (and each Subsidiary of such Stockholder designated by such Stockholder) shall be named as a selling securityholder in the Shelf Registration Statement and related Prospectus in such a manner as to permit such Stockholder (and such designee) to deliver such Prospectus to purchasers of Registrable Securities in accordance with applicable law under ordinary circumstances. The "Plan of Distribution" section of the Shelf Registration Statement and Prospectus shall state that the Registrable Securities may be sold by the selling securityholders following the Effective Time in any legal manner selected by the Stockholders.
          (e) If the Shelf Registration Statement ceases to be effective for any reason at any time during the Effectiveness Period, the Issuer shall, subject to the provisions of Section 3.5, use all commercially reasonable efforts to obtain the prompt withdrawal of any order suspending the effectiveness thereof, and in any event within 15 days after such cessation of effectiveness amend the Shelf Registration Statement in a manner reasonably expected by the Issuer to obtain the withdrawal of such order suspending the effectiveness thereof or, as promptly as practicable thereafter, file an additional registration statement (the "Subsequent Registration Statement") covering the resale by the Stockholders of all of the then Registrable Securities on a delayed or continuous basis pursuant to Rule 415 under the Securities Act. If the Subsequent Registration Statement is filed, the Issuer shall use all commercially reasonable efforts, subject to the provisions of Section 3.5, to cause the Subsequent Registration Statement to become effective under the Securities Act and remain continuously effective during the Effectiveness Period.
          (f) The Issuer shall pay all Registration Expenses incurred in connection with the Shelf Registration Statement, any Subsequent Registration Statement and any supplements or amendments to them, whether or not they become effective, and whether all, none or some of the Registrable Securities are sold pursuant to any Registration Statement. It is understood and agreed that the Issuer may also register for public offering and sale pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement or any Subsequent Registration Statement, initially or by amendment, securities other than Registrable Securities, but in doing so shall not limit any Stockholder's rights hereunder (including any limitation arising by application of applicable rules under the Securities Act with respect to securities of the Issuer sold pursuant to such Shelf Registration Statement or Subsequent Registration Statement by any Person other than a Stockholder) or adversely affect the Stockholder's ability to sell its Registrable Securities.
 
11
     3.2 Registration Procedures.
          (a) In connection with each Registration Statement, subject to the provisions of Section 3.5, to effect the registration of such Registrable Securities in accordance with the intended method of distribution thereof, the Issuer shall, as promptly as practicable, use all commercially reasonable efforts to:
               (i) supplement or amend, if necessary, the Registration Statement, as required by the registration form utilized by the Issuer or by the instructions applicable to such registration form or by the Securities Act or as reasonably required by the Requisite Holders, and the Issuer shall furnish to the holders of the Registrable Securities to which the Registration Statement relates copies of any such supplement or amendment prior to its being used and/or filed with the Commission;
               (ii) prepare and file with the Commission such amendments and supplements to the Registration Statement and the Prospectus used in connection therewith as may be necessary to keep the Registration Statement effective as required under Section 3.1 and to comply with the provisions of the Securities Act with respect to the disposition of all Registrable Securities covered by the Registration Statement until the expiration of the Effectiveness Period; notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, the Issuer shall not be required to file or have declared effective more than one post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement and shall not be required to file more than five supplements to the Prospectus contained in such Registration Statement, in each case, in connection with one or more Hedging Transactions or changes requested by the Stockholders to the Plan of Distribution therein;
               (iii) furnish to each seller of Registrable Securities, prior to filing a Registration Statement, copies of such Registration Statement in accordance with Section 3.1(c), and promptly thereafter furnish such number of conformed copies of such Registration Statement, each amendment and supplement thereto (in each case including all exhibits thereto) and the Prospectus included in such Registration Statement (including each preliminary Prospectus and any summary Prospectus) and any other Prospectus filed under Rule 424 under the Securities Act, and such other documents, as such seller may reasonably request in order to facilitate the disposition of the Registrable Securities of such seller; in addition, the Issuer shall promptly after receipt furnish to each Stockholder copies of the portions of any and all transmittal letters and any other correspondence (including, but not limited to, comment letters) with the Commission or any other Governmental Entity relating to the sections of such Registration Statement or amendment or supplement thereto entitled "Plan of Distribution" or "Selling Stockholders"; and the Requisite Holders shall have the right to request that the Issuer modify any such information contained in such Registration Statement or amendment and supplement thereto pertaining to such Stockholders in such sections, and the Issuer shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to comply with such request; provided, however, that the Issuer shall not have any obligation to modify any information if the Issuer reasonably expects that so doing would cause the Registration Statement to contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading;
 
12
               (iv) (1) register or qualify all Registrable Securities and other securities covered by the Registration Statement under such other securities or "blue sky" laws of such States of the United States of America where an exemption is not available and as the sellers of Registrable Securities covered by the Registration Statement shall reasonably request, (2) keep such registration or qualification in effect during the Effectiveness Period, (3) obtain the withdrawal of any order or other determination suspending such registration or qualification during the Effectiveness Period and (4) take all other commercially reasonable action which may be reasonably necessary or advisable to enable such sellers to consummate the disposition in such jurisdictions of the securities to be sold by such sellers, except that the Issuer shall not for any such purpose be required to (A) qualify generally to do business as a foreign corporation in any jurisdiction wherein it would not but for the requirements of this clause (iv) be obligated to be so qualified, (B) subject itself to taxation in any such jurisdiction or (C) consent to general service of process in any such jurisdiction;
               (v) cause all Registrable Securities covered by the Registration Statement to be registered with or approved by such Governmental Entities as may be necessary in the written opinion of counsel to the Issuer and counsel to the seller or sellers of Registrable Securities to enable the seller or sellers thereof to consummate the disposition of such Registrable Securities within the United States of America;
               (vi) (1) all Registrable Securities covered by Registration Statement listed (, as promptly as , subject to official notice of issuanceand () comply with all applicable rules of the New York Stock Exchange so as to permit the continued listing of such securities the Stock ;
cause
within four Business Days after the Closing, cause to be filed applications to list
to be
such
the
to be
on the New York Stock Exchange and each other national securities exchange on which the Issuer Common Stock is
, effective as of the Closing
or if not possible
each
a "Relevant Exchange"); (2)
thereafter
possible)
practicable, cause such Registrable Securities to be approved by each Relevant Exchange for listing on such Relevant Exchange
, on the New York Stock Exchange,
;
2
3
the Issuer Common Stock (or
on
into which
New
Issuer
York
Common
Exchange
is converted, exchanged or substituted) thereon
               (vii) during the time when a Prospectus is required to be delivered under the Securities Act, promptly give notice to all Stockholders selling securities pursuant to such Prospectus (1) of the receipt by the Issuer of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification or exemption from qualification of any of the Registrable Securities for sale in any jurisdiction or the initiation or threat in writing of any proceeding for such purpose, (2) of the occurrence of any of the events described in Section 3.5(a) (provided, however, that no notice by the Issuer shall be required pursuant to this subclause (2) in the event that the Issuer either promptly files a Prospectus supplement or amendment to update the Prospectus or a Form 8-K or other appropriate Exchange Act report that is incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement, which, in either case, contains the requisite information with respect to such event that results in the Registration Statement no longer containing any untrue statement of material fact or omitting to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
 
13
contained therein not misleading) and (3) of the determination by the Issuer that a post-effective amendment to a Registration Statement will be filed with the Commission;
               (viii) comply with all applicable rules and regulations of the Commission, and, if requested, make available to its security holders, as soon as reasonably practicable, an earnings statement covering the period of at least 12 months, but not more than 18 months, beginning with the first full calendar month after the effective date of the Registration Statement, which earnings statement shall satisfy the provisions of Section 11(a) of the Securities Act and Rule 158 promulgated thereunder, and promptly furnish to each such seller of Registrable Securities a copy of any amendment or supplement to the Registration Statement or prospectus;
               (ix) timely file the reports and materials required to be filed by it under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations adopted by the Commission thereunder (including but not limited to the reports under Sections 13 and 15(d) of the Exchange Act referred to in subparagraph (c) of Rule 144) and shall take all commercially reasonable actions as a Stockholder or any broker or dealer facilitating a sale of Registrable Securities may reasonably request to enable such Stockholder to sell or hedge Registrable Securities without registration under the Securities Act within the limitation of the exemptions provided by (a) Rule 144 under the Securities Act, as such rule may be amended from time to time, or (b) any similar rules or regulations hereafter adopted by the Commission; upon the reasonable request of any Stockholder the Issuer shall deliver to such Stockholder a written statement as to whether it has complied with such request;
               (x) cooperate with each holder to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates representing Registrable Securities sold pursuant to a Registration Statement, and provide the transfer agent for the Registrable Securities with certificates for the Registrable Securities that are in a form eligible for deposit with The Depository Trust Company; and
               (xi) promptly take all other steps reasonably necessary to effect the registration of the Registrable Securities contemplated hereby.
          (b) The Issuer may require each seller of Registrable Securities to (1) furnish the Issuer such information regarding such seller and the distribution of such securities as the Issuer may from time to time reasonably request in writing, (2) agree to comply with the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and all applicable state securities laws and to use all commercially reasonable efforts to comply with all applicable regulations in connection with the registration and distribution of the Registrable Securities, and (3) use all commercially reasonable efforts to enter into and perform customary agreements (including agreements relating to an Underwriting) and take such other actions as are prudent and reasonably required in order to expedite or facilitate the disposition of such Registrable Securities.
          (c) Each holder of Registrable Securities agrees by acquisition of such Registrable Securities that, upon receipt of any notice from the Issuer of the
 
14
happening of any event of the kind described in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of the first sentence of Section 3.5(b) and subject to the last two sentences of Section 3.5(b), such holder shall forthwith discontinue such holder's disposition of Registrable Securities pursuant to the Registration Statement until such holder receives copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus contemplated by Section 3.5(a) or 3.2(a)(vii) and, if so directed by the Issuer, will promptly deliver to the Issuer (at the Issuer's expense) all copies, other than permanent file copies, then in such holder's possession of the Prospectus relating to such Registrable Securities current at the time of receipt of such notice.
          (d) If any shares of Issuer Common Stock are to be sold in an underwritten public offering, which, for the avoidance of doubt, the parties agree includes (1) a transaction in which the underwriter or underwriters act as principal for the sale of Registrable Class Securities pursuant to any Registration Statement (including in order to hedge its economic exposure to a Hedging Transaction) and (2) a transaction that constitutes an "at the market offering" (as such term is defined in Rule 415 under the Securities Act), in which the counterparty acts as agent (and not as principal) (each, an "Underwriting"):
               (i) Subject to subclauses (ii) and (iii) of this Section 3.2(d), the Issuer shall enter into an underwriting or similar agreement of the type customary or reasonably appropriate for the types of offerings which are most similar to such Underwriting, among the Issuer, the selling Stockholder or Stockholders and the counterparties, which agreement shall include, without limitation, customary provisions relating to: (1) representations and warranties of the Issuer and the selling Stockholder or Stockholders to the counterparties; (2) the performance by the counterparties and their representatives of a reasonable "due diligence" investigation of the Issuer; (3) receipt by the counterparties of accountant's "comfort" letters, addressed to such counterparties, in customary form and covering such matters as are customarily covered by "cold comfort" letters delivered in connection with such type of transaction; (4) receipt by the counterparties of disclosure opinions, addressed to such counterparties, of internal counsel to the Issuer (or, at the Stockholders' expense, of nationally recognized outside counsel to the Issuer), in customary form and covering such matters as are customarily covered by such opinions delivered in connection with such type of transaction, which opinion is reasonably acceptable to the counterparty; (5) receipt by the counterparties of other reasonable and customary certificates and closing documents; and (6) indemnification of, and contribution in connection with the liability of, the counterparties and their control persons arising from the Underwriting, which indemnity is reasonably acceptable to the counterparty. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, the employees of the Issuer shall not be required to participate in any "road shows" or similar marketing activities.
For purposes of subclauses (1) through (6) of this Section 3.2(d)(i), if the Prospectus or Registration Statement is required to include disclosure to the effect that any Selling Stockholder is, or may be deemed to be, an "underwriter" under the Securities Act, then the term "counterparties" shall include such Selling Stockholder.
 
15
               (ii) Subject to subclause (iii), in the case of any Underwriting that is an "at the market offering" (as such term is defined in Rule 415 under the Securities Act) in which the counterparty acts as agent (and not as principal), the Issuer shall be required to enter into only one such underwriting or similar agreement on or prior to the commencement date of such offering (a "Dribble Out Agreement"). Such Dribble Out Agreement shall remain effective until the end of the Effectiveness Period, and the comfort letters, opinions, certificates and closing documents described in subclause (i) shall be delivered only at the time of execution of such Dribble Out Agreement (except as required under Section 3.2(d)(iv)).
               (iii) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Issuer shall not be obligated to enter into any underwriting or similar agreement, furnish the documents and information set forth in Section 3.2(d)(i), permit the counterparties to conduct due diligence investigations or provide indemnification or contribution, in each case, as contemplated by Section 3.2(d)(i) or (ii), on more than three occasions. The Issuer shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to provide such comfort letters, opinion, certificates and closing documents contemplated by this Section 3.2(d) within 10 Business Days after a request therefor by the Stockholders.
               (iv) In addition, on one occasion only, in connection with an Underwriting pursuant to a Dribble Out Agreement as to which sales of securities thereunder were prohibited pursuant to Section 3.5 prior to the 20th trading day on the New York Stock Exchange after the effectiveness of such Dribble Out Agreement, the Issuer shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to obtain the comfort letters, opinions, certificates and other documents described in Section 3.2(d)(i), at the end of such Deferral Period.
     3.3 Indemnification.
          (a) The Issuer agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Stockholder, its partners, directors, officers, other Affiliates and each Person who controls (within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act) such Stockholder from and against any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and expenses, or any action or proceeding in respect thereof (including reasonable costs of investigation and reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses) (each, a "Liability" and collectively, "Liabilities"), arising out of or based upon any untrue, or allegedly untrue, statement of a material fact contained in any Registration Statement, Prospectus or preliminary Prospectus or notification or offering circular (as amended or supplemented if the Issuer shall have furnished any amendments or supplements thereto) or arising out of or based upon any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading under the circumstances such statements were made; provided, however, that the Issuer shall not be liable (i) in any such case to the extent that any such Liability arises out of or is based upon an untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made in such Registration Statement, Prospectus or preliminary Prospectus or notification or offering circular in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Issuer by or on behalf of such Stockholder (including,
, trustees
 
16
without limitation, the information provided pursuant to Section 3.2(b) or 3.3(b)), specifically for use in the preparation thereof and (ii) for any Liability if (1) the Issuer has notified such Stockholder to suspend use of the Prospectus pursuant to Section 3.5(a) or (b), (2) such Stockholder continues to use the relevant Prospectus notwithstanding such notice, and (3) such Liability arises from or is based upon an untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of any material fact or omission to state a material fact that was cured in the supplemented or amended Prospectus contemplated by Section 3.5(a) or (b).
          (b) Indemnification by each Stockholder. Each Stockholder shall promptly furnish to the Issuer in writing such information with respect to such Stockholder and the distribution of the Registrable Securities as the Issuer may reasonably request or as may be required by law for use in connection with any Registration Statement or Prospectus and all information required to be disclosed in order to make the information previously furnished to the Issuer by such Stockholder not materially misleading or necessary to cause such Registration Statement not to omit a material fact with respect to such Stockholder necessary in order to make the statements therein not misleading. Each Stockholder agrees, severally but not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Issuer, any underwriter retained by the Issuer, their respective directors, officers and other Affiliates and each Person who controls the Issuer or such underwriter (within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act) to the same extent as the indemnity from the Issuer to such Stockholder under Section 3.3(a) but only with respect to information provided by such Stockholder or on such Stockholder's behalf expressly for use in the Registration Statement or Prospectus relating to the Registrable Securities; provided, however, that the liability of each Stockholder under this Section 3.3(b) shall be limited to the amount of net proceeds received by such Stockholder in the transaction giving rise to such Liability.
          (c) Notices of Claims, etc. Any Person entitled to indemnification under this Section 3.3 (each, an "Indemnified Party") agrees to give prompt written notice to each indemnifying party (each, an "Indemnifying Party") after the receipt by the Indemnified Party of any written notice of the commencement of any action, suit, proceeding or investigation or threat thereof made in writing for which the Indemnified Party intends to claim indemnification or contribution pursuant to this Agreement; provided, however, that the failure so to notify the Indemnifying Party shall not relieve the Indemnifying Party of any Liability that it may have to the Indemnified Party hereunder (except to the extent that the Indemnifying Party forfeits substantive rights or defenses by reason of such failure), and in no event shall such failure relieve the Indemnifying Party from any other Liability it may have to such Indemnified Party. If notice of commencement of any such action is given to the Indemnifying Party as above provided, the Indemnifying Party shall be entitled to participate in and, to the extent it may wish, jointly with any other Indemnifying Party similarly notified, to assume the defense of such action at its own expense, with counsel chosen by it. The Indemnified Party shall have the right to employ separate counsel in any such action and participate in the defense thereof, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be paid by the Indemnified Party unless (i) the Indemnifying Party agrees to pay the same, (ii) the Indemnifying Party fails to assume the defense of such action, (iii) the Indemnifying Party and the Indemnified Party shall have mutually agreed to the retention of such
 
17
counsel or (iv) the named parties to any such action (including any impleaded parties) include both the Indemnifying Party and the Indemnified Party and such parties have been advised by such counsel that either (x) representation of such Indemnified Party and the Indemnifying Party by the same counsel would be inappropriate under applicable standards of professional conduct or presents a conflict of interest or (y) there may be one or more legal defenses available to the Indemnified Party which are different from, inconsistent with or additional to those available to the Indemnifying Party. In any of the cases specified in clauses (ii) and (iv) of the immediately preceding sentence, the Indemnifying Party shall not be liable for the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm of attorneys (in addition to any local counsel) for all Indemnified Parties. No Indemnifying Party shall be liable for any settlement entered into without its written consent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. No Indemnifying Party shall, without the consent of such Indemnified Party, effect any settlement of any pending or threatened proceeding in respect of which such Indemnified Party is a party and indemnity has been sought hereunder by such Indemnified Party, unless such settlement includes an unconditional release of such Indemnified Party from all liability for claims that are the subject matter of such proceeding.
          (d) If the indemnification provided for in this Section 3.3 shall for any reason be held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be unavailable to an Indemnified Party, in respect of any Liability, then, in lieu of the amount paid or payable under Section 3.3(a) or (b), as the case may be, the Indemnified Party and the Indemnifying Party shall contribute to the aggregate Liabilities in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative fault of the Issuer and the prospective sellers of Registrable Securities covered by the Registration Statement in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such loss, claim, damage or liability, or action or proceeding in respect thereof, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations (the relative fault of the Issuer and such prospective sellers to be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Issuer or such prospective sellers and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission). The parties hereto acknowledge that in no event shall the obligation of any Indemnifying Party to contribute under this Section 3.3(d) exceed the amount that such Indemnifying Party would have been obligated to pay by way of indemnification if the indemnification provided for under Section 3.3(a) or (b) had been available under the circumstances. The Issuer and each Stockholder agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 3.3(d) were determined by pro rata allocation (even if such Stockholders were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation that does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in the first sentence of this Section 3.3(d). No Person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any Person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. Such prospective sellers' obligations to contribute as provided in this Section 3.3(d) are several in proportion to the relative value of their respective Registrable Securities covered by such Registration Statement and not joint.
 
18
          (e) Indemnification Payments. The indemnification and contribution required by this Section 3.3 shall be made by prompt periodic payments of the amount thereof during the course of the investigation or defense, as and when bills are received or expense, loss, damage or liability is incurred.
     3.4 Transfer of Registration Rights.
          (a) Each Stockholder may transfer Registrable Securities with the associated registration rights under this Agreement to a Permitted Transferee or pledgee ("Pledgee") only if (1) such Permitted Transferee or Pledgee agrees in writing to be bound as a Stockholder by the provisions of this Agreement insofar as it pertains to the holding, owning and disposition of Registrable Securities and (2) immediately following such transfer or pledge, the further disposition of such Registrable Securities by such Permitted Transferee or Pledgee would be restricted under the Securities Act.
          (b) Upon any transfer of Registrable Securities other than as set forth in this Section 3.4, such securities shall no longer constitute Registrable Securities, except that any Registrable Securities that are pledged or made the subject of a Hedging Transaction, which Registrable Securities are not ultimately disposed of by the Stockholders pursuant to such pledge or Hedging Transaction shall, to the extent such securities remain "restricted securities" under the Securities Act, be deemed to remain "Registrable Securities" notwithstanding the release of such pledge or the completion of such Hedging Transaction.
          (c) If a Stockholder assigns its rights under this Agreement in connection with the transfer of less than all of its Registrable Securities, such Stockholder shall retain its rights under this Agreement with respect to its remaining Registrable Securities. If a Stockholder assigns its rights under this Agreement in connection with the transfer of all of its Registrable Securities, such Stockholder shall have no further obligations under this Agreement, except under Section 3.3, with respect to transactions occurring prior to such assignment.
     3.5 Suspension of Sales.
          (a) The Issuer shall promptly notify each Stockholder selling securities pursuant to a Prospectus (1) upon discovery that, or upon the happening of any event as a result of which, the Prospectus or the Registration Statement includes an untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, or the occurrence of any event specified in clause (b) below; (2) of the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or (3) of any written request by the Commission for amendments to the Registration Statement or supplements or amendments to the Prospectus. In no event shall the Issuer be required, in such notice to the Stockholders, to set forth the details of any such event, order or request. Immediately following any such event (x) upon the request of the Issuer, each Stockholder shall suspend the use of the Prospectus and shall not sell any Registrable Securities
pursuant
 
19
          until such Stockholder has received copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus or until it is advised by the Issuer that the Prospectus may be used, and (y) the Issuer shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to, as promptly as practicable or in the case of an event specified in clause (b) below, by the end of the Deferral Period (as defined below), prepare and file a post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or a supplement or amendment to the related Prospectus or any document that would be incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement and Prospectus so that the Registration Statement does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, and such Prospectus does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading and promptly thereafter deliver to the holders of the Registrable Securities a reasonable number of copies of the supplement or amendment of such Prospectus complying with the foregoing, and, in the case of a post-effective amendment to a Registration Statement, use all commercially reasonable efforts to cause it to be declared effective as promptly as is reasonably practicable.
to the Registration Statement
          (b) The Issuer shall not be required to file any Registration Statement pursuant to this Agreement, file any amendment thereto, furnish any supplement or amendment to a Prospectus included in a Registration Statement pursuant to Section 3.2(a)(i) or 3.2(a)(ii), make any other filing with the Commission, cause any Registration Statement or other filing with the Commission to become effective, or take any similar action (collectively, "Registration Actions") and may withdraw any Registration Statement or other filing with the Commission, and any and all sales of Registrable Securities by a holder thereof pursuant to a Registration Statement shall be suspended: (i) if such Registration Action would, in the good-faith judgment of the Board of Directors, materially interfere with business activities or plans of the Issuer, or (ii) if such Registration Action would, in the good-faith judgment of the Board of Directors, require the disclosure of material non-public information which disclosure, in the good-faith judgment of the Board of Directors, would be detrimental to the Issuer or (iii) if such Registration Action would require the inclusion of audited financial statements of the Issuer that are not then available. Upon the occurrence of any condition described in clauses (i), (ii) or (iii) of the first sentence of this Section 3.5(b), the Issuer shall give prompt notice thereof (which notice shall state whether it intends to delay any of the Registration Actions and/or suspend sales of Registrable Securities) to the Stockholders. Upon the termination of the condition described in clauses (i), (ii) or (iii) of the first sentence of this Section 3.5(b), the Issuer shall give prompt notice to the holders of Registrable Securities and shall promptly proceed with the Registration Actions and make any other filing with the Commission required of it or terminate any suspension of sales it has put into effect and shall take all such other commercially reasonable actions to permit registered sales of Registrable Securities as contemplated by this Agreement. It is understood and agreed that the foregoing provisions of this Section 3.5(b) shall not prevent a sale or hedge pursuant to Rule 144 by a holder of Registrable Securities or pursuant to any other exemption from the registration requirements under the Securities Act. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 3.5(b), the
 
20
Issuer may only delay Registration Actions or suspend sales of Registrable Securities for three periods (each, a "Deferral Period") of up to 120 days, in the aggregate, in any period of twelve consecutive months. In addition, no suspension pursuant to Section 3.5(b) shall be effective unless (x) each director and executive officer of the Issuer is also prohibited by the Issuer's insider trading policy or otherwise from making purchases and sales (other than those made pursuant to plans designed to comply with Rule 10b5-1(c)(1)(i) under the Exchange Act) by reason of the condition specified in the first sentence of Section 3.5(b) and (y) each other holder entitled to sell equity securities of the Issuer pursuant to registration rights under a selling stockholder prospectus is, or agrees to be, subject to deferral provisions substantially similar to or more restrictive than those contained in Section 3.5(b).
     3.6 Registration in Connection with Hedging Transactions.
          (a) The Issuer acknowledges that from time to time a Stockholder may seek to enter into one or more Hedging Transactions with a Hedging Counterparty. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary provided herein, the Issuer agrees that, in connection with any proposed Hedging Transaction, if, in the reasonable judgment of Stockholder Counsel (after good-faith consultation with counsel to the Issuer), it is necessary or desirable to register under the Securities Act such Hedging Transaction or sales or transfers (whether short or long) of Registrable Class Securities in connection therewith, then the Issuer shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to take such actions (which may include, among other things, the filing of a post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement to include additional or changed information that is material or is otherwise required to be disclosed, including, without limitation, a description of such Hedging Transaction, the name of the Hedging Counterparty, identification of the Hedging Counterparty or its Affiliates as underwriters or potential underwriters, if applicable, or any change to the Plan of Distribution) as may reasonably be required to register such Hedging Transactions or sales or transfers of Registrable Class Securities in connection therewith under the Securities Act in a manner consistent with the rights and obligations of the Issuer hereunder with respect to the registration of Registrable Securities.
          (b) The Issuer further agrees to include under the caption "Plan of Distribution" (or the equivalent caption) in each Registration Statement, and any related prospectus (to the extent such inclusion is permitted under applicable Commission regulations and is consistent with comments received from the Commission during any Commission review of the Registration Statement), language in substantially the form of Annex A hereto and to include in each prospectus supplement filed in connection with any proposed Hedging Transaction language mutually agreed upon by the Issuer, the relevant Stockholder and the Hedging Counterparty describing such Hedging Transaction.
          (c) Any information regarding the Hedging Transaction included in a Registration Statement or Prospectus pursuant to this Section 3.6 shall be deemed to be information provided by the Stockholders selling Registrable Securities pursuant to such Registration Statement for purposes of Section 3.3.
 
21
          (d) If in connection with a Hedging Transaction a Hedging Counterparty or any Affiliate thereof is (or may be considered) an underwriter or selling stockholder, then it shall be required to provide customary indemnities to the Issuer regarding itself, the Plan of Distribution and like matters.
          (e) In addition, regardless of whether the Hedging Counterparty in any Hedging Transaction is considered under applicable law to be an underwriter, in any Hedging Transaction other than an OTC Hedging Transaction, where the aggregate Market Value of Registrable Securities proposed to be hedged is greater than $375 million, (i) the Stockholders holding a majority of the securities proposed to be included in such Hedging Transaction shall have the right to select one nationally-recognized investment banking firm to act as a co-lead book-running Hedging Counterparty (or the equivalent) with respect to such Hedging Transaction, which firm shall be reasonably acceptable to the Issuer; and (ii) the Issuer shall have the right to select one nationally-recognized investment banking firm to act as a co-lead book-running Hedging Counterparty (or the equivalent) with respect to such Hedging Transaction, which firm shall be reasonably acceptable to the Stockholders holding a majority of the securities proposed to be included in such Hedging Transaction. To the extent that the Issuer has the right to select a nationally-recognized investment banking firm to act as a co-lead book-running Hedging Counterparty (or the equivalent) pursuant to this Section 3.6(e), the Stockholders proposing to effect such Hedging Transaction shall give the Issuer reasonable notice, taking into account the type of Hedging Transaction, of their intention to enter into such Hedging Transaction, which notice shall contain a reasonably detailed description of the terms of such Hedging Transaction.
     3.7 Underwriting. In any underwritten public offering of Registrable Securities (other than an OTC Hedging Transaction) pursuant to a Registration Statement filed under this Agreement in which at least $500 million of Registrable Securities or all remaining Registrable Securities are proposed to be sold, (i) Stockholders holding a majority of the Registrable Securities to be sold pursuant to such offering shall have the right to select one nationally-recognized investment banking firm to act as a co-lead book running manager (or the equivalent) with respect to such offering, which firm shall be reasonably acceptable to the Issuer; and (ii) the Issuer shall have the right to select only one nationally-recognized investment banking firm as a co-lead book running manager (or the equivalent) with respect to such offering, which firm shall be reasonably acceptable to Stockholders holding a majority of the Registrable Securities to be sold pursuant to such offering.
     
4.1 Recapitalization, Exchanges, etc.
          The provisions of this Agreement shall apply to the full extent set forth herein with respect to (i) the shares of Issuer Common Stock
(a)
4.1
Recapitalization, Exchanges, etc.
issuable upon conversion of the Issuer Preferred Stock
 
22
acquired by pursuant to the Restructuring Agreement, (ii) any and all shares of voting common stock of the Issuer into which such shares of Issuer Common Stock are converted, exchanged or substituted in any recapitalization or other capital reorganization by the Issuer and (iii) any and all equity securities of the Issuer or any successor or assign or acquirer of the Issuer (whether by merger, consolidation, sale of assets or otherwise) which may be issued in respect of, in conversion of, in exchange forin substitution of , such shares of Issuer Common Stock and shall be appropriately adjusted for any stock dividends, splits, reverse splits, combinations, recapitalizations and the like occurring after the date hereof. The Issuer shall cause any successor or assign or acquiror (whether by merger, consolidation, sale of assets or otherwise) to enter into a new registration rights agreement with to such Stockholder terms provided this Agreement condition transaction.
MediaOne
Trust II
(excluding any such securities that are freely transferable without registration under the Securities Act)
(excluding any such securities that are freely transferable without registration under the Securities Act)
or any of its Affiliates
or any of its Affiliates
or
,
or as a distribution on
such Affiliate,
each Stockholder on terms no less favorable
respect
equity securities with each
than the
on
no less favorable to such Stockholder than the terms
under
under
as a
as a
of any such
precedent to any such
          
(b) If the Issuer Preferred Stock is converted, exchanged or substituted in connection with any recapitalization or other capital reorganization or merger, consolidation or other transaction into shares of another security (a "New Security"), whether of the Issuer or another issuer, as a condition precedent to any such transaction, the Issuer shall, or shall cause such other issuer to, enter into a new registration rights agreement with each Stockholder with respect to the securities into which such New Security is convertible on terms no less favorable to such Stockholder than the terms provided under this Agreement.
     4.2 Notices. All notices, requests, claims and demands and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed duly delivered (i) four Business Days after being sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, or (ii) one Business Day after being sent by facsimile transmission (provided the sender retains confirmation thereof) or for next Business Day delivery, fees prepaid, via a reputable nationwide overnight courier service, in each case to the intended recipient as set forth below:
 
23
 
24
Any party to this Agreement may give any notice or other communication hereunder using any other means (including personal delivery, messenger service, telecopy or ordinary mail), but no such notice or other communication shall be deemed to have been duly given unless and until it actually is received by the office of the party for whom it is intended during business hours on a Business Day in the place of receipt. Any party to this Agreement may change the address to which notices and other communications hereunder are to be delivered by giving the other parties to this Agreement notice in the manner herein set forth.
     4.3 Entire Agreement; No Inconsistent Agreement.
          (a) This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement among the parties hereto and supersedes any prior understandings, agreements or representations by or among the parties hereto, or any of them, written or oral, with respect to the subject matter hereof.
          (b) The Issuer shall not hereafter enter into or amend any agreement with respect to its securities which would adversely affect the rights granted to the holders of Registrable Securities in this Agreement .
in any material respect
     4.4 Further Assurances. Each of the parties shall execute such documents and perform such further acts as may be reasonably required or desirable to carry out or perform the provisions of this Agreement.
 
25
     4.5 Other Agreements. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be deemed to be a waiver of, or release from, any obligations any party hereto may have under any of the other Transaction Agreements.
     4.6 No Third-Party Beneficiaries. Except as provided in Section 3.3, this Agreement is not intended, and shall not be deemed, to confer any rights or remedies upon any Person other than the parties hereto and their respective successors and permitted assigns or to otherwise create any third-party beneficiary hereto.
     4.7 Assignment. This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of and shall be enforceable by the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns and, with respect to each Stockholder, any Permitted Transferee. No assignment or transfer shall be effective hereunder unless and until the purported transferee executes and delivers an agreement, in form and substance reasonably acceptable to the parties, agreeing to be bound by the terms hereof.
     4.8 Amendments and Waivers. Except as otherwise provided herein, the provisions of this Agreement may not be amended, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to departures from the provisions hereof may not be given, unless consented to in writing by the Issuer and the Requisite Holders.
     4.9 Nominees for Beneficial Owners. In the event that any Registrable Securities are held by a nominee for the beneficial owner thereof, the beneficial owner thereof may, at its election in writing delivered to the Issuer, be treated as the holder of such Registrable Securities for purposes of any request, consent, waiver or other action by any holder or holders of Registrable Securities pursuant to this Agreement or any determination of any number or percentage of shares of Registrable Securities held by any holder or holders of Registrable Securities contemplated by this Agreement. If the beneficial owner of any Registrable Securities so elects, the Issuer may require assurances reasonably satisfactory to it of such owner's beneficial ownership of such Registrable Securities.
     4.10 Severability. Any term or provision of this Agreement that is invalid or unenforceable in any situation in any jurisdiction shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the remaining terms and provisions hereof or the validity or enforceability of the offending term or provision in any other situation or in any other jurisdiction. If the final judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction declares that any term or provision hereof is invalid or unenforceable, the parties hereto agree that the court making such determination shall have the power to limit the term or provision, to delete specific words or phrases, or to replace any invalid or unenforceable term or provision with a term or provision that is valid and enforceable and that comes closest to expressing the intention of the invalid or unenforceable term or provision, and this Agreement shall be enforceable as so modified. In the event such court does not exercise the power granted to it in the prior sentence, the parties hereto agree to replace such invalid or unenforceable term or provision with a valid and enforceable term or provision that shall achieve, to the extent possible, the economic, business and other purposes of such invalid or unenforceable term.
 
26
     4.11 Counterparts and Signature. This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original but all of which together shall be considered one and the same agreement and shall become effective when counterparts have been signed by each of the parties hereto and delivered to the other parties, it being understood that all parties need not sign the same counterpart. This Agreement may be executed and delivered by facsimile transmission.
     4.12 Interpretation. When reference is made in this Agreement to an Article or Section, such reference shall be to an Article or Section of this Agreement, unless otherwise indicated. The headings contained in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement. The language used in this Agreement shall be deemed to be the language chosen by the parties hereto to express their mutual intent, and no rule of strict construction shall be applied against any party. Whenever the context may require, any pronouns used in this Agreement shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine or neuter forms, and the singular form of nouns and pronouns shall include the plural, and vice versa. Any reference to any federal, state, local or foreign statute or law shall be deemed also to refer to all rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, unless the context requires otherwise. Whenever the words "include", "includes" or "including" are used in this Agreement, they shall be deemed to be followed by the words "without limitation."
     4.13 Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the internal laws of the State of New York without giving effect to any choice or conflict of laws provision or rule (whether of the State of New York or any other jurisdiction) that would cause the application of laws of any jurisdictions other than those of the State of New York.
     4.14 Submission to Jurisdiction. Any suit, action or proceeding seeking to enforce any provision of, or based on any matter arising out of or in connection with, this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby shall be brought exclusively in any federal or state court located in the State and City of New York, and each of the parties hereby consents to the jurisdiction of such courts (and of the appropriate appellate courts therefrom) in any such suit, action or proceeding and irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the laying of the venue of any such suit, action or proceeding in any such court or that any such suit, action or proceeding brought in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum. Process in any such suit, action or proceeding may be served on any party anywhere in the world, whether within or without the jurisdiction of any such court. Without limiting the foregoing, each party agrees that service of process on such party as provided in Section 4.2 as to giving notice hereunder shall be deemed effective service of process on such party.
     4.15 Remedies. Except as otherwise provided herein, any and all remedies herein expressly conferred upon a party shall be deemed cumulative with and not exclusive of any other remedy conferred hereby, or by law or equity upon such party,
 
27
and the exercise by a party of any one remedy shall not preclude the exercise of any other remedy. The parties hereto agree that irreparable damage would occur in the event that any of the provisions of this Agreement were not performed in accordance with their specific terms or were otherwise breached. It is accordingly agreed that the parties shall be entitled to an injunction or injunctions to prevent breaches of this Agreement and to enforce specifically the terms and provisions of this Agreement, this being in addition to any other remedy to which the parties are entitled at law or in equity.
     4.16 WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL. EACH OF THE ISSUER AND THE STOCKHOLDERS HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ALL RIGHTS TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY ACTION, PROCEEDING OR COUNTERCLAIM (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE) ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THE ACTIONS OF THE ISSUER AND THE STOCKHOLDERS IN THE NEGOTIATION, ADMINISTRATION, PERFORMANCE AND ENFORCEMENT OF THIS AGREEMENT.
 
28
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be signed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized as of the date first written above.
 
 
 
 
Annex A
     A selling stockholder may also enter into hedging and/or monetization transactions. For example, a selling stockholder may:
(a)  enter into transactions with a broker-dealer or affiliate of a broker-dealer or other third party in connection with which that other party will become a selling stockholder and engage in short sales of the common stock under this prospectus, in which case the other party may use shares of common stock received from the selling stockholder to close out any short positions;
(b)  itself sell short common stock under this prospectus and use shares of common stock held by it to close out any short position;
(c)  enter into options, forwards or other transactions that require the selling stockholder to deliver, in a transaction exempt from registration under the Securities Act, common stock to a broker-dealer or an affiliate of a broker-dealer or other third party who may then become a selling stockholder and publicly resell or otherwise transfer that common stock under this prospectus; or
(d)  loan or pledge common stock to a broker-dealer or affiliate of a broker-dealer or other third party who may then become a selling stockholder and sell the loaned shares or, in an event of default in the case of a pledge, become a selling stockholder and sell the pledged shares, under this prospectus.

EXHIBIT: 4.4 EXECUTION COPY REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT between AOL TIME WARNER INC. and TIME WARNER CABLE INC. ----------------------------------------------------- Dated: March 31, 2003 -----------------------------------------------------
TABLE OF CONTENTS i
ii
REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT, dated as of March 31, 2003 (this "Agreement"), by and between AOL Time Warner Inc., a Delaware corporation ("AOLTW"), and Time Warner Cable Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Issuer"). WHEREAS, the Issuer, Comcast Corporation, a Pennsylvania corporation (formerly named AT&T Comcast Corporation, "Comcast"), AOLTW and the other parties named therein have entered into a Restructuring Agreement, dated as of August 20, 2002 (as amended, the "Restructuring Agreement"); WHEREAS, AOLTW, the Issuer and TWE Holdings II Trust, a Delaware statutory trust ("Trust II"), are concurrently entering into a registration rights agreement granting certain registration rights with respect to the Trust Registrable Securities (as defined below) (the "Trust Registration Rights Agreement"); and WHEREAS, AOLTW and the Issuer are entering into this Agreement in order to provide for certain registration rights relating to the Class A Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Issuer (the "Class A Common Stock") now or hereafter held by AOLTW. NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements set forth herein and for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows: ARTICLE I DEFINITIONS 1.1 Certain Definitions. As used in this Agreement, and unless the context requires a different meaning, the following terms have the meanings indicated: "Affiliate" means, with respect to a Person, any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For purposes of this definition, "control" (including, with correlative meanings, the terms "controlling," "controlled by" and "under common control with"), as used with respect to a Person, shall mean the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by agreement or otherwise; provided, that, solely for purposes of this definition of Affiliate, Trust II (and its controlled Affiliates) will be deemed to be controlled by any Person or Persons who beneficially own directly or indirectly a majority of the beneficial interests of Trust II (and any other Person or Persons who control such Person). "Agreement" has the meaning set forth in the preamble to this Agreement.
2 "AOLTW" has the meaning set forth in the preamble to this Agreement. "AOLTW Registration Date" means the earlier to occur of (i) the date on which Trust II and its Affiliates no longer beneficially own Registrable Securities with an aggregate Market Price in excess of $250,000,000 and (ii) the date that is five years after the date of this Agreement. "AOLTW Securities" means securities of the Issuer beneficially owned by AOLTW or any of its Affiliates (other than Issuer Securities) that are proposed to be offered to the public for the account of AOLTW or any of its Affiliates (other than the Issuer or a Subsidiary of the Issuer) in a transaction registered under the Securities Act. "beneficially own" means to possess beneficial ownership as determined under Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act. "Board of Directors" means the board of directors of the Issuer or any committee thereof. "Business Day" means a day of the year other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which banks are required or authorized to close in New York City. "Class A Common Stock" has the meaning set forth in the recitals to this Agreement. "Closing Price" means, with respect to a security, as of the date of determination, (a) if such security is listed on a national securities exchange, the closing price per share of such security for such date as published in The Wall Street Journal (National Edition) or, if no such closing price on such date is published in The Wall Street Journal (National Edition), the average of the closing bid and asked prices on such date, as officially reported on the principal national securities exchange on which such security is then listed or admitted to trading; or (b) if such security is not then listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange but is designated as a national market system security by the NASD, the last trading price per share of such security on such date; or (c) if there is no trading on such date or if such security is not designated as a national market system security by the NASD, the average of the reported closing bid and asked prices of such security on such date as shown by The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. (or its successor) and reported by any member firm of The New York Stock Exchange, Inc. selected by the Issuer; or (d) if none of (a), (b) or (c) is available, a market price per security determined in good faith by the Board of Directors or, if such determination is not satisfactory to the Stockholders for whom such determination is being made, by a nationally recognized investment banking firm selected by the Issuer and such Stockholders, the expenses for which shall be borne equally by the Issuer and such Stockholders. If trading is conducted on a continuous basis on any exchange, then the closing price shall be at 4:00 P.M. New York City time. "Comcast" has the meaning set forth in the recitals to this Agreement.
3 "Commission" means the Securities and Exchange Commission or any other federal agency at the time administering the Securities Act. "Common Equity" means, collectively, the Class A Common Stock and the Class B Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Issuer. "Cumulative Net Proceeds" means, with respect to a Person, as of any date of determination, the "Cumulative Net Proceeds," as defined in the Trust Registration Rights Agreement, of such Person as of such date of determination. "Counterparty" means any underwriter, broker or dealer with respect to a Disposition. "Deferral Period" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.3(b). "Demand Registration" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.1. "Disposition" means an underwritten public offering, including, for the avoidance of doubt, (1) a transaction in which the underwriter or underwriters act as principal for the sale of Registrable Class Securities pursuant to any Registration Statement (including in order to hedge its economic exposure to a Hedging Transaction) and (2) a transaction that constitutes an "at the market offering" (as such term is defined in Rule 415 under the Securities Act), in which the counterparty acts as agent (and not as principal). "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder, all as the same shall be in effect at the time. "Governmental Entity" means any supranational, national, state, municipal or local government, political subdivision or other governmental department, court, commission, board, bureau, agency, instrumentality or other authority thereof, or any quasi-governmental or private body (including any self-regulatory organization) exercising any regulatory, taxing, importing or other governmental authority, whether domestic or foreign. "Hedging Counterparty" means a broker-dealer registered under Section 15(b) of the Exchange Act or an Affiliate thereof. "Hedging Transaction" means any transaction involving a security linked to the Registrable Class Securities or any security that would be deemed to be a "derivative security" (as defined in Rule 16a-1(c) under the Exchange Act) with respect to the Registrable Class Securities or transaction (even if not a security) which would (were it a security) be considered such a derivative security, or which transfers some or all of the economic risk of ownership of the Registrable Class Securities, including, without limitation, any forward contract, equity swap, put or call, put or call equivalent position, collar, non-recourse loan, sale of exchangeable security or similar transaction.
4 For the avoidance of doubt, the following transactions shall be deemed to be Hedging Transactions: (a) transactions by a Stockholder in which a Hedging Counterparty engages in short sales of Registrable Class Securities pursuant to a Prospectus and may use Registrable Securities to close out its short position; (b) transactions pursuant to which a Stockholder sells short Registrable Class Securities pursuant to a Prospectus and delivers Registrable Securities to close out its short position; (c) transactions by a Stockholder in which the Stockholder delivers, in a transaction exempt from registration under the Securities Act, Registrable Securities to the Hedging Counterparty who will then publicly resell or otherwise transfer such Registrable Securities pursuant to a Prospectus or an exemption from registration under the Securities Act; and (d) a loan or pledge of Registrable Securities to a Hedging Counterparty who may then become a selling stockholder and sell the loaned shares or, in an event of default in the case of a pledge, then sell the pledged shares, in each case, in a public transaction pursuant to a Prospectus. "Incidental Registration" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.1. "Indemnified Party" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.3. "Indemnifying Party" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.3. "Initial Public Offering" means the initial offering to the public of any shares of the Common Equity in a transaction registered under the Securities Act. "Inspector" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.1(f). "Issuer" has the meaning set forth in the preamble to this Agreement. "Issuer Securities" means (i) for purposes of Section 6.10(c), securities of the Issuer proposed to be offered to the public for the account of the Issuer in a transaction registered under the Securities Act, together with securities of the Issuer to be offered to the public for the account of another Person other than AOLTW or any of its Affiliates (other than the Issuer and the Issuer's Subsidiaries) that are proposed to be included in such offering pursuant to Section 5.1 and (ii) for all other purposes, securities of the Issuer proposed to be offered to the public for the account of the Issuer in a transaction registered under the Securities Act. "Lead Underwriter" means, with respect to an offering, the lead book-running underwriter(s) for such offering. "Liability" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.1.
5 "Lock-up Agreement" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.8. "Majority Requesting Stockholders" means, with respect to a Registration Statement, Stockholders holding Registrable Securities representing more than 50% of those to be included in a Registration Statement (on an as-converted basis). "Majority Stockholders" means beneficial owners of Registrable Securities representing more than 50% of the total number of outstanding Registrable Securities (on an as-converted basis). "Market Price" means, as of any date of determination, the average of the daily Closing Price of the Registrable Securities for the immediately preceding 30 days on which the national securities exchanges are open for trading. "NASD" means the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. "OTC Hedging Transaction" has the meaning set forth in the Trust Registration Rights Agreement. "Permitted Transferee" means any Person to whom a Stockholder has transferred, in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, Registrable Securities. "Person" means any individual, firm, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, "group" (as such term is used in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), trust, incorporated or unincorporated association, joint venture, joint stock company, Governmental Entity or other entity of any kind, and shall include any successor (by merger or otherwise) of such entity. "Pledgee" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.4(a). "Prospectus" means the prospectus related to any Registration Statement (including, without limitation, a prospectus that discloses information previously omitted from a prospectus filed as part of an effective registration statement in reliance on Rule 415 under the Securities Act), as amended or supplemented by any amendment or prospectus supplement, including post-effective amendments, and all materials incorporated by reference in such prospectus. "Records" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.1(f). "Registrable Class Securities" means securities of the Issuer that are of the same class as the relevant Registrable Securities. "Registrable Securities" means each of the following: (a) any and all shares of Common Equity now or hereafter held by AOLTW or its Affiliates or issued or issuable upon conversion of any convertible security or exercise of any warrants or options held by AOLTW or its Affiliates, (b) any shares of Common Equity or any other securities issued or issuable to a Stockholder or any of its Affiliates in respect of any Registrable Securities by way of a conversion, exchange, replacement, stock dividend or
6 stock split or other distribution in connection with a combination of shares, recapitalization, merger, consolidation or other reorganization, spin-off or otherwise and any shares of Common Equity or voting common stock or other securities issuable upon conversion, exercise or exchange thereof, and (c) all shares of Common Equity or other securities described in (b) above owned by any Permitted Transferee that were transferred in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and were Registrable Securities at the time such shares or securities were transferred to such Permitted Transferee. "Registration Expenses" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.5. "Registration Statement" means a registration statement filed pursuant to the Securities Act. "Restructuring Agreement" has the meaning set forth in the recitals to this Agreement. "Securities Act" means the Securities Act of 1933 and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder, all as the same shall be in effect at the time. "Stockholder" means a holder of Registrable Securities. "Stockholder Counsel" means a firm of legal counsel designated by the Majority Stockholders. "Strategic Investor Transaction" has the meaning set forth in the Trust Registration Rights Agreement. "Trust II" has the meaning set forth in the recitals to this Agreement. "Trust Registrable Securities" means the "Registrable Securities", as that term is defined in the Trust Registration Rights Agreement. "Trust Registration Rights Agreement" has the meaning set forth in the recitals to this Agreement. "Trust Stockholders" means the "Stockholders", as that term is defined in the Trust Registration Rights Agreement. 1.2 Capitalized Terms. Capitalized terms used herein and in the Schedules and not otherwise defined shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them in the Restructuring Agreement. 1.3 Successor Laws, Rules, Regulations and Forms. All references to laws, rules, regulations and forms in this Agreement shall be deemed to be references to the comparable successor thereto in effect at the time.
7 ARTICLE II GENERAL; SECURITIES SUBJECT TO THIS AGREEMENT. 2.1 Grant of Rights. The Issuer hereby grants registration rights to the Stockholders upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement. 2.2 Registrable Securities. As to any particular Registrable Securities, once issued, such securities shall cease to be Registrable Securities when (a) a Registration Statement with respect to the sale of such securities shall have become effective under the Securities Act and such securities shall have been disposed of in accordance with such Registration Statement, (b) they shall have been distributed to the public pursuant to Rule 144 (or any successor provision then in effect) under the Securities Act, (c) they shall have been otherwise transferred, and, in accordance with Section 3.1, new certificates for them not bearing a legend restricting further transfer shall have been delivered, (d) they shall have become freely transferable without registration under the Securities Act or (e) they shall have ceased to be outstanding. 2.3 Holders of Registrable Securities. A Person is deemed to be a Stockholder whenever such Person owns of record Registrable Securities, or holds an option to purchase, or a security convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for, Registrable Securities, whether or not such acquisition or conversion has actually been effected. If the Issuer receives conflicting instructions, notices or elections from two or more Persons with respect to the same Registrable Securities, the Issuer may act upon the basis of the instructions, notice or election received from the registered owner of such Registrable Securities. Registrable Securities issuable upon exercise of an option or upon conversion of another security shall be deemed outstanding for the purposes of this Agreement. 2.4 Transfer of Registration Rights. (a) Each Stockholder may transfer or pledge Registrable Securities with the associated registration rights under this Agreement to a Permitted Transferee or pledgee ("Pledgee") only if (1) subject to the last sentence of this Section 2.4(a), such Permitted Transferee or Pledgee agrees in writing to be bound as a Stockholder by the provisions of this Agreement insofar as it pertains to the holding, owning and disposition of Registrable Securities and (2) immediately following such transfer or pledge, the further disposition of such Registrable Securities by such Permitted Transferee or Pledgee would be restricted under the Securities Act. Upon any transfer of Registrable Securities other than as set forth in this Section 2.4, such securities shall no longer constitute Registrable Securities, except that any Registrable Securities that are pledged or made the subject of a Hedging Transaction, whether or not the subject of a Demand Registration, which Registrable Securities are not ultimately disposed of by the Stockholders pursuant to such pledge or Hedging Transaction shall, to the extent such securities remain "restricted securities" under the Securities Act, be deemed to remain "Registrable Securities" notwithstanding the release of such pledge or the completion of such Hedging Transaction. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, no Pledgee
8 or Hedging Counterparty shall be required to agree to any restriction on its ability to trade in any securities, including the restrictions set forth in Section 6.8(a). The Stockholders hereby agree that they shall act in good faith with respect to the restrictions set forth in Section 6.8(a) and shall take no action or omit to take any action with the intention of circumventing or evading the restrictions applicable to them under Section 6.8(a). (b) If a Stockholder assigns its rights under this Agreement in connection with the transfer of less than all of its Registrable Securities, the Stockholder shall retain its rights under this Agreement with respect to its remaining Registrable Securities. If a Stockholder assigns its rights under this Agreement in connection with the transfer of all of its Registrable Securities, such Stockholder shall have no further rights or obligations under this Agreement, except under Article VII hereof in respect of offerings in which it participated. ARTICLE III ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS OF THE STOCKHOLDERS 3.1 Certain Acknowledgments of the Stockholders. Each Stockholder acknowledges that all Registrable Securities will be issued or have been issued pursuant to an exemption from registration under the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws and agrees not to sell or otherwise dispose of such Registrable Securities in any transaction which would be in violation of the Securities Act or applicable state securities law. Each Stockholder acknowledges that the following legend will appear on the certificates for the Registrable Securities reflecting the foregoing restriction. The Issuer shall, at the request of any Stockholder, remove from each certificate evidencing Registrable Securities the following legend if the Issuer is reasonably satisfied (based upon an opinion of counsel or other evidence) that the securities evidenced thereby may be publicly sold without registration under the Securities Act; provided, however, that the Issuer or Issuer's counsel shall not be required to deliver an opinion of counsel to the effect that the securities evidenced thereby may be publicly sold without registration under the Securities Act unless Stockholder Counsel shall have delivered an opinion, upon which the Issuer and Issuer's counsel are entitled to rely, to the effect that the securities evidenced thereby may be publicly sold without registration under the Securities Act. "THE SECURITIES REPRESENTED BY THIS CERTIFICATE HAVE NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, THE SECURITIES OR "BLUE SKY" LAWS OF ANY STATE OR ANY OTHER SECURITIES LAWS. SUCH SECURITIES MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, HYPOTHECATED, OR OTHERWISE ASSIGNED, EXCEPT (I) PURSUANT TO A REGISTRATION STATEMENT WITH RESPECT TO SUCH SECURITIES WHICH IS EFFECTIVE UNDER ALL APPLICABLE SECURITIES LAWS, OR (II) UPON THE FURNISHING TO TIME WARNER CABLE INC. BY THE
9 HOLDER OF THIS CERTIFICATE OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL OR OTHER EVIDENCE REASONABLY ACCEPTABLE TO TIME WARNER CABLE INC. THAT SUCH TRANSACTION IS NOT REQUIRED TO BE REGISTERED UNDER APPLICABLE SECURITIES LAWS." ARTICLE IV DEMAND REGISTRATION. 4.1 Request for Demand Registration. (a) At any time after the completion of the Initial Public Offering, a Stockholder may make a written request to the Issuer to register, and the Issuer shall register, on the appropriate form, under the Securities Act, the number of Registrable Securities stated in such request (a "Demand Registration"). (b) Each request for a Demand Registration by Stockholders shall identify the Stockholders making such request and the amount of the Registrable Securities proposed to be sold by each and the intended method of disposition thereof. 4.2 Effective Demand Registration. Subject to Section 6.3(b), the Issuer shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to (i) file a Registration Statement relating to such Demand Registration, (ii) cause such Registration Statement to be declared effective by the Commission not later than (1) 120 days (if the Issuer is not eligible to use Form S-3 for such Demand Registration) or (2) 60 days (if the Issuer is eligible to use Form S-3 for such Demand Registration), after the Issuer receives a request under Section 4.1(a) and (iii) keep such Registration Statement continuously effective until the later of (1) the time at which all Registrable Securities registered in the Demand Registration have been sold and (2) the 75th day after the date such Registration Statement is declared effective by the Commission (or such later date as the Majority Requesting Stockholders request in writing); provided that such 75-day period shall be extended for a number of days equal to the number of days that elapse from (x) the date any written notice contemplated by Section 6.3(a) is given by the Issuer to (y) the date on which the Issuer delivers to the Stockholders the supplement or amendment contemplated by Section 6.3(a). 4.3 Underwriting. If the Issuer or the Majority Requesting Stockholders elect, the Issuer shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to cause the sale of Registrable Securities relating to a Demand Registration (other than an OTC Hedging Transaction) to be in the form of a firm commitment underwritten offering, and the Lead Underwriter shall be selected in accordance with Section 6.9. 4.4 Hedging Transactions. (a) The Issuer agrees that, in connection with any proposed Hedging Transaction, if, in the reasonable judgment of Stockholder Counsel (after good
10 faith consultation with counsel to the Issuer), it is necessary or desirable to register under the Securities Act such Hedging Transactions or sales or transfers (whether short or long) of Registrable Class Securities in connection therewith, then the Issuer shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to take such actions (which may include, among other things, the filing of a post-effective amendment to a Registration Statement to include additional or changed information that is material or is otherwise required to be disclosed, including, without limitation, a description of such Hedging Transaction, the name of the Hedging Counterparty, identification of the Hedging Counterparty or its Affiliates as underwriters or potential underwriters, if applicable, or any change to the Plan of Distribution) as may reasonably be required to register such Hedging Transactions or sales or transfers of Registrable Class Securities in connection therewith under the Securities Act in a manner consistent with the rights and obligations of the Issuer hereunder with respect to the registration of Registrable Securities. Any information regarding the Hedging Transaction included in a Registration Statement or Prospectus pursuant to this Section 4.4(a) shall be deemed to be information provided by the Stockholders selling Registrable Securities pursuant to such Registration Statement for purposes of Article VII. (b) Any registration effected pursuant to this Section 4.4 shall be deemed to be a Demand Registration for purposes of this Agreement. (c) If in connection with a Hedging Transaction, a Hedging Counterparty or any Affiliate thereof is (or may be considered) an underwriter or selling stockholder, then it shall be required to provide customary indemnities to the Issuer regarding the Plan of Distribution and like matters. (d) The Issuer further agrees to include, under the caption "Plan of Distribution" (or the equivalent caption), in each Registration Statement, and any related prospectus (to the extent such inclusion is permitted under applicable Commission regulations and is consistent with comments received from the Commission during any Commission review of the Registration Statement), language substantially in the form of Annex A hereto and to include in each prospectus supplement filed in connection with any proposed Hedging Transaction language mutually agreed upon by the Issuer, the relevant Stockholder and the Hedging Counterparty describing such Hedging Transaction. 4.5 Cutback Provisions. All offerings made in respect of Demand Registrations shall be subject to the limitations set forth in Section 6.10. ARTICLE V INCIDENTAL OR "PIGGY-BACK" REGISTRATION. 5.1 Issuer Incidental Registration. At any time after the Closing, if a Stockholder requests a Demand Registration in accordance with Article IV, then the Issuer shall have the right, subject to the limitations set forth in Section 6.10, to register Issuer Securities or securities for the account of any stockholder of the Issuer other than
11 the Stockholders. In connection with any Demand Registration under Article IV involving an underwritten offering, the Issuer shall not include any securities of the Issuer for the account of any Person other than the Stockholders unless such Person accepts the terms of the underwritten offering as agreed upon between the Lead Underwriter and the Stockholders requesting registration. 5.2 Stockholder Incidental Registration. (a) At any time after the Closing, if the Issuer proposes to file a Registration Statement with respect to an offering of securities (other than debt securities, or non-participating preferred equity securities, not exchangeable for or convertible into or otherwise linked to the Common Equity) by the Issuer for its own account or for the account of any stockholder of the Issuer other than the Stockholders (other than (i) a Registration Statement on Form S-4 or S-8 or (ii) a Registration Statement relating to the issuance of securities as consideration in any acquisition by the Issuer), then the Issuer shall give written notice (a "Filing Notice") of such proposed filing to each Stockholder at least 10 Business Days before the anticipated filing date, which notice shall describe the proposed registration and distribution and offer such Stockholder the opportunity to register the number of Registrable Securities as the Stockholder requests (an "Incidental Registration"). (b) The Issuer shall permit the Stockholders who have made written requests to the Issuer to participate in the Incidental Registration within 5 Business Days after receipt of the Filing Notice to include up to all of their Registrable Securities (subject to the limitations set forth in Section 6.10) in such offering on the same terms and conditions as the securities of the Issuer or for the account of such other stockholder, as the case may be, included therein. In connection with any Incidental Registration under this Section 5.2 involving an underwritten offering, the Issuer shall not be required to include any Registrable Securities in such underwritten offering unless the participating Stockholders accept the terms of the underwritten offering as agreed upon by the Issuer and such other stockholders, if any. ARTICLE VI REGISTRATION PROCEDURES. 6.1 Obligations of the Issuer. Whenever registration of Registrable Securities has been requested pursuant to Article IV or Article V, the Issuer shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to effect the registration and sale of such Registrable Securities in accordance with the intended method of distribution thereof as quickly as practicable, and in connection with any such request: (a) the Issuer shall, as expeditiously as practicable, prepare and file with the Commission a Registration Statement on Form S-3 (or, if the Issuer is not then eligible to use Form S-3, on any form for which the Issuer then qualifies, which counsel for the Issuer deems appropriate and which is available for the sale of such Registrable Securities in accordance with the intended method of distribution thereof),
12 and use all commercially reasonable efforts to cause such Registration Statement to become effective as expeditiously as practicable; provided, however, that (i) before filing a Registration Statement or Prospectus or any amendments or supplements thereto, the Issuer shall provide Stockholder Counsel and any other Inspector with a reasonable opportunity to review and comment on such Registration Statement and each Prospectus included therein (and each amendment or supplement thereto) to be filed with the Commission, subject to such documents being under the Issuer's control, and (ii) the Issuer shall notify each Stockholder, Stockholder Counsel, and each other party participating in such distribution of Registrable Securities of any stop order issued or threatened by the Commission and take all commercially reasonable action required to prevent the entry of such stop order or to remove it if entered; (b) the Issuer shall, as expeditiously as practicable, prepare and file with the Commission such amendments and supplements to such Registration Statement and the Prospectus as may be necessary to keep such Registration Statement effective until the earlier of (i) the 75th day after the effective date thereof (or such later date as the Majority Requesting Stockholders request in writing) and (ii) the date on which all Registrable Securities covered by such Registration Statement have been sold (provided that such 75-day period shall be extended for a number of days equal to the number of days that elapse from (x) the date any written notice contemplated by Section 6.3(a) is given by the Issuer to (y) the date on which the Issuer delivers to the Stockholders the supplement or amendment contemplated by Section 6.3(a)); and the Issuer shall comply with the provisions of the Securities Act with respect to the disposition of all securities covered by such Registration Statement during such period in accordance with the intended methods of disposition by the sellers thereof set forth in such Registration Statement; (c) the Issuer shall furnish to each seller of Registrable Securities, prior to filing a Registration Statement, at least one conformed copy of such Registration Statement as is proposed to be filed, and thereafter shall promptly furnish such number of conformed copies of such Registration Statement, each amendment and supplement thereto (in each case including all exhibits thereto), and the Prospectus included therein (including each preliminary Prospectus and any Prospectus filed under Rule 424 under the Securities Act) as each such seller may reasonably request in order to facilitate the disposition of the Registrable Securities by such seller; in addition, the Issuer shall promptly after receipt furnish to each Stockholder copies of the portions of any and all transmittal letters and any other correspondence (including, but not limited to, comment letters) with the Commission or any other Governmental Entity relating to such Registration Statement or amendment or supplement thereto relating to the sections entitled "Plan of Distribution" or "Selling Stockholders," and the Majority Requesting Stockholders shall have the right to request that the Issuer modify any such information contained in such Registration Statement or amendment and supplement thereto pertaining to such Stockholders in such sections, and the Issuer shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to comply with such request; provided, however, that the Issuer shall not have any obligation to modify any information if the Issuer reasonably expects that so doing would cause the Registration Statement to contain an untrue statement of a material
13 fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; (d) the Issuer shall use all commercially reasonable efforts (i) to register or qualify all Registrable Securities and other securities covered by the Registration Statement under such other securities or "blue sky" laws of such States of the United States of America where an exemption is not available and as the sellers of Registrable Securities covered by the Registration Statement shall reasonably request, (ii) to keep such registration or qualification in effect during the period during which the Registration Statement is effective, (iii) to obtain the withdrawal of any order or other determination suspending such registration or qualification during the period during which the Registration Statement is effective and (iv) to take any other action which may be reasonably necessary or advisable to enable such sellers to consummate the disposition in such jurisdictions of the securities to be sold by such sellers, except that the Issuer shall not for any such purpose be required to (1) qualify generally to do business as a foreign corporation in any jurisdiction wherein it would not but for the requirements of this clause (iv) be obligated to be so qualified, (2) subject itself to taxation in any such jurisdiction or (3) consent to general service of process in any such jurisdiction; (e) the Issuer shall enter into and perform customary agreements (including underwriting and indemnification and contribution agreements in customary form with the Lead Underwriter or other Counterparty and reasonably acceptable to the Counterparty) and take such other commercially reasonable actions as are required in order to expedite or facilitate each Disposition and shall provide all reasonable cooperation, including causing appropriate officers to attend and participate in "road shows" and other information meetings organized by the Counterparty, customary for similar Dispositions; (f) the Issuer shall make available at reasonable times for inspection by any seller of Registrable Securities, the Counterparties participating in any Disposition, Stockholder Counsel and any attorney, accountant or other agent retained by any Counterparty (each, an "Inspector" and collectively, the "Inspectors"), all financial and other records, corporate documents of the Issuer and its Subsidiaries (collectively, the "Records") as are reasonably necessary to enable them to exercise their due diligence responsibilities, and cause the Issuer's and its Subsidiaries' officers, directors and employees, and the independent public accountants of the Issuer, to discuss the business and affairs of the Issuer and its Subsidiaries, to supply promptly all information reasonably requested by any such Inspector in connection with such Registration Statement and to otherwise reasonably cooperate in the due diligence process of the Inspectors; (g) in the case of a Disposition, the Issuer shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to obtain "cold comfort" letters addressed to the Issuer and the Counterparties and dated the effective date of the Registration Statement and the date of the closing under the agreement relating to such Disposition from the Issuer's independent public accountants in customary form and covering such matters of the type customarily covered by "cold comfort" letters in agreements that are customary or
14 reasonably appropriate for the types of offerings that are most similar to such Disposition, as Stockholder Counsel or the Counterparty reasonably requests; (h) the Issuer shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to furnish, at the request of any seller of Registrable Securities, on the date such Registrable Securities are delivered to the Counterparties for sale pursuant to such Registration Statement or, if such Registrable Securities are not being sold through underwriters, on the date the Registration Statement with respect to such Registrable Securities becomes effective, a signed opinion, dated such date, of counsel representing the Issuer for the purposes of such Disposition, addressed to the Counterparties, if any, covering such legal matters with respect to the Disposition in respect of which such opinion is being given as the Counterparties, if any, and such seller may reasonably request and are customarily included in such opinions relating to transactions similar to such Disposition; (i) the Issuer shall comply with all applicable rules and regulations of the Commission, and make available to its security holders, as soon as reasonably practicable but no later than 15 months after the effective date of the Registration Statement, an earnings statement covering a period of 12 months beginning after the effective date of the Registration Statement, in a manner that satisfies the provisions of Section 11(a) of the Securities Act and Rule 158 thereunder; (j) the Issuer shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to cause all such Registrable Securities to be listed on each securities exchange or automated quotation system on which similar securities issued by the Issuer are then listed (and if no such securities are then listed on any securities exchange, on a national securities exchange or automated quotation system selected by the Issuer) and to thereafter comply with all applicable rules of such securities exchange or automated quotation system so as to permit the continued listing of such securities on such exchange or automated quotation system; (k) the Issuer shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to cause all Registrable Securities covered by the Registration Statement to be registered with or approved by such Governmental Entities as may be necessary in the written opinion of counsel to the Issuer and counsel to the seller or sellers of Registrable Securities to enable the seller or sellers thereof to consummate the disposition of such Registrable Securities within the United States of America; (l) the Issuer shall cooperate with each seller of Registrable Securities to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates representing Registrable Securities sold pursuant to a Registration Statement, and provide the transfer agent for the Registrable Securities with certificates for the Registrable Securities that are in a form eligible for deposit with The Depository Trust Company; (m) the Issuer shall timely keep Stockholder Counsel advised in writing as to the initiation and progress of any registration under Article IV or Article V hereunder;
15 (n) the Issuer shall cooperate with each seller of Registrable Securities and each underwriter participating in the disposition of such Registrable Securities and their respective counsel in connection with any filings required to be made with the NASD; (o) during the time when a Prospectus is required to be delivered under the Securities Act, the Issuer shall promptly give notice to all Stockholders selling securities pursuant to such Prospectus (i) of the receipt by the Issuer of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification or exemption from qualification of any of the Registrable Securities for sale in any jurisdiction or the initiation or threat in writing of any proceeding for such purpose, (ii) of the occurrence of any of the events described in Section 6.3(b) (provided, however, that no notice by the Issuer shall be required pursuant to this clause (ii) in the event that the Issuer either promptly files a Prospectus supplement or amendment to update the Prospectus or a Form 8-K or other appropriate Exchange Act report that is incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement, which, in either case, contains the requisite information with respect to such event that results in the Registration Statement no longer containing any untrue statement of material fact or omitting to state a material fact necessary to make the statements contained therein not misleading) and (iii) of the determination by the Issuer that a post-effective amendment to a Registration Statement will be filed with the Commission; (p) if the Issuer files a Registration Statement on Form S-3, and one or more Stockholders request to have an offering of Registrable Securities registered under such Registration Statement pursuant to Article IV or V hereof, the Issuer shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to include in such Registration Statement such additional information for marketing purposes as the Lead Underwriter with respect to such offering reasonably requests; provided, however, that, if such additional information is included in such Registration Statement, the time period for having such Registration Statement declared effective pursuant to clause (ii)(2) of Section 4.2 shall be no more than 120 days and the Issuer shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to cause such Registration Statement to be declared effective as soon as is practicable; and (q) the Issuer shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to promptly take all other steps necessary to effect the registration and sale of the Registrable Securities contemplated hereby. 6.2 Seller Information, Compliance with Laws, Customary Agreements. The Issuer may require that (a) each seller of Registrable Securities as to which any Registration Statement is being filed furnish the Issuer such information regarding such seller and the distribution of such securities as the Issuer may from time to time reasonably request in writing; (b) each seller of Registrable Securities agree to comply with the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and all applicable state securities laws and comply with all applicable regulations in connection with the registration and distribution of the Registrable Securities; and (c) each seller of Registrable Securities use all commercially reasonable efforts to enter into and perform customary agreements
16 (including an underwriting and indemnification agreement in customary form with the Lead Underwriter) and to take such other commercially reasonable actions in order to expedite or facilitate the disposition of such Registrable Securities. 6.3 Notice to Discontinue, Deferral Periods. (a) The Issuer shall promptly notify each Stockholder selling securities of the Issuer pursuant to a Registration Statement (i) upon discovery that, or upon the happening of any event as a result of which, the Prospectus or the Registration Statement includes an untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, or of the occurrence of any event specified in Section 6.3(b); (ii) of the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement; or (iii) of any written request by the Commission for (1) amendments to the Registration Statement or any document incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, (2) supplements or amendments to the Prospectus or (3) additional information. Immediately following any such event (x) upon the request of the Issuer, each Stockholder shall suspend the use of the Prospectus and shall not sell any Registrable Securities pursuant to the Registration Statement until such Stockholder has received copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus or until it is advised by the Issuer that the Prospectus may be used, and (y) the Issuer shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to, as promptly as practicable or in the case of an event specified in Section 6.3(b), by the end of the Deferral Period (as defined below), prepare and file a post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or a supplement or amendment to the related Prospectus or any document that would be incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement and Prospectus so that the Registration Statement does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, and such Prospectus does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading and promptly thereafter deliver to the holders of the Registrable Securities a reasonable number of copies of the supplement or amendment of such Prospectus complying with the foregoing, and, in the case of a post-effective amendment to a Registration Statement, use all commercially reasonable efforts to cause it to be declared effective as promptly as is reasonably practicable. (b) The Issuer shall not be required to file any Registration Statement pursuant to this Agreement, file any amendment thereto, furnish any supplement or amendment to a Prospectus included in a Registration Statement, make any other filing with the Commission, cause any Registration Statement or other filing with the Commission to become effective, or take any similar action (collectively, "Registration Actions") and may withdraw any Registration Statement or other filing with the Commission, and any and all sales of Registrable Securities by a holder thereof pursuant to a Registration Statement shall be suspended: (i) if such Registration Action would, in the good-faith judgment of the Board of Directors, materially interfere with
17 business activities or plans of the Issuer, (ii) if such Registration Action would, in the good-faith judgment of the Board of Directors, require the disclosure of material non-public information which disclosure, in the good-faith judgment of the Board of Directors, would be detrimental to the Issuer or (iii) if such Registration Action would require the inclusion of audited financial statements of the Issuer that are not then available. Upon the occurrence of any condition described in clauses (i), (ii) or (iii) of the first sentence of this Section 6.3(b), the Issuer shall give prompt notice thereof (which notice shall state whether it intends to delay any of the Registration Actions and/or suspend sales of Registrable Securities) to the Stockholders. Upon the termination of the condition described in clauses (i), (ii) or (iii) of the first sentence of this Section 6.3(b), the Issuer shall give prompt notice to the Stockholders and, in the case of a Demand Registration, if the request for Demand Registration has not been revoked pursuant to Section 6.3(d), shall promptly proceed with the Registration Actions and make any other filing with the Commission required of it or terminate any suspension of sales it has put into effect and shall take all such other commercially reasonable actions to permit registered sales of Registrable Securities as contemplated by this Agreement. It is understood and agreed that the foregoing provisions of this Section 6.3(b) shall not prevent a sale or hedge pursuant to Rule 144 by a holder of Registrable Securities or in a transaction exempt from registration under the Securities Act. (c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 6.3(b), the Issuer may only delay Registration Actions or suspend sales of Registrable Securities for three periods (each, a "Deferral Period") of up to 120 days in the aggregate in any period of twelve consecutive months. In addition, no suspension pursuant to Section 6.3(b) after the Initial Public Offering shall be effective unless (x) each director and executive officer of the Issuer is also prohibited by the Issuer's insider trading policy or otherwise from making purchases and sales (other than those made pursuant to plans designed to comply with Rule 10b5-1(c)(1)(i) under the Exchange Act) by reason of the condition specified in the first sentence of Section 6.3(b) and (y) each other holder entitled to sell equity securities of the Issuer pursuant to registration rights under a selling stockholder prospectus is, or agrees to be, subject to deferral provisions substantially similar to or more restrictive than those contained in Section 6.3(b). 6.4 Reports and Materials to be Filed under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act. The Issuer shall timely file the reports and materials required to be filed by it under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations adopted by the Commission thereunder (including but not limited to the reports under Sections 13 and 15(d) of the Exchange Act referred to in subparagraph (c) of Rule 144) and shall take all commercially reasonable actions as a Stockholder or any broker or dealer facilitating a sale of Registrable Securities may reasonably request to enable such Stockholder to sell or hedge Registrable Securities without registration under the Securities Act within the limitation of the exemptions provided by (a) Rule 144 under the Securities Act, as such Rule may be amended from time to time, or (b) any similar rules or regulations hereafter adopted by the Commission. Upon the request of any Stockholder, the Issuer shall deliver to such Stockholder a written statement as to whether it has complied with such requirements.
18 6.5 Registration Expenses. The Issuer shall pay all expenses ("Registration Expenses") arising from or incident to any Demand Registration or Incidental Registration by the Stockholders pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, regardless of whether the relevant Registration Statement is declared effective; provided, however, that the Stockholders shall each bear the expense of any broker's commission or underwriter's discount or commission relating to registration and sale of its Registrable Securities and any of its legal fees, incurred in connection with a Demand Registration or Incidental Registration. Subject to the proviso included in the immediately preceding sentence, Registration Expenses shall include, without limitation, any and all expenses incident to performance of or compliance with any registration or marketing of securities pursuant to Article IV or V, including, without limitation, (i) the fees, disbursements and expenses of Issuer's counsel and accountants in connection with this Agreement and the performance of the Issuer's counsel and accountants in connection with this Agreement and the performance of the Issuer's obligations hereunder; (ii) all expenses, including filing fees, in connection with the preparation, printing and filing of any Registration Statement, any Prospectus or preliminary Prospectus, any other offering document and amendments and supplements thereto and the mailing and delivering of copies thereof to any underwriters and dealers; (iii) the cost of printing or producing any agreements among underwriters, underwriting agreements, and blue sky or legal investment memoranda, any selling agreements and any other documents in connection with the offering, sale or delivery of the securities to be disposed of; (iv) all expenses in connection with the qualification of the securities to be disposed of for offering and sale under state securities laws, including the fees and disbursements of counsel for the underwriters in connection with such qualification and in connection with any blue sky and legal investment surveys; (v) the filing fees incident to securing any required review by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. of the terms of the sale of the securities to be disposed of; (vi) transfer agents' and registrars' fees and expenses and the fees and expenses of any other agent or trustee appointed in connection with such offering; (vii) all security engraving and security printing expenses; (viii) all fees and expenses payable in connection with the listing of the securities on any securities exchange or automated interdealer quotation system; (ix) any other fees and disbursements of underwriters customarily paid by the issuers of securities; and (x) the costs and expenses of the Issuer relating to analyst or investor presentations or any "road show" undertaken in connection with the registration and/or marketing of any Registrable Securities. 6.6 Confidentiality. Any Records provided in connection with Section 6.1(f) that the Issuer determines, in good faith, to be confidential and which it notifies the Inspectors are confidential shall not be publicly disclosed by the Inspectors (and the Inspectors shall confirm their agreement in writing in advance to the Issuer if the Issuer shall so request) unless (i) the disclosure of such Records is necessary, in the Issuer's reasonable judgment, to avoid or correct a misstatement or omission in the Registration Statement, (ii) the release of such Records is ordered pursuant to a subpoena or other order from a court of competent jurisdiction after exhaustion of all appeals therefrom or (iii) the information in such Records was known to the Inspectors on a non-confidential basis prior to its disclosure by the Issuer or has been made generally available to the public or otherwise becomes available on a non-confidential basis. Each
19 seller of Registrable Securities agrees that it shall, upon learning that disclosure of such Records is sought in a court of competent jurisdiction, give notice to the Issuer and allow the Issuer, at the Issuer's expense, to undertake appropriate action to prevent disclosure of the Records deemed confidential. 6.7 Stock Split. Prior to the Initial Public Offering, the Issuer shall effect a split of the Class A Common Stock so that the price per share of Class A Common Stock reasonably expected to be received in the Initial Public Offering shall be within a range that, in the judgment of the Lead Underwriter, will facilitate the Initial Public Offering on the best possible terms. The Stockholders agree to take all actions necessary to permit the Issuer to comply with its obligations pursuant to the preceding sentence. 6.8 Restrictions on Public Sales. (a) If requested in writing by any Lead Underwriter in connection with a public offering of shares of Common Equity (or instruments convertible into or exchangeable for Common Equity), each of the Stockholders (other than any Pledgee or Hedging Counterparty) and the Issuer shall execute and deliver agreements ("Lock-up Agreements") containing such restrictions on its ability to dispose of shares of Common Equity (or instruments convertible into or exchangeable for Common Equity) as such Lead Underwriter may reasonably request; provided that such restrictions shall be the same for all parties and shall not have a duration of more than (i) 180 days after the completion of such offering (in the case of the Initial Public Offering) or (ii) 90 days after the completion of such offering (in the case of other public offerings). Any Lock-up Agreements executed by the Stockholders shall contain provisions naming the Issuer as an intended third-party beneficiary thereof and requiring the prior written consent of the Issuer for any amendments thereto or waivers thereof. Any Lock-up Agreements executed by the Issuer shall contain provisions naming the Stockholders as intended third-party beneficiaries thereof and requiring the prior written consent of the Majority Stockholders for any amendments thereto or waivers thereof. (b) A Stockholder shall not be required hereunder to sign a Lock-up Agreement that restricts the Stockholder from exercising the Incidental Registration rights set forth in Article V. (c) In connection with a Demand Registration, the Issuer shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to have all executive officers, directors and holders of more than 5% of any class of the Common Equity execute agreements that are no less restrictive than the restrictions contained in the Lock-up Agreements. 6.9 Selection of Underwriters. In any underwritten public offering pursuant to a Demand Registration (other than the Initial Public Offering), (i) the Majority Requesting Stockholders shall have the right to select one nationally-recognized investment banking firm as a co-lead book running manager (or the equivalent) with respect to such offering, which firm shall be reasonably acceptable to the Issuer, and the Issuer shall, for purposes of all applicable provisions in other agreements relating to the
20 selection of underwriters in underwritten public offerings (including, without limitation, Section 6.9 of the Trust Registration Rights Agreement), select such firm as a co-lead book running manager (or the equivalent); and (ii) any other co-lead book running managers (or the equivalent) that are selected pursuant to any other applicable provisions contained in other agreements relating to the selection of underwriters in underwritten public offerings (including, without limitation, Section 6.9 of the Trust Registration Rights Agreement) shall also act as co-lead book running managers with respect to such offering. In all other underwritten public offerings, other than offerings in which the Issuer is only permitted to select one co-lead book running manager (or the equivalent) (including, without limitation, pursuant to Section 6.9 of the Trust Registration Rights Agreement), the Issuer shall have the right to select all Lead Underwriters, except that if at least $500 million of Registrable Securities are proposed to be sold pursuant thereto, the Majority Requesting Stockholders shall have the right to select one nationally-recognized investment banking firm as a co-lead book running manager (or the equivalent) with respect to such offering, which firm shall be reasonably acceptable to the Issuer, and the Issuer shall, for purposes of all applicable provisions in other agreements relating to the selection of underwriters in underwritten public offerings (including, without limitation, Section 6.9 of the Trust Registration Rights Agreement), select such firm as a co-lead book running manager (or the equivalent). 6.10 Limitations on Registration. In any public offering of securities of the Issuer registered pursuant to Article IV or V, if any Lead Underwriter determines in good faith that the registration of all or part of such securities requested to be included would have a material and adverse effect on the success of such offering, then the Issuer shall be required to include in such offering only such number of such securities as the Lead Underwriter reasonably believes would not have such adverse effect, according to the following priority: (a) First, such offering shall include any Issuer Securities proposed to be included in such offering, until the Issuer's Cumulative Net Proceeds are $2.1 billion; (b) Second, such offering shall include any Trust Registrable Securities proposed to be included in such offering, until the Cumulative Net Proceeds of the Trust Stockholders and their Affiliates are $3.0 billion; and (c) Third, (i) if such offering occurs prior to the AOLTW Registration Date, such offering shall include any other securities proposed to be included in such offering, which securities shall (A) first, be divided equally among (x) any such securities that are Trust Registrable Securities not already included in such offering and (y) any such securities that are Issuer Securities not already included in such offering, (B) second, include any Trust Registrable Securities or Issuer Securities, as the case may be, not already included in such offering and (C) third, include any AOLTW Securities requested to be included in such offering; and
21 (ii) if such offering occurs on or after the AOLTW Registration Date, such offering shall include any other securities proposed to be included in such offering, which securities shall be divided equally among (x) any such securities that are Trust Registrable Securities not already included in such offering, (y) any such securities that are Issuer Securities not already included in such offering and (z) any such securities that are AOLTW Securities not already included in such offering, in each case until all such securities requested to be registered have been included in such offering. Prior to the AOLTW Registration Date, to the extent that the Issuer proposes to include any Issuer Securities whose proceeds, as described in the "Use of Proceeds" section of the relevant Registration Statement, are to be distributed or loaned to, or used to purchase securities issued by or held by, AOLTW or any of its Affiliates (other than the Issuer or any of its Subsidiaries), such Issuer Securities shall be deemed to be AOLTW Securities for purposes of Sections 6.10(a) and (c). ARTICLE VII INDEMNIFICATION 7.1 Indemnification by the Issuer. The Issuer agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Stockholder, its partners, directors, officers, other Affiliates and each Person who controls (within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act) such Stockholder from and against any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and expenses, or any action or proceeding in respect thereof (including reasonable costs of investigation and reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses) (each, a "Liability" and collectively, "Liabilities"), arising out of or based upon any untrue, or allegedly untrue, statement of a material fact contained in any Registration Statement, Prospectus or preliminary prospectus or notification or offering circular (as amended or supplemented if the Issuer shall have furnished any amendments or supplements thereto) or arising out of or based upon any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading under the circumstances such statements were made; provided, however, that the Issuer shall not be liable (i) in any such case to the extent that any such Liability arises out of or is based upon an untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made in such Registration Statement, Prospectus or preliminary prospectus or notification or offering circular in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Issuer by or on behalf of such Stockholder (including, without limitation, the information provided pursuant to Section 7.2), specifically for use in the preparation thereof and (ii) for any Liability if (1) the Issuer has notified such Stockholder to suspend use of the Prospectus pursuant to Section 6.3(a) or (b), (2) such Stockholder continues to use the relevant Prospectus notwithstanding such notice, and (3) such Liability arises from or is based upon an untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of any material fact or omission to state a material fact that was cured in the supplemented or amended Prospectus contemplated by Section 6.3(a) or (b).
22 7.2 Indemnification by the Stockholder. In connection with any offering in which a Stockholder is participating pursuant to Article IV or Article V, such Stockholder shall promptly furnish to the Issuer in writing such information with respect to such Stockholder and the distribution of the Registrable Securities as the Issuer may reasonably request or as may be required by law for use in connection with any related Registration Statement or Prospectus and all information required to be disclosed in order to make the information previously furnished to the Issuer by such Stockholder not materially misleading or necessary to cause such Registration Statement not to omit a material fact with respect to such Stockholder necessary in order to make the statements therein not misleading. Each Stockholder selling Registrable Securities pursuant to a Registration Statement and associated Prospectus agrees, severally but not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Issuer, any underwriter retained by the Issuer, their respective directors, officers, other Affiliates and each Person who controls the Issuer or such underwriter (within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act) to the same extent as the indemnity from the Issuer to such Stockholder under Section 7.1 hereof but only with respect to information provided by such Stockholder or on such Stockholder's behalf expressly for use in such Registration Statement or Prospectus relating to the Registrable Securities; provided, however, that the liability of the Indemnifying Party under this Section 7.2 shall be limited to the amount of net proceeds received by the Indemnifying Party in the transaction giving rise to such Liability. 7.3 Conduct of Indemnification Proceedings. Any Person entitled to indemnification under this Article VII (each, an "Indemnified Party") agrees to give prompt written notice to each indemnifying party (each, an "Indemnifying Party") after the receipt by the Indemnified Party of any written notice of the commencement of any action, suit, proceeding or investigation or threat thereof made in writing for which the Indemnified Party intends to claim indemnification or contribution pursuant to this Agreement; provided, however, that the failure so to notify the Indemnifying Party shall not relieve the Indemnifying Party of any Liability that it may have to the Indemnified Party hereunder (except to the extent that the Indemnifying Party forfeits substantive rights or defenses by reason of such failure) and in no event shall such failure relieve the Indemnifying Party from and against any other Liability it may have to such Indemnified Party. If notice of commencement of any such action is given to the Indemnifying Party as above provided, the Indemnifying Party shall be entitled to participate in and, to the extent it may wish, jointly with any other Indemnifying Party similarly notified, to assume the defense of such action at its own expense, with counsel chosen by it. The Indemnified Party shall have the right to employ separate counsel in any such action and participate in the defense thereof, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be paid by the Indemnified Party unless (i) the Indemnifying Party agrees to pay the same, (ii) the Indemnifying Party fails to assume the defense of such action, (iii) the Indemnifying Party and the Indemnified Party shall have mutually agreed to the retention of such counsel or (iv) the named parties to any such action (including any impleaded parties) include both the Indemnifying Party and the Indemnified Party and such parties have been advised by such counsel that either (x) representation of such Indemnified Party and the Indemnifying Party by the same counsel would be inappropriate under applicable standards of professional conduct or would present a conflict of interest or (y) there may be one or more legal defenses available to the Indemnified Party which are different
23 from, inconsistent with or additional to those available to the Indemnifying Party. In any of the cases specified in clauses (ii) and (iv) of the immediately preceding sentence, the Indemnifying Party shall not be liable for the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm of attorneys (in addition to any local counsel) for all Indemnified Parties. No Indemnifying Party shall be liable for any settlement entered into without its written consent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. No Indemnifying Party shall, without the consent of such Indemnified Party, effect any settlement of any pending or threatened proceeding in respect of which such Indemnified Party is a party and indemnity has been sought hereunder by such Indemnified Party, unless such settlement includes an unconditional release of such Indemnified Party from all liability for claims that are the subject matter of such proceeding. 7.4 Contribution. If the indemnification provided for in this Article VII shall for any reason be held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be unavailable to an Indemnified Party, in respect of any Liability, then, in lieu of the amount paid or payable under Section 7.1 or 7.2, as the case may be, the Indemnified Party and the Indemnifying Party shall contribute to the aggregate Liabilities in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative fault of the Issuer and the prospective sellers of Registrable Securities covered by the Registration Statement in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such loss, claim, damage or liability, or action or proceeding in respect thereof, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations (the relative fault of the Issuer and such prospective sellers to be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Issuer or such prospective sellers and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission). The parties hereto acknowledge that in no event shall the obligation of any Indemnifying Party to contribute under this Section 7.4 exceed the amount that such Indemnifying Party would have been obligated to pay by way of indemnification if the indemnification provided for under Section 7.1 or 7.2 had been available under the circumstances. The Issuer and each Stockholder agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 7.4 were determined by pro rata allocation (even if such Stockholders were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation that does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in the first sentence of this Section 7.4. No Person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any Person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. Such prospective sellers' obligations to contribute as provided in this Section 7.4 are several in proportion to the relative value of their respective Registrable Securities covered by such Registration Statement and not joint. 7.5 Indemnification Payments. The indemnification and contribution required by this Article VII shall be made by prompt periodic payments of the amount thereof during the course of the investigation or defense, as and when bills are received or expense, loss, damage or liability is incurred.
24 ARTICLE VIII MISCELLANEOUS 8.1 Recapitalizations, Exchanges, etc. The provisions of this Agreement shall apply to the full extent set forth herein with respect to (i) the shares of Class A Common Stock, (ii) any and all shares of voting common stock of the Issuer (excluding any such securities that are freely transferable without registration under the Securities Act) into which the shares of Class A Common Stock are converted, exchanged or substituted in any recapitalization or other capital reorganization by the Issuer and (iii) any and all equity securities (excluding any such securities that are freely transferable without registration under the Securities Act) of the Issuer or any of its Affiliates or any successor or assign or acquiror of the Issuer or any of its Affiliates (whether by merger, consolidation, sale of assets or otherwise) which may be issued in respect of, in conversion of, in exchange for, in substitution of or as a distribution on, the shares of Class A Common Stock and shall be appropriately adjusted for any stock dividends, splits, reverse splits, combinations, recapitalizations and the like occurring after the date hereof. The Issuer shall cause any such Affiliate, successor or assign or acquiror (whether by merger, consolidation, sale of assets or otherwise) to enter into a new registration rights agreement with respect to such equity securities with each Stockholder on terms no less favorable to such Stockholder than the terms provided under this Agreement as a condition of any such transaction. 8.2 Notices. All notices, requests, claims and demands and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed duly delivered (i) four Business Days after being sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, or (ii) one Business Day after being sent by facsimile transmission (provided the sender retains confirmation thereof) or for next Business Day delivery, fees prepaid, via a reputable nationwide overnight courier service, in each case to the intended recipient as set forth below: if to the Issuer, to: Time Warner Cable Inc. c/o AOL Time Warner Inc. 75 Rockefeller Plaza New York, NY 10019 Attention: Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Fax: (212) 258-3172
25 With a copy to: Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP 1285 Avenue of the Americas New York, NY 10019 Attention: Robert B. Schumer Fax: (212) 757-3990 if to AOLTW, to: AOL Time Warner Inc. 75 Rockefeller Plaza New York, NY 10019 Attention: Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Fax: (212) 258-3172 With a copy to: Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP 1285 Avenue of the Americas New York, NY 10019 Attention: Robert B. Schumer Fax: (212) 757-3990 Any party to this Agreement may give any notice or other communication hereunder using any other means (including personal delivery, messenger service, telecopy or ordinary mail), but no such notice or other communication shall be deemed to have been duly given unless and until it actually is received by the office of the party for whom it is intended during business hours on a Business Day in the place of receipt. Any party to this Agreement may change the address to which notices and other communications hereunder are to be delivered by giving the other parties to this Agreement notice in the manner herein set forth. 8.3 Entire Agreement; No Inconsistent Agreements. (a) This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement among the parties hereto and supersedes any prior understandings, agreements or representations by or among the parties hereto, or any of them, written or oral, with respect to the subject matter hereof. (b) The Issuer shall not hereafter enter into or amend any agreement with respect to its securities which would (i) adversely affect the rights granted to the holders of Registrable Securities in this Agreement in any material respect or (ii) adversely affect the priorities set forth in Section 6.10.
26 (c) It is hereby understood and acknowledged that (i) the Trust Registration Rights Agreement is being executed simultaneously with this Agreement, and, to the extent there is conflict between the provisions of Sections 6.8, 6.9 and 6.10 of this Agreement and the provisions Sections 6.8, 6.9 and 6.10 of the Trust Registration Rights Agreement, the provisions of the Trust Registration Rights Agreement shall control and be binding upon all Stockholders under this Agreement for purposes of resolving such conflict and (ii) the Trust Stockholders are intended third party beneficiaries with respect to this Section 8.3(c) until the AOLTW Registration Date. 8.4 Further Assurances. Each of the parties shall execute such documents and perform such further acts as may be reasonably required or desirable to carry out or to perform the provisions of this Agreement. 8.5 Other Agreements. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be deemed to be a waiver of, or release from, any obligations any party hereto may have under any of the other Transaction Agreements. 8.6 No Third-Party Beneficiaries. Except as provided in Article VII or Sections 8.3(c) and 8.8, this Agreement is not intended, and shall not be deemed, to confer any rights or remedies upon any Person other than the parties hereto and their respective successors and permitted assigns or to otherwise create any third-party beneficiaries hereto. 8.7 Assignment. This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of and shall be enforceable by the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns and, with respect to each Stockholder, any Permitted Transferee. No assignment or transfer shall be effective hereunder unless and until the purported transferee executes and delivers an agreement, in form and substance reasonably acceptable to the parties, agreeing to be bound by the terms hereof. 8.8 Amendments and Waivers. Except as otherwise provided herein, the provisions of this Agreement may not be amended, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to departures from the provisions hereof may not be given, unless consented to in writing by the Issuer and the Majority Stockholders. The AOLTW Company Registration Rights Agreement may not be amended in any respect without the approval of a majority of the independent members of the Board of Directors. 8.9 Nominees for Beneficial Owners. In the event that any Registrable Securities are held by a nominee for the beneficial owner thereof, the beneficial owner thereof may, at its election in writing delivered to the Issuer, be treated as the holder of such Registrable Securities for purposes of any request, consent, waiver or other action by any holder or holders of Registrable Securities pursuant to this Agreement or any determination of any number or percentage of shares of Registrable Securities held by any holder or holders of Registrable Securities contemplated by this Agreement. If the beneficial owner of any Registrable Securities so elects, the Issuer may require assurances reasonably satisfactory to it of such owner's beneficial ownership of such Registrable Securities.
27 8.10 Severability. Any term or provision of this Agreement that is invalid or unenforceable in any situation in any jurisdiction shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the remaining terms and provisions hereof or the validity or enforceability of the offending term or provision in any other situation or in any other jurisdiction. If the final judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction declares that any term or provision hereof is invalid or unenforceable, the parties hereto agree that the court making such determination shall have the power to limit the term or provision, to delete specific words or phrases, or to replace any invalid or unenforceable term or provision with a term or provision that is valid and enforceable and that comes closest to expressing the intention of the invalid or unenforceable term or provision, and this Agreement shall be enforceable as so modified. In the event such court does not exercise the power granted to it in the prior sentence, the parties hereto agree to replace such invalid or unenforceable term or provision with a valid and enforceable term or provision that shall achieve, to the extent possible, the economic, business and other purposes of such invalid or unenforceable term. 8.11 Counterparts and Signature. This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original but all of which together shall be considered one and the same agreement and shall become effective when counterparts have been signed by each of the parties hereto and delivered to the other parties, it being understood that all parties need not sign the same counterpart. This Agreement may be executed and delivered by facsimile transmission. 8.12 Interpretation. When reference is made in this Agreement to an Article or Section, such reference shall be to an Article or Section of this Agreement, unless otherwise indicated. The headings contained in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement. The language used in this Agreement shall be deemed to be the language chosen by the parties hereto to express their mutual intent, and no rule of strict construction shall be applied against any party. Whenever the context may require, any pronouns used in this Agreement shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine or neuter forms, and the singular form of nouns and pronouns shall include the plural, and vice versa. Any reference to any federal, state, local or foreign statute or law shall be deemed also to refer to all rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, unless the context requires otherwise. Whenever the words "include," "includes" or "including" are used in this Agreement, they shall be deemed to be followed by the words "without limitation." 8.13 GOVERNING LAW. THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO ANY CHOICE OR CONFLICT OF LAWS PROVISION OR RULE (WHETHER OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK OR ANY OTHER JURISDICTION) THAT WOULD CAUSE THE APPLICATION OF LAWS OF ANY JURISDICTIONS OTHER THAN THOSE OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
28 8.14 Submission to Jurisdiction. Any suit, action or proceeding seeking to enforce any provision of, or based on any matter arising out of or in connection with, this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby shall be brought exclusively in any federal or state court located in the State and City of New York, and each of the parties hereby consents to the jurisdiction of such courts (and of the appropriate appellate courts therefrom) in any such suit, action or proceeding and irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the laying of the venue of any such suit, action or proceeding in any such court or that any such suit, action or proceeding brought in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum. Process in any such suit, action or proceeding may be served on any party anywhere in the world, whether within or without the jurisdiction of any such court. Without limiting the foregoing, each party agrees that service of process on such party as provided in Section 8.2 hereof as to giving notice hereunder shall be deemed effective service of process on such party. 8.15 Remedies. Except as otherwise provided herein, any and all remedies herein expressly conferred upon a party shall be deemed cumulative with and not exclusive of any other remedy conferred hereby, or by law or equity upon such party, and the exercise by a party of any one remedy shall not preclude the exercise of any other remedy. The parties hereto agree that irreparable damage would occur in the event that any of the provisions of this Agreement were not performed in accordance with their specific terms or were otherwise breached. It is accordingly agreed that the parties shall be entitled to an injunction or injunctions to prevent breaches of this Agreement and to enforce specifically the terms and provisions of this Agreement, this being in addition to any other remedy to which the parties are entitled at law or in equity. 8.16 WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL. EACH OF THE ISSUER AND THE STOCKHOLDERS HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ALL RIGHTS TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY ACTION, PROCEEDING OR COUNTERCLAIM (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE) ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THE ACTIONS OF THE ISSUER AND THE STOCKHOLDERS IN THE NEGOTIATION, ADMINISTRATION, PERFORMANCE AND ENFORCEMENT OF THIS AGREEMENT. [Remainder of page intentionally left blank]
29 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed, or have caused to be executed, this Agreement on the date first written above. AOL TIME WARNER INC. By: /s/ Spencer B. Hays ---------------------------------------- Name: Spencer B. Hays Title: Senior Vice President TIME WARNER CABLE INC. By: /s/ Marc J. Apfelbaum ---------------------------------------- Name: Marc J. Apfelbaum Title: Executive Vice President, General Counsel & Secretary
ANNEX A PLAN OF DISTRIBUTION A selling stockholder may also enter into hedging and/or monetization transactions. For example, a selling stockholder may: (a) enter into transactions with a broker-dealer or affiliate of a broker-dealer or other third party in connection with which that other party will become a selling stockholder and engage in short sales of the common stock under this prospectus, in which case the other party may use shares of common stock received from the selling stockholder to close out any short positions; (b) itself sell short common stock under this prospectus and use shares of common stock held by it to close out any short position; (c) enter into options, forwards or other transactions that require the selling stockholder to deliver, in a transaction exempt from registration under the Securities Act, common stock to a broker-dealer or an affiliate of a broker-dealer or other third party who may then become a selling stockholder and publicly resell or otherwise transfer that common stock under this prospectus; or (d) loan or pledge common stock to a broker-dealer or affiliate of a broker-dealer or other third party who may then become a selling stockholder and sell the loaned shares or, in an event of default in the case of a pledge, become a selling stockholder and sell the pledged shares, under this prospectus.

EXHIBIT: 4.5 EXECUTION COPY REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT among TWE HOLDINGS II TRUST, AOL TIME WARNER INC. and TIME WARNER CABLE INC. ----------------------------------- Dated: March 31, 2003 -----------------------------------
TABLE OF CONTENTS i
ii
REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT, dated as of March 31, 2003 (this "Agreement"), by and among TWE Holdings II Trust, a Delaware statutory trust ("Trust II"), AOL Time Warner Inc., a Delaware corporation ("AOLTW"), and Time Warner Cable Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Issuer"). WHEREAS, the Issuer, Comcast Corporation, a Pennsylvania corporation (formerly named AT&T Comcast Corporation, "Comcast"), AOLTW and the other parties named therein have entered into a Restructuring Agreement, dated as of August 20, 2002 (as amended, the "Restructuring Agreement"); and WHEREAS, Trust II, AOLTW and the Issuer are entering into this Agreement in order to provide for certain registration rights relating to the Class A Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Issuer (the "Class A Common Stock") held by Trust II. NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements set forth herein and for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows: ARTICLE I DEFINITIONS 1.1 Certain Definitions. As used in this Agreement, and unless the context requires a different meaning, the following terms have the meanings indicated: "Affiliate" means, with respect to a Person, any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For purposes of this definition, "control" (including, with correlative meanings, the terms "controlling," "controlled by" and "under common control with"), as used with respect to a Person, shall mean the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by agreement or otherwise; provided, that, solely for purposes of this definition of Affiliate, if any Person or Persons beneficially own directly or indirectly a majority of the beneficial interests of Trust II, then Trust II (and its controlled Affiliates) will be deemed to be controlled by such Person or Persons and any other Person who controls such Person or Persons. For the avoidance of doubt, Trust II shall not be deemed to be an Affiliate of the Issuer, and the Issuer shall not be deemed to be an Affiliate of Trust II. "AOLTW" has the meaning set forth in the preamble to this Agreement.
2 "AOLTW Registration Date" means the earlier to occur of (i) the date on which Trust II and its Affiliates no longer beneficially own Registrable Securities with an aggregate Market Price in excess of $250,000,000 and (ii) the date that is five years after the date of this Agreement. "AOLTW Securities" means securities of the Issuer beneficially owned by AOLTW or any of its Affiliates (other than Issuer Securities) that are proposed to be offered to the public for the account of AOLTW or any of its Affiliates (other than the Issuer or a Subsidiary of the Issuer) in a transaction registered under the Securities Act. "beneficially own" means to possess beneficial ownership as determined under Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act. "Board of Directors" means the board of directors of the Issuer or any committee thereof. "Business Day" means a day of the year other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which banks are required or authorized to close in New York City. "Class A Common Stock" has the meaning set forth in the recitals to this Agreement. "Closing Price" means, with respect to a security, as of the date of determination, (a) if such security is listed on a national securities exchange, the closing price per share of such security for such date as published in The Wall Street Journal (National Edition) or, if no such closing price on such date is published in The Wall Street Journal (National Edition), the average of the closing bid and asked prices on such date, as officially reported on the principal national securities exchange on which such security is then listed or admitted to trading; or (b) if such security is not then listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange but is designated as a national market system security by the NASD, the last trading price per share of such security on such date; or (c) if there is no trading on such date or if such security is not designated as a national market system security by the NASD, the average of the reported closing bid and asked prices of such security on such date as shown by The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. (or its successor) and reported by any member firm of The New York Stock Exchange, Inc. selected by the Issuer; or (d) if none of (a), (b) or (c) is available, a market price per security determined in good faith by the Board of Directors or, if such determination is not satisfactory to the Stockholders for whom such determination is being made, by a nationally recognized investment banking firm selected by the Issuer and such Stockholders, the expenses for which shall be borne equally by the Issuer and such Stockholders. If trading is conducted on a continuous basis on any exchange, then the closing price shall be at 4:00 P.M. New York City time. "Comcast" has the meaning set forth in the recitals to this Agreement. "Commission" means the Securities and Exchange Commission or any other federal agency at the time administering the Securities Act.
3 "Common Equity" means, collectively, the Class A Common Stock and the Class B Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Issuer. "Covered Transaction" means a Hedging Transaction or a Private Placement but shall not include a Strategic Investor Transaction. "Covered Transaction Proceeds" means, with respect to a Person, as of any date of determination, the aggregate proceeds (net of underwriting fees, discounts, commissions and other offering expenses) of Covered Transactions other than Regulatory Sales received by such Person in the 270 days prior to such date of determination. "Covered Transaction Proceeds Limit" means the greater of (x) $250,000,000 and (y) 10% of the current aggregate Market Price as of any date of determination of all shares of Common Equity (or instruments convertible into or exchangeable for Common Equity) that (1) have been sold in an offering registered under the Securities Act, (2) have been sold or distributed to the public pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act or (3) are not held by AOLTW, Trust II or any of their respective Affiliates and are able to be sold pursuant to Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act. "Counterparty" means any underwriter, broker or dealer with respect to a Disposition. "Cumulative Net Proceeds" means, with respect to a Person, as of any date of determination, (i) the aggregate proceeds (net of underwriting fees, discounts, commissions and other offering expenses) received by such Person after the date of this Agreement and on or prior to such date of determination from (1) the sale to the public of securities of the Issuer in transactions registered under the Securities Act, (2) Covered Transactions and (3) Strategic Investor Transactions, plus (ii) solely for purposes of Sections 6.7(b) and 6.10, the estimated proceeds (net of underwriting fees, discounts, commissions and other offering expenses) to be received by such Person from (1) any then currently proposed sale to the public of securities of the Issuer in transactions registered under the Securities Act, (2) any then currently proposed Covered Transactions and (3) any then currently proposed Strategic Investor Transactions. All estimates of proceeds for purposes of this definition shall be based on the Market Price of the securities proposed to be sold or monetized (in each case, net of underwriting fees, discounts, commissions and other offering expenses), as of the date of such determination. "Deferral Period" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.3(b). "Deemed Sale" has the meaning given to it in the Restructuring Agreement. "Demand Registration" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.1. "Disposition" means an underwritten public offering, including, for the avoidance of doubt, (1) a transaction in which the underwriter or underwriters act as
4 principal for the sale of Registrable Class Securities pursuant to any Registration Statement (including in order to hedge its economic exposure to a Hedging Transaction) and (2) a transaction that constitutes an "at the market offering" (as such term is defined in Rule 415 under the Securities Act), in which the counterparty acts as agent (and not as principal). "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder, all as the same shall be in effect at the time. "Governmental Entity" means any supranational, national, state, municipal or local government, political subdivision or other governmental department, court, commission, board, bureau, agency, instrumentality or other authority thereof, or any quasi-governmental or private body (including any self-regulatory organization) exercising any regulatory, taxing, importing or other governmental authority, whether domestic or foreign. "Hedging Counterparty" means a broker-dealer registered under Section 15(b) of the Exchange Act or an Affiliate thereof. "Hedging Transaction" means any transaction involving a security linked to the Registrable Class Securities or any security that would be deemed to be a "derivative security" (as defined in Rule 16a-1(c) under the Exchange Act) with respect to the Registrable Class Securities or transaction (even if not a security) which would (were it a security) be considered such a derivative security, or which transfers some or all of the economic risk of ownership of the Registrable Class Securities, including, without limitation, any forward contract, equity swap, put or call, put or call equivalent position, collar, non-recourse loan, sale of exchangeable security or similar transaction. For the avoidance of doubt, the following transactions shall be deemed to be Hedging Transactions: (a) transactions by a Stockholder in which a Hedging Counterparty engages in short sales of Registrable Class Securities pursuant to a Prospectus and may use Registrable Securities to close out its short position; (b) transactions pursuant to which a Stockholder sells short Registrable Class Securities pursuant to a Prospectus and delivers Registrable Securities to close out its short position; (c) transactions by a Stockholder in which the Stockholder delivers, in a transaction exempt from registration under the Securities Act, Registrable Securities to the Hedging Counterparty who will then publicly resell or otherwise transfer such Registrable Securities pursuant to a Prospectus or an exemption from registration under the Securities Act; and (d) a loan or pledge of Registrable Securities to a Hedging Counterparty who may then become a selling stockholder and sell the loaned shares or, in
5 an event of default in the case of a pledge, then sell the pledged shares, in each case, in a public transaction pursuant to a Prospectus. "Incidental Registration" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.1. "Indemnified Party" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.3. "Indemnifying Party" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.3. "Initial Demand Registration" means a Demand Registration that is requested pursuant to this Agreement prior to the Initial Public Offering but which may not be requested prior to the 90th day after the date hereof or while a Registration Statement with respect to the Initial Public Offering has been filed and not withdrawn. "Initial Public Offering" means the initial offering to the public of any shares of the Common Equity in a transaction registered under the Securities Act. "Inspector" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.1(f). "Issuer" has the meaning set forth in the preamble to this Agreement. "Issuer Release Date" means the later to occur of (i) the 30th day after the first date on which Stockholders are permitted to make a request for Demand Registration (other than a Demand Registration that results in the Initial Public Offering) after the Stockholder Release Date and (ii) if a request for Demand Registration (other than a Demand Registration that results in the Initial Public Offering) has been made by Stockholders on or prior to such 30th day, the date on which (1) the offering pursuant to such Demand Registration is completed (including any related underwriter lock-up period applicable to the Issuer) or (2) such Demand Registration is revoked. "Issuer Securities" means (i) for purposes of Section 6.10(c), securities of the Issuer proposed to be offered to the public for the account of the Issuer in a transaction registered under the Securities Act, together with securities of the Issuer to be offered to the public for the account of another Person other than AOLTW or any of its Affiliates (other than the Issuer and the Issuer's Subsidiaries) that are proposed to be included in such offering pursuant to Section 5.1 and (ii) for all other purposes, securities of the Issuer proposed to be offered to the public for the account of the Issuer in a transaction registered under the Securities Act. "Lead Underwriter" means, with respect to an offering, the lead book-running underwriter(s) for such offering. "Liability" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.1. "Lock-up Agreement" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.8.
6 "Majority Requesting Stockholders" means, with respect to a Registration Statement, Stockholders holding Registrable Securities representing more than 50% of those to be included in a Registration Statement (on an as-converted basis). "Majority Stockholders" means beneficial owners of Registrable Securities representing more than 50% of the total number of outstanding Registrable Securities (on an as-converted basis). "Market Price" means, as of any date of determination, the average of the daily Closing Price of the Registrable Securities for the immediately preceding 30 days on which the national securities exchanges are open for trading. "NASD" means the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. "OTC Hedging Transaction" means any Hedging Transaction that is privately negotiated, and entered into on a principal-to-principal basis, between a Stockholder and a Hedging Counterparty, including (i) any swap agreement, put option, call option, collar transaction, call spread, put spread or forward contract or any combination of any of the foregoing, in each case whether to be settled by the delivery of securities, cash or otherwise, (ii) any option to enter into any of the foregoing, and (iii) any other similar agreement, contract or transaction that, in the case of this clause (iii) only, would (in the reasonable, good-faith judgment of one nationally-recognized investment banking firm selected by each of the Issuer, on the one hand, and the Stockholders holding a majority of the securities proposed to be included in such Hedging Transaction, on the other hand) make it commercially impracticable for more than one Hedging Counterparty to jointly effect such agreement, contract or transaction or any related market hedge of the Hedging Counterparty's economic exposure thereunder. "Partnership Interest Sale Agreement" means the Partnership Interest Sale Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, by and among AOLTW, the Issuer and TWE Holdings I Trust, a Delaware statutory trust. "Permitted Transferee" means any Person to whom a Stockholder has transferred, in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, Registrable Securities. "Person" means any individual, firm, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, "group" (as such term is used in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), trust, incorporated or unincorporated association, joint venture, joint stock company, Governmental Entity or other entity of any kind, and shall include any successor (by merger or otherwise) of such entity. "Pledgee" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.4(a). "Private Placement" means a private placement of Common Equity (or instruments convertible into or exchangeable for Common Equity) exempt from registration under the Securities Act.
7 "Prospectus" means the prospectus related to any Registration Statement (including, without limitation, a prospectus that discloses information previously omitted from a prospectus filed as part of an effective registration statement in reliance on Rule 415 under the Securities Act), as amended or supplemented by any amendment or prospectus supplement, including post-effective amendments, and all materials incorporated by reference in such prospectus. "Records" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.1(f). "Registrable Class Securities" means securities of the Issuer that are of the same class as the relevant Registrable Securities. "Registrable Securities" means, subject to Section 2.4(a), each of the following: (a) any and all shares of Class A Common Stock issued or issuable (i) to Trust II or its Affiliates pursuant to the Restructuring Agreement or otherwise held by Trust II or its Affiliates as of the Closing (as defined in the Restructuring Agreement) or (ii) to any Selling Partner (as defined in the Partnership Interest Sale Agreement) pursuant to Section 3 or 4 of the Partnership Interest Sale Agreement (provided that such Selling Partner has first agreed to be bound by the terms and conditions of this Agreement as contemplated by Section 5(a)(y) of the Partnership Interest Sale Agreement), (b) any shares of Class A Common Stock or any other securities issued or issuable to a Stockholder or any of its Affiliates in respect of any Registrable Securities by way of a conversion, exchange, replacement, stock dividend or stock split or other distribution in connection with a combination of shares, recapitalization, merger, consolidation or other reorganization, spin-off or otherwise and any shares of Class A Common Stock or voting common stock or other securities issuable upon conversion, exercise or exchange thereof, and (c) all shares of Class A Common Stock or other securities described in (b) above owned by any Permitted Transferee that were transferred in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and were Registrable Securities at the time such shares or securities were transferred to such Permitted Transferee. "Registration Expenses" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.5. "Registration Statement" means a registration statement filed pursuant to the Securities Act. "Regulatory Sale" means a sale of Registrable Securities that is a Private Placement or Hedging Transaction (other than pursuant to a Demand Registration) by Trust II occurring not earlier than the date that is six months prior to the date (the "Regulatory Sale Date") after which the sole obligation of the trustee of such Trust with respect to the Registrable Securities held by it becomes the obligation to sell such Registrable Securities as quickly as possible, without regard to the value that can be obtained in any sale, only if the Regulatory Sale Date is not prior to November 18, 2005. "Restructuring Agreement" has the meaning set forth in the recitals to this Agreement.
8 "Securities Act" means the Securities Act of 1933 and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder, all as the same shall be in effect at the time. "Stockholder" means a holder of Registrable Securities. "Stockholder Counsel" means a firm of legal counsel designated by the Majority Stockholders. "Stockholder Release Date" means the earlier to occur of (i) the date on which the Issuer has Cumulative Net Proceeds of at least $2.1 billion and (ii) the first anniversary of the Closing. "Strategic Investor Transaction" means a Private Placement to a single strategic investor purchasing for investment purposes and not with an eye towards resale in the near term, where such investor agrees to be bound (i) pursuant to Section 2.4(a) by the provisions of this Agreement (including Section 6.7(a)) as a Stockholder (in the case of such a Private Placement by a Stockholder) or (ii) by restrictions that are the same in all material respects as those contained in Sections 6.7(b) (with any Covered Transaction by such strategic investor being deemed to be a Covered Transaction by the Issuer for purposes of such Section 6.7(b)) and 6.8 (in the case of such a Private Placement by the Issuer). "Trust II" has the meaning set forth in the preamble to this Agreement. 1.2 Capitalized Terms. Capitalized terms used herein and in the Schedules hereto and not otherwise defined shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them in the Restructuring Agreement. 1.3 Successor Laws, Rules, Regulations and Forms. All references to laws, rules, regulations and forms in this Agreement shall be deemed to be references to the comparable successor thereto in effect at the time. ARTICLE II GENERAL; SECURITIES SUBJECT TO THIS AGREEMENT. 2.1 Grant of Rights. The Issuer hereby grants registration rights to the Stockholders upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement. 2.2 Registrable Securities. As to any particular Registrable Securities, once issued, such securities shall cease to be Registrable Securities when (a) a Registration Statement with respect to the sale of such securities shall have become effective under the Securities Act and such securities shall have been disposed of in accordance with such Registration Statement, (b) they shall have been distributed to the public pursuant to Rule 144 (or any successor provision then in effect) under the Securities Act, (c) they shall have been otherwise transferred, and, in accordance with Section 3.1, new certificates for them not bearing a legend restricting further transfer
9 shall have been delivered, (d) they shall have become freely transferable without registration under the Securities Act or (e) they shall have ceased to be outstanding. 2.3 Holders of Registrable Securities. A Person is deemed to be a Stockholder whenever such Person owns of record Registrable Securities, or holds an option to purchase, or a security convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for, Registrable Securities, whether or not such acquisition or conversion has actually been effected. If the Issuer receives conflicting instructions, notices or elections from two or more Persons with respect to the same Registrable Securities, the Issuer may act upon the basis of the instructions, notice or election received from the registered owner of such Registrable Securities. Registrable Securities issuable upon exercise of an option or upon conversion of another security shall be deemed outstanding for the purposes of this Agreement. 2.4 Transfer of Registration Rights. (a) Each Stockholder may transfer or pledge Registrable Securities with the associated registration rights under this Agreement to a Permitted Transferee or pledgee ("Pledgee") only if (1) subject to the penultimate sentence of this Section 2.4(a), such Permitted Transferee or Pledgee agrees in writing to be bound as a Stockholder by the provisions of this Agreement insofar as it pertains to the holding, owning and disposition of Registrable Securities and (2) immediately following such transfer or pledge, the further disposition of such Registrable Securities by such Permitted Transferee or Pledgee would be restricted under the Securities Act. Upon any transfer of Registrable Securities other than as set forth in this Section 2.4, such securities shall no longer constitute Registrable Securities, except that any Registrable Securities that are pledged or made the subject of a Hedging Transaction, whether or not the subject of a Demand Registration, which Registrable Securities are not ultimately disposed of by the Stockholders pursuant to such pledge or Hedging Transaction shall, to the extent such securities remain "restricted securities" under the Securities Act, be deemed to remain "Registrable Securities" notwithstanding the release of such pledge or the completion of such Hedging Transaction. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, no Pledgee or Hedging Counterparty shall be required to agree to any restriction on its ability to trade in any securities, including the restrictions set forth in Sections 6.7(a) and 6.8(a). The Stockholders hereby agree that they shall act in good faith with respect to the restrictions set forth in Sections 6.7(a) and 6.8(a) and shall take no action or omit to take any action with the intention of circumventing or evading the restrictions applicable to them under Sections 6.7(a) and 6.8(a). (b) If a Stockholder assigns its rights under this Agreement in connection with the transfer of less than all of its Registrable Securities, the Stockholder shall retain its rights under this Agreement with respect to its remaining Registrable Securities. If a Stockholder assigns its rights under this Agreement in connection with the transfer of all of its Registrable Securities, such Stockholder shall have no further rights or obligations under this Agreement, except under Article VII hereof in respect of offerings in which it participated.
10 ARTICLE III REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES 3.1 Certain Acknowledgments of the Stockholders. Each Stockholder acknowledges that all Registrable Securities will be issued pursuant to an exemption from registration under the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws and agrees not to sell or otherwise dispose of such Registrable Securities in any transaction which would be in violation of the Securities Act or applicable state securities law. Each Stockholder acknowledges that the following legend will appear on the certificates for the Registrable Securities reflecting the foregoing restriction. The Issuer shall, at the request of any Stockholder, remove from each certificate evidencing Registrable Securities the following legend if the Issuer is reasonably satisfied (based upon an opinion of counsel or other evidence) that the securities evidenced thereby may be publicly sold without registration under the Securities Act; provided, however, that the Issuer or Issuer's counsel shall not be required to deliver an opinion of counsel to the effect that the securities evidenced thereby may be publicly sold without registration under the Securities Act unless Stockholder Counsel shall have delivered an opinion, upon which the Issuer and Issuer's counsel are entitled to rely, to the effect that the securities evidenced thereby may be publicly sold without registration under the Securities Act. "THE SECURITIES REPRESENTED BY THIS CERTIFICATE HAVE NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, THE SECURITIES OR "BLUE SKY" LAWS OF ANY STATE OR ANY OTHER SECURITIES LAWS. SUCH SECURITIES MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, HYPOTHECATED, OR OTHERWISE ASSIGNED, EXCEPT (I) PURSUANT TO A REGISTRATION STATEMENT WITH RESPECT TO SUCH SECURITIES WHICH IS EFFECTIVE UNDER ALL APPLICABLE SECURITIES LAWS, OR (II) UPON THE FURNISHING TO TIME WARNER CABLE INC. BY THE HOLDER OF THIS CERTIFICATE OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL OR OTHER EVIDENCE REASONABLY ACCEPTABLE TO TIME WARNER CABLE INC. THAT SUCH TRANSACTION IS NOT REQUIRED TO BE REGISTERED UNDER APPLICABLE SECURITIES LAWS." 3.2 Representations and Warranties of the Issuer. The Issuer hereby represents and warrants to each Stockholder as follows: (a) Power, Binding Agreement. The Issuer is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of incorporation and has all requisite corporate power and authority to enter into this Agreement. This Agreement has been duly and validly authorized by all necessary corporate action and has been duly executed and delivered by the Issuer. This Agreement constitutes the valid and binding obligation of the Issuer and (assuming due execution
11 and delivery by the other parties hereto) is enforceable in accordance with its terms, except as the indemnification and contribution provisions contained in Article VII may be held to be unenforceable as against public policy and except as such enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent conveyance, reorganization, moratorium and other similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and by general equitable principles (whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law). (b) No Conflicts. (i) The execution and delivery of this Agreement by the Issuer does not, and the consummation by the Issuer of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement will not, (1) conflict with, or result in any violation or breach of, any provision of the charter, by-laws or other organizational document of the Issuer, (2) conflict with, or result in any violation or breach of, or constitute (with or without notice or lapse of time, or both) a default (or give rise to a right of termination, cancellation or acceleration of any obligation) under, require a consent or waiver under, constitute a change in control under, or result in the imposition of any Lien on the Issuer's assets under, any of the terms, conditions or provisions of any note, bond, mortgage, indenture, lease, license, contract, agreement or instrument to which the Issuer is a party or by which it or any of its properties or assets may be bound, or (3) conflict with or violate any permit, concession, franchise, license, judgment, injunction, order, decree, statute, law, ordinance, rule or regulation applicable to the Issuer or any of its properties or assets, except in the case of clauses (2) and (3) of this Section 3.2(b)(i) for any such conflicts, violations, breaches, defaults, terminations, cancellations, accelerations or Liens as would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the ability of the Issuer to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the effectiveness of any Registration Statement. (ii) No consent, approval, license, permit, order or authorization of, or registration, declaration, notice or filing with, any Governmental Entity is required by or with respect to the Issuer in connection with the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement by the Issuer or the consummation by the Issuer of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, other than filings and other actions required by the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, the rules of any stock exchange or automated quotation system on which the Registrable Securities are to be listed, the rules of any self-regulatory organization and state securities or "blue sky" laws. ARTICLE IV DEMAND REGISTRATION. 4.1 Request for Demand Registration. (a) At any time after the date of this Agreement, a Stockholder may make a written request to the Issuer to register, and the Issuer shall register, on the appropriate form, under the Securities Act, the number of Registrable Securities stated in such request (a "Demand Registration"); provided, however, that the Issuer shall not be
12 obligated to effect (i) more than one such Demand Registration in any period of 270 days, (ii) more than five such Demand Registrations in addition to the Initial Demand Registration, if any, (iii) any Demand Registration with respect to a sale of Registrable Securities for aggregate consideration (based on the Market Price of such Registrable Securities on the date of such written request for Demand Registration) for all Stockholders of less than $250,000,000 (unless such request is with respect to all remaining Registrable Securities beneficially owned by the Stockholders making such request) or (iv) any Demand Registration at any time that the Covered Transaction Proceeds exceeds the Covered Transaction Proceeds Limit. For purposes of the preceding sentence, two or more Registration Statements filed in response to one demand shall be counted as one Demand Registration. (b) Each request for a Demand Registration by Stockholders shall identify the Stockholders making such request and the amount of the Registrable Securities proposed to be sold by each and the intended method of disposition thereof. (c) On up to two occasions during the term of this Agreement, the Majority Stockholders may revoke any Demand Registration prior to the effective date of the Registration Statement relating to such Demand Registration, and, if the Stockholders have promptly reimbursed the Issuer for all Registration Expenses arising from, in connection with or relating to, such revoked Demand Registration, such revoked Demand Registration shall not count as a Demand Registration for purposes of Section 4.1(a). Upon the revocation of a Demand Registration, the Issuer shall be permitted to withdraw the related Registration Statement. 4.2 Effective Demand Registration. Subject to Section 6.3(b), the Issuer shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to (i) file a Registration Statement relating to such Demand Registration, (ii) cause such Registration Statement to be declared effective by the Commission not later than (1) 120 days (if the Issuer is not eligible to use Form S-3 for such Demand Registration) or (2) 60 days (if the Issuer is eligible to use Form S-3 for such Demand Registration), after the Issuer receives a request under Section 4.1(a) and (iii) keep such Registration Statement continuously effective until the later of (1) the time at which all Registrable Securities registered in the Demand Registration have been sold and (2) the 75th day after the date such Registration Statement is declared effective by the Commission; provided that such 75-day period shall be extended for a number of days equal to the number of days that elapse from (x) the date any written notice contemplated by Section 6.3(a) is given by the Issuer to (y) the date on which the Issuer delivers to the Stockholders the supplement or amendment contemplated by Section 6.3(a); provided, further, that the Issuer's obligations under Sections 4.1 and 4.2 with respect to a Demand Registration shall not be deemed to be fulfilled if more than 50% of the Registrable Securities included in such Registration Statement are not sold pursuant to such Registration Statement and either (x) after such Demand Registration has become effective, such registration or the related offer, sale or distribution of Registrable Securities thereunder is interfered with by any stop order, injunction or other order or requirement of the Commission or other Governmental Entity for any reason not attributable to any Stockholder requesting such Demand Registration or (y) the conditions specified in the underwriting agreement, if
13 any, entered into in connection with such Demand Registration are not satisfied or waived, other than by reason of a failure by any Stockholder requesting such Demand Registration. 4.3 Underwriting. If the Issuer or the Majority Requesting Stockholders elect, the Issuer shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to cause the sale of Registrable Securities relating to a Demand Registration (other than an OTC Hedging Transaction) to be in the form of a firm commitment underwritten offering, and the Lead Underwriter shall be selected in accordance with Section 6.9. 4.4 Hedging Transactions. (a) The Issuer agrees that, in connection with any proposed Hedging Transaction, if, in the reasonable judgment of Stockholder Counsel (after good-faith consultation with counsel to the Issuer), it is necessary or desirable to register under the Securities Act such Hedging Transactions or sales or transfers (whether short or long) of Registrable Class Securities in connection therewith, then the Issuer shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to take such actions (which may include, among other things, the filing of a post-effective amendment to a Registration Statement to include additional or changed information that is material or is otherwise required to be disclosed, including, without limitation, a description of such Hedging Transaction, the name of the Hedging Counterparty, identification of the Hedging Counterparty or its Affiliates as underwriters or potential underwriters, if applicable, or any change to the Plan of Distribution) as may reasonably be required to register such Hedging Transactions or sales or transfers of Registrable Class Securities in connection therewith under the Securities Act in a manner consistent with the rights and obligations of the Issuer hereunder with respect to the registration of Registrable Securities. Any information regarding the Hedging Transaction included in a Registration Statement or Prospectus pursuant to this Section 4.4(a) shall be deemed to be information provided by the Stockholders selling Registrable Securities pursuant to such Registration Statement for purposes of Article VII. (b) Any registration effected pursuant to this Section 4.4 shall be deemed to be a Demand Registration for purposes of Section 4.1(a)(ii) and shall be subject to the limitations on such Demand Registration contained in this Agreement (including, without limitation, Sections 4.1, 4.2 and 6.10). (c) If in connection with a Hedging Transaction, a Hedging Counterparty or any Affiliate thereof is (or may be considered) an underwriter or selling stockholder, then it shall be required to provide customary indemnities to the Issuer regarding the Plan of Distribution and like matters. (d) In addition, regardless of whether the Hedging Counterparty in any Hedging Transaction is considered under applicable law to be an underwriter, in any Hedging Transaction other than an OTC Hedging Transaction where the aggregate Market Value of Registrable Securities proposed to be hedged is greater than $375 million, (i) the Stockholders holding a majority of the securities proposed to be
14 included in such Hedging Transaction shall have the right to select one nationally-recognized investment banking firm to act as a co-lead book-running Hedging Counterparty (or the equivalent) with respect to such Hedging Transaction, which firm shall be reasonably acceptable to the Issuer; and (ii) the Issuer shall have the right to select one nationally-recognized investment banking firm to act as a co-lead book-running Hedging Counterparty (or the equivalent) with respect to such Hedging Transaction, which firm shall be reasonably acceptable to the Stockholders holding a majority of the securities proposed to be included in such Hedging Transaction. To the extent that the Issuer has the right to select a nationally-recognized investment banking firm to act as a co-lead book-running Hedging Counterparty (or the equivalent) pursuant to this Section 4.4(d), the Stockholders proposing to effect such Hedging Transaction shall give the Issuer reasonable notice, taking into account the type of Hedging Transaction, of their intention to enter into such Hedging Transaction, which notice shall contain a reasonably detailed description of the terms of such Hedging Transaction. (e) The Issuer further agrees to include, under the caption "Plan of Distribution" (or the equivalent caption), in each Registration Statement, and any related prospectus (to the extent such inclusion is permitted under applicable Commission regulations and is consistent with comments received from the Commission during any Commission review of the Registration Statement), language substantially in the form of Annex A hereto and to include in each prospectus supplement filed in connection with any proposed Hedging Transaction language mutually agreed upon by the Issuer, the relevant Stockholder and the Hedging Counterparty describing such Hedging Transaction. 4.5 Cutback Provisions. All offerings made in respect of Demand Registrations shall be subject to the limitations set forth in Section 6.10. ARTICLE V INCIDENTAL OR "PIGGY-BACK" REGISTRATION. 5.1 Issuer Incidental Registration. At any time after the Closing, if a Stockholder requests a Demand Registration in accordance with Article IV, then the Issuer shall have the right, subject to the limitations set forth in Section 6.10, to register Issuer Securities or securities for the account of any stockholder of the Issuer other than the Stockholders. In connection with any Demand Registration under Article IV involving an underwritten offering, the Issuer shall not include any securities of the Issuer for the account of any Person other than the Stockholders unless such Person accepts the terms of the underwritten offering as agreed upon between the Lead Underwriter and the Stockholders requesting registration. 5.2 Stockholder Incidental Registration. (a) At any time after the Closing, if the Issuer proposes to file a Registration Statement with respect to an offering of securities (other than debt securities, or non-participating preferred equity securities, not exchangeable for or convertible into
15 or otherwise linked to the Common Equity) by the Issuer for its own account or for the account of any stockholder of the Issuer other than the Stockholders (other than (i) a Registration Statement on Form S-4 or S-8 or (ii) a Registration Statement relating to the issuance of securities as consideration in any acquisition by the Issuer), then the Issuer shall give written notice (a "Filing Notice") of such proposed filing to each Stockholder at least 10 Business Days before the anticipated filing date, which notice shall describe the proposed registration and distribution and offer such Stockholder the opportunity to register the number of Registrable Securities as the Stockholder requests (an "Incidental Registration"). (b) The Issuer shall permit the Stockholders who have made written requests to the Issuer to participate in the Incidental Registration within 5 Business Days after receipt of the Filing Notice to include up to all of their Registrable Securities (subject to the limitations set forth in Section 6.10) in such offering on the same terms and conditions as the securities of the Issuer or for the account of such other stockholder, as the case may be, included therein. In connection with any Incidental Registration under this Section 5.2 involving an underwritten offering, the Issuer shall not be required to include any Registrable Securities in such underwritten offering unless the participating Stockholders accept the terms of the underwritten offering as agreed upon by the Issuer and such other stockholders, if any. ARTICLE VI REGISTRATION PROCEDURES. 6.1 Obligations of the Issuer. Whenever registration of Registrable Securities has been requested pursuant to Article IV or Article V, the Issuer shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to effect the registration and sale of such Registrable Securities in accordance with the intended method of distribution thereof as quickly as practicable, and in connection with any such request: (a) the Issuer shall, as expeditiously as practicable, prepare and file with the Commission a Registration Statement on Form S-3 (or, if the Issuer is not then eligible to use Form S-3, on any form for which the Issuer then qualifies, which counsel for the Issuer deems appropriate and which is available for the sale of such Registrable Securities in accordance with the intended method of distribution thereof), and use all commercially reasonable efforts to cause such Registration Statement to become effective as expeditiously as practicable; provided, however, that (i) before filing a Registration Statement or Prospectus or any amendments or supplements thereto, the Issuer shall provide Stockholder Counsel and any other Inspector with a reasonable opportunity to review and comment on such Registration Statement and each Prospectus included therein (and each amendment or supplement thereto) to be filed with the Commission, subject to such documents being under the Issuer's control, and (ii) the Issuer shall notify each Stockholder, Stockholder Counsel, and each other party participating in such distribution of Registrable Securities of any stop order issued or threatened by the Commission and take all commercially reasonable action required to prevent the entry of such stop order or to remove it if entered;
16 (b) the Issuer shall, as expeditiously as practicable, prepare and file with the Commission such amendments and supplements to such Registration Statement and the Prospectus as may be necessary to keep such Registration Statement effective until the earlier of (i) the 75th day after the effective date thereof and (ii) the date on which all Registrable Securities covered by such Registration Statement have been sold (provided that such 75-day period shall be extended for a number of days equal to the number of days that elapse from (x) the date any written notice contemplated by Section 6.3(a) is given by the Issuer to (y) the date on which the Issuer delivers to the Stockholders the supplement or amendment contemplated by Section 6.3(a)); and the Issuer shall comply with the provisions of the Securities Act with respect to the disposition of all securities covered by such Registration Statement during such period in accordance with the intended methods of disposition by the sellers thereof set forth in such Registration Statement; notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, the Issuer shall not be required to file or have declared effective more than one post-effective amendment of any Registration Statement filed in response to a Demand Registration and shall not be required to file more than five supplements to the Prospectus contained in such Registration Statement, in each case, in connection with one or more Hedging Transactions or changes to the Plan of Distribution therein; (c) the Issuer shall furnish to each seller of Registrable Securities, prior to filing a Registration Statement, at least one conformed copy of such Registration Statement as is proposed to be filed, and thereafter shall promptly furnish such number of conformed copies of such Registration Statement, each amendment and supplement thereto (in each case including all exhibits thereto), and the Prospectus included therein (including each preliminary Prospectus and any Prospectus filed under Rule 424 under the Securities Act) as each such seller may reasonably request in order to facilitate the disposition of the Registrable Securities by such seller; in addition, the Issuer shall promptly after receipt furnish to each Stockholder copies of the portions of any and all transmittal letters and any other correspondence (including, but not limited to, comment letters) with the Commission or any other Governmental Entity relating to such Registration Statement or amendment or supplement thereto relating to the sections entitled "Plan of Distribution" or "Selling Stockholders," and the Majority Requesting Stockholders shall have the right to request that the Issuer modify any such information contained in such Registration Statement or amendment and supplement thereto pertaining to such Stockholders in such sections, and the Issuer shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to comply with such request; provided, however, that the Issuer shall not have any obligation to modify any information if the Issuer reasonably expects that so doing would cause the Registration Statement to contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; (d) the Issuer shall use all commercially reasonable efforts (i) to register or qualify all Registrable Securities and other securities covered by the Registration Statement under such other securities or "blue sky" laws of such States of the United States of America where an exemption is not available and as the sellers of Registrable Securities covered by the Registration Statement shall reasonably request, (ii) to keep such registration or qualification in effect during the period during which the
17 Registration Statement is effective, (iii) to obtain the withdrawal of any order or other determination suspending such registration or qualification during the period during which the Registration Statement is effective and (iv) to take any other action which may be reasonably necessary or advisable to enable such sellers to consummate the disposition in such jurisdictions of the securities to be sold by such sellers, except that the Issuer shall not for any such purpose be required to (1) qualify generally to do business as a foreign corporation in any jurisdiction wherein it would not but for the requirements of this clause (iv) be obligated to be so qualified, (2) subject itself to taxation in any such jurisdiction or (3) consent to general service of process in any such jurisdiction; (e) the Issuer shall enter into and perform customary agreements (including underwriting and indemnification and contribution agreements in customary form with the Lead Underwriter or other Counterparty and reasonably acceptable to the Counterparty) and take such other commercially reasonable actions as are required in order to expedite or facilitate each Disposition and shall provide all reasonable cooperation, including causing appropriate officers to attend and participate in "road shows" and other information meetings organized by the Counterparty, customary for similar Dispositions; (f) the Issuer shall make available at reasonable times for inspection by any seller of Registrable Securities, the Counterparties participating in any Disposition, Stockholder Counsel and any attorney, accountant or other agent retained by any Counterparty (each, an "Inspector" and collectively, the "Inspectors"), all financial and other records, corporate documents of the Issuer and its Subsidiaries (collectively, the "Records") as are reasonably necessary to enable them to exercise their due diligence responsibilities, and cause the Issuer's and its Subsidiaries' officers, directors and employees, and the independent public accountants of the Issuer, to discuss the business and affairs of the Issuer and its Subsidiaries, to supply promptly all information reasonably requested by any such Inspector in connection with such Registration Statement and to otherwise reasonably cooperate in the due diligence process of the Inspectors; (g) in the case of a Disposition, the Issuer shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to obtain "cold comfort" letters addressed to the Issuer and the Counterparties and dated the effective date of the Registration Statement and the date of the closing under the agreement relating to such Disposition from the Issuer's independent public accountants in customary form and covering such matters of the type customarily covered by "cold comfort" letters delivered in underwritings or under agreements that are customary or reasonably appropriate for the types of offerings that are most similar to such Disposition, as Stockholder Counsel or the Counterparty reasonably requests; (h) the Issuer shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to furnish, at the request of any seller of Registrable Securities, on the date such Registrable Securities are delivered to the Counterparties for sale pursuant to such Registration Statement or, if such Registrable Securities are not being sold through underwriters, on the date the Registration Statement with respect to such Registrable Securities becomes
18 effective, a signed opinion, dated such date, of counsel representing the Issuer for the purposes of such Disposition, addressed to the Counterparties, if any, covering such legal matters with respect to the Disposition in respect of which such opinion is being given as the Counterparties, if any, and such seller may reasonably request and are customarily included in such opinions relating to transactions similar to such Disposition; (i) the Issuer shall comply with all applicable rules and regulations of the Commission, and make available to its security holders, as soon as reasonably practicable but no later than 15 months after the effective date of the Registration Statement, an earnings statement covering a period of 12 months beginning after the effective date of the Registration Statement, in a manner that satisfies the provisions of Section 11(a) of the Securities Act and Rule 158 thereunder; (j) the Issuer shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to cause all such Registrable Securities to be listed on each securities exchange or automated quotation system on which similar securities issued by the Issuer are then listed (and if no such securities are then listed on any securities exchange, on a national securities exchange or automated quotation system selected by the Issuer) and to thereafter comply with all applicable rules of such securities exchange or automated quotation system so as to permit the continued listing of such securities on such exchange or automated quotation system; (k) the Issuer shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to cause all Registrable Securities covered by the Registration Statement to be registered with or approved by such Governmental Entities as may be necessary in the written opinion of counsel to the Issuer and counsel to the seller or sellers of Registrable Securities to enable the seller or sellers thereof to consummate the disposition of such Registrable Securities within the United States of America; (l) the Issuer shall cooperate with each seller of Registrable Securities to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates representing Registrable Securities sold pursuant to a Registration Statement, and provide the transfer agent for the Registrable Securities with certificates for the Registrable Securities that are in a form eligible for deposit with The Depository Trust Company; (m) the Issuer shall timely keep Stockholder Counsel advised in writing as to the initiation and progress of any registration under Article IV or Article V hereunder; (n) the Issuer shall cooperate with each seller of Registrable Securities and each underwriter participating in the disposition of such Registrable Securities and their respective counsel in connection with any filings required to be made with the NASD; (o) during the time when a Prospectus is required to be delivered under the Securities Act, the Issuer shall promptly give notice to all Stockholders selling securities pursuant to such Prospectus (i) of the receipt by the Issuer
19 of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification or exemption from qualification of any of the Registrable Securities for sale in any jurisdiction or the initiation or threat in writing of any proceeding for such purpose, (ii) of the occurrence of any of the events described in Section 6.3(b) (provided, however, that no notice by the Issuer shall be required pursuant to this clause (ii) in the event that the Issuer either promptly files a Prospectus supplement or amendment to update the Prospectus or a Form 8-K or other appropriate Exchange Act report that is incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement, which, in either case, contains the requisite information with respect to such event that results in the Registration Statement no longer containing any untrue statement of material fact or omitting to state a material fact necessary to make the statements contained therein not misleading) and (iii) of the determination by the Issuer that a post-effective amendment to a Registration Statement will be filed with the Commission; (p) if the Issuer files a Registration Statement on Form S-3, and one or more Stockholders request to have an offering of Registrable Securities registered under such Registration Statement pursuant to Article IV or V hereof, the Issuer shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to include in such Registration Statement such additional information for marketing purposes as the Lead Underwriter with respect to such offering reasonably requests; provided, however, that, if such additional information is included in such Registration Statement, the time period for having such Registration Statement declared effective pursuant to clause (ii)(2) of Section 4.2 shall be no more than 120 days and the Issuer shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to cause such Registration Statement to be declared effective as soon as is practicable; and (q) the Issuer shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to promptly take all other steps necessary to effect the registration and sale of the Registrable Securities contemplated hereby. 6.2 Seller Information, Compliance with Laws, Customary Agreements. The Issuer may require that (a) each seller of Registrable Securities as to which any Registration Statement is being filed furnish the Issuer such information regarding such seller and the distribution of such securities as the Issuer may from time to time reasonably request in writing; (b) each seller of Registrable Securities agree to comply with the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and all applicable state securities laws and comply with all applicable regulations in connection with the registration and distribution of the Registrable Securities; and (c) each seller of Registrable Securities use all commercially reasonable efforts to enter into and perform customary agreements (including an underwriting and indemnification agreement in customary form with the Lead Underwriter) and to take such other commercially reasonable actions in order to expedite or facilitate the disposition of such Registrable Securities. 6.3 Notice to Discontinue, Deferral Periods. (a) The Issuer shall promptly notify each Stockholder selling securities of the Issuer pursuant to a Registration Statement (i) upon discovery that, or
20 upon the happening of any event as a result of which, the Prospectus or the Registration Statement includes an untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, or of the occurrence of any event specified in Section 6.3(b); (ii) of the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or (iii) of any written request by the Commission for (1) amendments to the Registration Statement or any document incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, (2) supplements or amendments to the Prospectus or (3) additional information. Immediately following any such event (x) upon the request of the Issuer, each Stockholder shall suspend the use of the Prospectus and shall not sell any Registrable Securities pursuant to the Registration Statement until such Stockholder has received copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus or until it is advised by the Issuer that the Prospectus may be used, and (y) the Issuer shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to, as promptly as practicable or in the case of an event specified in Section 6.3(b), by the end of the Deferral Period (as defined below), prepare and file a post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or a supplement or amendment to the related Prospectus or any document that would be incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement and Prospectus so that the Registration Statement does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, and such Prospectus does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading and promptly thereafter deliver to the holders of the Registrable Securities a reasonable number of copies of the supplement or amendment of such Prospectus complying with the foregoing, and, in the case of a post-effective amendment to a Registration Statement, use all commercially reasonable efforts to cause it to be declared effective as promptly as is reasonably practicable. (b) The Issuer shall not be required to file any Registration Statement pursuant to this Agreement, file any amendment thereto, furnish any supplement or amendment to a Prospectus included in a Registration Statement, make any other filing with the Commission, cause any Registration Statement or other filing with the Commission to become effective, or take any similar action (collectively, "Registration Actions") and may withdraw any Registration Statement or other filing with the Commission, and any and all sales of Registrable Securities by a holder thereof pursuant to a Registration Statement shall be suspended: (i) if such Registration Action would, in the good-faith judgment of the Board of Directors, materially interfere with business activities or plans of the Issuer, (ii) if such Registration Action would, in the good-faith judgment of the Board of Directors, require the disclosure of material non-public information which disclosure, in the good-faith judgment of the Board of Directors, would be detrimental to the Issuer or (iii) if such Registration Action would require the inclusion of audited financial statements of the Issuer that are not then available. Upon the occurrence of any condition described in clauses (i), (ii) or (iii) of the first sentence of this Section 6.3(b), the Issuer shall give prompt notice thereof (which notice shall state whether it intends to delay any of the Registration Actions and/or
21 suspend sales of Registrable Securities) to the Stockholders. Upon the termination of the condition described in clauses (i), (ii) or (iii) of the first sentence of this Section 6.3(b), the Issuer shall give prompt notice to the Stockholders and, in the case of a Demand Registration, if the request for Demand Registration has not been revoked pursuant to Section 6.3(d), shall promptly proceed with the Registration Actions and make any other filing with the Commission required of it or terminate any suspension of sales it has put into effect and shall take all such other commercially reasonable actions to permit registered sales of Registrable Securities as contemplated by this Agreement. It is understood and agreed that the foregoing provisions of this Section 6.3(b) shall not prevent a sale or hedge pursuant to Rule 144 by a holder of Registrable Securities or in a transaction exempt from registration under the Securities Act. (c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 6.3(b), the Issuer may only delay Registration Actions or suspend sales of Registrable Securities for three periods (each, a "Deferral Period") of up to 120 days in the aggregate in any period of twelve consecutive months. In addition, no suspension pursuant to Section 6.3(b) after the Initial Public Offering shall be effective unless (x) each director and executive officer of the Issuer is also prohibited by the Issuer's insider trading policy or otherwise from making purchases and sales (other than those made pursuant to plans designed to comply with Rule 10b5-1(c)(1)(i) under the Exchange Act) by reason of the condition specified in the first sentence of Section 6.3(b) and (y) each other holder entitled to sell equity securities of the Issuer pursuant to registration rights under a selling stockholder prospectus is, or agrees to be, subject to deferral provisions substantially similar to or more restrictive than those contained in Section 6.3(b). (d) In the event that the Issuer delays any of the Registration Actions or suspends sales of Registrable Securities pursuant to Section 6.3(b) for 25 days or more with respect to a Demand Registration, the Majority Requesting Stockholders shall have the right to revoke such Demand Registration without such request counting as a Demand Registration or a revocation of a Demand Registration for purposes of Section 4.1(c) and without any liability for Registration Expenses arising from, in connection with or relating to, such revoked Demand Registration. 6.4 Reports and Materials to be Filed under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act. The Issuer shall timely file the reports and materials required to be filed by it under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations adopted by the Commission thereunder (including but not limited to the reports under Sections 13 and 15(d) of the Exchange Act referred to in subparagraph (c) of Rule 144) and shall take all commercially reasonable actions as a Stockholder or any broker or dealer facilitating a sale of Registrable Securities may reasonably request to enable such Stockholder to sell or hedge Registrable Securities without registration under the Securities Act within the limitation of the exemptions provided by (a) Rule 144 under the Securities Act, as such Rule may be amended from time to time, or (b) any similar rules or regulations hereafter adopted by the Commission. Upon the request of any Stockholder, the Issuer shall deliver to such Stockholder a written statement as to whether it has complied with such requirements.
22 6.5 Registration Expenses. The Issuer shall pay all expenses ("Registration Expenses") arising from or incident to any Demand Registration or Incidental Registration by the Stockholders pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, regardless of whether the relevant Registration Statement is declared effective; provided, however, that the Stockholders shall each bear the expense of any broker's commission or underwriter's discount or commission relating to registration and sale of its Registrable Securities and any of its legal fees incurred in connection with a Demand Registration or Incidental Registration. Subject to the proviso included in the immediately preceding sentence, Registration Expenses shall include, without limitation, any and all expenses incident to performance of or compliance with any registration or marketing of securities pursuant to Article IV or V, including, without limitation, (i) the fees, disbursements and expenses of Issuer's counsel and accountants in connection with this Agreement and the performance of the Issuer's counsel and accountants in connection with this Agreement and the performance of the Issuer's obligations hereunder; (ii) all expenses, including filing fees, in connection with the preparation, printing and filing of any Registration Statement, any Prospectus or preliminary Prospectus, any other offering document and amendments and supplements thereto and the mailing and delivering of copies thereof to any underwriters and dealers; (iii) the cost of printing or producing any agreements among underwriters, underwriting agreements, and blue sky or legal investment memoranda, any selling agreements and any other documents in connection with the offering, sale or delivery of the securities to be disposed of; (iv) all expenses in connection with the qualification of the securities to be disposed of for offering and sale under state securities laws, including the fees and disbursements of counsel for the underwriters in connection with such qualification and in connection with any blue sky and legal investment surveys; (v) the filing fees incident to securing any required review by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. of the terms of the sale of the securities to be disposed of; (vi) transfer agents' and registrars' fees and expenses and the fees and expenses of any other agent or trustee appointed in connection with such offering; (vii) all security engraving and security printing expenses; (viii) all fees and expenses payable in connection with the listing of the securities on any securities exchange or automated interdealer quotation system; (ix) any other fees and disbursements of underwriters customarily paid by the issuers of securities; and (x) the costs and expenses of the Issuer relating to analyst or investor presentations or any "road show" undertaken in connection with the registration and/or marketing of any Registrable Securities. 6.6 Confidentiality. Any Records provided in connection with Section 6.1(f) that the Issuer determines, in good faith, to be confidential and which it notifies the Inspectors are confidential shall not be publicly disclosed by the Inspectors (and the Inspectors shall confirm their agreement in writing in advance to the Issuer if the Issuer shall so request) unless (i) the disclosure of such Records is necessary, in the Issuer's reasonable judgment, to avoid or correct a misstatement or omission in the Registration Statement, (ii) the release of such Records is ordered pursuant to a subpoena or other order from a court of competent jurisdiction after exhaustion of all appeals therefrom or (iii) the information in such Records was known to the Inspectors on a non-confidential basis prior to its disclosure by the Issuer or has been made generally available to the public or otherwise becomes available on a non-confidential basis. Each
23 seller of Registrable Securities agrees that it shall, upon learning that disclosure of such Records is sought in a court of competent jurisdiction, give notice to the Issuer and allow the Issuer, at the Issuer's expense, to undertake appropriate action to prevent disclosure of the Records deemed confidential. 6.7 Restrictions on Covered Transactions. (a) Prior to the Stockholder Release Date, the Stockholders (other than any Pledgee or Hedging Counterparty) shall not effect any Covered Transaction. (b) Prior to the Issuer Release Date, the Issuer shall not effect any Covered Transaction except for (i) Covered Transactions that do not result in the Issuer having Cumulative Net Proceeds in excess of $2.1 billion and (ii) issuances of securities as consideration in acquisitions or as compensation to employees. (c) During the 270 days following the completion of an offering pursuant to a Demand Registration, the Stockholders shall not effect Covered Transactions (other than Regulatory Sales) or Deemed Sales with aggregate proceeds (net of underwriting fees, discounts, commissions and other offering expenses) in excess of the Covered Transaction Proceeds Limit. (d) Prior to the AOLTW Registration Date, (i) the Issuer shall not effect any Covered Transaction if the proceeds of such Covered Transaction are to be distributed or loaned to, or used to purchase securities issued or held by, AOLTW or any of its Affiliates, other than the Issuer or any of its Subsidiaries; and (ii) the Issuer shall deliver to the Stockholders, upon completion of any Covered Transaction, an officer's certificate (or other evidence reasonably acceptable to the Majority Stockholders) to the effect that the proceeds of such Covered Transaction are not to be distributed or loaned to, or used to purchase securities issued or held by, AOLTW or any of its Affiliates, other than the Issuer or any of its Subsidiaries. 6.8 Restrictions on Public Sales. (a) If requested in writing by any Lead Underwriter in connection with a public offering of shares of Common Equity (or instruments convertible into or exchangeable for Common Equity), each of the Stockholders (other than any Pledgee or Hedging Counterparty), the Issuer and AOLTW shall execute and deliver agreements ("Lock-up Agreements") containing such restrictions on its ability to dispose of shares of Common Equity (or instruments convertible into or exchangeable for Common Equity) as such Lead Underwriter may reasonably request; provided that such restrictions shall be the same for all parties and shall not have a duration of more than (i) 180 days after the completion of such offering (in the case of the Initial Public Offering) or (ii) 90 days after the completion of such offering (in the case of other public offerings). Any Lock-up Agreements executed by the Stockholders shall contain provisions naming AOLTW and the Issuer as intended third-party beneficiaries thereof and requiring the prior written consent of AOLTW and the Issuer for any amendments thereto or waivers
24 thereof. Any Lock-up Agreements executed by AOLTW or the Issuer shall contain provisions naming the Stockholders as intended third-party beneficiaries thereof and requiring the prior written consent of the Majority Stockholders for any amendments thereto or waivers thereof. (b) A Stockholder shall not be required hereunder to sign a Lock-up Agreement that restricts the Stockholder from exercising the Incidental Registration rights set forth in Article V. (c) In connection with a Demand Registration, the Issuer shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to have all executive officers, directors and holders of more than 5% of any class of the Common Equity execute agreements that are no less restrictive than the restrictions contained in the Lock-up Agreements. 6.9 Selection of Underwriters. In any underwritten public offering pursuant to a Demand Registration (other than the Initial Public Offering), in which at least $500 million of Registrable Securities (or, if less, all remaining Registrable Securities beneficially owned by the Stockholders) are proposed to be sold, (i) the Majority Requesting Stockholders shall have the right to select one nationally-recognized investment banking firm as a co-lead book running manager (or the equivalent) with respect to such offering, which firm shall be reasonably acceptable to the Issuer; and (ii) the Issuer shall have the right to select only one nationally-recognized investment banking firm as a co-lead book running manager (or the equivalent) with respect to such offering, which firm shall be reasonably acceptable to the Majority Requesting Stockholders. In all other underwritten public offerings, the Issuer shall have the right to select all Lead Underwriters, except that if at least $500 million of Registrable Securities are proposed to be sold pursuant thereto, the Majority Requesting Stockholders shall have the right to select one nationally-recognized investment banking firm as a co-lead book running manager (or the equivalent) with respect to such offering, which firm shall be reasonably acceptable to the Issuer. 6.10 Limitations on Registration. In any public offering of securities of the Issuer registered pursuant to Article IV or V, if any Lead Underwriter determines in good faith that the registration of all or part of such securities requested to be included would have a material and adverse effect on the success of such offering, then the Issuer shall be required to include in such offering only such number of such securities as the Lead Underwriter reasonably believes would not have such adverse effect, according to the following priority: (a) First, such offering shall include any Issuer Securities proposed to be included in such offering, until the Issuer's Cumulative Net Proceeds are $2.1 billion; (b) Second, such offering shall include any Registrable Securities proposed to be included in such offering, until the Cumulative Net Proceeds of the Stockholders and their Affiliates are $3.0 billion; and
25 (c) Third, (i) if such offering occurs prior to the AOLTW Registration Date, such offering shall include any other securities proposed to be included in such offering, which securities shall (A) first, be divided equally among (x) any such securities that are Registrable Securities not already included in such offering and (y) any such securities that are Issuer Securities not already included in such offering, (B) second, include any Registrable Securities or Issuer Securities, as the case may be, not already included in such offering and (C) third, include any AOLTW Securities requested to be included in such offering; and (ii) if such offering occurs on or after the AOLTW Registration Date, such offering shall include any other securities proposed to be included in such offering, which securities shall be divided equally among (x) any such securities that are Registrable Securities not already included in such offering, (y) any such securities that are Issuer Securities not already included in such offering and (z) any such securities that are AOLTW Securities not already included in such offering, in each case until all such securities requested to be registered have been included in such offering. Prior to the AOLTW Registration Date, to the extent that the Issuer proposes to include any Issuer Securities whose proceeds, as described in the "Use of Proceeds" section of the relevant Registration Statement, are to be distributed or loaned to, or used to purchase securities issued by or held by, AOLTW or any of its Affiliates (other than the Issuer or any of its Subsidiaries), such Issuer Securities shall be deemed to be AOLTW Securities for purposes of Sections 6.10(a) and (c). 6.11 Stock Split. Prior to the Initial Public Offering, the Issuer shall effect a split of the Class A Common Stock so that the price per share of Class A Common Stock reasonably expected to be received in the Initial Public Offering shall be within a range that, in the judgment of the Lead Underwriter, will facilitate the Initial Public Offering on the best possible terms. AOLTW and the Stockholders agree to take all actions necessary to permit the Issuer to comply with its obligations pursuant to the preceding sentence. 6.12 Limitations on Certain Transactions by AOLTW. Prior to the AOLTW Registration Date, none of AOLTW and its Affiliates (other than the Issuer and its Subsidiaries) shall dispose of or monetize any securities of the Issuer to any parties (other than AOLTW or any of its Affiliates) other than pursuant to a Registration Statement. 6.13 Deemed Proceeds. Any determination hereunder of Covered Transaction Proceeds or Cumulative Net Proceeds received by the Stockholders shall include the aggregate Deemed Proceeds from all Deemed Sales by such Stockholders or their Affiliates occurring during the relevant period to the extent such proceeds relate to transactions of the types specified in the definitions of Covered Transaction Proceeds or Cumulative Net Proceeds, as the case may be. For purposes of this Agreement, "Deemed
26 Proceeds" means with respect to any Deemed Sale the portion of the aggregate proceeds (net of a proportionate amount of underwriting fees, discounts, commissions and other offering expenses) of such Deemed Sale attributable to the Class A Common Stock. ARTICLE VII INDEMNIFICATION 7.1 Indemnification by the Issuer. The Issuer agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Stockholder, its partners, directors, officers, trustees, other Affiliates and each Person who controls (within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act) such Stockholder from and against any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and expenses, or any action or proceeding in respect thereof (including reasonable costs of investigation and reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses) (each, a "Liability" and collectively, "Liabilities"), arising out of or based upon any untrue, or allegedly untrue, statement of a material fact contained in any Registration Statement, Prospectus or preliminary prospectus or notification or offering circular (as amended or supplemented if the Issuer shall have furnished any amendments or supplements thereto) or arising out of or based upon any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading under the circumstances such statements were made; provided, however, that the Issuer shall not be liable (i) in any such case to the extent that any such Liability arises out of or is based upon an untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made in such Registration Statement, Prospectus or preliminary prospectus or notification or offering circular in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Issuer by or on behalf of such Stockholder (including, without limitation, the information provided pursuant to Section 7.2), specifically for use in the preparation thereof and (ii) for any Liability if (1) the Issuer has notified such Stockholder to suspend use of the Prospectus pursuant to Section 6.3(a) or (b), (2) such Stockholder continues to use the relevant Prospectus notwithstanding such notice, and (3) such Liability arises from or is based upon an untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of any material fact or omission to state a material fact that was cured in the supplemented or amended Prospectus contemplated by Section 6.3(a) or (b). 7.2 Indemnification by the Stockholder. In connection with any offering in which a Stockholder is participating pursuant to Article IV or Article V, such Stockholder shall promptly furnish to the Issuer in writing such information with respect to such Stockholder and the distribution of the Registrable Securities as the Issuer may reasonably request or as may be required by law for use in connection with any related Registration Statement or Prospectus and all information required to be disclosed in order to make the information previously furnished to the Issuer by such Stockholder not materially misleading or necessary to cause such Registration Statement not to omit a material fact with respect to such Stockholder necessary in order to make the statements therein not misleading. Each Stockholder selling Registrable Securities pursuant to a Registration Statement and associated Prospectus agrees, severally but not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Issuer, any underwriter retained by the Issuer, their respective directors, officers, other Affiliates and each Person who controls the Issuer or
27 such underwriter (within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act) to the same extent as the indemnity from the Issuer to such Stockholder under Section 7.1 hereof but only with respect to information provided by such Stockholder or on such Stockholder's behalf expressly for use in such Registration Statement or Prospectus relating to the Registrable Securities; provided, however, that the liability of the Indemnifying Party under this Section 7.2 shall be limited to the amount of net proceeds received by the Indemnifying Party in the transaction giving rise to such Liability. 7.3 Conduct of Indemnification Proceedings. Any Person entitled to indemnification under this Article VII (each, an "Indemnified Party") agrees to give prompt written notice to each indemnifying party (each, an "Indemnifying Party") after the receipt by the Indemnified Party of any written notice of the commencement of any action, suit, proceeding or investigation or threat thereof made in writing for which the Indemnified Party intends to claim indemnification or contribution pursuant to this Agreement; provided, however, that the failure so to notify the Indemnifying Party shall not relieve the Indemnifying Party of any Liability that it may have to the Indemnified Party hereunder (except to the extent that the Indemnifying Party forfeits substantive rights or defenses by reason of such failure) and in no event shall such failure relieve the Indemnifying Party from and against any other Liability it may have to such Indemnified Party. If notice of commencement of any such action is given to the Indemnifying Party as above provided, the Indemnifying Party shall be entitled to participate in and, to the extent it may wish, jointly with any other Indemnifying Party similarly notified, to assume the defense of such action at its own expense, with counsel chosen by it. The Indemnified Party shall have the right to employ separate counsel in any such action and participate in the defense thereof, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be paid by the Indemnified Party unless (i) the Indemnifying Party agrees to pay the same, (ii) the Indemnifying Party fails to assume the defense of such action, (iii) the Indemnifying Party and the Indemnified Party shall have mutually agreed to the retention of such counsel or (iv) the named parties to any such action (including any impleaded parties) include both the Indemnifying Party and the Indemnified Party and such parties have been advised by such counsel that either (x) representation of such Indemnified Party and the Indemnifying Party by the same counsel would be inappropriate under applicable standards of professional conduct or would present a conflict of interest or (y) there may be one or more legal defenses available to the Indemnified Party which are different from, inconsistent with or additional to those available to the Indemnifying Party. In any of the cases specified in clauses (ii) and (iv) of the immediately preceding sentence, the Indemnifying Party shall not be liable for the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm of attorneys (in addition to any local counsel) for all Indemnified Parties. No Indemnifying Party shall be liable for any settlement entered into without its written consent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. No Indemnifying Party shall, without the consent of such Indemnified Party, effect any settlement of any pending or threatened proceeding in respect of which such Indemnified Party is a party and indemnity has been sought hereunder by such Indemnified Party, unless such settlement includes an unconditional release of such Indemnified Party from all liability for claims that are the subject matter of such proceeding.
28 7.4 Contribution. If the indemnification provided for in this Article VII shall for any reason be held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be unavailable to an Indemnified Party, in respect of any Liability, then, in lieu of the amount paid or payable under Section 7.1 or 7.2, as the case may be, the Indemnified Party and the Indemnifying Party shall contribute to the aggregate Liabilities in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative fault of the Issuer and the prospective sellers of Registrable Securities covered by the Registration Statement in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such loss, claim, damage or liability, or action or proceeding in respect thereof, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations (the relative fault of the Issuer and such prospective sellers to be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Issuer or such prospective sellers and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission). The parties hereto acknowledge that in no event shall the obligation of any Indemnifying Party to contribute under this Section 7.4 exceed the amount that such Indemnifying Party would have been obligated to pay by way of indemnification if the indemnification provided for under Section 7.1 or 7.2 had been available under the circumstances. The Issuer and each Stockholder agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 7.4 were determined by pro rata allocation (even if such Stockholders were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation that does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in the first sentence of this Section 7.4. No Person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any Person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. Such prospective sellers' obligations to contribute as provided in this Section 7.4 are several in proportion to the relative value of their respective Registrable Securities covered by such Registration Statement and not joint. 7.5 Indemnification Payments. The indemnification and contribution required by this Article VII shall be made by prompt periodic payments of the amount thereof during the course of the investigation or defense, as and when bills are received or expense, loss, damage or liability is incurred. ARTICLE VIII MISCELLANEOUS 8.1 Recapitalizations, Exchanges, etc. The provisions of this Agreement shall apply to the full extent set forth herein with respect to (i) the shares of Class A Common Stock, (ii) any and all shares of voting common stock of the Issuer (excluding any such securities that are freely transferable without registration under the Securities Act) into which the shares of Class A Common Stock are converted, exchanged or substituted in any recapitalization or other capital reorganization by the Issuer and (iii) any and all equity securities (excluding any such securities that are freely transferable without registration under the Securities Act) of the Issuer or any of its Affiliates or any successor or assign or acquiror of the Issuer or any of its Affiliates
29 (whether by merger, consolidation, sale of assets or otherwise) which may be issued in respect of, in conversion of, in exchange for, in substitution of or as a distribution on, the shares of Class A Common Stock and shall be appropriately adjusted for any stock dividends, splits, reverse splits, combinations, recapitalizations and the like occurring after the date hereof. The Issuer shall cause any such Affiliate, successor or assign or acquiror (whether by merger, consolidation, sale of assets or otherwise) to enter into a new registration rights agreement with respect to such equity securities with each Stockholder on terms no less favorable to such Stockholder than the terms provided under this Agreement as a condition of any such transaction. 8.2 Notices. All notices, requests, claims and demands and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed duly delivered (i) four Business Days after being sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, or (ii) one Business Day after being sent by facsimile transmission (provided the sender retains confirmation thereof) or for next Business Day delivery, fees prepaid, via a reputable nationwide overnight courier service, in each case to the intended recipient as set forth below: if to AOLTW or the Issuer, to: AOL Time Warner Inc. 75 Rockefeller Plaza New York, NY 10019 Attention: Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Fax: (212) 258-3172 With a copy to: Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP 1285 Avenue of the Americas New York, NY 10019 Attention: Robert B. Schumer Fax: (212) 757-3990
30 if to Trust II, to: TWE Holdings II Trust c/o Edith E. Holiday 801 West Street 2nd Floor Wilmington, DE 19801 Fax: (302) 428-1410 With a copy to: Sullivan & Cromwell LLP 125 Broad Street New York, NY 10004 Attention: James C. Morphy, Esq. Fax: (212) 558-3588 Potter Anderson & Corroon LLP Hercules Plaza, 1313 N. Market Street P.O. Box 951 Wilmington, Delaware 19899-0951 Attention: Leonard S. Togman, Esq. Fax: (302) 658-1192 Any party to this Agreement may give any notice or other communication hereunder using any other means (including personal delivery, messenger service, telecopy or ordinary mail), but no such notice or other communication shall be deemed to have been duly given unless and until it actually is received by the office of the party for whom it is intended during business hours on a Business Day in the place of receipt. Any party to this Agreement may change the address to which notices and other communications hereunder are to be delivered by giving the other parties to this Agreement notice in the manner herein set forth. 8.3 Entire Agreement; No Inconsistent Agreements. (a) This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement among the parties hereto and supersedes any prior understandings, agreements or representations by or among the parties hereto, or any of them, written or oral, with respect to the subject matter hereof. (b) The Issuer shall not hereafter enter into or amend any agreement with respect to its securities which would (i) adversely affect the rights granted to the holders of Registrable Securities in this Agreement in any material respect or (ii) adversely affect the priorities set forth in Section 6.10.
31 8.4 Further Assurances. Each of the parties shall execute such documents and perform such further acts as may be reasonably required or desirable to carry out or to perform the provisions of this Agreement. 8.5 Other Agreements. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be deemed to be a waiver of, or release from, any obligations any party hereto may have under any of the other Transaction Agreements. 8.6 No Third-Party Beneficiaries. Except as provided in Article VII or Section 8.8, this Agreement is not intended, and shall not be deemed, to confer any rights or remedies upon any Person other than the parties hereto and their respective successors and permitted assigns or to otherwise create any third-party beneficiaries hereto. 8.7 Assignment. This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of and shall be enforceable by the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns and, with respect to each Stockholder, any Permitted Transferee. No assignment or transfer shall be effective hereunder unless and until the purported transferee executes and delivers an agreement, in form and substance reasonably acceptable to the parties, agreeing to be bound by the terms hereof. 8.8 Amendments and Waivers. Except as otherwise provided herein, the provisions of this Agreement may not be amended, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to departures from the provisions hereof may not be given, unless consented to in writing by the Issuer and the Majority Stockholders. The AOLTW Company Registration Rights Agreement may not be amended in any respect without the approval of a majority of the independent members of the Board of Directors. 8.9 Nominees for Beneficial Owners. In the event that any Registrable Securities are held by a nominee for the beneficial owner thereof, the beneficial owner thereof may, at its election in writing delivered to the Issuer, be treated as the holder of such Registrable Securities for purposes of any request, consent, waiver or other action by any holder or holders of Registrable Securities pursuant to this Agreement or any determination of any number or percentage of shares of Registrable Securities held by any holder or holders of Registrable Securities contemplated by this Agreement. If the beneficial owner of any Registrable Securities so elects, the Issuer may require assurances reasonably satisfactory to it of such owner's beneficial ownership of such Registrable Securities. 8.10 Severability. Any term or provision of this Agreement that is invalid or unenforceable in any situation in any jurisdiction shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the remaining terms and provisions hereof or the validity or enforceability of the offending term or provision in any other situation or in any other jurisdiction. If the final judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction declares that any term or provision hereof is invalid or unenforceable, the parties hereto agree that the court making such determination shall have the power to limit the term or provision, to delete specific words or phrases, or to replace any invalid or unenforceable term or provision with a term or provision that is valid and enforceable and that comes closest to
32 expressing the intention of the invalid or unenforceable term or provision, and this Agreement shall be enforceable as so modified. In the event such court does not exercise the power granted to it in the prior sentence, the parties hereto agree to replace such invalid or unenforceable term or provision with a valid and enforceable term or provision that shall achieve, to the extent possible, the economic, business and other purposes of such invalid or unenforceable term. 8.11 Counterparts and Signature. This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original but all of which together shall be considered one and the same agreement and shall become effective when counterparts have been signed by each of the parties hereto and delivered to the other parties, it being understood that all parties need not sign the same counterpart. This Agreement may be executed and delivered by facsimile transmission. 8.12 Interpretation. When reference is made in this Agreement to an Article or Section, such reference shall be to an Article or Section of this Agreement, unless otherwise indicated. The headings contained in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement. The language used in this Agreement shall be deemed to be the language chosen by the parties hereto to express their mutual intent, and no rule of strict construction shall be applied against any party. Whenever the context may require, any pronouns used in this Agreement shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine or neuter forms, and the singular form of nouns and pronouns shall include the plural, and vice versa. Any reference to any federal, state, local or foreign statute or law shall be deemed also to refer to all rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, unless the context requires otherwise. Whenever the words "include," "includes" or "including" are used in this Agreement, they shall be deemed to be followed by the words "without limitation." 8.13 GOVERNING LAW. THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO ANY CHOICE OR CONFLICT OF LAWS PROVISION OR RULE (WHETHER OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK OR ANY OTHER JURISDICTION) THAT WOULD CAUSE THE APPLICATION OF LAWS OF ANY JURISDICTIONS OTHER THAN THOSE OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK. 8.14 Submission to Jurisdiction. Any suit, action or proceeding seeking to enforce any provision of, or based on any matter arising out of or in connection with, this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby shall be brought exclusively in any federal or state court located in the State and City of New York, and each of the parties hereby consents to the jurisdiction of such courts (and of the appropriate appellate courts therefrom) in any such suit, action or proceeding and irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the laying of the venue of any such suit, action or proceeding in any such court or that any such suit, action or proceeding brought in any such court has been brought in an
33 inconvenient forum. Process in any such suit, action or proceeding may be served on any party anywhere in the world, whether within or without the jurisdiction of any such court. Without limiting the foregoing, each party agrees that service of process on such party as provided in Section 8.2 hereof as to giving notice hereunder shall be deemed effective service of process on such party. 8.15 Remedies. Except as otherwise provided herein, any and all remedies herein expressly conferred upon a party shall be deemed cumulative with and not exclusive of any other remedy conferred hereby, or by law or equity upon such party, and the exercise by a party of any one remedy shall not preclude the exercise of any other remedy. The parties hereto agree that irreparable damage would occur in the event that any of the provisions of this Agreement were not performed in accordance with their specific terms or were otherwise breached. It is accordingly agreed that the parties shall be entitled to an injunction or injunctions to prevent breaches of this Agreement and to enforce specifically the terms and provisions of this Agreement, this being in addition to any other remedy to which the parties are entitled at law or in equity. 8.16 WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL. EACH OF THE ISSUER AND THE STOCKHOLDERS HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ALL RIGHTS TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY ACTION, PROCEEDING OR COUNTERCLAIM (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE) ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THE ACTIONS OF THE ISSUER AND THE STOCKHOLDERS IN THE NEGOTIATION, ADMINISTRATION, PERFORMANCE AND ENFORCEMENT OF THIS AGREEMENT. [Remainder of page intentionally left blank]
34 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed, or have caused to be executed, this Agreement on the date first written above. TWE HOLDINGS II TRUST By: /s/ Edith E. Holiday ---------------------------------------- Name: Edith E. Holiday, solely in her capacity asOperating Trustee AOL TIME WARNER INC. By: /s/ Douglas S. Phillips ---------------------------------------- Name: Douglas S. Phillips Title: Vice President TIME WARNER CABLE INC. By: /s/ Spencer B. Hays ---------------------------------------- Name: Spencer B. Hays Title: Senior Vice President
Annex A PLAN OF DISTRIBUTION A selling stockholder may also enter into hedging and/or monetization transactions. For example, a selling stockholder may: (a) enter into transactions with a broker-dealer or affiliate of a broker-dealer or other third party in connection with which that other party will become a selling stockholder and engage in short sales of the common stock under this prospectus, in which case the other party may use shares of common stock received from the selling stockholder to close out any short positions; (b) itself sell short common stock under this prospectus and use shares of common stock held by it to close out any short position; (c) enter into options, forwards or other transactions that require the selling stockholder to deliver, in a transaction exempt from registration under the Securities Act, common stock to a broker-dealer or an affiliate of a broker-dealer or other third party who may then become a selling stockholder and publicly resell or otherwise transfer that common stock under this prospectus; or (d) loan or pledge common stock to a broker-dealer or affiliate of a broker-dealer or other third party who may then become a selling stockholder and sell the loaned shares or, in an event of default in the case of a pledge, become a selling stockholder and sell the pledged shares, under this prospectus.

EXHIBIT: 10.2 AMENDMENT TO INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AGREEMENT This Amendment, dated as of March 31, 2003 is made by and between Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, ("TWE") and Warner Communications Inc., a Delaware corporation, ("Holdco") (collectively, the "Parties"). WHEREAS, effective as of August 20, 2002, the Parties entered into an Intellectual Property Agreement (the "Intellectual Property Agreement"), pursuant to which the Parties have allocated to TWE and the TWE Broadband Group the intellectual property assets related to the TWE Broadband Business and have allocated to Holdco and the TWE Non-Broadband Group the intellectual property assets related to the TWE Non-Broadband Business; and WHEREAS, the Parties now wish to amend the Intellectual Property Agreement to revise the schedule of TWE Non-Broadband Group Patents and the schedule of Excluded TWE Broadband Group Trademarks; and NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises and covenants herein contained and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Parties agree as follows: 1. Definitions. Terms used and not defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Intellectual Property Agreement. 2. Schedule B to the Intellectual Property Agreement shall be replaced in its entirety with Schedule A hereto. 3. Schedule D to the Intellectual Property Agreement shall be replaced in its entirety with Schedule B hereto. 4. Schedule E to the Intellectual Property Agreement shall be replaced in its entirety with Schedule C hereto. 5. This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one instrument. Except to the extent specifically amended and supplemented hereby, all of the items, conditions and provisions of the Intellectual Property Agreement shall remain unmodified, and the Intellectual Property Agreement, as amended and supplemented by this Amendment, is confirmed as being in full force and effect.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Amendment to the Intellectual Property Agreement as of the date first above written by the respective officers hereunto duly authorized. TIME WARNER ENTERTAINMENT COMPANY, L.P. By: /s/ Spencer B. Hays -------------------------------- Name: Spencer B. Hays Title: Senior Vice President WARNER COMMUNICATIONS INC. By: /s/ Douglas S. Phillips -------------------------------- Name: Douglas S. Phillips Title: Vice President 2
Schedule A TWE BROADBAND GROUP PATENTS 3
4
5
6
7
8
9
Schedule B TWE NON-BROADBAND GROUP PATENTS 10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
Schedule C EXCLUDED TWE BROADBAND GROUP TRADEMARKS 33

EXHIBIT:10.4 AMENDMENT TO INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AGREEMENT This Amendment, dated as of March 31, 2003 is made by and between MOTH Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and Warner Communications Inc., a Delaware corporation, ("Holdco") (collectively, the "Parties"). WHEREAS, the Parties are parties to an Intellectual Property Agreement, dated as of August 20, 2002 (the "TWIC Intellectual Property Agreement"), pursuant to which the Parties have allocated to the Company the intellectual property assets related to the TWIC Broadband Business; and WHEREAS, the Parties now wish to amend the TWIC Intellectual Property Agreement to clarify the definition of Existing TWIC Broadband Group Patents and certain other definitions; and NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises and covenants herein contained and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Parties agree as follows: 1. Definitions. Terms used and not defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the TWIC Intellectual Property Agreement. 2. The definition of "Company" is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows: "Company" means MOTH Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation formerly named New MOTH Holdings, Inc.; provided, that with respect to periods prior to the effective time of the merger of MOTH Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation formerly named MediaOne TWE Holdings, Inc. (the "Company Predecessor") with and into the Company, "Company" shall also mean the Company Predecessor. 3. A definition of "TWIC Broadband Business" is hereby added and stated in its entirety as follows: "TWIC Broadband Business" shall have the meaning set forth in the TWIC Contribution Agreement. 4. The definition of "TWIC Contribution Agreement" is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows: "TWIC Contribution Agreement" shall mean the Amended and Restated Contribution Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, by and among the Company, Holdco and AOL Time Warner Inc., a Delaware corporation. 5. A definition of "TWIC Non-Broadband Group" is hereby added and stated in its entirety as follows:
"TWIC Non-Broadband Group" shall mean (a) before the Closing, TWIC (other than any divisions of TWIC that are primarily engaged in the TWIC Broadband Business) and any direct or indirect Subsidiary of TWIC that is not a TWIC Broadband Member and (b) at or following the Closing, TWIC and its Subsidiaries (including their respective successors and assigns). 6. A definition of "TWIC Non-Broadband Member" is hereby added and stated in its entirety as follows: "TWIC Non-Broadband Member" shall mean any Person in the TWIC Non-Broadband Group. 7. A second sentence is hereby added to Section 5 of the TWIC Intellectual Property Agreement and stated in its entirety as follows: "Any Patents existing prior to the Closing that were invented or developed by one or more TWIC Broadband Members and one or more TWIC Non-Broadband Members shall be owned jointly by the TWIC Non-Broadband Group and the TWIC Broadband Group and shall be referred to as "Joint Patents." 6. The third sentence of Section 5 of the TWIC Intellectual Property Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows: "Patents owned by the TWIC Broadband Group as well as the TWIC Broadband Group's interest in the Joint Patents are referred to as "Existing TWIC Broadband Group Patents." 7. This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one instrument. Except to the extent specifically amended and supplemented hereby, all of the items, conditions and provisions of the TWIC Intellectual Property Agreement shall remain unmodified, and the TWIC Intellectual Property Agreement, as amended and supplemented by this Amendment, is confirmed as being in full force and effect. 2
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Amendment to the TWIC Intellectual Property Agreement as of the date first above written by the respective officers hereunto duly authorized. MOTH HOLDINGS, INC. By: /s/ Rosemarie S. Teta ----------------------------------------- Name: Rosemarie S. Teta Title: Vice President WARNER COMMUNICATIONS INC. By: /s/ Spencer B. Hays ----------------------------------------- Name: Spencer B. Hays Title: Senior Vice President 3

EXHIBIT: 10.5 EXECUTION COPY ================================================================================ PARENT AGREEMENT AMONG TIME WARNER CABLE INC., AOL TIME WARNER INC. AND TWE HOLDINGS II TRUST DATED AS OF: MARCH 31, 2003 ================================================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PARENT AGREEMENT PARENT AGREEMENT, dated as of March 31, 2003, among AOL Time Warner Inc., a Delaware corporation ("AOLTW"), TWE Holdings II Trust, a Delaware statutory trust ("Trust II"), and Time Warner Cable Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"). WHEREAS, AOLTW, the Company, Comcast Corporation, a Pennsylvania corporation (formerly named AT&T Comcast Corporation, "Comcast"), and the other parties thereto have entered into a Restructuring Agreement, dated as of August 20, 2002 (as amended, the "Restructuring Agreement"), pursuant to which the parties will, among other things, restructure and recapitalize the Company; and WHEREAS, the parties wish to grant certain rights to AOLTW and Trust II in respect of the Company. NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements set forth herein and for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows: 1. Definitions. As used in this Agreement, and unless the context requires a different meaning, the following terms have the meanings indicated: "Affiliate" means, with respect to any Person, any other Person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by or under common control with such Person; provided, that, for purposes of this definition, "control" (including with correlative meanings, the terms "controlled by" and "under common control with"), as used with respect to any Person, shall mean the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities or other equity securities, by contract or otherwise. "Agreement" means this Agreement, as the same may be amended, supplemented or modified in accordance with the terms hereof. "AOLTW" has the meaning set forth in the preamble to this Agreement. "Attribution Entity" means (i) any Managed Entity other than a Managed 50% Entity or (ii) any other Person (other than a Subsidiary of the Company or a Managed Entity) of which the Company owns, directly or indirectly, at least 20% of the outstanding equity. "Board of Directors" means the Board of Directors of the Company. "Business Combination" means a merger, consolidation, share exchange, business combination, reorganization, recapitalization or similar corporate transaction. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Business Combination shall include any transaction
2 effected pursuant to Section 253 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. "Business Day" means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in the State of New York are authorized or required by law or executive order to close. "Charter Documents" means the Restated Certificate of Incorporation and the By-laws of the Company as in effect from time to time. "Class A Common Stock" means the Class A Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company. "Class B Common Stock" means the Class B Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company. "Comcast" has the meaning set forth in the preamble to this Agreement. "Common Stock" means the Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. "Company" has the meaning set forth in the preamble to this Agreement. "Designated Director" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.1 of this Agreement. "EBITDA" means, at any time of measurement, with respect to any Person, for the twelve months ending on the last day of the most recent fiscal quarter for which such information is available, operating income plus depreciation and amortization of such Person, in each case determined in accordance with GAAP as applied as of the date hereof and consistent with the presentation and manner of calculation in the consolidated statement of operations contained in the consolidated financial statements included in the Form 10-Q filed by TWE for the period ended June 30, 2002. "EBITDAR" means, EBITDA plus Rental Expense. "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. "GAAP" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States in effect from time to time. "Governmental Authority" means any supranational, national, state, municipal or local government, political subdivision or other governmental department, court, commission, board, bureau, agency, instrumentality, or other authority thereof, or any quasi-governmental or private body exercising any regulatory, taxing, importing or other governmental or quasi-governmental authority, whether domestic or foreign.
3 "Incurrence" has the meaning set forth in Section 2 of this Agreement. "Indebtedness" means, with respect to any Person, (a) any obligation of such Person (i) for borrowed money, (ii) evidenced by a note, debenture or similar instrument (including a purchase money obligation) given in connection with the acquisition of any property or assets, including securities, (iii) for the deferred purchase price of property or services, except trade accounts payable arising in the ordinary course of business or (iv) under any lease or similar arrangement that would be required to be accounted for by the lessee as a capital lease in accordance with GAAP; (b) any guarantee (or keepwell agreement) by such Person of any indebtedness of others described in the preceding clause (a); (c) any obligation to reimburse any bank or other Person for amounts paid under a letter of credit or similar instrument (other than those issued in respect of the performance obligations in the ordinary course); and (d) any preferred stock or similar security or equity interest having a preference over the common equity of such Person in a liquidation, dissolution, or winding-up of such Person; provided, however, that any such preferred stock or similar security or equity interest held by AOLTW or its Subsidiaries shall not be deemed Indebtedness of the Company, any Subsidiary of the Company or any Managed Entity for so long as it is held by any such Person. "Independent Director" has the meaning set forth in Section 303.01 or any successor provision of the Listed Company Manual of the New York Stock Exchange, as such rules may be amended from time to time. "Initial Offering Date" means the date upon which shares of the Common Stock shall have been sold in an initial public offering (whether a primary or secondary offering) of the Company pursuant to an effective registration statement filed by the Company. "Managed Entity" means any Person in which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries owns any equity and the cable operations of which are managed by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries pursuant to a management or similar agreement or arrangement. Each of the Persons included in the Selected Business shall be deemed not to be a Managed Entity. "Managed 50% Entity" means any Managed Entity in which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries owns 50% or more of the outstanding equity. Without limitation of the foregoing, Texas Cable Partners, L.P. and Kansas City Cable Partners, L.P. shall be deemed to be Managed 50% Entities. "Operating Lease Obligations" means, with respect to any Person, an amount equal to six (6) times such Person's Rental Expense. "Permitted AT&T Disposition" has the meaning set forth in the Restructuring Agreement.
4 "Person" means any individual, firm, corporation, partnership, trust, incorporated or unincorporated association, joint venture, joint stock company, limited liability company, Governmental Authority or other entity of any kind, and shall include any successor (by merger or otherwise) of such entity or any "group" (as defined under Rule 13-d of the Exchange Act). "Rental Expense" means, with respect to any Person, the aggregate amount of rent payable under all leases, the obligation with respect to which is not included under the definition of Indebtedness, of such Person for the twelve (12) months ending on the last day of the calendar month immediately prior to the date of determination. "Restructuring Agreement" has the meaning set forth in the recitals to this Agreement. "Selected Business" has the meaning set forth in the Restructuring Agreement. "Specified Period" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.3 of this Agreement. "Subsidiary" means, with respect to any Person, any other Person of which securities or other ownership interests having voting power to elect a majority of the board of directors or other body performing similar functions are at any time directly or indirectly owned by such Person. "TWE" means Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership. "TWE Indenture" means that certain Indenture, dated as of April 30, 1992, by and among Time Warner Inc., a Delaware corporation, TWE and The Bank of New York, a New York banking corporation, as trustee, as the same may be amended, amended and restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time. 2. Actions Requiring Consent of AOLTW. In addition to any approval required under applicable law or the Charter Documents, the Company will not (and will cause its Subsidiaries and Managed Entities not to) take, approve or otherwise ratify any of the following actions (whether or not such actions have been otherwise approved by the Board of Directors or any committee thereof) without the prior written approval of AOLTW: (a) create, incur, assume (including, without limitation, by acquiring any entity that has outstanding Indebtedness or Rental Expense), enter into or guarantee (each such action, an "Incurrence") any Indebtedness or Rental Expense if the Company's ratio of Indebtedness plus Operating Lease Obligations to EBITDAR then exceeds, or would exceed as a result of such Incurrence, 3:1. For purposes of determining the Company's Indebtedness, Operating Lease Obligations and EBITDAR,
5 there shall be deemed to be included the following: (A) 100% of the Indebtedness, Operating Lease Obligations and EBITDAR of all Subsidiaries of the Company and all Managed 50% Entities and (B) a percentage of Indebtedness, Operating Lease Obligations and EBITDAR of each Attribution Entity equal to the percentage of the equity of such Attribution Entity owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company; provided that (i) in calculating the Company's Indebtedness, no portion of Indebtedness of any Person shall be included in the calculation to the extent the Indebtedness has already been included (whether by guarantee or otherwise) as Indebtedness of the Company in such calculation, (ii) none of the Indebtedness, Operating Lease Obligations, or EBITDAR attributable to the Selected Business shall be included in the Indebtedness, Operating Lease Obligations or EBITDAR of the Company, (iii) this Section 2(a) shall not prohibit or restrict the Incurrence of the Company Indebtedness on the Closing (each, as defined in the Restructuring Agreement) and (iv) no Indebtedness owed by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or any Managed Entity shall be included if it is owed to AOLTW or any of its Subsidiaries (except to the extent such Subsidiary to which such Indebtedness is owed is not directly or indirectly wholly-owned by AOLTW) or the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or Managed Entities (except to the extent such Subsidiary or Managed Entity to which such Indebtedness is owed is not directly or indirectly wholly-owned by the Company or TWE). (b) enter into any agreement or arrangement that (i) binds or purports to bind AOLTW or any of its Affiliates (other than the Company and its Subsidiaries) in any manner, or (ii) would impose significant penalties or restrictions on the Company or its Subsidiaries as a result of any action or omission of AOLTW or its Affiliates (other than the Company or its Subsidiaries). (c) adopt a shareholder rights plan, cause the Company to be subject to Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, amend its certificate of incorporation to impose a "fair price provision", or take any similar action. 3. Certain Rights of Trust II. 3.1 Independent Directors. Prior to the Initial Offering Date, at least fifty percent (50%) of the Independent Directors serving on the Board of Directors (the directors designated as such by AOLTW being referred to as the Designated Directors") shall, at the time of their nomination to the Board of Directors, be reasonably satisfactory to Trust II; provided that if Trust II does not object in writing to the nomination of any such Designated Directors within five (5) days following receipt of written notice thereof then such Designated Directors shall be deemed to be reasonably satisfactory to Trust II. To the extent possible, Designated Directors shall be Class A Directors (as defined in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company). 3.2 Financial Statements and Other Information. Until the Initial Offering Date, the Company shall deliver to Trust II:
6 (a) as soon as available, but not later than ninety (90) days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company, a copy of the audited consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries as of the end of such fiscal year and the related statements of operations and cash flows for such fiscal year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous year, all in reasonable detail and accompanied by a management summary and analysis of the operations of the Company for such fiscal year and by the opinion of a nationally recognized independent certified public accounting firm which report shall state without qualification that such financial statements present fairly the consolidated financial condition as of such date and consolidated results of operations and cash flows for the periods indicated in conformity with GAAP applied on a consistent basis; and (b) commencing with the first fiscal period ending following the date hereof, as soon as available but in any event not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year, the unaudited consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries, and the related statements of operations and cash flows for such quarter and for the period commencing on the first day of the fiscal year and ending on the last day of such quarter, all certified by an appropriate officer of the Company as presenting fairly the consolidated financial condition as of such date and results of operations and cash flows for the periods indicated in conformity with GAAP applied on a consistent basis, subject to normal year-end adjustments and the absence of footnotes required by GAAP. 4. AOLTW Covenants. AOLTW hereby agrees as follows: 4.1 Tender Offers and Exchange Offers. For a period of three (3) years following the Initial Offering Date, AOLTW shall not (and shall cause its controlled Affiliates not to) make any tender offer or exchange offer for any shares of Class A Common Stock (or announce any intention to do so) without the approval of a majority of the Independent Directors then serving on the Board of Directors. 4.2 Mergers. For a period of ten (10) years following the Initial Offering Date, AOLTW shall not (and shall cause its controlled Affiliates not to) enter into or effect a Business Combination with the Company without the approval of a majority of the Independent Directors then serving on the Board of Directors. 4.3 TWE Public Debt. In the event that AOLTW or its Subsidiaries (other than the Company and its Subsidiaries) wishes to purchase any debt securities issued by TWE under the TWE Indenture, AOLTW shall first give written notice to the Company of the approximate amount of debt securities it intends to purchase and the general time period within which it intends to purchase such debt securities, which time period shall not be greater than ninety (90) days (the "Specified Period"). The Company shall have five (5) Business Days following receipt of such notice to indicate its good faith intention to purchase such amount of debt securities within the Specified Period. If the Company so indicates, AOLTW shall not, and shall cause its Subsidiaries (other than the Company and its Subsidiaries) not to, purchase any such debt securities within the Specified Period and shall thereafter comply with the provisions of
7 this Section 4.3 prior to any subsequent purchase of any debt securities issued under the TWE Indenture. If the Company does not indicate its good faith intention to purchase such debt securities, AOLTW shall be entitled to proceed with its purchase of debt securities for the duration of the Specified Period. 4.4 Closing Date Balance Sheet. On or prior to the date that is 120 days following the Closing Date (as defined in the Restructuring Agreement), AOLTW shall cause the Company to prepare and deliver to Trust II a consolidated balance sheet for the Company as of the Closing Date (after giving effect to all transactions consummated at the Closing (as defined in the Restructuring Agreement)). 5. Miscellaneous. 5.1 Notices. All notices, demands or other communications provided for or permitted hereunder shall be made in writing and shall be by registered or certified first class mail, return receipt requested, telecopier, courier service or personal delivery: (a) if to the Company: Time Warner Cable Inc. 75 Rockefeller Plaza New York, New York 10019-6908 Telecopy: (212) 258-3172 Attention: Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary With a copy to: Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP 1285 Avenue of the Americas New York, NY 10019 Attention: Robert B. Schumer Fax: (212) 757-3990 (b) if to AOLTW: AOL Time Warner Inc. 75 Rockefeller Plaza New York, NY 10019 Telecopy: (212) 258-3172 Attention: Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary
8 With a copy to: Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP 1285 Avenue of the Americas New York, NY 10019 Attention: Robert B. Schumer Fax: (212) 757-3990 (c) if to Trust II to: TWE Holdings II Trust c/o Edith E. Holiday 801 West Street 2nd Floor Wilmington, DE 19801 Fax: (302) 428-1410 With a copy to: Sullivan & Cromwell LLP 125 Broad Street New York, New York 10004 Attention: James C. Morphy, Esq. Fax: (212) 558-3588 And a copy to: Potter Anderson & Corroon LLP Hercules Plaza, 1313 N. Market Street P.O. Box 951 Wilmington, Delaware 19899-0591 Attention: Leonard S. Togman Fax: (302) 658-1192 or such other address or facsimile number as such party hereto may hereafter specify for such purpose by notice to the other parties hereto. All such notices, requests and other communications shall be deemed received on the date of receipt by the recipient thereof if received prior to 5 p.m. on a Business Day, in the place of receipt. Otherwise, any such notice, request or communication shall be deemed not to have been received until the next succeeding Business Day in the place of receipt. 5.2 Successors and Assigns. The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns; provided that no party hereto may assign, delegate or transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the consent of the other parties hereto; and provided, further, that the rights granted to Trust II pursuant to Section 3 of this Agreement are personal to it and may not be transferred or assigned except to an Affiliate of Comcast.
9 5.3 Amendment and Waiver. Any amendment, supplement or modification of or to any provision of this Agreement, any waiver of any provision of this Agreement, and any consent to any departure by any party from the terms of any provision of this Agreement, shall be effective only if it is made or given in writing and signed by (i) the Company (upon a vote of a majority of the Independent Directors then serving on the Board of Directors), (ii) AOLTW and (iii) with respect to any amendment, supplement or modification of or of any defined term used in Section 3, Section 4 or this Section 5 of this Agreement, Trust II. Any such amendment, supplement, modification, waiver or consent shall be binding upon the Company, AOLTW and Trust II. No failure or delay on the part of any party hereto in exercising any right, power or remedy hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise thereof preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, power or remedy. The rights and remedies provided for herein are cumulative and are not exclusive of any rights and remedies that may be available to the parties hereto at law, in equity or otherwise. 5.4 Counterparts; Effectiveness. This Agreement may be signed in counterparts, each of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument. This Agreement shall become effective when each party hereto shall have received a counterpart hereof signed by the other parties hereto. 5.5 Specific Performance. The parties hereto agree that irreparable damage would occur if any provision of this Agreement were not performed in accordance with the terms hereof and that the parties shall be entitled to an injunction or injunctions to enforce specifically the performance of the terms and provisions hereof in any federal court located in the State of New York or any New York state court, in addition to any other remedy to which they are entitled at law or in equity. 5.6 Headings. The headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning hereof. 5.7 Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, without regard to the conflicts of law rules of the State of New York. 5.8 Jurisdiction. Any suit, action or proceeding seeking to enforce any provision of, or based on any matter arising out of or in connection with, this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby shall be brought in any federal court located in the State of New York or any New York state court, and each of the parties hereby consents to the exclusive jurisdiction of such courts (and of the appropriate appellate courts therefrom) in any such suit, action or proceeding and irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the laying of the venue of any such suit, action or proceeding in any such court or that
10 any such suit, action or proceeding brought in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum. Process in any such suit, action or proceeding may be served on either party hereto anywhere in the world, whether within or without the jurisdiction of any such court. 5.9 WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATED TO THIS AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY. 5.10 Severability. If any term, provision, covenant or restriction of this Agreement is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction or other authority to be invalid, void or unenforceable, the remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect and shall in no way be affected, impaired or invalidated so long as the economic or legal substance of the transactions contemplated hereby is not affected in any manner adverse to any party hereto. Upon such a determination, the parties hereto shall negotiate in good faith to modify this Agreement so as to effect the original intent of the parties as closely as possible in an acceptable manner so that the transactions contemplated hereby may be consummated as originally contemplated to the fullest extent possible. 5.11 Rules of Construction. Unless the context otherwise requires, references to sections or subsections refer to sections or subsections of this Agreement. 5.12 Entire Agreement; No Third Party Beneficiaries. (a) This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior agreements and understandings, both oral and written, between the parties with respect to such subject matter. (b) This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure solely to the benefit of each party hereto and their respective successors and permitted assigns, and nothing in this Agreement, express or implied, is intended to or shall confer upon any other Person any right, benefit or remedy of any nature whatsoever under or by reason of this Agreement. 5.13 Termination. Section 2(a) of this Agreement shall terminate at such time as the Indebtedness of the Company is no longer attributable to AOLTW (such determination to be made in AOLTW's reasonable judgment). Sections 2(b), 2(c), 4.1, 4.2 and 4.3 of this Agreement shall terminate at such time as the Company is no longer a Subsidiary of AOLTW. 5.14 Further Assurances. Each of the parties shall, and shall cause their respective Affiliates to, execute such documents and perform such further acts
11 as may be reasonably required or desirable to carry out or to perform the provisions of this Agreement. [Remainder of page intentionally left blank]
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed, or have caused to be executed, this Parent Agreement on the date first written above. TIME WARNER CABLE INC. By: /s/ Marc J. Apfelbaum ----------------------------------------- Name: Marc J. Apfelbaum Title: Executive Vice President, General Counsel & Secretary AOL TIME WARNER INC. By: /s/ Spencer B. Hays ----------------------------------------- Name: Spencer B. Hays Title: Senior Vice President TWE HOLDINGS II TRUST By: /s/ Edith E. Holiday ----------------------------------------- Name: Edith E. Holiday, solely in her capacity as operating trustee

EXHIBIT: 10.6 EXECUTION COPY ================================================================================ PARTNERSHIP INTEREST SALE AGREEMENT among TIME WARNER CABLE INC., AOL TIME WARNER INC., COMCAST CORPORATION and TWE HOLDINGS I TRUST Dated: March 31, 2003 ================================================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PARTNERSHIP INTEREST SALE AGREEMENT PARTNERSHIP INTEREST SALE AGREEMENT (this "Agreement"), dated March 31, 2003, among Time Warner Cable Inc., a Delaware corporation (formerly named MOTH Holdings, Inc., the "Company"), AOL Time Warner Inc., a Delaware corporation ("AOLTW"), TWE Holdings I Trust, a Delaware statutory trust ("Trust I"), and, solely for the purposes of Section 6(c) hereof, Comcast Corporation, a Pennsylvania corporation (formerly named AT&T Comcast Corporation, "Comcast"). WHEREAS, effective as of and in consideration of the closing of the transactions contemplated by the Restructuring Agreement, dated as of August 20, 2002 (as amended, the "Restructuring Agreement"), by and among the Company, AOLTW, Comcast and the other parties thereto, the parties wish to provide for certain rights with respect to the Disposition (as defined below) of the partnership interest (the "Partnership Interest") held by Trust I or any other Trust I Partner (as defined below) in Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P. ("TWE"); WHEREAS, pursuant to the Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of TWE, dated the date hereof (as amended, the "Partnership Agreement"), a Trust I Partner may Dispose of all or any portion of its Partnership Interest only in a Pre-Transfer Date Permitted Transfer (as defined in the Partnership Agreement) or, from and after the Transfer Date (as defined below), in a Permitted Transfer (as defined below); and WHEREAS, a Disposition in accordance with this Agreement constitutes a Permitted Transfer. NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements set forth herein and for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows: 1. Definitions. As used in this Agreement, and unless the context requires a different meaning, the following terms have the meanings indicated: "AAA" has the meaning set forth in Section 3(d)(ii). "Acquisition" has the meaning set forth in the Restructuring Agreement. "Affiliate" has the meaning set forth in the Partnership Agreement. "Agreement" means this Agreement as the same may be amended, supplemented or modified in accordance with the terms hereof. "AOLTW" has the meaning set forth in the preamble. "AOLTW Common Stock" means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of AOLTW, or any class of common stock of AOLTW into which such common stock is recapitalized.
2 "AOLTW Exercise Notice" has the meaning set forth in Section 3(b). "AOLTW Matching Notice" has the meaning set forth in Section 4(d). "AOLTW Matching Period" has the meaning set forth in Section 4(d). "AOLTW Matching Price" has the meaning set forth in Section 4(d). "AOLTW Matching Right" has the meaning set forth in Section 4(d). "AOLTW Option" has the meaning set forth in Section 3(b). "AOLTW Option Period" has the meaning set forth in Section 3(b). "AOLTW Purchase Price" has the meaning set forth in Section 3(b). "Appraisal Notice" has the meaning set forth in Section 3(a). "Appraisal Right" has the meaning set forth in Section 3(a). "Business Day" means a day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in New York City are authorized or required by law or executive order to close. "Comcast" has the meaning set forth in the preamble. "Company" has the meaning set forth in the preamble. "Company Matching Notice" has the meaning set forth in Section 4(e). "Company Matching Period" has the meaning set forth in Section 4(e). "Company Matching Price" has the meaning set forth in Section 4(e). "Company Matching Right" has the meaning set forth in Section 4(e). "Company Purchase Price" has the meaning set forth in Section 3(c). "Disposition" has the meaning set forth in the Restructuring Agreement "Investment Banking Firm" means an investment banking firm of national reputation. "NASDAQ" means the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System. "NYSE" means the New York Stock Exchange. "Offered Interest" has the meaning set forth in Section 3(a).
3 "Offered Interest FMV" has the meaning set forth in Section 3(d). "Partnership Agreement" has the meaning set forth in the recitals. "Partnership Interest" has the meaning set forth in the recitals. "Permitted Transfer" has the meaning set forth in the Partnership Agreement. "Person" means an individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, association, trust, joint venture or other entity or organization, including a government entity or any department, agency or political subdivision thereof. "Prohibited Activity" means, with respect to any Valuation Period: (a) any Acquisition or Disposition, in open market transactions, private transactions, or otherwise, during the period beginning on (and including) the first day of the Valuation Period and ending on (and including) the last day of the Valuation Period, of (i) any shares of AOLTW Common Stock or Time Warner Cable Common Equity, as applicable (i.e., if the applicable shares are to be delivered in full or partial satisfaction of the purchase price), or (ii) any securities convertible into or exchangeable for or derivative of shares of AOLTW Common Stock or Time Warner Cable Common Equity, as applicable (other than, in each case, (A) shares (including restricted shares) or options to acquire shares issued to or Acquired by directors, officers, employees or consultants pursuant to any existing employee benefit plan of AOLTW or any of its Subsidiaries, the AOL Time Warner Inc. 2003 Stock Incentive Plan, any employee benefit plan assumed by AOLTW or any of its Subsidiaries in connection with the acquisition of a business, or any employee benefit plan of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, (B) sales or other Dispositions of shares by directors, officers or employees, (C) shares Acquired or Disposed of in the ordinary course of business pursuant to the ISDA Master Agreement, dated as of February 11, 2002, between Merrill Lynch International and TWE or any Transactions (as defined therein) or (D) shares Acquired or Disposed of in the ordinary course of business pursuant to the ISDA Master Agreement, dated as of February 11, 2002, between Merrill Lynch International and AOLTW or any Transactions (as defined therein)), in each of clauses (C) and (D), in connection with prepaid forward contracts relating to AOLTW or TWE deferred compensation plans), or (b) any other action taken intentionally for the purpose of manipulating the price of AOLTW Common Stock or Time Warner Cable Common Equity, as applicable, during the Valuation Period. "Prospective Purchaser" has the meaning set forth in Section 4(b). "Restructuring Agreement" has the meaning set forth in the recitals. "Sale Notice" has the meaning set forth in Section 4(b). "Sale Price" has the meaning set forth in Section 4(b). "Sale Right" has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).
4 "Selling Partner" has the meaning set forth in Section 2. "Stock Election Notice" has the meaning set forth in Section 5(a). "Subsidiary" has the meaning set forth in the Partnership Agreement. "Time Warner Cable Common Stock" means the Class A Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company, or any class of common stock into which such common stock is recapitalized. "Time Warner Cable Class B Common Stock" means the Class B Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company, or any class of common stock into which such common stock is recapitalized. "Time Warner Cable Common Equity" means Time Warner Cable Common Stock and Time Warner Cable Class B Common Stock. "Trading Day" has the meaning set forth in Section 5(c). "Trading Value" has the meaning set forth in Section 5(c). "Transfer Date" means the second anniversary of the date hereof. "Trust I" has the meaning set forth in the preamble. "Trust II" has the meaning set forth in Section 5(a). "Trust I Partner" has the meaning set forth in the Partnership Agreement. "TWE" has the meaning set forth in the recitals. "Valuation Period" means the period beginning on (and including) the day that is seventeen (17) Trading Days prior to the closing of any Disposition of an Offered Interest pursuant to Section 3 or 4 hereof with respect to which AOLTW and/or the Company has delivered a Stock Election Notice, and ending on (and including) the day that is two (2) Trading Days prior to such closing.
5 2. Trust Disposition Rights. Following the Transfer Date, if any Trust I Partner (any such Trust I Partner, a "Selling Partner") wishes to Dispose of all or any portion of its Partnership Interest in accordance with this Agreement, it shall effectuate such Disposition by exercising either its Appraisal Right (as defined in Section 3(a)) or its Sale Right (as defined in Section 4(a)); provided that (a) no Selling Partner shall be entitled to exercise any Appraisal Right or Sale Right in respect of any Offered Interest (as defined below) while it is pursuing its Sale Right or Appraisal Right, respectively, in respect of such Offered Interest or its Appraisal Right or Sale Right in respect of any other Offered Interest and (b) any Disposition must comply with Section 3.1 of the Partnership Agreement. Prior to the Transfer Date, except as provided in the second proviso to Section 3.1(a) of the Partnership Agreement, no Trust I Partner shall enter into an agreement to Dispose of all or any portion of its Partnership Interest. 3. Appraisal Right. (a) Following the Transfer Date, the Selling Partner shall have the right (the "Appraisal Right") to Dispose of all or any portion of its Partnership Interest (the "Offered Interest") pursuant to this Section 3 by delivery of written notice (the "Appraisal Notice") to AOLTW and the Company (it being understood that no such notice may be delivered prior to the Transfer Date). (b) For a period of fifteen (15) days after receipt of the Appraisal Notice (the "AOLTW Option Period"), AOLTW shall have the right (the "AOLTW Option") but not the obligation to elect to purchase all or any portion of the Offered Interest at a purchase price (the "AOLTW Purchase Price") equal to (x) the percentage of the Offered Interest AOLTW proposes to purchase multiplied by (y) the Offered Interest FMV (as defined in Section 3(d) below). The AOLTW Option shall be exercisable by giving written notice (the "AOLTW Exercise Notice") of the exercise thereof, prior to the expiration of the AOLTW Option Period, to the Selling Partner, with a copy to the Company, which notice shall state the portion of the Offered Interest to be purchased by AOLTW. Upon delivery of the AOLTW Exercise Notice, AOLTW shall be obligated to purchase, and the Selling Partner shall be obligated to sell, the Offered Interest specified in the AOLTW Exercise Notice for the AOLTW Purchase Price. The failure of AOLTW to respond within the AOLTW Option Period shall be deemed to be an election by AOLTW not to purchase any of the Offered Interest and shall be a waiver of the AOLTW Option; provided that AOLTW may elect not to purchase the Offered Interest and to waive its rights under this Section 3(b) prior to the expiration of the AOLTW Option Period by giving written notice to the Selling Partner, with a copy to the Company. (c) If AOLTW does not elect to purchase all of the Offered Interest, then the Company shall be obligated to purchase, and the Selling Partner shall be obligated to sell, the remaining portion of the Offered Interest for a purchase price (the "Company Purchase Price") equal to (x) the percentage of the Offered Interest not purchased by AOLTW multiplied by (y) the Offered Interest FMV.
6 (d) The "Offered Interest FMV" shall be determined as follows: (i) Upon delivery of an Appraisal Notice, the Selling Partner shall, by written notice to the Company, designate an Investment Banking Firm to prepare a valuation of the Offered Interest. Within five (5) days of delivery of the Appraisal Notice, the Company shall, by written notice to the Selling Partner, designate a second Investment Banking Firm to prepare a valuation of the Offered Interest; provided that if the Company fails to designate an Investment Banking Firm within such 5-day period, the Investment Banking Firm selected by the Selling Partner shall determine the Offered Interest FMV, without regard to the remainder of this Section 3(d), in accordance with the guidelines set forth on Exhibit A. (ii) Within ten (10) days following the designation by the Company of the second Investment Banking Firm pursuant to Section 3(d)(i), if such second Investment Banking Firm has been so designated, the two Investment Banking Firms shall select a third Investment Banking Firm and the Selling Partner and the Company shall engage such third Investment Banking Firm on reasonable and customary terms. If the two Investment Banking Firms are unable to agree on the identity of a third Investment Banking Firm within such 10-day period, or the Selling Partner and the Company are unable to agree as to the terms of engagement for such firm within such period, then either the Selling Partner or the Company may refer the matter to the American Arbitration Association (the "AAA") which shall select such third Investment Banking Firm, and establish the terms of engagement of such firm, within fifteen (15) days following such request; provided that all parties shall be given notice of such referral and afforded the opportunity to participate in any presentations to be made to the AAA. The firm selected by the AAA shall not derive a material portion of its revenues from the Selling Partner, the Company or any of their respective Affiliates, shall have experience in valuing companies engaged in the same business then engaged in by TWE and shall be engaged on reasonable and customary terms. (iii) No later than thirty (30) days following the delivery of the Appraisal Notice, the Investment Banking Firm selected by the Selling Partner and the Investment Banking Firm selected by the Company shall simultaneously disclose to each other their respective determinations of the fair market value of the Offered Interest, each of which shall be prepared in accordance with the guidelines set forth in Exhibit A; provided that if either Investment Banking Firm is not prepared to disclose its valuation on such day, the valuation of the Investment Banking Firm that is so prepared shall be the Offered Interest FMV. If the amount of the higher of the values determined by the two Investment Banking Firms is no more than 110% of the lower value, such values will be averaged and such average shall be the Offered Interest FMV. If the amount of the higher of the values determined by the two Investment Banking Firms is more than 110% of the lower value, then on a day no later than forty (40) days after the delivery of the Appraisal Notice, each of the two Investment Banking Firms will make a presentation to the third Investment Banking Firm, regarding the methodology and conclusions used by it in arriving at its valuation. Each party and such party's
7 Investment Banking Firm shall be entitled to attend the presentation of the other party's Investment Banking Firm. Within five (5) days following the presentations, the third Investment Banking Firm shall determine which valuation more accurately reflects the value of the Offered Interest, and such valuation shall be the Offered Interest FMV and shall be final and binding upon the parties. (iv) Each party will pay the fees and expenses of the Investment Banking Firm it selects and 50% of the fees and expenses of the third Investment Banking Firm. If the parties are unable to agree on the fees payable to the third Investment Banking Firm, the fees shall be set by the AAA and the parties shall each be liable for 50% of such fees. (e) The Company will supply, subject to the recipients entering into customary confidentiality agreements, the following information regarding TWE and the Company to the Investment Banking Firms and to the Selling Partner within fifteen (15) days of delivery of the Appraisal Notice (except that information to be provided pursuant to a request under "(4)" below shall be provided as soon as reasonably practicable after the date of such request): (1) 3 years of historical financial statements, (2) current year interim quarterly financial statements, (3) certain operating statistics (e.g. subscribers, homes passed, rebuild status) and (4) other due diligence items that any appraiser may reasonably request (but, with respect to (4), only to the extent such information exists or is readily available within the relevant time period). In addition to such information, if, upon the delivery of an Appraisal Notice, the Selling Partner elects in writing to have the Company prepare projections for the Company and TWE for the then-current fiscal year and one (1) prospective year, then the Company shall have sixty (60) days to deliver such projections to the Investment Banking Firms and to the Selling Partner and the 30-day and 40-day time periods set forth in Section 3(d)(iii) shall be adjusted to 75-day and 85-day periods, respectively; provided that unless the Selling Partner so elects to have the Company prepare projections for the Company and TWE as described in this sentence, then none of the Investment Banking Firms shall utilize projections in determining the value of the Offered Interest, other than projections that have previously been made available (by the Company, analysts or otherwise) to the general public (to the extent that such projections are relevant). The Company shall make its executive officers available for due diligence sessions, as reasonably requested. (f) The consummation of any purchase of the Offered Interest by AOLTW and/or the Company pursuant to this Section 3 shall be held at a single closing at the executive office of the Company at 11:00 a.m., local time, on a Business Day within 30 days following the determination of the Offered Interest FMV pursuant to Section 3(d) (upon at least five (5) days' notice to the Selling Partner); provided that such period shall be extended for 90 additional days, or such shorter period of time, as shall be necessary in order to obtain requisite governmental or regulatory approvals with respect to such transaction (which the parties shall use their respective commercially reasonable efforts to obtain as promptly as practicable), or as provided in Section 5(a); and provided further, that such closing may be held at such other time and place as the parties to the transaction may agree. At such closing, AOLTW and/or the
8 Company shall, severally (with respect to itself) and not jointly, pay to the Selling Partner the AOLTW Purchase Price and/or the Company Purchase Price, as applicable, in respect of the portion of the Offered Interest to be purchased by such party in any combination of (x) cash, which shall be payable by wire transfer of immediately available funds, and (y) validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable shares of AOLTW Common Stock (in the case of the AOLTW Purchase Price) or Time Warner Cable Common Stock (in the case of the Company Purchase Price) (the fair market value of which will be determined pursuant to Section 5 below) pursuant to such instruments as may be reasonably necessary to deliver the AOLTW Common Stock or Time Warner Cable Common Stock, as applicable, and in appropriate form for transfer, free and clear of any lien or other encumbrance, and the Selling Partner shall, pursuant to such instruments as may be reasonably necessary, deliver to AOLTW and/or the Company, as applicable, the Offered Interest to be sold at such closing, in appropriate form for transfer, free and clear of any lien or other encumbrance. 4. Sale Right. (a) Following the Transfer Date, the Selling Partner shall have the right (the "Sale Right") to Dispose of all or any portion of its Offered Interest to any Person pursuant to this Section 4, so long as the Selling Partner first complies with clauses (b) through (h) below. (b) The Selling Partner shall give written notice (the "Sale Notice") to AOLTW and the Company (it being understood that no such notice may be delivered prior to the Transfer Date), which Sale Notice shall state (i) the name of the Person (the "Prospective Purchaser") to whom the Selling Partner wishes to Dispose of such Offered Interest, and, if such Prospective Purchaser is a Subsidiary of another Person, the name of the Ultimate Parent (as defined in the Partnership Agreement) of such Prospective Purchaser, neither of which Persons may be an Affiliate of, or otherwise acting in concert to circumvent the provisions of this Section 4 with, the Selling Partner (ii) the price to be paid for such Offered Interest (the "Sale Price"), which price must be payable in cash upon consummation of such Disposition, (iii) the date on which such Disposition is scheduled to occur and (iv) that the offer of the Prospective Purchaser was made after the Transfer Date and has been accepted by the Selling Partner subject to the rights of AOLTW and the Company contained in this Agreement. (c) The Sale Notice shall be accompanied by a certificate of the Prospective Purchaser (and, if such Prospective Purchaser is a Subsidiary of another Person, then also a certificate of the Ultimate Parent of such Prospective Purchaser) stating that (i) its offer to purchase the Offered Interest has been approved by its board of directors (or, if such Person is not a corporation, the equivalent), (ii) the description of its offer contained in the Sale Notice is complete and accurate in accordance with the requirements of this Section 4, (iii) adequate financing arrangements have been, or are reasonably expected to be, secured in respect of its offer, (iv) its offer is reasonably capable of being consummated and that there are no significant regulatory impediments to such consummation (other than any required regulatory approval
9 disclosed in the Sale Notice) and (v) it is aware of the rights of AOLTW and the Company contained in this Agreement and that it is not an Affiliate of, or otherwise acting in concert to circumvent the provisions of this Section 4 with, the Selling Partner. (d) For a period of fifteen (15) days after receipt of the Sale Notice and the certificate required by Section 4(c) above (the "AOLTW Matching Period"), AOLTW shall have the right (the "AOLTW Matching Right") but not the obligation to elect to purchase all or any portion of the Offered Interest at a purchase price (the "AOLTW Matching Price") equal to (x) the percentage of the Offered Interest AOLTW proposes to purchase multiplied by (y) the Sale Price. The AOLTW Matching Right shall be exercisable by giving written notice (the "AOLTW Matching Notice") of the exercise thereof, prior to the expiration of the AOLTW Matching Period, to the Selling Partner, with a copy to the Company, which notice shall state the portion of the Offered Interest to be purchased by AOLTW. Upon delivery of the AOLTW Matching Notice, subject to Section 4(f) below, AOLTW shall be obligated to purchase, and the Selling Partner shall be obligated to sell, the Offered Interest specified in the AOLTW Matching Notice at the AOLTW Matching Price and upon the terms and conditions set forth in the Sale Notice, except that AOLTW (or any Affiliate thereof) shall be entitled to pay all or any portion of the AOLTW Matching Price in shares of AOLTW Common Stock as provided in Section 5 below. The failure of AOLTW to respond within the AOLTW Matching Period shall be deemed to be an election by AOLTW not to purchase any of the Offered Interest and shall be a waiver of the AOLTW Matching Right; provided that AOLTW may elect not to purchase the Offered Interest and to waive its rights under this Section 4(d) prior to the expiration of the AOLTW Matching Period by giving written notice to the Selling Partner, with a copy to the Company. (e) If AOLTW does not elect to purchase all of the Offered Interest, then for a period of five (5) days after the earlier to occur of (a) the expiration of the AOLTW Matching Period and (b) the receipt of the AOLTW Matching Notice (or written notice from AOLTW of its waiver of the AOLTW Matching Right) (the "Company Matching Period"), the Company shall have the right (the "Company Matching Right") but not the obligation to elect to purchase all but not less than all of the remaining Offered Interest at a purchase price (the "Company Matching Price") equal to (x) the percentage of the Offered Interest not purchased by AOLTW multiplied by (y) the Sale Price. The Company Matching Right shall be exercisable by giving written notice (the "Company Matching Notice") of the exercise thereof, prior to the expiration of the Company Matching Period, to the Selling Partner. Upon delivery of the Company Matching Notice, the Company shall be obligated to purchase, and the Selling Partner shall be obligated to sell, all of such remaining Offered Interest for the Company Matching Price and upon the terms and conditions set forth in the Sale Notice, except that the Company (or any Affiliate thereof) shall be entitled to pay all or any portion of the Company Matching Price in shares of Time Warner Cable Common Stock as provided in Section 5 below. The failure of the Company to respond within the Company Matching Period shall be deemed to be an election by the Company not to purchase the remaining Offered Interest and shall be deemed to be a waiver of the Company Matching Right; provided that the Company may waive its rights under this Section 4(e) prior to the
10 expiration of the Company Matching Period by giving written notice to the Selling Partner. (f) If AOLTW and the Company (individually or in the aggregate) do not elect to purchase all of the Offered Interest pursuant to Sections 4(d) and 4(e) above, the Selling Partner shall have the right to Dispose of all but not less than all of the Offered Interest to the Prospective Purchaser upon terms and conditions that are no more favorable to the Prospective Purchaser with respect to the Offered Interest than those contained in the Sale Notice; provided that such sale is bona fide and made within 45 days after the date of the expiration of the Company Matching Period (as such may be extended for 90 additional days, or such shorter period of time, as shall be necessary in order to obtain requisite governmental or regulatory approvals with respect to such transaction). Upon closing of any such Disposition, the Prospective Purchaser shall succeed to all of the rights and be subject to all of the obligations of the Selling Partner under this Agreement (including, without limitation, Sections 3 and 4 hereof) and the Partnership Agreement. (g) The consummation of any purchase of the Offered Interest by AOLTW and/or the Company pursuant to this Section 4 shall be held at a single closing at the executive office of the Company at 11:00 a.m., local time, on a Business Day within 30 days following the delivery of the Company Matching Notice (upon at least five (5) days' notice to the Selling Partner); provided that such period shall be extended for 90 additional days, or such shorter period of time, as shall be necessary in order to obtain requisite governmental or regulatory approvals with respect to such transaction (which the parties shall use their respective commercially reasonable efforts to obtain as promptly as practicable), or as provided in Section 5(a); and provided, further, that such closing may be held at such other time and place as the parties to the transaction may agree. At such closing, AOLTW and/or the Company shall, severally (with respect to itself) and not jointly, pay to the Selling Partner the AOLTW Matching Price and/or the Company Matching Price in respect of the portion of the Offered Interest to be purchased by such party in any combination of (x) cash, which shall be payable by wire transfer of immediately available funds, and (y) validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable shares of AOLTW Common Stock (in the case of the AOLTW Matching Price) or Time Warner Cable Common Stock (in the case of the Company Matching Price) (the fair market value of which will be determined pursuant to Section 5 below) pursuant to such instruments as may be reasonably necessary to deliver the AOLTW Common Stock or Time Warner Cable Common Stock, as applicable, and in appropriate form for transfer, free and clear of any lien or other encumbrance, and the Selling Partner shall, pursuant to such instruments as may be reasonably necessary, deliver to AOLTW and/or the Company, as applicable, the Offered Interest to be sold at such closing, in appropriate form for transfer, free and clear of any lien or other encumbrance. (h) If the Selling Partner does not complete the sale of all of the Offered Interest to (x) a Prospective Purchaser in accordance with the time period specified in Section 4(f) above (or affirmatively waives the right to complete such sale, in writing, prior to the expiration of such period) or (y) AOLTW and/or the
11 Company in the time period specified in Section 4(g) above (other than as a result of a breach by AOLTW or the Company of such party's obligations under this Section 4), then in each case, the provisions of this Section 4 shall again be applicable and the Selling Partner shall again be permitted to elect to exercise either its Appraisal Right or its Sale Right with respect to any Offered Interest, as provided in Section 2; provided, that in the case of a failure to complete a sale to a Prospective Purchaser (other than as a result of a breach by AOLTW or the Company of such party's obligations under this Section 4), such Selling Partner shall not be entitled to exercise its Sale Right or Appraisal Right until sixty (60) days after the expiration of the 45-day period referred to in Section 4(f) (or such longer period to which such 45-day period has been extended pursuant to Section 4(f)); provided, further, that if the Selling Partner has waived its right to complete the sale to a Prospective Purchaser pursuant to clause (x) above, such 60-day period shall commence on the date of such waiver. 5. Provisions Relating to Common Stock. (a) If any portion of the purchase price payable by AOLTW or the Company pursuant to Section 3 or 4 is to be paid in shares of AOLTW Common Stock or Time Warner Cable Common Stock, as applicable, then (x) the fair market value of such shares shall be deemed to be equal to the average (rounded to the nearest 1/10,000) of the Trading Values (as defined below) of a share of AOLTW Common Stock or Time Warner Cable Common Stock, as applicable, for each of the fifteen (15) consecutive Trading Days ending two (2) Trading Days prior to the applicable closing date, (y) any shares of Time Warner Cable Common Stock received by the Selling Partner shall, after they are issued to such Selling Partner, be deemed to be "Registrable Securities" held by TWE Holdings II Trust, a Delaware statutory trust ("Trust II") (or its permitted transferee), under the Registration Rights Agreement, dated the date hereof, among the Company, AOLTW and Trust II (provided that, if such Selling Partner is not then a party to such Agreement, such shares shall only be deemed to be Registrable Securities if Trust II agrees to transfer all or a portion of its right thereunder to such Selling Partner and such Selling Partner agrees to be bound by the terms and conditions of such agreement) and (z) any shares of AOLTW Common Stock received by the Selling Partner shall, after they are issued to such Selling Partner, have registration rights substantially identical to the rights of Trust II (or its permitted transferee) under the Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of August 20, 2002, as amended, between AOLTW and Trust II (as assignee of Comcast of Georgia, Inc. (formerly named MediaOne of Colorado, Inc.), a Colorado corporation); provided that promptly upon exercise by AOLTW of any right to use AOLTW Common Stock as a portion of the purchase price pursuant to Section 3 or 4, AOLTW will use all commercially reasonable efforts to have a "shelf" registration statement declared effective as of the date the AOLTW Common Stock is delivered pursuant hereto or as promptly thereafter as practicable. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, no shares of AOLTW Common Stock or Time Warner Cable Common Stock, as applicable, may be delivered in full or partial satisfaction of any purchase price payable pursuant to Section 3 or Section 4, (A) if shares of such class are not then admitted for trading on the NYSE or for quotation on NASDAQ or (B) if AOLTW and/or
12 the Company, as applicable, has not delivered to the Selling Partner written notice (a "Stock Election Notice") setting forth (i) such party's election (which election shall be irrevocable) to deliver such shares in full or partial satisfaction of any such purchase price (which Stock Election Notice shall specify what portion of the purchase price will be satisfied in shares) and (ii) the closing date designated for the closing of such purchase, which closing date (x) shall comply with the requirements of Section 3(f) or 4(g), as applicable and (y) shall be no fewer than twenty (20) Trading Days subsequent to the date of such Stock Election Notice; provided that if, as a result of events subsequent to the delivery of the Stock Election Notice the number of Trading Days between the date of delivery of a Stock Election Notice and the date of closing set forth in such Stock Election Notice is fewer than twenty (20), such closing date shall be extended to the extent necessary such that there are no fewer than twenty (20) Trading Days between the date of such delivery and such closing date. (b) The parties hereto shall not, and shall cause their respective Affiliates, agents and representatives not to, engage in, announce an intention to engage in, or act in concert with any Person to engage in, a Prohibited Activity. (c) For the purposes of this Agreement, (x) the term "Trading Value" means, with respect to any AOLTW Common Stock or Time Warner Cable Common Stock on any given Trading Day, the volume weighted trading price (rounded to the nearest 1/10,000) of such security on the NYSE or NASDAQ, as applicable, as reported by Bloomberg Financial Markets (or such other source as the Selling Partner and the Company shall agree) for that Trading Day, and (y) the term "Trading Day" means any day on which shares of AOLTW Common Stock or Time Warner Cable Common Stock, as applicable, are traded on the NYSE or NASDAQ, as applicable. 6. Miscellaneous. (a) Notices. All notices, demands or other communications provided for or permitted hereunder shall be made in writing and shall be by registered or certified first class mail, return receipt requested, telecopier, courier service or personal delivery: if to AOLTW or the Company, to: 75 Rockefeller Plaza New York, New York 10019 Attention: Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Fax: (212) 258-3172
13 With a copy to: Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP 1285 Avenue of the Americas New York, NY 10019 Attention: Robert B. Schumer Fax: (212) 757-3990 if to Trust I, to: TWE Holdings I Trust c/o Edith E. Holiday 801 West Street 2nd Floor Wilmington, DE 19801 Fax: (302) 428-1410 With a copy to: Sullivan & Cromwell LLP 125 Broad Street New York, NY 10004 Attention: James C. Morphy, Esq. Fax: (212) 588-3588 And a copy to: Potter Anderson & Corroon LLP Hercules Plaza, 1313 N. Market Street P.O. Box 951 Wilmington, Delaware 19899-0951 Attention: Leonard S. Togman Fax: (302) 658-1192 And a copy to: Comcast Corporation 1500 Market Street Philadelphia, PA 19102 Attention: General Counsel Fax: (215) 981-7794 And a copy to: Davis Polk & Wardwell 450 Lexington Avenue New York, New York 10017 Attention: Dennis S. Hersch William L. Taylor Fax: (212) 450-4800
14 if to Comcast, to: Comcast Corporation 1500 Market Street Philadelphia, PA 19102 Attention: General Counsel Fax: (215) 981-7794 With a copy to: Davis Polk & Wardwell 450 Lexington Avenue New York, New York 10017 Attention: Dennis S. Hersch William L. Taylor Fax: (212) 450-4800 or such other address or facsimile number as such party hereto may hereafter specify for such purpose by notice to the other parties hereto. All such notices, requests and other communications shall be deemed received on the date of receipt by the recipient thereof if received prior to 5 p.m. on a Business Day, in the place of receipt. Otherwise, any such notice, request or communication shall be deemed not to have been received until the next succeeding Business Day in the place of receipt. (b) Successors and Assigns. The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns; provided that no party hereto may assign, delegate or transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the consent of the other parties hereto; provided, further, that if any Trust I Partner transfers all or any portion of its Partnership Interest to any other Person in accordance with the Partnership Agreement, the rights and obligations of such Trust I Partner under this Agreement, to the extent relating to and in the proportion of the Partnership Interest transferred, shall be assigned to and assumed by such transferee. (c) Covenant of Comcast. Comcast shall cause (i) any Prospective Purchaser and any Trust I Partner (and any direct or indirect transferee thereof) to whom all or any portion of the Trust I Partnership Interest (as defined in the Partnership Agreement) is transferred to deliver an agreement, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to AOLTW and the Company, to the Company and AOLTW agreeing to be bound by and entitled to the benefits of the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the Partnership Agreement and (ii) for so long as such Person (and any direct or indirect transferee thereof) is an Affiliate of Comcast, Trust I and any other Trust I Partner to comply with all of the obligations of such Trust I Partner hereunder. (d) Amendment and Waiver. (i) Any amendment, supplement or modification of or to any provision of this Agreement, any waiver of any provision of this
15 Agreement, and any consent to any departure by any party from the terms of any provision of this Agreement, shall be effective only if it is made or given in writing and signed by (i) the Company, (ii) AOLTW, (iii) the Trust I Partners holding a majority of the Trust I Partnership Interest, and (iv) with respect to any amendment, supplement or modification of, or of any defined term used in, Section 6(c) of this Agreement, Comcast. Any such amendment, supplement, modification, waiver or consent shall be binding upon all of the parties hereto. (ii) No failure or delay on the part of any party hereto in exercising any right, power or remedy hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise thereof preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, power or remedy. The rights and remedies provided for herein are cumulative and are not exclusive of any rights and remedies that may be available to the parties hereto at law, in equity or otherwise. (e) Counterparts; Effectiveness. This Agreement may be signed in counterparts, each of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument. This Agreement shall become effective when each party hereto shall have received a counterpart hereof signed by the other parties hereto. (f) Headings. The headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning hereof. (g) GOVERNING LAW. THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO THE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW THEREOF. (h) Jurisdiction. Any suit, action or proceeding seeking to enforce any provision of, or based on any matter arising out of or in connection with, this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby shall be brought in any federal court located in the State of New York or any New York state court, and each of the parties hereby consents to the exclusive jurisdiction of such courts (and of the appropriate appellate courts therefrom) in any such suit, action or proceeding and irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the laying of the venue of any such suit, action or proceeding in any such court or that any such suit, action or proceeding brought in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum. Process in any such suit, action or proceeding may be served on any party hereto anywhere in the world, whether within or without the jurisdiction of any such court. (i) WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATED TO THIS AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY.
16 (j) Severability. If any term, provision, covenant or restriction of this Agreement is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction or other authority to be invalid, void or unenforceable, the remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect and shall in no way be affected, impaired or invalidated so long as the economic or legal substance of the transactions contemplated hereby is not affected in any manner adverse to any party hereto. Upon such a determination, the parties hereto shall negotiate in good faith to modify this Agreement so as to effect the original intent of the parties as closely as possible in an acceptable manner so that the transactions contemplated hereby may be consummated as originally contemplated to the fullest extent possible. (k) Specific Performance. The parties hereto agree that irreparable damage would occur if any provision of this Agreement were not performed in accordance with the terms hereof and that the parties shall be entitled to an injunction or injunctions to enforce specifically the performance of the terms and provisions hereof in any federal court located in the State of New York or any New York state court, in addition to any other remedy to which they are entitled at law or in equity. (l) Rules of Construction. Unless the context otherwise requires, references to sections or subsections refer to sections or subsections of this Agreement. (m) Entire Agreement. This Agreement (together with the Partnership Agreement) constitutes the entire agreement between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior agreements and understandings, both oral and written, between the parties with respect to such subject matter. (n) Further Assurances. Each of the parties shall, and shall cause their respective Affiliates to, execute such documents and perform such further acts as may be reasonably required or desirable to carry out or to perform the provisions of this Agreement.
17 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed, or have caused to be executed, this Partnership Interest Sale Agreement on the date first written above; provided, however, Comcast is a party to this Agreement solely for purposes of being bound by Section 6(c) hereof. TIME WARNER CABLE INC. By: /s/ Marc J. Apfelbaum ----------------------------------------- Name: Marc J. Apfelbaum Title: Executive Vice President, General Counsel & Secretary AOL TIME WARNER INC. By: /s/ Spencer B. Hays ----------------------------------------- Name: Spencer B. Hays Title: Senior Vice President TWE HOLDINGS I TRUST By: /s/ Edith E. Holiday ----------------------------------------- Name: Edith E. Holiday, solely in her capacity as operating trustee COMCAST CORPORATION By: /s/ Robert S. Pick ----------------------------------------- Name: Robert S. Pick Title: Senior Vice President
EXHIBIT A VALUATION GUIDELINES (a) Valuation of the Offered Interest will be based upon the fully distributed public market value of the common equity of TWE assuming TWE was a corporation and all such common equity was represented by a single class of common stock. Such valuation will be determined without regard to offering discounts or any discount in respect of liquidity, corporate structure (including, without limitation, the fact that TWE is a partnership and that the stake is a minority interest) or tax liability from any allocation of taxable income in respect of the Offered Interest, and will assume, notwithstanding any facts to the contrary, that TWE is not to be liquidated in the near future; provided that if TWE is in fact in the process of being liquidated or is to be liquidated in the near future, the valuation shall take into account any economic circumstances leading to such liquidation. (b) Any debt and preferred equity of TWE or any comparable company will be measured at book value for purposes of preparing the valuation. (c) The appraisers will rely on the current public trading values of a group of not more than 3 companies which are comparable to TWE (businesses engaged in the same business, with similar scale, credit quality and capital structures). (d) For purposes of determining a cable-only multiple, the value of the non-cable assets shall be determined as the amount reflected in the relevant company's publicly traded share price as a result of the ownership of such assets. (e) In calculating the value, the appraisers shall disregard any guarantees by TWE or its Subsidiaries of debt or other obligations of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries of debt or other obligations of TWE or its Subsidiaries.

EXHIBIT: 10.7 EXECUTION COPY ================================================================================ REIMBURSEMENT AGREEMENT by and among TIME WARNER CABLE INC., AOL TIME WARNER INC., WARNER COMMUNICATIONS INC., AMERICAN TELEVISION AND COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION and TIME WARNER ENTERTAINMENT COMPANY, L.P. Dated: March 31, 2003 ================================================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS Exhibit A i
REIMBURSEMENT AGREEMENT REIMBURSEMENT AGREEMENT (this "Agreement"), dated March 31, 2003, by and among Time Warner Cable Inc., a Delaware corporation (formerly named MOTH Holdings, Inc., the "Company"), AOL Time Warner Inc., a Delaware corporation ("AOLTW"), Warner Communications Inc., a Delaware corporation ("WCI"), American Television and Communications Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("ATC" and, together with WCI, the "TWE Debt Guarantors") and Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership ("TWE"). WHEREAS, effective as of and in connection with the closing of the transactions contemplated by the Restructuring Agreement, dated as of August 20, 2002 (as amended, the "Restructuring Agreement"), by and among AOLTW, Comcast Corporation, a Pennsylvania corporation (formerly named AT&T Comcast Corporation, "Comcast"), the Company and the other parties thereto, the parties have agreed to enter into certain reimbursement arrangements as hereinafter provided. NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements set forth herein and for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows: 1. Definitions. As used in this Agreement, and unless the context requires a different meaning, the following terms have the meanings indicated: "Affiliate" means, with respect to any Person, any other Person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by or under common control with such Person; provided, that, for purposes of this definition, "control" (including with correlative meanings, the terms "controlled by" and "under common control with"), as used with respect to any Person, shall mean the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities or other equity securities, by contract or otherwise; provided, further, that for purposes of this Agreement the Company and its Subsidiaries shall not be deemed to be Affiliates of AOLTW or any of its Affiliates. "Agreement" means this Agreement as the same may be amended, supplemented or modified in accordance with the terms hereof. "AOLTW" has the meaning set forth in the preamble of this Agreement. "ATC" has the meaning set forth in the preamble of this Agreement. "Board of Directors" means the Board of Directors of the Company. "Beneficiaries" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.1(a) of this Agreement.
2 "Business Day" means a day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in New York City are authorized or required by law to close. "Capital Stock" means the Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of AOLTW or any other class of capital stock of AOLTW (or any predecessor or successor class thereof). "Closing Price" means, with respect to any given date, the last reported sale price of a share of Capital Stock (regular way) on such date as shown on the NYSE Composite Transactions Tape, or, in case no such sale takes place on such day, the average of the closing bid and asked prices of such stock on such day on the NYSE, or, if such stock is not listed or admitted to trading on the NYSE, on the principal national securities exchange on which such stock is listed or admitted to trading, or, if it is not listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, the average of the closing bid and asked prices of such stock on such day as reported by NASDAQ, or, if such stock is not so reported, the average of the closing bid and asked prices of such stock on such day as furnished by any member of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. selected from time to time by AOLTW for that purpose. "Comcast" has the meaning set forth in the recitals to this Agreement. "Company" has the meaning set forth in the preamble to this Agreement. "Company Class A Stock" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.13(b) of this Agreement. "Company Eligible Option Holder" means any officer or other employee of the Company (or any of its Subsidiaries, other than TWE and its Subsidiaries) including, without limitation, any Person who becomes an officer or other employee of the Company (or any of its Subsidiaries, other than TWE and its Subsidiaries) as a result of the transactions contemplated by the Restructuring Agreement, who has been, or from time to time is, issued stock options to purchase shares of Capital Stock. "Company Option Reimbursement Amount" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.1 of this Agreement. "Initial Offering Date" means the date upon which the sale of shares of Class A Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company, or Class B Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company, sold in an initial public offering (whether primary or secondary) of the Company pursuant to an effective registration statement filed by the Company is closed. "NASDAQ" means the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System. "NYSE" means the New York Stock Exchange.
3 "Person" means any individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, firm, group (as such term is used under Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended), joint venture, association, trust, unincorporated organization, estate, trust or other entity. "Restructuring Agreement" has the meaning set forth in the recitals to this Agreement. "Subsidiary" means, with respect to any Person, any other Person of which securities or other ownership interests having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the board of directors or other body performing similar functions are at any time directly or indirectly owned by such Person; provided, that for purposes of this Agreement the Company and its Subsidiaries shall not be deemed to be Subsidiaries of AOLTW or any of its Subsidiaries. "TWE" has the meaning set forth in the preamble to this Agreement. "TWE Eligible Option Holder" means any officer or other employee of TWE and its Subsidiaries, including, without limitation, any Person who becomes an officer or other employee of TWE or any of its Subsidiaries as a result of the transactions contemplated by the Restructuring Agreement, who has been, or from time to time is, issued stock options to purchase shares of Capital Stock. "TWE Indenture" means that certain Indenture, dated as of April 30, 1992, by and among Time Warner Inc., a Delaware Corporation, TWE and The Bank of New York, a New York banking corporation, as trustee, as the same may be amended, amended and restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time. "TWE Option Reimbursement Amount" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.2 of this Agreement. "TWE Public Debt Guarantee" means the guarantee by the TWE Debt Guarantors of TWE's obligations under the TWE Indenture. "TWE Debt Guarantor Payment" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.1 of this Agreement. "TWE Debt Guarantors" has the meaning set forth in the preamble to this Agreement. "WCI" has the meaning set forth in the preamble to this Agreement. 2. Option Reimbursement for AOLTW Options. 2.1 Company Eligible Option Holders. Upon the exercise by any Company Eligible Option Holder of any stock option to purchase shares of Capital Stock, the Company shall promptly (after notice of such exercise is provided by AOLTW to the Company) pay to AOLTW, for each share of Capital Stock so purchased, an
4 amount (such amount, the "Company Option Reimbursement Amount") equal to the excess of (i) the Closing Price of a share of such Capital Stock as of the date of such exercise, over (ii) the aggregate exercise price paid by such Company Eligible Option Holder for each such share of Capital Stock. 2.2 TWE Eligible Option Holders. Upon the exercise by any TWE Eligible Option Holder of any stock option to purchase shares of Capital Stock, TWE shall promptly (after notice of such exercise is provided by AOLTW to the Company) pay to AOLTW, for each share of Capital Stock so purchased, an amount (such amount, the "TWE Option Reimbursement Amount") equal to the excess of (i) the Closing Price of a share of such Capital Stock as of the date of such exercise, over (ii) the aggregate exercise price paid by such TWE Eligible Option Holder for each such share of Capital Stock. 2.3 Assumption of AOLTW Obligations. In lieu of the procedures described in Sections 2.1 and 2.2 above, if satisfactory arrangements are reached with a Company Eligible Option Holder or a TWE Eligible Option Holder, as applicable, at AOLTW's request, the Company or TWE, as applicable, shall agree to assume AOLTW's obligations with respect to any outstanding stock options held by such Company Eligible Option Holder or TWE Eligible Option Holder, as applicable. In such event, upon exercise of any such stock option by such Company Eligible Option Holder or TWE Eligible Option Holder, as applicable, the Company or TWE, as applicable, shall (A) purchase the shares of Capital Stock issuable upon exercise of such stock option from AOLTW at a price (payable in cash) equal to the Closing Price of a share of such Capital Stock on the date of exercise and (B) deliver such shares to the Company Eligible Option Holder or TWE Eligible Option Holder, as applicable, against payment to the Company or TWE by such Company Eligible Option Holder or TWE Eligible Option Holder, as applicable, of the exercise price therefor. 2.4 Consistent Tax Treatment. AOLTW agrees and acknowledges that the Company or TWE, as applicable, shall be entitled to claim the benefit of any federal, state and local income tax deduction with respect to the Company Option Reimbursement Amount and the TWE Option Reimbursement Amount permitted to be deducted by the Company or TWE, as applicable, in accordance with applicable law, and AOLTW shall not take any position inconsistent therewith, unless required by a change in applicable law or a good faith resolution of a contest. In the event AOLTW takes such an inconsistent position as permitted by the preceding sentence, it shall pay to the Company or TWE, as applicable, any tax benefit actually realized as a result of claiming the benefit of any tax deductions with respect to the Company Option Reimbursement Amount or the TWE Option Reimbursement Amount, as applicable; provided, however, that subject to the foregoing, the determination of whether to claim any such benefit, whether by filing an original or amended tax return or otherwise, shall be made by AOLTW in its sole and absolute discretion. For purposes of the foregoing, any such benefit shall be deemed "actually realized" by AOLTW only if and to the extent that AOLTW shall have determined, in its sole reasonable discretion, that its liability for
5 taxes is less than its liability for taxes would have been had it not taken into account any such tax deductions. 2.5 Post-Contribution Option Grants. After the date hereof and prior to the date of the Initial Offering Date, options to purchase Capital Stock shall be granted to officers or employees of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries and to officers or employees of TWE or any of its Subsidiaries only in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practices. 2.6 Post-IPO Option Grants. In no event shall options to purchase Capital Stock be granted to officers or employees of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or to officers or employees of TWE or any of its Subsidiaries after the Initial Offering Date. 3. Reimbursement. 3.1 TWE Debt Guarantor Payments. In the event that any TWE Debt Guarantor makes any payment under its TWE Public Debt Guarantee or any other indebtedness of the Company or its Subsidiaries guaranteed from time to time by the TWE Debt Guarantors (a "TWE Debt Guarantor Payment"): (a) Each of TWE and the Company (the "Beneficiaries") agrees, jointly and severally, to reimburse such TWE Debt Guarantor in full for all TWE Debt Guarantor Payments of such TWE Debt Guarantor together with interest thereon from the date of payment until reimbursed in full at a rate per annum equal to the interest rate on the indebtedness with respect to which such TWE Debt Guarantor Payment was made and without regard to any rights that such Beneficiary may have against any other guarantor of the obligations under the TWE Indenture which might otherwise limit such Beneficiary's liability to reimburse such TWE Debt Guarantor in full; and (b) Each of the Beneficiaries hereby acknowledges that such TWE Debt Guarantor shall be fully subrogated to the extent of its TWE Debt Guarantor Payment to all of the rights and remedies (including without limitation all security interests if any) of the holders under the TWE Indenture against such Beneficiary. 3.2 Priority of Rights. Each of the Beneficiaries hereby agrees that all of the rights of the TWE Debt Guarantors referred to in this Agreement shall have priority over any right of such Beneficiary, whether direct or indirect, by contribution, subrogation, reimbursement, indemnification or otherwise, to demand any payment, contribution or reimbursement whatsoever from the other Beneficiary until such time as any and all TWE Debt Guarantor Payments have been repaid to the respective TWE Debt Guarantors in full and the TWE Debt Guarantors have no further obligations under their respective TWE Debt Guarantees, and until such time such Beneficiary shall not be entitled to exercise any such rights against any other party to this Agreement.
6 3.3 Duty to TWE Debt Guarantors. Except for non-waivable, mandatory duties imposed by law, each of the Beneficiaries hereby acknowledges and agrees that (i) neither of the TWE Debt Guarantors has any duties to them with respect to the method, manner and timing of the exercise or nonexercise of any of such TWE Debt Guarantor's rights to recover payment of any TWE Debt Guarantor Payment of such TWE Debt Guarantor and (ii) to the extent that any such duties may exist, they are hereby waived. 3.4 Authorization of TWE Debt Guarantor Payment. In the event that a TWE Debt Guarantor makes any TWE Debt Guarantor Payment, such TWE Debt Guarantor is hereby irrevocably authorized by each of the Beneficiaries at any time and from time to time without notice to such Beneficiary, any such notice being hereby waived by such Beneficiary, to set off and appropriate and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final), in any currency, and any other credits, indebtedness or claims, in any currency, in each case whether direct or indirect, absolute or contingent, matured or unmatured, at any time held or owing by such TWE Debt Guarantor, its Subsidiaries or its Affiliates to or for the credit or the account of such Beneficiary, or any part thereof in such amounts as such TWE Debt Guarantor may elect, on account of the liabilities of such Beneficiary to such TWE Debt Guarantor in respect of such TWE Debt Guarantor Payment hereunder or under the TWE Indenture, whether or not such TWE Debt Guarantor has made any demand for payment. Such TWE Debt Guarantor shall notify such Beneficiary promptly of any such set-off made by it and the application made by it of the proceeds thereof; provided that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such set-off and application. The rights of each TWE Debt Guarantor under this Section 3 are in addition to other rights and remedies (including, without limitation, other rights of set-off) which such TWE Debt Guarantor may have against such Beneficiary. 3.5 Certain Information. Each of the Beneficiaries, at its own cost and expense, shall provide, or cause to be provided, to the TWE Debt Guarantors, as soon as reasonably practicable after written request therefor, any information in the possession or under the control of such Beneficiary that the requesting TWE Debt Guarantor reasonably requires (i) to comply with reporting, disclosure, filing or other requirements imposed on the requesting TWE Debt Guarantor (including under applicable securities or tax laws) by a governmental authority having jurisdiction over the requesting TWE Debt Guarantor, (ii) for use in any other judicial, regulatory, administrative, tax or other proceeding or in order to satisfy audit, accounting, claims, regulatory, litigation, tax or other similar requirements or (iii) to comply with its obligations under this Agreement; provided, however, that in the event that any party determines that any such provision of information would reasonably be expected to violate any law or agreement or waive any attorney-client privilege, the parties shall take all reasonable measures to permit the compliance with such obligations in a manner that avoids any such consequence. Each of the Beneficiaries intends that any transfer of information that would otherwise be within the attorney-client privilege shall not operate as a waiver of any potentially applicable privilege.
7 3.6 Systems Maintenance. After the date hereof, each of the Beneficiaries shall maintain in effect adequate systems and controls to the extent necessary to enable them to satisfy their respective reporting, accounting, audit and other obligations. 3.7 Compliance with Article Ten of TWE Indenture. Each of the Beneficiaries agrees to comply with the covenants contained in Article Ten of the TWE Indenture as in effect on the date hereof. The provisions of Article Ten of the TWE Indenture and the related definitions are hereby incorporated by reference into this Agreement with the same effect as if set forth fully herein. 4. Company Guarantee. On or prior to the Initial Offering Date, the Company shall enter into a guarantee agreement (in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A or in any other form as the parties shall agree) providing for a guarantee by the Company to the holders of debt securities issued by TWE pursuant to the TWE Indenture. At the request of the Company on or after the Closing, TWE (or any of its Subsidiaries) will execute a guarantee in a similar form in respect of any indebtedness of the Company or its Subsidiaries outstanding from time to time. 5. Employee and Benefit Reimbursement. 5.1 Employee Services. Upon the agreement of AOLTW and the Company, certain employees of AOLTW and/or its Affiliates may from time to time provide services to the Company or its Subsidiaries. From and after the date hereof, the Company or its Subsidiaries, as applicable, shall reimburse AOLTW and/or any such Affiliates, in the manner set forth in Section 5.3 hereof, for the costs of providing such services, including reasonable allocations of compensation, employee benefit plan costs (including administration costs and benefit accruals associated therewith), overhead, and other fixed costs and expenses. 5.2 Benefit Plans. Except as otherwise specifically provided in this Agreement with respect to options to purchase shares of Capital Stock, to the extent that, on or after the date hereof, any current, future or former employees of the Company or its Subsidiaries participate in any benefit plans, programs, or arrangements maintained by AOLTW or any of its Affiliates, the Company or its Subsidiaries, as applicable, shall reimburse AOLTW or, if applicable, such Affiliate or Affiliates, in the manner set forth in Section 5.3 hereof, for all costs, including administration costs and benefit accruals, associated with such employees' participation in the employee benefit plans, programs or arrangements with respect to employment by the Company or its Subsidiaries in a manner that is consistent with past practice; provided, however, that (i) except as set forth in Section 5.1, in the event that any employee described above becomes employed by AOLTW or any of its Affiliates after the Closing (as defined in the Restructuring Agreement), then the Company and its Subsidiaries will not be required to reimburse AOLTW or any of its Affiliates for any costs associated with such employee's participation in employee benefit plans, programs or arrangements while employed by, or on account of such employee's employment with, AOLTW or any of its Affiliates after the Closing and (ii) in the event that any employee of AOLTW or any of its Affiliates
8 becomes employed by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries after the Closing then the Company and its Subsidiaries will not be required to reimburse AOLTW or any of its Affiliates for any costs associated with such employee's participation in employee benefit plans, programs or arrangements while such employee was employed by, or on account of such employee's employment with, AOLTW or any of its Affiliates. 5.3 Method of Reimbursement. Any reimbursement pursuant to Section 5.1 or 5.2 shall be made by the Company or its Subsidiaries, as applicable, in a manner consistent with prior practices of AOLTW and TWE with respect to such reimbursement. 5.4 Other. The provisions of this Agreement will be interpreted in a manner consistent with past practice, except as otherwise expressly provided by this Agreement or in any other agreement or arrangement between or among the parties contemplated by the Restructuring Agreement (or any other Transaction Agreement (as defined therein)) or entered into after the date hereof. 5.5 General. The provisions of this Section 5 shall at all times be subject to the requirements of Article VI of the By-laws of the Company. No reimbursement will be made pursuant to this Section 5 if reimbursement in respect of the same payment or service has been made pursuant to another provision of this Agreement or any other agreement among the parties. 6. Miscellaneous. 6.1 Notices. All notices, demands or other communications provided for or permitted hereunder shall be made in writing and shall be by registered or certified first class mail, return receipt requested, telecopier, courier service or personal delivery: (a) if to the Company or TWE: c/o Time Warner Cable Inc. 75 Rockefeller Plaza New York, New York 10019-6908 Telecopy: (212) 258-3172 Attention: Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary
9 (b) if to AOLTW, ATC or WCI: c/o AOL Time Warner Inc. 75 Rockefeller Plaza New York, New York 10019-6908 Telecopy: (212) 258-3172 Attention: Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary or such other address or facsimile number as such party hereto may hereafter specify for such purpose by notice to the other parties hereto. All such notices, requests and other communications shall be deemed received on the date of receipt by the recipient thereof if received prior to 5 p.m. on a Business Day, in the place of receipt. Otherwise, any such notice, request or communication shall be deemed not to have been received until the next succeeding Business Day in the place of receipt. 6.2 Successors and Assigns. The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns; provided that no party hereto may assign, delegate or transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the consent of the other parties hereto. 6.3 Amendment and Waiver. (a) Any amendment, supplement or modification of or to any provision of this Agreement, any waiver of any provision of this Agreement, and any consent to any departure by any party from the terms of any provision of this Agreement, shall be effective only if it is made or given in writing and signed by the Company and AOLTW; provided, that any material amendment, supplement or modification of or to this Agreement shall also require the approval of a majority of the Independent Directors (as defined in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company). Any such amendment, supplement, modification, waiver or consent shall be binding upon the Company, AOLTW and the other parties hereto. (b) No failure or delay on the part of any party hereto in exercising any right, power or remedy hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise thereof preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, power or remedy. The rights and remedies provided for herein are cumulative and are not exclusive of any rights and remedies that may be available to the parties hereto at law, in equity or otherwise. 6.4 Survival. The rights of each party under this Agreement shall continue to be effective, or be reinstated, as the case may be, if any payment made hereunder, or any part thereof, on account of any of the reimbursement obligations hereunder is at any time rescinded or at any time must otherwise be restored or returned by such party upon the insolvency, bankruptcy, dissolution, liquidation or reorganization of any other party, or upon or as a result of the appointment of a receiver, intervenor or
10 conservator of, or trustee or similar officer for, such party or any substantial part of their property, or otherwise, all as though such payments had not been made. 6.5 TWE Debt Guarantor Rights and Remedies. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, the rights accorded to each TWE Debt Guarantor hereunder shall be in addition to, and not in lieu of, any rights that such TWE Debt Guarantor may have to be reimbursed for all TWE Debt Guarantor Payments of such TWE Debt Guarantor at common law, in equity, by separate agreement or otherwise. 6.6 Counterparts; Effectiveness. This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement. This Agreement shall become effective when each party hereto shall have received a counterpart hereof signed by the other parties hereto. 6.7 Headings. The headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning hereof. 6.8 GOVERNING LAW. THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO THE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW THEREOF. 6.9 Jurisdiction. Any suit, action or proceeding seeking to enforce any provision of, or based on any matter arising out of or in connection with, this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby shall be brought exclusively in any federal or state court located in the State and City of New York, and each of the parties hereby consents to the jurisdiction of such courts (and of the appropriate appellate courts therefrom) in any such suit, action or proceeding and irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the laying of the venue of any such suit, action or proceeding in any such court or that any such suit, action or proceeding brought in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum. Process in any such suit, action or proceeding may be served on any party anywhere in the world, whether within or without the jurisdiction of any such court. 6.10 WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATED TO THIS AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY. 6.11 Severability. If any term, provision, covenant or restriction of this Agreement is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction or other authority to be invalid, void or unenforceable, the remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect and shall in no way be affected, impaired or invalidated so long as the economic or legal substance of the
11 transactions contemplated hereby is not affected in any manner adverse to any party hereto. Upon such a determination, the parties hereto shall negotiate in good faith to modify this Agreement so as to effect the original intent of the parties as closely as possible in an acceptable manner so that the transactions contemplated hereby may be consummated as originally contemplated to the fullest extent possible. 6.12 Rules of Construction. Unless the context otherwise requires, references to sections or subsections refer to sections or subsections of this Agreement. 6.13 Entire Agreement; Third Party Beneficiaries. (a) This Agreement (together with all exhibits hereto) constitutes the entire agreement between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior agreements and understandings, both oral and written, among the parties with respect to such subject matter. (b) Except as provided below, this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure solely to the benefit of each party hereto and their respective successors and permitted assigns, and nothing in this Agreement, express or implied, is intended to or shall confer upon any other Person any right, benefit or remedy of any nature whatsoever under or by reason of this Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, TWE Holdings II Trust, a Delaware statutory trust, shall be deemed a third party beneficiary of Sections 2.5 and 2.6 hereof for so long as Comcast, directly or indirectly, holds a number of shares of Class A Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company (the "Company Class A Stock") at least equal to five percent (5%) of the aggregate number of outstanding shares of Company Class A Stock and Class B Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company. For purposes of this Section 6.13(b), Comcast will be deemed to hold any Company Class A Stock owned by a statutory trust all of the beneficial interests in which are owned, directly or indirectly, by Comcast. 6.14 Further Assurances. Each of the parties shall, and shall cause their respective Affiliates to, execute such documents and perform such further acts as may be reasonably required or desirable to carry out or to perform the provisions of this Agreement. [REMAINDER OF PAGE LEFT INTENTIONALLY BLANK]
12 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed, or have caused to be executed, this Reimbursement Agreement on the date first written above. TIME WARNER CABLE INC. By: /s/ Marc J. Apfelbaum ----------------------------------------- Name: Marc J. Apfelbaum Title: Executive Vice President, General Counsel & Secretary AOL TIME WARNER INC. By: /s/ Spencer B. Hays ----------------------------------------- Name: Spencer B. Hays Title: Senior Vice President WARNER COMMUNICATIONS INC. By: /s/ Spencer B. Hays ----------------------------------------- Name: Spencer B. Hays Title: Senior Vice President AMERICAN TELEVISION AND COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION By: /s/ Spencer B. Hays ----------------------------------------- Name: Spencer B. Hays Title: Senior Vice President TIME WARNER ENTERTAINMENT COMPANY, L.P. By: WARNER COMMUNICATIONS INC., as General Partner By: /s/ Spencer B. Hays ----------------------------------------- Name: Spencer B. Hays Title: Senior Vice President
EXHIBIT A TIME WARNER ENTERTAINMENT COMPANY, L.P., AND TIME WARNER CABLE INC. TO THE BANK OF NEW YORK, TRUSTEE EIGHTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE DATED AS OF [_______________]
EIGHTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE dated as of [_____], 200[_], by and among TIME WARNER ENTERTAINMENT COMPANY, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership ("TWE"), TIME WARNER CABLE INC., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware ("TW Cable "), and THE BANK OF NEW YORK, a banking corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of New York, Trustee (the "Trustee"). RECITALS Time Warner, Inc. ("TWI"), TWE, the Trustee and certain other parties have executed and delivered an Indenture dated as of April 30, 1992, as amended by a First Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 30, 1992, a Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of December 9, 1992, a Third Supplemental Indenture dated as of October 12, 1993, a Fourth Supplemental Indenture dated as of March 29, 1994, a Fifth Supplemental Indenture dated as of December 28, 1994, a Sixth Supplemental Indenture dated as of September 29, 1997 and a Seventh Supplemental Indenture dated as of December 29, 1997 (the "Indenture"), providing for, among other things, the issuance from time to time of unsecured debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness (the "Securities"), to be issued in one or more series as provided in the Indenture. TWE and TW Cable have duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Eighth Supplemental Indenture to provide for, among other things, (i) the guarantee of TWE's obligations under the Securities by TW Cable (the "TW Cable Guaranty") and (ii) the addition of TW Cable as a party to the Indenture, subject in each case to the terms and conditions described herein. This Eighth Supplemental Indenture is being executed pursuant to and in accordance with Section 901 of the Indenture. All things necessary to make this Eighth Supplemental Indenture a valid and binding agreement of TWE and TW Cable have been done. NOW, THEREFORE, WITNESSETH: For and in consideration of the promises and other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency and receipt of which are hereby acknowledged, it is mutually agreed, for the equal proportionate benefit of all Holders of the Securities, as follows: ARTICLE ONE INCORPORATION OF PREVIOUS DOCUMENTS SECTION 101. INCORPORATION OF PREVIOUS DOCUMENTS. This Eighth Supplemental Indenture is a supplemental indenture within the meaning of the Indenture and shall be read together and shall have the same effect as
2 though all the provisions thereof and hereof were contained in one instrument. Unless otherwise expressly provided, the provisions of the Indenture are incorporated herein by reference. SECTION 102. DEFINITIONS. Unless otherwise provided herein, the terms used herein shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Indenture. SECTION 103. GOVERNING LAW. This Eighth Supplemental Indenture, the Indenture and the Securities shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York. ARTICLE TWO GUARANTY SECTION 201. TW CABLE GUARANTY. For value received, TW Cable, and each of its successors and assigns, hereby fully and unconditionally guarantees to each Holder of the Securities upon which this TW Cable Guaranty is referred to, and to the Trustee on behalf of each such Holder, the due and punctual payment of all principal of (and premium, if any, on) and interest on such Security, when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at Stated Maturity upon redemption or repayment, upon declaration of acceleration or otherwise, according to the terms of the Securities and of the Indenture. In case of the failure of TWE or any successor thereto punctually to pay any such principal, premium or interest, TW Cable hereby agrees to immediately cause any such payment to be made punctually when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at Stated Maturity, upon redemption or repayment, upon declaration of acceleration or otherwise, as if such payment were made by TWE. TW Cable hereby agrees that as long as this Section 201 is in effect with respect to TW Cable pursuant to the Indenture, its obligations hereunder shall be unconditional and absolute, irrespective of the validity, regularity or enforceability of any such Security or the Indenture, the absence of any action to enforce the same, the granting of any waiver or consent by the Holder of any such Security with respect to any provisions thereof, the recovery of any judgment against TWE or any action to enforce the same, or any other circumstances which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a guarantor. TW Cable hereby waives diligence, presentment, demand of payment, filing of claims with a court in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of TWE, any right to require a proceeding be brought first against TWE, protest, notice and all demands whatsoever, and covenants that as long as this Section 201 is in effect with respect to TW Cable pursuant to the Indenture, this TW Cable Guaranty will not be discharged except by complete payment of the payment and other obligations contained in any such Security or in this Section 201.
3 TW Cable acknowledges and agrees for the benefit of the Trustee and such Holders that the Trustee and such Holders (in the case of an Event of Default under Section 501(1) or (2) of the Indenture) may directly and simultaneously proceed against TW Cable for the enforcement of this TW Cable Guaranty and against TWE (as Obligor). The obligations of TW Cable hereunder are independent of the obligations of TWE under the Securities and the Indenture, and a separate action or actions may be brought and prosecuted against TW Cable hereunder whether or not (i) an action or proceeding is brought against TWE or any other guarantor, (ii) TWE or TW Cable is joined in any such action or proceeding against such other guarantor and (iii) the Trustee or such Holders have taken any action to collect or attempt to otherwise collect such obligations from TWE or any other Person liable therefor. Anything in this Section 201 to the contrary notwithstanding, the TW Cable Guaranty is and shall be deemed to be a Guarantee of payment, and not a Guarantee of collection. If the Trustee or the Holder of any such Security is required by any court or otherwise to return to TWE or any custodian, receiver, liquidator, trustee, sequestrator or other similar official acting in relation to TWE, any amount paid to the Trustee or such Holder in respect of such Security, this TW Cable Guaranty, to the extent theretofore discharged, shall be reinstated in full force and effect. TW Cable further agrees, to the fullest extent that it may lawfully do so, that, as between TW Cable, on the one hand, and such Holders and the Trustee, on the other hand, the maturity of the obligations guaranteed hereby may be accelerated as provided in Article Five of the Indenture for the purposes of this TW Cable Guaranty, notwithstanding any stay, injunction or other prohibition extent under any applicable bankruptcy law preventing such acceleration in respect of the obligations guaranteed hereby. TW Cable hereby irrevocably subordinates to the prior payment in full of all Securities guaranteed by TW Cable hereunder, any claim or other rights which it may now or hereafter acquire against TWE that arises from the existence, payment, performance or enforcement of TW Cable's obligations under this TW Cable Guaranty, including, without limitation, any right of subrogation, reimbursement, exoneration, contribution, indemnification, any right to participate in any claim or remedy of any Holder of any such Security or the Trustee on behalf of such Holder against TWE or any collateral which any such Holder or the Trustee on behalf of such Holder hereafter acquires, whether or not such claim, remedy or right arises in equity, or under contract, statute or common law, including, without limitation, the right to take or receive from TWE, directly or indirectly, in cash or other property or by set-off or in any other manner, payment or security on account of such claim or other rights. If any amount shall be paid to TW Cable in violation of the preceding sentence at any time prior to the payment in full of all obligations and all other amounts payable hereunder, such amount shall be deemed to have been paid to TW Cable for the benefit of, and held in trust for the benefit of, any Holder of such Security and the Trustee on behalf of such Holder, and shall forthwith be paid to the Trustee for the benefit of such Holder to be credited and applied upon such guaranteed obligations, whether matured or unmatured, in accordance
4 with the terms of the Indenture. TW Cable acknowledges that the subordination set forth in this Section 201 is knowingly made. This TW Cable Guaranty shall become effective upon execution and delivery of this Eighth Supplemental Indenture by each of the parties hereto. No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Section 201 or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the Guarantee of TW Cable, which is absolute and unconditional, of the due and punctual payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on the Securities upon which this TW Cable Guaranty is referred to. ARTICLE THREE ADDITION OF TW CABLE AS A PARTY TO INDENTURE By execution of this Eighth Supplemental Indenture, TW Cable agrees that it shall be party to, and shall be subject to, bound by and entitled to the benefits of, the Indenture as supplemented by this Eighth Supplemental Indenture. This instrument may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one of the same instrument. [THE REMAINDER OF THIS PAGE IS INTENTIONALLY BLANK.]
5 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Eighth Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed by their respective officers or agents, all as of the day and year first above written. TIME WARNER ENTERTAINMENT COMPANY, L.P. By: _____________________________ Name: Title: TIME WARNER CABLE INC. By: _____________________________ Name: Title: THE BANK OF NEW YORK, Trustee By: _____________________________ Name: Title:
6 STATE OF NEW YORK ) : COUNTY OF NEW YORK ) On the ____ day of ________, before me personally came ____________, to me known, who, being by me duly sworn, did depose and say that he is a ____________ of TIME WARNER ENTERTAINMENT COMPANY, L.P., the Delaware limited partnership described in and which executed the foregoing instrument; that he knows the seal of said limited partnership; that the seal affixed to said instrument is such seal; that it was so affixed by authority of the Board of Representatives or the Managing General Partners of said limited partnership, and that he signed his name thereto by like authority. ___________________________________ ________________ Notary Public, State of New York No. ____________ Qualified in New York County Commission Expires ________ STATE OF NEW YORK ) : COUNTY OF NEW YORK ) On the __ day of ________, before me personally came ___________, to me known, who, being by me duly sworn, did depose and say that he is a __________ of TIME WARNER CABLE INC., one of the corporations described in and which executed the foregoing instrument; that he knows the seal of said corporation; that the seal affixed to said instrument is such corporate seal; that it was so affixed by authority of the Board of Directors of said corporation, and that he signed his name thereto by like authority. ___________________________________ ________________ Notary Public, State of New York No. ____________ Qualified in New York County Commission Expires ________
7 STATE OF NEW YORK ) : COUNTY OF NEW YORK ) On the ____ day of ________, before me personally came ____________, to me known, who, being by me duly sworn, did depose and say that he is a ____________ of THE BANK OF NEW YORK, one of the corporations described in and which executed the foregoing instrument; that he knows the seal of said limited partnership; that the seal affixed to said instrument is such seal; that it was so affixed by authority of the Board of Representatives or the Managing General Partners of said limited partnership, and that he signed his name thereto by like authority. ___________________________________ ________________ Notary Public, State of New York No. ____________ Qualified in New York County Commission Expires ________

EXHIBIT: 10.8 BRAND LICENSE AGREEMENT BETWEEN WARNER BROS. ENTERTAINMENT INC. AND TIME WARNER CABLE INC. DATED AS OF MARCH 31, 2003
TABLE OF CONTENTS i
ii
iii
BRAND LICENSE AGREEMENT BRAND LICENSE AGREEMENT (the "Agreement") dated as of March 31, 2003 and effective as of the Closing, by and between Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc., a Delaware corporation, with offices located at 75 Rockefeller Plaza, New York, New York 10019 ("Licensor"), and Time Warner Cable Inc. a Delaware corporation, with offices located at 290 Harbor Drive, Stamford, Connecticut 06902 ("Licensee"). Certain capitalized terms used herein are defined in Article 1. WHEREAS, Licensor owns and desires that Licensee have the right to use the Licensed Marks and the Licensed Copyright in connection with the Licensed Services; and WHEREAS, Licensee wishes to use the Licensed Marks and the Licensed Copyright in a limited manner in the Licensed Territory in connection with the Licensed Services; and WHEREAS, Licensor is willing to license and allow Licensee to use the Licensed Marks and the Licensed Copyright in the Licensed Territory under the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement; and WHEREAS, this Agreement is effective on the Closing. NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises and covenants herein contained and for other good and valuable consideration the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereby agree as follows: 1. DEFINITIONS "AFFILIATE": An Affiliate of a Person means a Person that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with such Person. "ANCILLARY BROADBAND SERVICES": The following products or services: (a) The marketing, provision and sale of customer care services in support of Licensee's provision of Licensed Services; (b) The marketing, provision and sale of activation and authorization services (for avoidance of doubt, authorization service is the provision of a signal to a set top box, which signal authorizes the subscriber to receive specified services using that box; activation service is the provision of a signal to a set top box, which signal activates the box to receive any services) in support of Licensee's provision of Licensed Services to its customers; (c) The marketing, provision, sale and distribution of Point Of Deployment modules (PODS) that are used to identify a Consumer as an authorized subscriber of Licensee's High Speed Internet
Services entitled to certain pre-selected proprietary features available from the High Speed Internet Services; (d) The offer and sale of advertising inventory to third parties, which advertising may appear on High Speed Internet Services owned or managed by Licensee, on High Speed Internet Services owned or managed by other operators, and/or on or in Licensee's web sites or other promotional or informational vehicles (e.g., monthly bills); and (e) Any other ancillary services provided in connection with the Licensed Services, including repair, billing and provisioning services. "APPROVAL": The granting by all appropriate Regulatory Authorities of all necessary licenses, permits, approvals, authorizations and clearances for this Agreement and the registration or recording of this Agreement as required by all Regulatory Authorities. "AUTHORIZED DEALERS": Any distributor or other agent of Licensee authorized by Licensee to market, advertise or otherwise offer, on behalf of Licensee, any Licensed Services or Promotional Products under the Licensed Marks or the Licensed Copyright in the Licensed Territory. "BANKRUPTCY": With respect to a Person, means (i) the filing by such Person of a voluntary petition seeking liquidation, dissolution, reorganization, rearrangement or readjustment, in any form, of its debts under Title 11 of the United States Code (or corresponding provisions of future laws) or any other bankruptcy or insolvency law, or such Person's filing an answer consenting to, or acquiescing in any such petition; (ii) the making by such Person of any assignment for the benefit of its creditors, or the admission by such Person in writing of its inability to pay its debts as they mature; (iii) the expiration of 60 days after the filing of an involuntary petition under Title 11 of the United States Code (or corresponding provisions of future laws), an application for the appointment of a receiver for the assets of such Person, or an involuntary petition seeking liquidation, dissolution, reorganization, rearrangement or readjustment of its debts or similar relief under any bankruptcy or insolvency law, provided that, the same shall not have been vacated, set aside or stayed within such 60 day period; or (iv) the entry of an order for relief against such Person under Title 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. "CHANGE OF CONTROL": with respect to Licensee, shall mean the occurrence of the earlier of the following: (a) The beneficial owner (for all purposes hereof, within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) as of the Closing of a majority of (i) the outstanding shares of common stock of the Licensee (the "Outstanding Company Common Stock") or (ii) the combined voting power of the 2
outstanding voting securities of the Licensee entitled to vote generally in the election of directors of the Licensee (the "Outstanding Company Voting Securities"), ceases to beneficially own, together with its Affiliates, at least 40% of the Outstanding Common Stock or the Outstanding Company Voting Securities; or (b) A change of Control of Licensee, as determined by Licensor acting in good faith; provided that, this section (b) shall not apply until the beneficial owner as of the Closing of a majority of the Outstanding Company Common Stock or the Outstanding Company Voting Securities ceases to beneficially own, together with its Affiliates, at least 60% of the Outstanding Common Stock or the Outstanding Company Voting Securities. "CLOSING": As defined in the Restructuring Agreement. "CO-MARKETING": The marketing, promotion, advertising, offering or sale of one Person's goods or services with another Person's goods or services. "CONSUMER": An end-user of any product or service who uses that product or service. "CONTROL": means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such entity, whether through ownership of voting securities or other interests, by contract or otherwise. "COPYRIGHT": Any original works of authorship fixed in any tangible medium of expression as set forth in 17 U.S.C. Section. 101 et. seq. and any registrations and applications therefor. "DEDICATED WIRELESS DEVICES": Bi-directional cellular telecommunication devices that use Mobile Wireless Services as their sole mode of communication with other devices (other than a personal computer for purposes of synchronizing a calendar or address book) and users. "DEDICATED WIRELESS PORTALS": Portals that are used solely for, and accessed solely through, Mobile Wireless Services. "DMA": Designated marketing area, as determined by Nielson Media Research and published in its Nielson Station Index Directory and Nielson Station Index US Television Household Estimates. "EQUIPMENT AND SOFTWARE": As defined in Section 2.5. "FCC": The Federal Communications Commission and any successor governmental authority. "FIELD OF USE": The provision in the Licensed Territory of High Speed Internet Services, Ancillary Broadband Services and Equipment and Software. 3
"HIGH SPEED INTERNET SERVICES": The service of providing subscribers with use of "online services" at a digital signal rate of 128 kilobits per second or above. For purposes of this definition, "online services" means the services available over the Internet. For avoidance of doubt, the "online services" themselves are not High Speed Internet Services. "INDEMNIFIED PARTY": As defined in Section 9.3 of this Agreement. "INDEMNIFYING PARTY": As defined in Section 9.3 of this Agreement. "LICENSED COPYRIGHT": shall mean certain Copyrights of the Warner Bros. cartoon character known as ROAD RUNNER. "LICENSED MARKS": shall mean the ROAD RUNNER and the ROAD RUNNER word Mark, various depictions of the ROAD RUNNER mark and the Warner Bros. cartoon character known as ROAD RUNNER, and Licensor's Trade Dress and other indicia associated with the Warner Bros. character known as the ROAD RUNNER, including but not limited to its characteristic "BEEP BEEP". "LICENSED SERVICES": High Speed Internet Services and Ancillary Broadband Services, each in the Licensed Territory. "LICENSED TERRITORY": The Licensed Territory shall be the United States, its territories and possessions thereof, and Canada. "LICENSEE": As defined in the Preamble to this Agreement. "LICENSEE MARKS": All Marks which are adopted, used and owned by Licensee after the Closing in connection with the Licensed Services or Promotional Products. For avoidance of doubt, Licensee Marks does not include Marks that incorporate the Licensed Marks or the Licensed Copyright. "LICENSOR": As defined in the Preamble to this Agreement. "MARK": Any name, brand, mark, trademark, service mark, sound mark, design, logo, trade dress, trade name, business name, slogan, domain name or other indicia of origin. "MARKETING MATERIALS": Any and all materials, whether written, oral, visual or in any other medium, used by Licensee or its Authorized Dealers, Resellers or Value Added Resellers or Sublicensees to market, advertise or otherwise offer any Licensed Services under the Licensed Marks or the Licensed Copyright, including but not limited to Promotional Products. "MOBILE WIRELESS SERVICES": A non-private telecommunications service that provides wide-area communication of information, including voice, data, video or combinations thereof, over a bi-directional communication path that extends through the air from a base-station to a mobile-subscriber communication device, which base-station 4
transmits and receives subscriber-addressed, communications to and from more than one addressed subscriber and wherein the communication path is switched from one such base-station to another such base-station in response to movement of the addressed subscriber's mobile communication device. Mobile Wireless Services shall not include a private telecommunications connection within or around a residence or business that provides local-area communication of information at or around such residence or business. "PERSON": Any individual, corporation, partnership, firm, joint venture, limited liability company, limited liability partnership, association, joint-stock company, trust, estate, incorporated or unincorporated organization, governmental or regulatory body, business unit, or other entity. "PORTAL": An Internet web site that serves as a gateway to the Internet and that includes one or more of the following features: a search engine; electronic mail; instant messaging; chat services; or web hosting. "PROMOTIONAL PRODUCTS": Any goods or services which are used to advertise or promote any Licensed Services, such as t-shirts, golf balls, pens and the like, but not any products or services that, in Licensor's opinion acting in good faith, are not fairly characterized as being used for advertisement or promotion. "QUALITY CONTROL REPRESENTATIVES": Representatives of Licensor appointed in accordance with Article 5. "QUALITY STANDARDS": As defined in Section 5.2 of this Agreement. "REGULATORY AUTHORITY": Any regulatory, administrative or governmental entity, authority, agency, commission, tribunal or official, including without limitation, the FCC and the Export Licensing Office of the U.S. Department of Commerce. "RESELLER": Any Person other than Licensee that sells, distributes or leases Licensed Services from Licensee. "RESTRUCTURING AGREEMENT": The Restructuring Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, by and among AOL Time Warner Inc., a Delaware corporation, AT&T Corp., a New York corporation, and the other parties named therein. "ROAD RUNNER LICENSEES": Those Persons and business units that are part of Licensor as of the Closing and any other Persons who are licensed under, or otherwise permitted to use, the Licensed Marks or the Licensed Copyright by Licensor prior to or during the term of this Agreement. "SERVICE BUNDLES": A single contract offered or supplied to a Person for multiple services or systems integration contracts. For avoidance of doubt, Licensee's 5
offering of any two or more Licensed Services in a package shall not itself constitute a Service Bundle hereunder. "SIGNIFICANT BREACH BY LICENSEE": As defined in Section 4.2 of this Agreement. "STYLE GUIDELINES": The guidelines controlling certain aspects of the use of the Licensed Marks and Licensed Copyright including, but not limited to, the size, color and appearance of the Licensed Marks and Licensed Copyright as set forth in the official Style Guide to be provided to Licensee on the Closing and periodically thereafter. "SUBLICENSEE": As defined in Section 3.7 of this Agreement. "SUBMITTED MATERIALS": As defined in Section 5.2 of this Agreement. "SUBSIDIARY": With respect to any Person, any entity of which securities or other ownership interests having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the board of directors or other body performing similar functions are at any time directly or indirectly owned by such Person. "SUCCESSOR": With respect to any party, any successor, transferee or assignee, including, without limitation, any receiver, debtor-in-possession, trustee, conservator or similar Person with respect to such party or such party's assets. "TERM": As defined in Section 4.1 of this Agreement. "TRADE DRESS": The general image or appearance of the Licensed Mark and of the Licensed Services and Marketing Materials or Promotional Products and any packaging and labeling therefor, including without limitation, the combination of colors, designs, sizing configurations, publication formats and the like as set forth in the Style Guidelines and as such trade dress may be modified or replaced pursuant to Section 8.2 of this Agreement, and such other trade dress as may be added thereto or substituted therefor in accordance with Section 8.2. "TW LICENSEES": As defined in that certain Brand License Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, by and between Time Warner Inc., a Delaware corporation, and Licensee. "VALUE ADDED RESELLER": Any Person that combines Licensed Services with additional software, services or features and then sells, distributes or leases such combinations directly to end users. 2. GRANT OF LICENSE Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, Licensor makes the following royalty-free license grants: 6
2.1 High Speed Internet Services. Licensor hereby grants to Licensee an exclusive, perpetual right and license to use the Licensed Marks and the Licensed Copyright in accordance with the Quality Standards as set forth in Article 5 to provide High Speed Internet Services in the Licensed Territory. For avoidance of doubt, outside the Licensed Territory, Licensee has no right or license to use the Licensed Marks or the Licensed Copyright in connection with High Speed Internet Services. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, Licensor has the right to use, and license to any Person, the Licensed Marks and the Licensed Copyright throughout the world, including within the Licensed Territory, in connection with content distributed through High Speed Internet Services or any other distribution networks. Without limiting the effect of the preceding sentences in any way, Licensor agrees not to license to any Person, the Licensed Marks and the Licensed Copyright for the provision of such services using DSL (digital subscriber line), dial-up or DBS (direct broadcast satellite) technologies in the Licensed Territory. 2.2 Promotional Products. Licensor hereby grants to Licensee a non-exclusive, perpetual right and license to use the Licensed Marks and the Licensed Copyright in accordance with the Quality Standards as set forth in Article 5 on Promotional Products in the Licensed Territory. 2.3 Ancillary Broadband Services. Licensor hereby grants to Licensee an exclusive, perpetual right and license to use the Licensed Marks and the Licensed Copyright in accordance with the Quality Standards as set forth in Article 5 for Ancillary Broadband Services provided in the Licensed Territory. 2.4 Portals. Licensor hereby grants to Licensee a non-exclusive perpetual right and license to use the Licensed Marks and Licensed Copyright in accordance with the Quality Standards as set forth in Article 5 on Portals that are used in connection with High Speed Internet Services provided to subscribers of the Licensed Services in the Licensed Territory; provided that, any use of the Licensed Marks or the Licensed Copyright in connection with Portals must be accompanied by a source indicator that identifies the nature of the Licensed Servcices (e.g., high speed online services) and said source indicator shall be in close proximity to the Licensed Marks or the Licensed Copyright and shall not appear smaller than, or less visible than the surrounding text; provided that, Licensee shall have a transitional period of three months following the Closing to ensure it is in compliance with this Section 2.4. 2.5 Equipment and Software. Licensor hereby grants to Licensee an exclusive, perpetual right and license to use the Licensed Marks and Licensed Copyright in accordance with the Quality Standards as set forth in Article 5 on equipment and software used in connection with the provision of Licensed Services, other than the following: (a) Communication devices, such as telephones, pagers, email devices, etc.; 7
(b) Telephone answering devices; (c) Personal digital assistants; and (d) Telephone accessories (e.g., handset cords; outlet jacks; cord detanglers; amplification headsets), but including cable set top boxes, cable modems and in-home networking equipment for connecting set top boxes or cable modems with other devices for service applications (the "Equipment and Software"). 2.6 Transferability. Except as provided in Section 3.1 with respect to Resellers and Value Added Resellers, in Section 3.6 with respect to Authorized Dealers and in Section 3.7 with respect to Sublicenses, the licenses granted herein shall be non-transferable. 2.7 Request for License. If Licensee wishes to use the Licensed Marks on any goods or services other than Licensed Services and Promotional Products or on any goods or services or in any territory not expressly granted by this Agreement, it may request a grant of such license from Licensor. 2.8 Reservation of Rights. Except as expressly licensed in this Article 2, Licensee shall have no rights or license to use any of the Licensed Marks or Licensed Copyright in connection with any products or services. To the extent Licensee has been granted "exclusive" rights pursuant to the provisions of this Article 2, such "exclusive" rights solely relate to the use of the Licensed Marks and the Licensed Copyright in connection with the specified provision of the Licensed Services in the Licensed Territory. Except to the extent Licensee has been granted "exclusive" rights pursuant to the provisions of this Article 2, Licensor retains the sole and exclusive right to use any Marks and Copyrights, including the Licensed Marks and the Licensed Copyright for any purpose whatsoever. Licensee covenants and agrees that it will not use any of the Licensed Marks or the Licensed Copyright in connection with any products or services or in any territory that are not expressly licensed pursuant to the provisions of this Article 2 and any such unlicensed use by Licensee of the Licensed Marks or the Licensed Copyright shall be deemed a "Significant Breach by Licensee" under Section 4.2 of this Agreement unless cured pursuant to Section 4.2(a) of this Agreement. Without in any way limiting the foregoing, Licensee shall not use the Licensed Marks or Licensed Copyright in connection with Dedicated Wireless Devices or Dedicated Wireless Portals. 3. RESTRICTIONS ON USE OF LICENSED MARK AND LICENSED COPYRIGHT 3.1 Resellers. Licensee may permit Resellers and Value Added Resellers to use the Licensed Marks and/or the Licensed Copyright on a non-exclusive basis and solely in connection with Licensed Services obtained from Licensee; provided, however, 8
that any such use shall be in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, including the Quality Standards set forth in Article 5 and such use shall only be in the same Field of Use as Licensee. For avoidance of doubt, no Reseller or Value Added Reseller may use any Licensed Marks and/or the Licensed Copyright in any manner that would violate this Agreement if performed by Licensee and any use of Licensed Marks and/or the Licensed Copyright by a Reseller or Value Added Reseller in such manner shall be deemed use by Licensee in violation of the relevant provision(s) of this Agreement. 3.2 Use of Licensed Marks or Licensed Copyright with Licensee Marks. Any use by Licensee of Licensee Marks in conjunction with the Licensed Marks or the Licensed Copyright must comply with all other terms of this Agreement, including without limitation, the Quality Standards set forth in Article 5. 3.3 Bundling. Licensee may use the Licensed Marks and the Licensed Copyright in connection with Service Bundles in accordance with the Quality Standards set forth in Article 5 on a non-exclusive basis if: (a) The Service Bundle is predominantly built around a Licensed Service or is provided in conjunction with an Affiliate of Licensor; and (b) Licensee is in compliance with its material obligations under any supply agreement with Licensor, a TW Licensee or a ROAD RUNNER Licensee for all elements that are included in the Service Bundle, if any such agreement is in place. 3.4 Co-Marketing. (a) Licensee may not use the Licensed Marks or the Licensed Copyright in Co-Marketing without Licensor's prior written consent, not to be unreasonably withheld. (b) Any use of the Licensed Marks or Licensed Copyright in connection with approved Co-Marketing shall comply with the Quality Standards set forth in Article 5 and Licensor's Co-Marketing Guidelines, as in effect from time to time. 3.5 General Purpose Credit Cards. Licensee may not permit Licensed Marks or the Licensed Copyright to be used on or in connection with any consumer general credit card. 3.6 Dealers. Licensee may grant Authorized Dealers limited permission to use the Licensed Marks and the Licensed Copyright on a non-exclusive basis and solely in connection with the provision of Licensed Services obtained from Licensee; provided, however, that any such use shall be in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, including the Quality Standards set forth in Article 5 and as set forth in the Style Guidelines, and such use shall only be in the same Field of Use as Licensee. For 9
avoidance of doubt, no Authorized Dealer may use any Licensed Marks or the Licensed Copyright in any manner that would violate this Agreement if performed by Licensee and any use of Licensed Marks and the Licensed Copyright by an Authorized Dealer, in such manner shall be deemed use by Licensee in violation of the relevant provision(s) of this Agreement. 3.7 Sublicenses. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, Licensee shall have the right to grant sublicenses to use the Licensed Marks and the Licensed Copyright for Licensed Services or Promotional Products to its Subsidiaries (a "Sublicensee"), provided, however, that any such use shall be in accordance with the terms of this Agreement including the Quality Standards set forth in Article 5 and that the sublicense granted to such Person shall only be effective for so long as such Person remains a Subsidiary of Licensee. Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Article 3, Licensee shall have no right to sublicense the Licensed Marks or the Licensed Copyright. 4. TERM AND TERMINATION 4.1 Term. This Agreement shall remain in effect unless terminated in accordance with the provisions hereof. 4.2 Termination. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Licensor shall have the right, subject to Section 4.3 below, to terminate this Agreement without prejudice to any rights which it may have, whether pursuant to this Agreement, or in law or equity or otherwise, upon the occurrence of a Significant Breach by Licensee. A "Significant Breach by Licensee" shall mean, after exhaustion of any applicable cure periods set forth in this Agreement, any one or more of the following events: (a) Any of Licensee, an Authorized Dealer, Reseller, Value Added Reseller or any Sublicensee uses the Licensed Marks or the Licensed Copyright in a manner which fails to comply in all material respects with the provisions of this Agreement, and fails to cure such breach within sixty (60) days of receipt of written notice of such breach; or (b) Any use of the Licensed Marks or the Licensed Copyright by any of the Licensee, an Authorized Dealer, Reseller, Value Added Reseller or any Sublicensee fails to comply in all material respects with the Quality Standards set forth in Article 5 and continues for more than sixty (60) days after written notice thereof has been given to the Licensee in accordance with Section 6.1; or (c) Licensee fails to provide performance data and representative samples of Marketing Materials to Licensor's Quality Control Representative for the purposes permitted hereunder pursuant to the provisions of Section 5.3 hereof and fails to cure such breach 10
within sixty (60) days of receipt of written notice of such breach; or (d) Licensee, an Authorized Dealer, Reseller, Value Added Reseller or any Sublicensee fails to comply with any material laws, regulations or industry standards, or any governmental agency, Regulatory Authority or other body, office or official vested with appropriate authority finds that the services or products being offered under the Licensed Marks and/or Licensed Copyright are being provided in contravention of material, applicable laws, regulations or standards and fails to cure such breach within sixty (60) days of receipt of written notice of such breach or such date as is set by the relevant Regulatory Authority, whichever is earlier; or (e) Licensee fails to deliver to Licensor or to maintain in full force and effect the insurance referred to in Section 9.4 hereof and fails to cure such breach within sixty (60) days of receipt of written notice of such breach; or (f) Licensee shall be unable to pay its debts in the ordinary course of business or when they become due, or shall file for Bankruptcy; or (g) Any other material breach of this Agreement by Licensee, its Authorized Dealers, Resellers, Value Added Resellers or any Sublicensee which breach continues for more than sixty (60) days after written notice thereof has been given to Licensee, except as may otherwise be provided in Section 6.1; or (h) A Change of Control shall have occurred with respect to Licensee; or (i) Licensee's breach of Section 12.1, which breach continues for more than sixty (60) days after written notice thereof has been given to Licensee and which breach Licensor reasonably determines has a material adverse effect on Licensor or the Licensed Marks or Licensed Copyright; or (j) Licensee shall materially breach any other agreement in effect between Licensee on the one hand and Licensor on the other and Licensor reasonably determines that such breach has a material adverse effect on the relationship between Licensee and the Licensor that is not reasonably capable of being cured. 4.3 Notice of Termination. In the event any "Significant Breach by Licensee" occurs, Licensor may give notice of termination in writing to Licensee, whereupon this Agreement shall immediately terminate. 11
4.4 Effect of Termination. In the event this Agreement is terminated pursuant to this Article, Licensee shall immediately cease use, and shall cause its Authorized Dealers, Resellers, Value Added Resellers and Sublicensees to immediately cease use, of the Licensed Marks and the Licensed Copyright upon the effective date of such termination. Immediately following the termination of this Agreement, Licensee shall return to Licensor all Marketing Materials, Promotional Products and all other materials and tangible property bearing the Licensed Marks or the Licensed Copyright. 4.5 Other Rights Unaffected. It is understood and agreed that termination of this Agreement by Licensor on any ground shall be without prejudice to any other remedies at law or equity or otherwise which Licensor may have. 4.6 Bankruptcy. This Agreement constitutes a license of "intellectual property" within the meaning of Section 365(n) of the United States Bankruptcy Code. If Section 365(n) of the United States Bankruptcy Code (or any successor provision) is applicable, and the trustee or debtor-in-possession has rejected this Agreement and if the Licensee has elected pursuant to Section 365(n) to retain its rights hereunder, then upon written request of Licensee, to the extent Licensee is otherwise entitled hereunder, the trustee or debtor-in-possession shall provide to Licensee any intellectual property (including embodiments thereof) held or controlled by the trustee or debtor-in-possession. 5. QUALITY CONTROL 5.1 General. Licensee acknowledges that the provision of Licensed Services and Promotional Products under the Licensed Marks and the Licensed Copyright pursuant to the terms of this Agreement must be of sufficiently high quality as to protect the Licensed Marks and the Licensed Copyright and the goodwill they symbolize. Licensee further acknowledges that the maintenance of high quality services is of the essence in this Agreement, as is the use of the Licensed Marks and the Licensed Copyright in connection therewith. In order to preserve the inherent value of the Licensed Marks and the Licensed Copyright, Licensee agrees to use its best efforts to ensure that the services and activities to be marketed, promoted, offered and provided by Licensee, Authorized Dealers, Resellers, Value Added Resellers and Sublicensees under the Licensed Marks and the Licensed Copyright pursuant to this Agreement shall be of a quality and nature comparable to the products, services and activities provided by Licensor, itself or through its Affiliates, as of the date of this Agreement. Licensee further agrees that it will utilize only Marketing Materials which do not disparage or place in disrepute Licensor, its businesses or its business reputation, and do not adversely affect or detract from Licensor's goodwill or the goodwill appurtenant to the Licensed Marks and the Licensed Copyright and will use the Licensed Marks and the Licensed Copyright in ways which will not adversely affect Licensor's business reputation and goodwill. 5.2 Quality Standards. Licensee agrees to comply and maintain compliance with the Quality Standards, specifications and rights of approval of Licensor with respect to any and all usage of the Licensed Marks and Licensed Copyright on or in relation to 12
the Licensed Services, Portals, Marketing Materials and Promotional Products throughout the Term. To that end, any and all usage of the Licensed Marks and Licensed Copyright by Licensee, Authorized Dealers, Resellers, Value Added Resellers and Sublicensees shall comply with the following standards, specifications and rights of approval (the "Quality Standards"): (a) Licensee shall use the Licensed Marks and the Licensed Copyright only in a style and manner commensurate with the current standards and reputation for quality associated with the Licensed Marks and only in the style and manner that has been expressly approved in advance by Licensor, as provided herein. Such approval is within the sole discretion of Licensor acting in good faith and is designed to protect the Licensed Marks and the Licensed Copyright and Licensor's rights therein. (b) Licensee shall submit to Licensor for prior written approval prototypes of all products and materials including, but not limited to, Marketing Materials and Promotional Products and any packaging and labeling therefor bearing the Licensed Marks and/or the Licensed Copyright (the "Submitted Materials"). Such approval is within the sole discretion of Licensor acting in good faith. Licensor shall provide its approval or disapproval within a reasonable time after Licensor receives such Submitted Materials. In the event that Licensor disapproves any of the submissions, Licensee shall make modifications consistent with those specified by Licensor and shall resubmit the relevant materials to Licensor for approval. Provided Licensor has given approval of the style(s) and general use(s) of any Submitted Materials, Licensee may use such Submitted Materials in those styles and for such purposes, without material change, subject to periodic review by Licensor at Licensor's request. Licensee shall not make any material change to the Submitted Materials as approved by Licensor without Licensor's prior written approval. (c) The provisions of Section 7.4 of this Agreement; (d) All quality, style and image standards for use of the Licensed Marks and Licensed Copyrights delivered by Licensor to Licensee, including the LOONEY TUNES characters and ROAD RUNNER Style Guides and any other Style Guidelines delivered by Licensor to Licensee, however, it being understood and agreed that any written instructions delivered from Licensor to Licensee shall take priority over such style guide in the event of any conflict; (e) Licensor's Usage Guidelines, as in effect from time to time and as currently set forth in the Style Guidelines; and 13
(f) Licensor's Trade Dress guidelines as in effect from time to time and as currently set forth in the Style Guidelines. Licensee acknowledges that the Quality Standards may be modified from time to time as may be necessary to continue to protect and preserve the image, reputation and goodwill attached to the Licensed Marks and the Licensed Copyright. 5.3 Quality Service Reviews. (a) Licensee agrees to collect, maintain and furnish to the Quality Control Representatives all performance data relating to the Licensed Services reasonably requested by the Quality Control Representatives and representative samples of Marketing Materials that are marketed or provided under the Licensed Marks or the Licensed Copyright to assure conformance of the Licensed Services and the Marketing Materials with the Quality Standards. At Licensor's reasonable request, Licensee shall send copies to Licensor of performance data relating to technical performance or conformance of the Licensed Services hereunder with the Quality Standards as previously provided by Licensee. Any such data provided to Licensor shall be treated confidentially in accordance with Article 17. (b) Licensor may independently, at its own cost, conduct continuous customer satisfaction and other surveys to determine if Licensee is meeting the Quality Standards in connection with its use of the Licensed Marks or the Licensed Copyright in the Licensed Services. Licensee shall cooperate, at Licensor's expense, with Licensor fully in the distribution and conduct of such surveys, and otherwise as may be reasonably necessary to verify Licensee's compliance with the Quality Standards, so long as such cooperation shall not unreasonably interfere with the conduct of Licensee's business. If Licensor learns that Licensee is not complying with the Quality Standards in any material respect, it shall notify Licensee and the provisions of Article 6 shall apply to such non-compliance. (c) If Licensee learns that it is not complying with the Quality Standards in any material respect, it shall notify Licensor, and the provisions of Article 6 shall apply to such non-compliance. 5.4 Authorized Dealers, Resellers, Value Added Resellers and Sublicensees. Licensee shall provide to Licensor within ten (10) days after the expiration of each calendar year a list of all Sublicensees and a list of all material Authorized Dealers, Resellers and Value Added Resellers. Licensor shall have the right, exercisable in its reasonable discretion, to give Licensee notice requiring Licensee to terminate any Authorized Dealer, Reseller, Value Added Reseller or Sublicensee that Licensor 14
reasonably believes is not in compliance with the Quality Standards (after notice of such non-compliance and a reasonable opportunity to cure has been granted to such Authorized Dealer, Reseller, Value Added Reseller or Sublicensee) effective no later than thirty (30) days from the date such notice is given by Licensor to Licensee. All Authorized Dealers, Resellers, Value Added Resellers and Sublicensees shall be bound by the Quality Standards and by Licensee's obligations under this Agreement. A breach by any such Authorized Dealer, Reseller, Value Added Reseller or Sublicensee of this Agreement shall be deemed a breach of this Agreement by Licensee; provided that, Licensee's termination of such breaching Authorized Dealer, Reseller, Value Added Reseller or Sublicensee shall be deemed to cure any such breach. 6. REMEDIES FOR NON-COMPLIANCE WITH QUALITY STANDARDS 6.1 Non-compliance with Quality Standards and Cure. (a) If Licensor becomes aware that Licensee or its Authorized Dealers, Resellers, Value Added Resellers or Sublicensees, are not complying with any Quality Standards in any material respect, Licensor shall notify Licensee in writing of such non-compliance, setting forth, in reasonable detail, a description of the non-compliance and, to the extent such information is available, any suggestions for curing such non-compliance. Licensee shall cure such non-compliance as soon as is practicable but in any event within sixty (60) days thereafter. In the event that the non-compliance with the Quality Standards is being caused by an Authorized Dealer, Reseller, Value Added Reseller or Sublicensee, Licensee's termination of such Authorized Dealer, Reseller, Value Added Reseller or Sublicensee shall be deemed to cure such non-compliance. (b) If such non-compliance with the Quality Standards continues beyond the applicable cure periods described above, Licensee shall: (i) and shall cause its Authorized Dealers, Resellers, Value Added Resellers and Sublicensees to, immediately cease any Licensed Services and Promotional Products using the Licensed Marks and/or the Licensed Copyright in the DMA in which it is in non-compliance until it is in compliance with the Quality Standards, subject to the provisions below; and (ii) be deemed to be in breach of this Agreement. (c) The waiver by Licensor of a single event of non-compliance or a succession of events shall not deprive Licensor of any rights under this Agreement arising by reason of any subsequent event of non-compliance. 6.2 Potential Injury to Persons or Property. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 6.1, in the event that Licensor reasonably determines that any non-compliance 15
creates a material threat of personal injury or injury to property of any third party, upon notice thereof by Licensor to Licensee, Licensee shall cure such non-compliance as soon as practicable but in any event within sixty (60) days after receiving such notice. If the non-compliance continues beyond such cure period, Licensee shall (and shall cause its Authorized Dealers, Resellers, Value Added Resellers and Sublicensees to) either cease using the Licensed Marks in connection with any Licensed Services and Promotional Products in the DMA in which it is not in compliance until it is in compliance with the Quality Standards, subject to the provisions of Section 6.3 below, or be deemed to be in breach of this Agreement. 6.3 Licensor's Rights to License Others. In addition to the rights granted to Licensor pursuant to Article 4, "Term and Termination," in the event that Licensee is required to cease offering or providing any Licensed Services or Promotional Products using the Licensed Marks or the Licensed Copyright in a DMA by reason of its failure to comply with the Quality Standards and to cure such failure within the applicable cure periods, Licensor may immediately terminate Licensee's rights under this Agreement with respect to such DMA, and may license other Persons to use the Licensed Marks and the Licensed Copyright on Licensed Services and Promotional Products, even if the license granted hereunder was an exclusive license in that DMA. 7. PROTECTION OF LICENSED MARKS AND LICENSED COPYRIGHT 7.1 Ownership and Rights to the Licensed Marks and Licensed Copyright. (a) Licensee acknowledges the great value of the goodwill associated with the Licensed Marks and the Licensed Copyright, and acknowledges that the Licensed Marks and the Licensed Copyright and all the rights therein, including in and to any modifications, enhancements and derivative works created with respect thereto, and goodwill attached thereto, belong exclusively to Licensor. In addition, Licensee acknowledges that all Marketing Materials and Promotional Products and all other materials and tangible items bearing the Licensed Marks or the Licensed Copyright and created pursuant to this Agreement by, or on behalf of, Licensee or any Authorized Dealers, Resellers, Value Added Resellers or Sublicensees, except for any separable portion thereof which includes a trademark, copyright or other intellectual property right owned by Licensee or a third party, shall be deemed "Works Made For Hire" as such term is defined in Section 101 of the United States Copyright Act of 1976, as amended, provided, however, that if it is finally determined by a court of competent jurisdiction that any such material or tangible item does not constitute a "Work Made For Hire" then all right, title and interest in and to such material and tangible item, including copyrights throughout the world, except for any separable portion thereof which includes a trademark, copyright or other intellectual property right owned by Licensee or a third party, shall be deemed assigned and transferred 16
to Licensor by this Agreement. With respect to any third party or any employee of Licensee who makes or has made any contribution to the creation of any Marketing Materials and Promotional Goods and all other materials and tangible items bearing the Licensed Marks or the Licensed Copyright hereunder, Licensee agrees to obtain from such third party or employee a full confirmation and assignment of rights so that the foregoing rights shall vest fully in Licensor, in the form of an agreement to be provided to Licensee by Licensor prior to commencing work, which agreement ensures that all rights in any materials incorporating a Licensed Mark or the Licensed Copyright arise in and are assigned to Licensor, except for any separable portion thereof which includes a Mark, Copyright or other intellectual property right owned by Licensee or a third party. Licensee assumes all responsibility for such third parties and employees and agrees that Licensee shall bear any and all risks arising out of or relating to the performance of services by such third parties and employees and to the fulfillment of their obligations set forth in this Section 7.1(a). Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, Licensor grants Licensee an exclusive right to use derivative works created by Licensee incorporating the Licensed Copyright in connection with the Licensed Services in the Licensed Territory for the Term of this Agreement. (b) Licensee will not, at any time, disparage, dilute or adversely affect the validity of the Licensed Marks and the Licensed Copyright or take any action, or otherwise suffer to be done any act or thing which may at any time, in any way materially adversely affect any rights of Licensor in and to the Licensed Marks and the Licensed Copyright, or any registrations thereof or which, directly or indirectly, may materially reduce the value of the Licensed Marks and the Licensed Copyright or detract from their reputation. (c) Licensee agrees that any and all goodwill and other rights that may be acquired by the use of the Licensed Marks and the Licensed Copyright by Licensee shall inure to the sole benefit of Licensor. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be construed as an assignment or grant to Licensee of any right, title or interest in or to the Licensed Marks or the Licensed Copyright, or any of Licensor's other Marks or Copyrights, it being understood that all rights relating thereto are reserved by Licensor, except for the license hereunder to Licensee of the right to use the Licensed Marks or the Licensed Copyright only as specifically and expressly provided herein. Licensee further acknowledges that it will not obtain any ownership interest in the Licensed Marks or the Licensed Copyright or any other right or entitlement to continued use of them, regardless of how long this Agreement remains in 17
effect and regardless of any reason or lack of reason for the termination thereof by Licensor; provided that by making this acknowledgment Licensee is not waiving, and does not intend to waive, any contractual rights hereunder or its remedies upon a breach hereof by Licensor. (d) Licensee shall not (i) attack Licensor's title or right in and to the Licensed Marks or the Licensed Copyright as they relate to the Licensed Services in any jurisdiction or attack the validity of this license or the Licensed Marks or the Licensed Copyright or (ii) contest the fact that Licensee's rights under this Agreement cease upon termination of this Agreement. The provisions of this Section 7.1 shall survive the termination of this Agreement. (e) Licensee will not grant or attempt to grant a security interest in the Licensed Marks or the Licensed Copyright or this Agreement, or to record any security interest in the United States Patent and Trademark Office, the United States Copyright Office or elsewhere, against any Mark or Copyright application or registration belonging to Licensor. (f) Licensee shall, at Licensor's expense, cooperate fully and in good faith with Licensor for the purpose of securing, preserving and protecting Licensor's rights in and to the Licensed Marks or the Licensed Copyright. At the request of Licensor, and at Licensor's expense, Licensee shall execute and deliver to Licensor any and all documents and do all other reasonable acts and things which Licensor deems necessary or appropriate to make fully effective or to implement the provisions of this Agreement relating to the ownership, registration, maintenance or renewal of the Licensed Marks. For purposes of this Agreement, Licensee and any Sublicensees shall be considered a "related company" under the U.S. Trademark Act, 15 U.S.C. Section 1051 et seq. (g) The parties acknowledge and agree that the protection of the Licensed Marks and the Licensed Copyright and the goodwill attached thereto are material provisions of this Agreement. 7.2 Similar Marks. Licensee agrees not to register in any country any Mark or Copyright resembling or confusingly similar to the Licensed Marks or the Licensed Copyright, or which dilutes the Licensed Marks or the Licensed Copyright, and not to use the Licensed Marks, or any independently protectible part of any such Marks or Copyright, as part of its corporate name (unless otherwise agreed by Licensor), nor use (except in accordance with Article 8) any Mark or Copyright confusingly similar, deceptive or (except in accordance with Article 8) misleading with respect to the Licensed Marks or the Licensed Copyright, or which dilutes the Licensed Marks or the Licensed Copyright. If any application for registration is, or has been filed in any 18
country by Licensee which relates to any Mark or Copyright which, in the sole and reasonable opinion of Licensor, is confusingly similar, deceptive or misleading with respect to the Licensed Marks or the Licensed Copyright, or which dilutes the Licensed Marks or the Licensed Copyright, Licensee shall, at Licensor's sole discretion, immediately abandon any such application or registration or, at Licensor's election, assign it (free and clear of any liens and encumbrances, and for consideration of $1.00, the adequacy and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged by Licensor) to Licensor. If Licensee uses any Mark or Copyright which, in Licensor's reasonable opinion, is confusingly similar, deceptive or misleading with respect to the Licensed Marks or the Licensed Copyright, or which dilutes the Licensed Marks or the Licensed Copyright, or if Licensee uses the Licensed Marks or the Licensed Copyright in connection with any product, or any service or in any territory not specifically authorized hereunder, Licensee shall, immediately upon receiving a written request from Licensor, permanently cease such use. 7.3 Infringement. In the event that either party learns of any infringement or threatened infringement of the Licensed Marks or the Licensed Copyright, or any unfair competition, passing-off or dilution with respect to the Licensed Marks or the Licensed Copyright (each such event, an "Infringement"), such party shall promptly notify the other party or its authorized representative giving particulars thereof, and Licensee shall provide necessary information and reasonable assistance, at Licensor's expense, to Licensor or its authorized representatives in the event that Licensor decides that proceedings should be commenced. Licensor shall have exclusive control of any litigation, opposition, cancellation or other legal proceedings relating to an alleged Infringement. The decision whether to bring, maintain or settle any such proceedings shall be at the exclusive option and expense of Licensor, and all recoveries shall belong exclusively to Licensor. Licensee shall not take any action to enforce, protect or defend the Licensed Marks or the Licensed Copyright without the prior written consent of Licensor's General Counsel. Licensee will not initiate any such litigation, opposition, cancellation or related legal proceedings in its own name but, at Licensor's request, agrees to be joined as a party in any action taken by Licensor to enforce its rights in the Licensed Marks or the Licensed Copyright; provided that Licensor shall reimburse Licensee for all reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses incurred by Licensee, its Affiliates and authorized representatives (and their respective directors, officers, stockholder, employees and agents) in connection with their participation in such action. Nothing in this Agreement shall require, or be deemed to require Licensor to enforce the Licensed Marks or the Licensed Copyright against others. Licensor shall keep all monies derived from litigation or legal proceeding or from settlement of Infringement. 7.4 Compliance with Legal Requirements. (a) In the performance of this Agreement, Licensee shall comply in all material respects with all applicable laws and regulations and administrative orders, including those laws and regulations particularly pertaining to the proper use and designation of Marks and Copyrights in the Licensed Territory. 19
(b) Licensee shall duly display those legal notices as shall be provided by Licensor acting in good faith, such as the symbols (R), "TM" or "SM". In no circumstances shall such notices be altered or omitted without the express prior written consent of Licensor. (c) Should Licensee be or become aware of any applicable laws or regulations which are inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, Licensee shall promptly notify Licensor of such inconsistency. In such event, Licensor may, at its option, either waive the performance of such inconsistent provisions, or negotiate with Licensee to make changes in such provisions to comply with applicable laws and regulations, it being understood that the parties intend that any such changes shall preserve to the extent reasonably practicable the parties' respective benefits under this Agreement. 8. USE OF LICENSED MARKS AND LICENSED COPYRIGHT AND OTHER MARKS AND COPYRIGHTS 8.1 Licensee Marks. Licensee shall have the right from time to time during the Term to create and use its own Marks and Copyrights, which may be used together with the Licensed Marks and Licensed Copyright, in connection with products or services with respect to which any of the Licensed Marks and/or the Licensed Copyright are used; provided that, said use is in conformance with the Quality Standards set forth in Article 5; and provided further that, upon request, Licensor shall have the right to review and approve Licensee's use of such Marks (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld). For the avoidance of doubt, Licensor's approval of such Mark shall not be deemed to be a statement by Licensor as to availability or strength of such Mark. Licensee shall have sole responsibility over the availability and strength of the Mark. Unless, in the exercise of Licensor's sole discretion acting in good faith, Licensor shall determine that a Mark or Copyright that Licensee proposes to use could disparage, tarnish, dilute or potentially cause confusion with respect to the Licensed Marks or the Licensed Copyright, or is not in conformance with Licensor's Quality Standards set forth in Article 5 or otherwise could have a detrimental effect on the Licensed Marks or the Licensed Copyright, Licensor will approve Licensee's use of such proposed Mark or Copyright. Licensor shall approve or disapprove any Marks or Copyrights proposed to be used by Licensee within a reasonable time of its receipt of a written request for such approval. Licensee shall not file or prosecute a trademark or copyright application to register any Marks or Copyrights which consist of or incorporate the Licensed Marks, Licensed Copyright or any material element thereof or any Marks or Copyrights confusingly similar thereto. Under no circumstances shall Licensee be permitted to join the Licensed Marks with any Licensee Marks so as to form a new Mark. 8.2 Modification of Licensed Marks or Licensed Copyright. In the event Licensor modifies or replaces any of the Licensed Marks or the Licensed Copyright as they are used in any portion of Licensor's business, and if Licensor requests Licensee to adopt and use any such modified or replaced Licensed Marks or the Licensed Copyright, 20
Licensee will adopt and use such modified or replaced Licensed Marks and Licensed Copyright and, in such event, such modified or replaced Licensed Marks or Licensed Copyright shall be considered the Licensed Marks or the Licensed Copyright contemplated by this Agreement; provided that in such event, Licensee shall be granted a 180-day period during which to phase-out its use of the superseded forms of the Licensed Marks or the Licensed Copyright, as applicable, and during such 180-day period Licensee shall have the right to use its existing inventory of Marketing Materials bearing the superseded forms of the Licensed Marks or the Licensed Copyright, as applicable. 8.3 Third Party Marks. Licensee shall have the right from time to time to use Marks owned by third parties ("Third Party Marks") in conjunction with the Licensed Marks or the Licensed Copyright, in connection with products or services with respect to which Licensed Marks or the Licensed Copyright are used; provided that (i) Licensee obtains consent from the relevant third party to use such Third Party Marks; and (ii) use of the Licensed Marks or the Licensed Copyright in conjunction with such Third Party Marks shall be in conformance with the Licensor's Quality Standards set forth in Article 5; provided that, upon request, Licensor shall have the right to review and approve Licensee's uses of the Third Party Marks. Under no circumstances shall Licensee be permitted to join the Licensed Marks with any Third Party Marks so as to form a new Mark. 8.4 Internet Domain Names. (a) Licensee shall obtain Licensor's prior written permission before using any of the Licensed Marks or Licensed Copyright or any confusingly similar Mark or Copyright as part of a domain name, provided that, Licensee shall have the right to use the domain names set forth on Schedule A without Licensor's prior written consent. Any domain name consisting of or incorporating the Licensed Marks or any material element thereof shall be owned and maintained exclusively by Licensor; provided that, Licensee shall be solely responsible for any registration and renewal fees for those domain names used exclusively by, or on behalf of, Licensee. (b) Licensee's web sites that use any of the Licensed Marks and the Licensed Copyright or that concern Licensed Services or Portals and Promotional Products in connection with which the Licensed Marks and the Licensed Copyright are used shall comply with the Quality Standards set forth in Article 5. 21
9. REPRESENTATIONS; LIABILITY AND INDEMNIFICATION 9.1 Representations and Warranties. Licensor represents and warrants that Licensor has not licensed the use of the Licensed Marks and/or the Licensed Copyright to any third party in connection with the Licensed Services in the Licensed Territory. 9.2 Indemnification. (a) Licensor shall defend, indemnify and hold Licensee and its Sublicensees and their respective directors, officers, stockholders, employees and agents (the "Licensee Parties") harmless against all claims, suits, proceedings, costs, damages, losses, fees and expenses (including reasonable attorney's fees) and judgments incurred, claimed or sustained by the Licensee Parties arising out of: (i) any third party claims as to the lack of validity or enforceability of (A) the registrations of the Licensed Marks and the Licensed Copyright or (B) Licensor's ownership rights in the Licensed Marks and the Licensed Copyright; and (ii) any lack of validity or enforceability of this Agreement caused by Licensor. (b) Subject to Licensor's indemnification obligations in subsection (a) above, Licensee shall defend, indemnify and hold Licensor and its directors, officers, stockholders, employees and agents (the "Licensor Parties") harmless against all claims, suits, proceedings, costs, damages, losses, fees and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees) and judgments incurred, claimed or sustained by the Licensor Parties arising out of Licensee's, or any Authorized Dealer's, Reseller's, Value Added Reseller's or Sublicensee's use of the Licensed Marks or the Licensed Copyright other than as expressly provided in this Agreement, and shall indemnify the Licensor Parties from any improper or unauthorized use of the Licensed Marks and/or the Licensed Copyright and for any use by Licensee, or any Authorized Dealer, Reseller, Value Added Reseller or Sublicensee of the Licensee Marks and the Licensed Copyright. Licensee shall also defend, indemnify and hold the Licensor Parties harmless against all claims, suits, proceedings, costs, damages, losses, fees and expenses (including reasonable attorney's fees) and judgments incurred, claimed or sustained by the Licensor Parties arising out of: (i) any third party claims as to the lack of validity or enforceability of (x) the Licensee Marks or (y) Licensee's ownership rights in the Licensee Marks; and (ii) any lack of validity or enforceability of this Agreement caused by Licensee. 9.3 Notification and Defense of Claims. 22
(a) Notification of Claims. In the event of the occurrence of an event which Licensee or Licensor (the "Indemnified Party"), as the case may be, asserts constitutes a claim under Section 9.2, the Indemnified Party shall provide prompt notice of such event to Licensor, in the case of Licensee as the Indemnified Party, or to Licensee, in the case of Licensor as the Indemnified Party (the "Indemnifying Party"), and shall otherwise make available to the Indemnifying Party all relevant information which is material to the claim. Failure to give timely notice or to furnish the Indemnifying Party with any relevant data and documents in connection with any claim shall not constitute a defense (in part or in whole) to any claim for indemnification by the Indemnified Party, unless, and only to the extent that, such failure results in any material prejudice to the Indemnifying Party. The Indemnifying Party may elect, at its own expense, to assume exclusive control of the defense of such claim, if the Indemnifying Party gives written notice of its intention to do so no later than thirty (30) days following notice of such claim by the Indemnified Party or such shorter time period as required so that the interests of the Indemnified Party would not be materially prejudiced as a result of the failure to have received such notice; provided that, (i) the Indemnifying Party shall obtain the consent of the Indemnified Party (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed) before entering into any settlement, adjustment or compromise of such claims, or ceasing to defend against such claims, if as a result thereof, or pursuant thereto, there would be imposed on the Indemnified Party any material liability or obligation not covered by the indemnity obligations of the Indemnifying Party under this Agreement (including, without limitation, any injunctive relief or other remedy), except with respect to a settlement adjustment or compromise which results solely in a monetary liability and (ii) if the Indemnified Party shall have reasonably concluded that separate counsel is required because a conflict of interest would otherwise exist, the Indemnified Party shall have the right to select separate counsel to participate in the defense of such action on its behalf, at the expense of the Indemnified Party. (b) In the event that Indemnifying Party elects to assume control of the defense of any such claim, the Indemnified Party shall cooperate with the Indemnifying Party in such proceeding and shall execute all papers necessary and desirable and shall testify or provide evidence whenever reasonably requested to do so. The Indemnified Party may elect to join in the defense of such claim and to employ counsel to assist it in connection with the handling of such claim, at the sole expense of the Indemnified Party, provided, however, that no such claim shall be settled, adjusted or 23
compromised, or the defense thereof terminated by the Indemnified Party, without the prior consent of the Indemnifying Party (which consent shall not be reasonably withheld or delayed), and provided, further that no Indemnified Party may settle, compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment in any claim for which indemnification may be sought hereunder unless such settlement, compromise or consent also includes an express, unconditional release of the Indemnifying Party and its directors, officers, stockholders, employees and agents from all liabilities and obligations arising therefrom. (c) In the event that the Indemnifying Party does not notify the Indemnified Party within thirty (30) days that it will assume control of the defense of any such claim for which the Indemnified Party would be entitled to indemnification hereunder, then the Indemnified Party shall have the right to defend such claim at its own expense, and the Indemnifying Party shall cooperate as requested in such defense, at the expense of the Indemnified Party with respect to documented and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Indemnifying Party in the defense of the claim, provided, however, that no such claim shall be settled, adjusted or compromised, or the defense thereof terminated by the Indemnified Party, without the prior consent of the Indemnifying Party (which consent shall not be reasonably withheld or delayed), and provided, further, that no Indemnified Party may settle, compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment in any claim for which indemnification may be sought hereunder unless such settlement, compromise or consent also includes an express, unconditional release of the Indemnifying Party and its directors, officers, stockholders, employees and agents from all liabilities and obligations arising therefrom. 9.4 Insurance. (a) Licensee shall maintain, at its own expense, in full force and effect at all times during which Licensed Services bearing the Licensed Marks and/or the Licensed Copyright are being sold, with a responsible insurance carrier reasonably acceptable to Licensor, at least a Two Million Five Hundred Thousand Dollar ($2,500,000.00) products liability insurance policy with respect to the Licensed Services offered using the Licensed Marks and/or the Licensed Copyright. This insurance shall be primary to any of Licensor's coverage, shall name Licensor as an insured party, shall be for the benefit of Licensor and Licensee and shall provide for at least ten (10) days' prior notice to Licensor and Licensee of the cancellation or any substantial modification of the policy. This insurance may be obtained by Licensee in conjunction with a 24
policy which covers services and/or products other than the services covered under this Agreement. (b) Licensee shall from time to time, upon reasonable request by Licensor, promptly furnish or cause to be furnished to Licensor, evidence in form and substance satisfactory to Licensor, of the maintenance of the insurance required by this Section 9.4, including without limitation, originals or copies of policies, certificates of insurance (with applicable riders and endorsements) and proof of premium payments. 10. AGREEMENT PERSONAL 10.1 Personal to Licensee. In recognition of the unique nature of the relationship between Licensor and Licensee, the fact that Licensor would not be willing to enter into an agreement such as this Agreement with any other party in any other circumstances, and the unique nature of Licensee (including without limitation, the fact that part of Licensee was once owned by Licensor), the parties agree that the rights, obligations and benefits of this Agreement shall be personal to Licensee, and Licensor shall not be required to accept performance from, or render performance to, an entity other than Licensee. Pursuant to 11 U.S.C. Section 365(c)(1)(A) (as it may be amended from time to time, and including any successor to such provision), in the event of the Bankruptcy of Licensee, this Agreement may not be assigned or assumed by Licensee (or any Successor) and Licensor shall be excused from rendering performance to, or accepting performance from, Licensee or any Successor. 10.2 Licensee Acknowledgment. Licensee acknowledges and agrees that it understands it may have, or, in the future, may elect to enter into, agreements with Licensor's Affiliates and that neither the execution or continuation nor the renewal of any of those agreements will have any effect on this Agreement and Licensee may choose to contract, or not, with Licensor's Affiliates as it deems appropriate. 11. RETENTION OF RIGHTS Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement, nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed or construed to limit in any way Licensor's rights in and to the Licensed Marks or the Licensed Copyright, including without limitation: (a) All rights of ownership in and to the Licensed Marks and the Licensed Copyright, including the right to license or transfer the same. (b) The unimpaired right to use the Licensed Marks and the Licensed Copyright in connection with marketing, offering or providing any products or services (except for the particular products and services exclusively licensed under this Agreement, but only to the 25
extent of such license) whether within or without the Licensed Territory. 12. SPONSORSHIP Licensee shall not use the Licensed Marks or the Licensed Copyright to sponsor, endorse, or claim affiliation with any event, meeting, charitable endeavor or any other undertaking (each, an "Event") without the express written permission of Licensor. The Parties acknowledge that an Event shall not include day-to-day ordinary course meetings and events. Licensor reserves the right to deny permission to any Event. In the event that Licensee desires to sponsor, endorse or claim affiliation with an Event, Licensee shall provide Licensor with at least twenty (20) business days prior written notice of such Event in reasonable detail. Any breach of this provision reasonably determined to have a material adverse effect on Licensor, the Licensed Marks or the Licensed Copyright shall be deemed a Significant Breach by Licensee. 13. CONSENT OF LICENSOR Except where another standard is expressly provided for herein, whenever reference is made to Licensor's consent or approval in this Agreement, such consent or approval may be granted or withheld in Licensor's sole discretion and, if granted, may be done so conditionally or unconditionally. 14. NOTICES All notices, requests, demands or other communications required by, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given to any party when delivered personally (by courier service or otherwise), against receipt, when delivered by telecopy and confirmed by return telecopy, or three (3) days after being mailed by registered first-class mail, postage prepaid and return receipt requested in each case to the applicable addresses set forth below: If to Licensee: Time Warner Cable Inc. 290 Harbor Drive Stamford, Connecticut 06902 26
If to Licensor: Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc. Office of the General Counsel 4000 Warner Boulevard Burbank, CA 91522 Attn: John Schulman; Executive Vice President and General Counsel Fax: 818-954-4768 or to such other address as such party shall have designated by notice so given to each other party. 15. GOVERNMENTAL LICENSES, PERMITS AND APPROVALS Licensee, at its expense, shall be responsible for obtaining and maintaining all Approvals with respect to this Agreement, and for complying with any requirements of such Regulatory Authorities for the registration or recording of this Agreement. Licensee shall furnish to Licensor written evidence from such Regulatory Authorities of any such Approvals. 16. APPLICABLE LAW The construction, performance and interpretation of this Agreement shall be governed by the U.S. Trademark Act, 15 U.S.C. Section 1051 et seq., and the internal, substantive laws of the State of New York, without regard to its principles of conflicts of law. Except as otherwise provided herein, Licensor and Licensee hereby irrevocably submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, or absent subject matter jurisdiction in that court, the state courts of the State of New York located in New York County for all actions, suits or proceedings arising in connection with this Agreement. 17. CONFIDENTIALITY OF INFORMATION AND USE RESTRICTION The Quality Standards and other technical information furnished to Licensee under this Agreement and other confidential and proprietary information, know-how and trade secrets of Licensor that are disclosed or otherwise provided to Licensee in connection with this Agreement, shall remain the property of Licensor, and shall be returned to Licensor upon request and upon termination of this Agreement. Unless such information was previously known to Licensee free of any obligation to keep it confidential, or has been or is subsequently made public (a) by any person other than Licensee and Licensor is not attempting to limit further dissemination of such information, (b) by Licensor, or (c) by Licensee, as required by law (including securities laws) or to enforce its rights under this Agreement, it shall be held in confidence, and shall be used only for the purposes of this Agreement. All confidential and proprietary information, know-how and trade secrets of Licensee that are disclosed or otherwise provided to Licensor hereunder (including without limitation, during any Inspection) 27
(collectively, "Licensee Information") shall remain the property of Licensee and shall be returned to Licensee upon request and upon termination of this Agreement. Unless such Licensee Information was previously known to Licensor free of any obligation to keep it confidential, or has been or is subsequently made public (a) by any person other than Licensor and Licensee is not attempting to limit further dissemination of such information, (b) by Licensee, or (c) by Licensor, as required by law (including securities law) or to enforce its rights under this Agreement, it shall be held in confidence and shall be used only for purposes of this Agreement. 18. MISCELLANEOUS 18.1 Entire Agreement. The provisions of this Agreement contain the entire agreement between the parties relating to use by Licensee of the Licensed Marks and the Licensed Copyright, and supersede all prior agreements and understandings relating to the subject matter hereof. This Agreement shall be interpreted to achieve the objectives and intent of the parties as set forth in the text and factual recitals of the Agreement. It is specifically agreed that no evidence of discussions during the negotiation of the Agreement, or drafts written or exchanged, may be used in connection with the interpretation or construction of this Agreement. No rights are granted to use the Licensed Marks or the Licensed Copyright or any other Marks, Copyrights or Trade Dress except as specifically set forth in this Agreement. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and provisions in any other agreement involving Licensee, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. 18.2 Relationship of the Parties. This Agreement is not a franchise under federal or state law, does not create a partnership or joint venture, and shall not be deemed to constitute an assignment of any rights of Licensor to Licensee. Licensee is an independent contractor, not an agent or employee of Licensor, and Licensor is not liable for any acts or omissions by Licensee. 18.3 Amendments, Waivers. This Agreement may not be amended, changed, supplemented, waived or otherwise modified except by an instrument in writing signed by the party against whom enforcement is sought. 18.4 Assignment. Licensee may not assign, pledge, transfer or otherwise hypothecate this Agreement or any of its rights or obligations hereunder, and any purported assignment, pledge, transfer or other hypothecation, whether by operation of law or otherwise, shall be void and of no force or effect. 18.5 Specific Performance. The parties acknowledge that money damages are not an adequate remedy for violation of this Agreement and that any party may, in its sole discretion, apply to the court set forth in Article 16 for specific performance, or injunctive, or such other relief as such court may deem just and proper, in order to enforce this Agreement or prevent any violation hereof, and to the extent permitted by applicable law, each party waives any objection to the imposition of such relief. 28
18.6 Remedies Cumulative. All rights, powers and remedies provided under this Agreement, or otherwise available in respect hereof at law or in equity shall be cumulative and not alternative, and the exercise or beginning of the exercise of any thereof by any party shall not preclude the simultaneous or later exercise of any other such right, power or remedy by such party. 18.7 No Waiver. The failure of any party hereto to exercise any right, power or remedy provided under this Agreement, or otherwise available in respect hereof at law or in equity, or to insist upon compliance by any other party hereto with its obligations hereunder, and any custom or practice of the parties at variance with the terms hereof, shall not constitute a waiver by such party of its right to exercise any such or other right, power or remedy or to demand such compliance. 18.8 Rules of Construction. As used in this Agreement, (1) neutral pronouns and any derivations thereof shall be deemed to include the feminine and masculine and all terms used in the singular shall be deemed to include the plural and vice versa, as the context may require; (2) the words "hereof," "herein," "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this Agreement as a whole, including all exhibits and schedules as the same may be amended or supplemented from time to time, and not to any subdivision of this Agreement; (3) the word "including" or any variation thereof means "including, without limitation" and shall not be construed to limit any general statement that it follows to the specific or similar items or matters immediately following it; and (4) descriptive headings and titles used in this Agreement are inserted for convenience of reference only and do not constitute a part of and shall not be utilized in interpreting this Agreement. This Agreement shall be fairly interpreted in accordance with its terms and without any strict construction in favor of or against any party. 18.9 No Third Party Beneficiaries. This Agreement is not intended to be for the benefit of and shall not be enforceable by any Person who is not a party and nothing in this Agreement, express or implied, is intended to or shall (1) confer on any Person other than the parties and their respective Successors any rights (including third-party beneficiary rights), remedies, obligations or liabilities under or by reason of this Agreement or (2) constitute the parties as partners or as participants in a joint venture. This Agreement shall not provide third parties with any remedy, claim, liability, reimbursement, cause of action or other right in excess of those existing without reference to the terms of this Agreement and no third party shall have any right, independent of any right that exists irrespective of this Agreement, to bring any suit at law or equity for any matter governed by or subject to the provisions of this Agreement. 18.10 Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, but all of which together shall constitute one instrument. Each counterpart may consist of a number of copies each signed by less than all, but together signed by all the parties hereto. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the parties has caused this Agreement to be executed in duplicate originals by its duly authorized representatives as of the date first stated above. 29
WARNER BROS. ENTERTAINMENT INC. By: /s/ Spencer B. Hays ----------------------------------- Name: Spencer B. Hays Title: Senior Vice President TIME WARNER CABLE INC. By: /s/ Marc J. Apfelbaum ---------------------------------- Name: Marc J. Apfelbaum Title: Executive Vice President, General Counsel & Secretary 30
Schedule A rr.com roadrunner.com And any other domain name incorporating any of the Licensed Marks that was used in the TWE Broadband Business as of the Closing. 31

EXHIBIT: 10.9 EXECUTION COPY TAX MATTERS AGREEMENT THIS TAX MATTERS AGREEMENT (the "Agreement"), dated as of March 31, 2003, is entered into between AOL Time Warner Inc., a Delaware corporation ("AOL Time Warner"), and Time Warner Cable Inc., a New York corporation, ("TWC"). R E C I T A L S A. AOL Time Warner is the common parent corporation of an affiliated group of corporations within the meaning of Section 1504(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), that has elected to file consolidated federal income tax returns, and TWC is a member of such group. B. AOL Time Warner and TWC desire to set forth in the Agreement their agreement as to certain matters relating to the inclusion of the TWC Consolidated Group (as defined below) in the AOL Time Warner Consolidated Group, including the allocation of tax liabilities for years in which TWC is so included, and certain other matters relating to taxes. The parties agree as follows: 1. DEFINITIONS. "Adjustment" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 8 of this Agreement. "Agreement Year" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2 of this Agreement. "AOL Time Warner" shall have the meaning set forth in the Preamble to this Agreement. "AOL Time Warner Consolidated Group" shall mean any affiliated group of corporations electing to file consolidated federal income tax returns of which AOL Time Warner is a member. "AOL Time Warner Consolidated Return" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2 of this Agreement. "Code" shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals. "Determination" shall mean a settlement, compromise, or other agreement with the IRS or the relevant state, local or foreign taxing authority, whether contained in an Internal Revenue Service Form 870 or other comparable form, or otherwise, or such procedurally later event, such as a closing agreement with the IRS or the relevant state, local or foreign taxing
2 authority, an agreement contained in an IRS Form 870-D or other comparable form, an agreement that constitutes a determination under Section 1313(a)(4) of the Code, a deficiency notice with respect to which the period for filing a petition with the Tax Court or the relevant state, local or foreign tribunal has expired or a decision of any court of competent jurisdiction that is not subject to appeal or as to which the time for appeal has expired. "Estimated Tax Payments" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4 of this Agreement. "IRS" shall mean the Internal Revenue Service. "Group" shall mean either the Parent Group or the TWC Consolidated Group. "Parent Group" shall mean the affiliated group of corporations (including any predecessors and successors thereto) within the meaning of Section 1504(a) of the Code, of which AOL Time Warner is the common parent, excluding any corporation that is a member of the TWC Consolidated Group. "Post-Consolidation Year" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5 of this Agreement. "Pro Forma TWC Return" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3 of this Agreement. "Records" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 8 of this Agreement. "Regulations" shall mean the Treasury regulations promulgated under the Code. "TWC" shall have the meaning set forth in the Preamble to this Agreement. "TWC Consolidated Group" shall mean TWC or TWC and the affiliated group of corporations (including any predecessors and successors thereto) within the meaning of Section 1504(a) of the Code, of which TWC would be the common parent if it were not included in the AOL Time Warner Consolidated Group. "TWC Return Items" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 8 of this Agreement. "TWC Tax Package" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7 of this Agreement.
3 2. FILING OF CONSOLIDATED RETURNS AND PAYMENT OF CONSOLIDATED TAX LIABILITY. For all taxable years in which AOL Time Warner files consolidated federal income tax returns (any such return of the AOL Time Warner Consolidated Group for any taxable year, an "AOL Time Warner Consolidated Return") and is entitled to include the TWC Consolidated Group in such returns under Sections 1501-1504, or successor provisions, of the Code, AOL Time Warner shall include the TWC Consolidated Group in the consolidated federal income tax returns it files as the common parent corporation of the AOL Time Warner Consolidated Group. AOL Time Warner, TWC, and the other members of the AOL Time Warner Consolidated Group shall file any and all consents, elections or other documents and take any other actions necessary or appropriate to effect the filing of such federal income tax returns. For all taxable years in which the TWC Consolidated Group is included in the AOL Time Warner Consolidated Group, AOL Time Warner shall pay the entire federal income tax liability of the AOL Time Warner Consolidated Group and shall indemnify and hold harmless TWC against any such liability; provided, however, that TWC shall make payments to AOL Time Warner or receive payments from AOL Time Warner as provided in the Agreement for any taxable year (which term shall throughout the Agreement include any short taxable year) during which the TWC Consolidated Group is included in the AOL Time Warner Consolidated Group (an "Agreement Year"). 3. PRO FORMA RETURNS. For each Agreement Year, AOL Time Warner shall prepare a pro forma federal income tax return for the TWC Consolidated Group (a "Pro Forma TWC Return") and the Parent Group (a "Pro Forma Parent Return"). The Pro Forma TWC Return shall be prepared based on the corresponding TWC Tax Package provided pursuant to Section 7 hereof. Except as otherwise provided herein, the Pro Forma TWC Return and Pro Forma Parent Return for each Agreement Year shall be prepared as if TWC filed a consolidated return on behalf of the TWC Consolidated Group for such taxable year, and no member of one Group was a member of the other Group. The Pro Forma Return for each Group shall reflect any carryovers of net operating losses, net capital losses, excess tax credits, or other tax attributes from prior Pro Forma Returns for such Group which could have been utilized by such Group if the TWC Consolidated Group had never been included in the AOL Time Warner Consolidated Group and all Pro Forma Returns for the relevant Group had been actual returns. The Pro Forma Return for each Group shall be prepared in a manner that reflects all elections, positions, and methods used in the AOL Time Warner Consolidated Return that must be applied on a consolidated basis and otherwise the Pro Forma Parent Return shall be prepared in a manner consistent with the AOL Time Warner Consolidated Return and the Pro Forma TWC Return shall be prepared in a manner consistent with past practices of the Time Warner cable group. The provisions of the Code that require consolidated computations, such as Sections 861, 1201-1212 and 1231, shall be applied separately to each Group as if such Group and the other Group were separate affiliated groups, except that: (a) the Pro Forma TWC Return prepared for the last taxable year, or portion thereof,
4 during which the TWC Consolidated Group is included in the AOL Time Warner Consolidated Return shall also include any income, gains or losses of the members of the TWC Consolidated Group on transactions within the TWC Consolidated Group that must be taken into account pursuant to Section 1.1502-13 of the Regulations and any income of the members of the TWC Consolidated Group that must be taken into account pursuant to Section 1.1502-19 of the Regulations and, in each case, reflected on the AOL Time Warner Consolidated Return when the TWC Consolidated Group ceases to be included in the AOL Time Warner Consolidated Return; and (b) transactions between the TWC Consolidated Group, on the one hand, and any member of the Parent Group, on the other hand, shall not be taken into account until the first taxable year in which such transaction is required to be taken into account pursuant to Regulations promulgated under Section 1502 .. For purposes of the Agreement, all determinations made as if the TWC Consolidated Group had never been included in the AOL Time Warner Consolidated Group and as if all Pro Forma TWC Returns were actual returns shall reflect any actual short taxable years resulting from the TWC Consolidated Group joining or leaving the AOL Time Warner Consolidated Group. 4. TAX PAYMENTS. (a) Estimated Tax Payments. (i) For each Agreement Year, TWC shall make periodic payments ("Estimated Tax Payments") to AOL Time Warner in such amounts as determined by AOL Time Warner (in good faith and in accordance with the principles of Section 3 hereof) based upon the estimated tax payments that would be due from the TWC Consolidated Group if it were not included in the AOL Time Warner Consolidated Group no later than the dates on which payments of estimated tax would be due from the TWC Consolidated Group if it were not included in the AOL Time Warner Consolidated Group. AOL Time Warner shall notify TWC of any amounts due from TWC to AOL Time Warner pursuant to this Section 4(a)(i) no later than 5 business days prior to the date such payments would be due from the TWC Consolidated Group if it were not included in the AOL Time Warner Consolidated Group and any such payments shall not be considered due until the later of the due date described above or the fifth day from the notice from AOL Time Warner. (ii) For each Agreement Year, AOL Time Warner shall make Estimated Tax Payments to TWC in an amount equal to the excess, if any of (x) the estimated tax payments that would be due from the Parent Group for the relevant period if the Parent Group filed its own consolidated tax return, determined by AOL Time Warner in good faith and in accordance with the principles of Section 3 hereof, over (y) the actual estimated tax payments due from the AOL Time Warner Consolidated Group for such period, no later than the
5 dates on which payments of estimated tax are due from the AOL Time Warner Consolidated Group. (b) Payments Based on Pro Forma Returns. (i) Payments Based on Pro Forma TWC Return. TWC shall pay to AOL Time Warner no later than the date on which an AOL Time Warner Consolidated Return for any Agreement Year is filed an amount equal to the excess of (x) the sum of (A) the federal income tax liability shown on the corresponding Pro Forma TWC Return prepared for the Agreement Year, plus (B) an amount equal to the additions to tax, if any (under Section 6655 of the Code, or otherwise) that would have been imposed on the TWC Consolidated Group (treating the amount due to AOL Time Warner under (A) above as its federal income tax liability and treating any Estimated Tax Payments to AOL Time Warner pursuant to clause (a) as estimated payments for purposes of Section 6655 of the Code) as a result of the inaccuracy of any information provided by TWC to AOL Time Warner pursuant to Section 7 hereof or from the failure of TWC to provide any requested information, up to the total amount of the additions to tax, if any (under Section 6655 of the Code, or otherwise) that are imposed on the AOL Time Warner Consolidated Group for such Agreement Year plus (C) any interest that would be due under the Code if the Estimated Tax Payments were actual payments of tax, over (y) the aggregate amount of Estimated Tax Payments paid by TWC to AOL Time Warner, during such year. If the aggregate amount of TWC's Estimated Tax Payments to AOL Time Warner for any Agreement Year exceed the amount of its liability, as determined under clause (x) of the preceding sentence, AOL Time Warner shall refund such excess, plus interest (accruing from each date with respect to which there was an overpayment of Estimated Tax Payments) to TWC no later than the fifth business day following the filing of the AOL Time Warner Consolidated Return. AOL Time Warner shall notify TWC of any amounts due from TWC to AOL Time Warner pursuant to this Section 4(b) no later than 5 business days prior to the date such payments are due and any such payment due from TWC to AOL Time Warner shall not be considered due until the later of the due date described above or the fifth day from the notice from AOL Time Warner. (ii) Payments Based on Pro Forma Parent Returns. AOL Time Warner shall pay to TWC no later than the date on which an AOL Time Warner Consolidated Return for any Agreement Year is filed an amount equal to the excess of (x) (A) the federal income tax liability shown on the corresponding Pro Forma Parent Return prepared for the Agreement Year, plus (B) any interest that would be due under the Code if the Estimated Tax Payments were actual payments of tax, minus (C) the actual federal income tax liability for the AOL Time Warner Consolidated Group for such taxable year over (y) the aggregate
6 amount of Estimated Tax Payments paid by AOL Time Warner to TWC during such year. If the aggregate amount of AOL Time Warner's Estimated Tax Payments to TWC for any Agreement Year exceed the amount of its liability, as determined under clause (x) of the preceding sentence, TWC shall refund such excess to AOL Time Warner, plus interest (accruing from each date with respect to which there was an overpayment of Estimated Tax Payments) no later than the fifth business day following the filing of the AOL Time Warner Consolidated Return. (c) For purposes of the Agreement, the term "federal income tax liability" includes the tax imposed by Sections 11, 55 and 59A of the Code, or any successor provisions to such Sections. 5. PAYMENTS FOR TAXABLE YEARS IN THE EVENT OF DECONSOLIDATION. (a) Payments By TWC To AOL Time Warner. If for any taxable year after the TWC Consolidated Group ceases to be included in the AOL Time Warner Consolidated Group (a "Post-Consolidation Year"), (i) the federal income tax liability of the TWC Consolidated Group is less than the federal income tax liability that would have been imposed with respect to the same period if the TWC Consolidated Group had not been included in the AOL Time Warner Consolidated Group for any Agreement Year and all Pro Forma TWC Returns had been actual returns for such years, or (ii) the federal income tax liability of the AOL Time Warner Consolidated Group is greater than the federal income tax liability that would have been imposed with respect to the same period if the TWC Consolidated Group had not been included in the AOL Time Warner Consolidated Group for any Agreement Year and all Pro Forma TWC Returns had been actual returns for such years, then, to the extent that TWC has not already made a payment to AOL Time Warner for utilization of the tax attributes that gave rise to the decrease or increase described in (i) or (ii), TWC shall pay to AOL Time Warner an amount equal to such decrease or increase within 10 days of the filing of TWC Post-Consolidation Year return. In the event that there is both a decrease and an increase described in (i) and (ii), respectively, of the previous sentence for any Post-Consolidation Year, then TWC shall make a payment to AOL Time Warner in an amount equal to the sum of such decrease and increase, unless such decrease and increase (or any portion thereof) result from utilization of the same tax attribute(s), in which case the amount of the payment will be reduced accordingly. (b) Payments By AOL Time Warner To TWC. If for any Post-Consolidation Year (i) the federal income tax liability of the TWC Consolidated Group is greater than the federal income tax liability that would have been imposed with respect to the same period if the TWC Consolidated Group had not
7 been included in the AOL Time Warner Consolidated Group for any Agreement Year and all Pro Forma TWC Returns had been actual returns for such years, or (ii) the federal income tax liability of the AOL Consolidated Group is less than the federal income tax liability that would have been imposed with respect to the same period if the TWC Consolidated Group had not been included in the AOL Time Warner Consolidated Group for any Agreement Year and all Pro Forma TWC Returns had been actual returns for such years, then, to the extent that AOL Time Warner has not already made a payment to TWC for utilization of the tax attributes that gave rise to the increase or decrease described in (i) or (ii), AOL Time Warner shall pay to TWC an amount equal to such increase or decrease within 10 days of notification by TWC to AOL Time Warner of the filing of TWC Post-Consolidation Year return. In the event that there is both an increase and a decrease described in (i) and (ii), respectively, of the previous sentence for any Post-Consolidation Year, then AOL Time Warner shall make a payment to TWC in an amount equal to the sum of such increase and decrease, unless such increase and decrease (or any portion thereof) result from utilization of the same tax attribute(s), in which case the amount of the payment will be reduced accordingly. (c) Documentation. Prior to the payment of any amounts due pursuant to this Section 5, the parties shall exchange such information and documentation as is reasonably satisfactory to each of them in order to substantiate the amounts due pursuant to this Section 5. Any disputes as to such amounts and documentation which cannot be resolved prior to the date a payment is due shall be referred to an independent accounting firm whose fees shall paid one half by TWC and one half by AOL Time Warner. (d) Post-Consolidation Year Carrybacks. (i) If a TWC Consolidated Group federal income tax return for any Post-Consolidation Year reflects a net operating loss, net capital loss, excess tax credits, or any other tax attribute, whether or not TWC waives the right to carryback any such attribute to an AOL Time Warner Consolidated Return, no payment with respect to such carrybacks shall be due from AOL Time Warner. (ii) If an AOL Time Warner Consolidated Return for any Post-Consolidation Year reflects a net operating loss, net capital loss, excess tax credits, or any other tax attribute, such attribute may be carried back to an AOL Time Warner Consolidated Return for an Agreement Year, and AOL Time Warner shall be entitled to retain (without any obligation to reimburse TWC) the full amount of any refund received in connection therewith. In the event that TWC (or any other member of the TWC Consolidated Group) receives any refund with respect to an Agreement Year issued in connection with a carryback of an AOL Time Warner Consolidated Group tax attribute from a Post-Consolidation
8 Year to an AOL Time Warner Consolidated Return for an Agreement Year, TWC shall promptly pay the full amount of such refund to AOL Time Warner. (e) No Duplication of Payment. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, neither Section 5(a) nor Section 5(b) shall require TWC or AOL Time Warner, as the case may be, to make any payment pursuant to such section to the extent that the payment is attributable to a tax attribute for which payment has previously been made pursuant to Section 4. 6. CARRYBACK OF TAX ATTRIBUTES. To the extent that AOL Time Warner elects to carryback a net operating loss, net capital loss, excess tax credits or any other tax attribute of the TWC Consolidated Group or the Parent Group in any Agreement Year to an AOL Time Warner Consolidated Return for any earlier Agreement Year, an adjustment shall be made to the corresponding Pro Forma TWC Return or Pro Forma Parent Return, as applicable, to reflect the utilization of such carryback, and all calculations of payments made pursuant to Sections 4 and 5 of this Agreement shall be recomputed to reflect the effect of such carryback on the relevant Pro Forma TWC Return or Pro Forma Parent Return. Within 30 days after the date on which the AOL Time Warner Consolidated Return reflecting utilization of such attribute is filed, TWC or AOL Time Warner, as appropriate, shall make additional payments to the other party reflecting the recomputation described in the preceding sentence. 7. PREPARATION OF TAX PACKAGE AND OTHER FINANCIAL REPORTING INFORMATION. TWC shall provide to AOL Time Warner in a format determined by AOL Time Warner all information requested by AOL Time Warner as reasonably necessary to prepare the AOL Time Warner Consolidated Return and the Pro Forma TWC Return (the "TWC Tax Package"). The TWC Tax Package with respect to any taxable year shall be provided to AOL Time Warner on a basis consistent with current practices of the AOL Time Warner Consolidated Group. TWC shall also provide to AOL Time Warner information required to determine the Estimated Tax Payments, current federal taxable income, current and deferred tax liabilities, tax reserve items, and any additional current or prior information required by AOL Time Warner on a timely basis consistent with current practices of the AOL Time Warner Consolidated Group. 8. RETURNS, AUDITS, REFUNDS, AMENDED RETURNS, LITIGATION, ADJUSTMENTS AND RULINGS. (a) Returns. AOL Time Warner shall have exclusive and sole responsibility for the preparation and filing of the AOL Time Warner Consolidated Returns (including requests for extensions thereof) and any other returns, amended returns and other documents or statements required to be filed with the IRS in connection with the determination of the federal income tax liability of the AOL Time Warner Consolidated Group.
9 (b) Audits; Refund Claims. AOL Time Warner will have exclusive and sole responsibility and control with respect to the conduct and settlement of IRS examinations of the returns filed by the AOL Time Warner Consolidated Group and any refund claims with respect thereto; provided, however, that no settlement relating to any matter that would cause a payment obligation for TWC under this Agreement shall be accepted or entered into by AOL Time Warner without the consent of TWC (which consent shall not unreasonably be withheld or delayed). If TWC does not respond to AOL Time Warner's request for consent within 30 days, TWC shall be deemed to have consented. TWC shall assist and cooperate with AOL Time Warner during the course of any such proceeding. Within 10 days of the commencement of any such proceeding, AOL Time Warner shall give TWC notice of and consult with TWC with respect to any issues relating to items of income, gain, loss, deduction or credit of TWC (any such items, "TWC Return Items"); provided, that, TWC shall not be relieved of any obligation to make additional payments under this Agreement if AOL Time Warner fails to timely deliver the notice described above except to the extent that TWC is actually prejudiced thereby. Notwithstanding the foregoing, AOL Time Warner shall have the right in its sole discretion to have TWC pay any disputed taxes and sue for a refund in the forum of AOL Time Warner's choice. AOL Time Warner shall act in good faith with respect to the matters described in this Section 8(b). (c) Litigation. If the federal income tax liability of the AOL Time Warner Consolidated Group becomes the subject of litigation in any court, the conduct and settlement of the litigation shall be controlled exclusively by AOL Time Warner; provided, however, that no settlement relating to any matter that would cause a payment obligation for TWC under this Agreement shall be accepted or entered into by AOL Time Warner without the consent of TWC (which consent shall not unreasonably be withheld or delayed). If TWC does not respond to AOL Time Warner's request for consent within 30 days, TWC shall be deemed to have consented. TWC shall assist and cooperate with AOL Time Warner during the course of litigation, and AOL Time Warner shall consult with TWC regarding any issues relating to TWC Return Items. AOL Time Warner shall act in good faith with respect to the matters described in this Section 8(c). (d) Expenses. TWC shall reimburse AOL Time Warner for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses (including, without limitation, legal, consulting and accounting fees) in the course of proceedings described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section to the extent such expenses are reasonably attributable to TWC Return Items for any Agreement Year. (e) Recalculation Of Payments To Reflect Adjustments. To the extent that there is a Determination with respect to an AOL Time Warner Consolidated
10 Return for any year, or a TWC Consolidated Group return for a Post-Consolidation Year, that results in an additional payment of tax (including a payment of tax made preliminary to commencing a refund claim or litigation) or a refund of tax (including a refund of a preliminary payment referred to in the preceding parenthetical) (any such additional payment or refund, an "Adjustment") relating to the AOL Time Warner Consolidated Return for an Agreement Year, a corresponding adjustment shall be made to the corresponding Pro Forma TWC Return or Pro Forma Parent Return, as applicable. All calculations of payments made pursuant to Sections 4, 5 and 6 of the Agreement shall be recomputed to reflect the effect of any Adjustments on (i) the relevant Pro Forma TWC Return or Pro Forma Parent Return, and (ii) the liability of TWC or AOL Time Warner for a Post-Consolidation Year; provided, that, any such payment recomputation shall also take into account any previous adjusted payments made in connection with an Adjustment resulting from a prior Determination. Within 5 days after any such Adjustment, TWC or AOL Time Warner, as appropriate, shall make additional payments or refund payments to the other party reflecting such Adjustment, plus interest pursuant to Section 9 of the Agreement, calculated as if payments by and to TWC pursuant to Sections 4, 5 and 6 of the Agreement and this Section 8 were payments and refunds of federal income taxes. TWC shall further pay to AOL Time Warner, on an after-tax basis, the amount of any penalties or additions to tax incurred by the AOL Time Warner Consolidated Group in connection with any adjustment to any TWC Return Item for an Agreement Year, but only if such penalties or additions to tax result from the inaccuracy of any information provided by TWC to AOL Time Warner pursuant to Section 7 hereof or from the failure of TWC to provide any requested information. (f) Rulings. TWC shall assist and cooperate with AOL Time Warner and take all actions reasonably requested by AOL Time Warner in connection with any ruling requests submitted by AOL Time Warner to the IRS. (g) Applicability With Respect To All Consolidated Returns. The provisions of Section 8(a), (b) and (c) above shall apply to AOL Time Warner Consolidated Returns and TWC Return Items for all taxable years in which TWC is includable in the AOL Time Warner Consolidated Group. (h) Document Retention, Access To Records & Use Of Personnel. Until the expiration of the relevant statute of limitations (including extensions), each of AOL Time Warner and TWC shall (i) retain records, documents, accounting data, computer data and other information (collectively, the "Records") necessary for the preparation, filing, review, audit or defense of all tax returns relevant to an obligation, right or liability of either party under the Agreement; and (ii) give each other reasonable access to such Records and to its
11 personnel (insuring their cooperation) and premises to the extent relevant to an obligation, right or liability of either party under the Agreement. Prior to disposing of any such Records, each of AOL Time Warner and TWC shall notify the other party in writing of such intention and afford the other party the opportunity to take possession or make copies of such Records at its discretion. 9. INTEREST. Interest required to be paid pursuant to the Agreement shall, unless otherwise specified, be computed at the rate and in the manner provided in the Code for interest on underpayments and overpayments, respectively, of federal income tax for the relevant period. Any payments required pursuant to the Agreement which are not made within the time period specified in the Agreement shall bear interest at a rate equal to two hundred basis points above the average interest rate on the senior bank debt of AOL Time Warner. 10. FOREIGN, STATE AND LOCAL INCOME TAXES. (a) In the case of foreign, state or local taxes based on or measured by the net income of the AOL Time Warner Consolidated Group, or any combination of members thereof (other than solely with respect to the TWC Consolidated Group or members of the Parent Group) on a combined, consolidated or unitary basis, the provisions of the Agreement shall apply with equal force to such foreign, state or local tax for each Agreement Year whether or not the TWC Consolidated Group is included in the AOL Time Warner Consolidated Group for federal income tax purposes; provided, however, that interest pursuant to the first sentence of Section 9 of the Agreement shall be computed at the rate and in the manner provided under such foreign, state or local law for interest on underpayments and overpayments of such tax for the relevant period and references to provisions of the Code throughout the Agreement shall be deemed to be references to analogous provisions of state, local, and foreign law. (b) For any Agreement Year, AOL Time Warner shall have the sole and exclusive control of (a) the determination of whether a combined, consolidated or unitary tax return should be filed for any foreign, state or local tax purpose. (c) TWC shall be responsible for filing tax returns relating to payroll, sales and use, property, withholding, capital stock, net worth and similar taxes attributable to members of the TWC Consolidated Group and shall be responsible for the payment of such taxes. (d) For all taxable years that TWC is a member of the AOL Time Warner Consolidated Group, TWC shall have the sole and exclusive responsibility for all taxes based on or measured by net income that are
12 determined solely by the income of the TWC Consolidated Group (or any combination of the members thereof, including the predecessors and successors of such members) on a combined, consolidated, unitary or separate company basis. 11. CONFIDENTIALITY. Each of AOL Time Warner and TWC agrees that any information furnished pursuant to the Agreement is confidential and, except as and to the extent required by law or otherwise during the course of an audit or litigation or other administrative or legal proceeding, shall not be disclosed to other persons. In addition, each of AOL Time Warner and TWC shall cause its employees, agents and advisors to comply with the terms of this Section 11. 12. SUCCESSORS AND ACCESS TO INFORMATION. The Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any successor to any of the parties, by merger, acquisition of assets or otherwise, to the same extent as if the successor had been an original party to the Agreement, and in such event, all references herein to a party shall refer instead to the successor of such party. If for any taxable year TWC is no longer included in the AOL Time Warner Consolidated Group, AOL Time Warner and TWC agree to provide to the other party any information reasonably required to complete tax returns for taxable periods beginning after TWC is no longer included in an AOL Time Warner Consolidated Return, and each of AOL Time Warner and TWC will cooperate with respect to any audits or litigation relating to any AOL Time Warner Consolidated Return. 13. GOVERNING LAW. The Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of New York excluding (to the greatest extent permissible by law) any rule of law that would cause the application of the laws of any jurisdiction other than the State of New York. 14. HEADINGS. The headings in the Agreement are for convenience only and shall not be deemed for any purpose to constitute a part or to affect the interpretation of the Agreement. 15. COUNTERPARTS. The Agreement may be executed simultaneously in two or more counterparts, each of which will be deemed an original, and it shall not be necessary in making proof of the Agreement to produce or account for more than one counterpart. 16. NOTICES. Any payment, notice or communication required or permitted to be given
under the Agreement shall be in writing (including telecopy communication) and mailed, telecopied or delivered: If to AOL Time Warner: AOL Time Warner 75 Rockefeller Plaza New York, NY 10019 Attention: Annaliese Kambour Senior Vice-President, Tax Fax: (212) 258-3027 Attention: Executive Vice President and General Counsel Fax: (212) 258-3172 If to TWC: AOL Time Warner 75 Rockefeller Plaza New York, NY 10019 Attention: Annaliese Kambour Senior Vice-President, Tax Fax: (212) 258-3027 Attention: Executive Vice President and General Counsel Fax: (212) 258-3172 or to any other address as AOL Time Warner or TWC shall furnish in writing to one another. All such notices and communications shall be effective when received. 17. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of the Agreement is held to be unenforceable for any reason, it shall be adjusted rather than voided, if possible, in order to achieve the intent of the parties to the maximum extent practicable. In any event, all other provisions of the Agreement shall be deemed valid, binding, and enforceable to their full extent. 18. TERMINATION. The Agreement shall remain in force and be binding so long as the applicable period of assessments (including extensions) remains unexpired for any taxes contemplated by the Agreement; provided, however, that neither AOL Time Warner nor TWC shall have any liability to the other party with respect to tax liabilities for taxable years in which TWC is not included in the AOL Time Warner Consolidated Returns except as provided in Sections 5 and 10 of this Agreement.
19. SUCCESSOR PROVISIONS. Any reference herein to any provisions of the Code or Treasury Regulations shall be deemed to include any amendments or successor provisions thereto as appropriate. 20. COMPLIANCE BY SUBSIDIARIES AOL Time Warner and TWC each agrees to cause all members of the Parent Group and the TWC Consolidated Group (including predecessors and successors to such members) to comply with the terms of the Agreement. (Remainder of this page intentionally left blank)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the parties of the Agreement has caused the Agreement to be executed by its duly authorized officer on this date of March 31, 2003. AOL TIME WARNER INC. By: /s/ Spencer B. Hays ----------------------------------------- Name: Spencer B. Hays Title: Senior Vice President TIME WARNER CABLE INC. By: /s/ Marc J. Apfelbaum ----------------------------------------- Name: Marc J. Apfelbaum Title: Executive Vice President,General Counsel & Secretary

EXHIBIT 10.10 BRAND AND TRADE NAME LICENSE AGREEMENT AMONG TIME WARNER INC. AND TIME WARNER CABLE INC. DATED AS OF MARCH 31, 2003
TABLE OF CONTENTS i
ii
iii
BRAND AND TRADE NAME LICENSE AGREEMENT BRAND AND TRADE NAME LICENSE AGREEMENT (the "Agreement") dated as of March 31, 2003 and effective as of the Closing, by and among Time Warner Inc., a Delaware corporation, with offices located at 75 Rockefeller Plaza, New York, New York 10019 ("Licensor"), and Time Warner Cable Inc., a Delaware corporation, with offices located at 290 Harbor Drive, Stamford, Connecticut 06902 ("Licensee"). Certain capitalized terms used herein are defined in Article 1. WHEREAS, Licensor owns and desires that Licensee have the right to use the Licensed Marks in connection with the Licensed Services; and WHEREAS, Licensor previously granted a license to Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership ("TWE"), for use of the TIME WARNER ENTERTAINMENT mark and related marks in connection with certain broadband businesses, which agreement is terminated pursuant to the agreement set forth in Exhibit A hereto. WHEREAS, Licensee wishes to use the Licensed Marks in a limited manner in the Licensed Territory in connection with the Licensed Services; and WHEREAS, Licensor is willing to license and allow Licensee to use the Licensed Marks in the Licensed Territory under the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement; and WHEREAS, this Agreement is effective on the Closing. NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises and covenants herein contained and for other good and valuable consideration the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereby agree as follows: 1. DEFINITIONS "AFFILIATE": An Affiliate of a Person means a Person that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with such Person. "ANCILLARY BROADBAND SERVICES": The following products or services: (a) The marketing, provision and sale of customer care services in support of Licensee's provision of Licensed Services; (b) The marketing, provision and sale of activation and authorization services (for avoidance of doubt, authorization service is the provision of a signal to a set top box, which signal authorizes the subscriber to receive specified services using that box; activation service is the provision of a signal to a set top box, which signal activates the box to receive any services) in support of Licensee's provision of Licensed Services to its customers;
(c) The marketing, provision, sale and distribution of Point Of Deployment modules (PODS) that are used to identify a Consumer as an authorized subscriber of Licensee's Cable System entitled to certain pre-selected proprietary features available on the Cable System; (d) The offer and sale of advertising inventory to third parties, which advertising may appear on Cable Systems owned or managed by Licensee, on Cable Systems owned or managed by other operators, and/or on or in Licensee's web sites or other promotional or informational vehicles (e.g., monthly bills); and (e) Any other ancillary services provided in connection with the Licensed Services, including repair, billing and provisioning services. "APPROVAL": The granting by all appropriate Regulatory Authorities of all necessary licenses, permits, approvals, authorizations and clearances for this Agreement and the registration or recording of this Agreement as required by all Regulatory Authorities. "AUDIO/VIDEO CONTENT SERVICES": The provision to third parties of (a) production, origination, post-production and editing services; (b) signal processing, compression, storage and encryption services; and (c) satellite reception and transmission services to customers that: (i) in the case of (b) and (c), are for the purpose of transmitting and delivering video programming and data to authorized consumers and licensees of such programming and (ii) in each case, are of substantially the same character and nature as those offered by the TWE Broadband Business as of the Closing. For avoidance of doubt, Audio/Video Content Services do not include the provision of Multi-Channel Video Services or Interactive Television Services. "AUTHORIZED DEALERS": Any distributor or other agent of Licensee authorized by Licensee to market, advertise or otherwise offer, on behalf of Licensee, any Licensed Services or Promotional Products under the Licensed Marks in the Licensed Territory. "BANKRUPTCY": With respect to a Person, means (i) the filing by such Person of a voluntary petition seeking liquidation, dissolution, reorganization, rearrangement or readjustment, in any form, of its debts under Title 11 of the United States Code (or corresponding provisions of future laws) or any other bankruptcy or insolvency law, or such Person's filing an answer consenting to, or acquiescing in any such petition; (ii) the making by such Person of any assignment for the benefit of its creditors, or the admission by such Person in writing of its inability to pay its debts as they mature; (iii) the expiration of 60 days after the filing of an involuntary petition under 2
Title 11 of the United States Code (or corresponding provisions of future laws), an application for the appointment of a receiver for the assets of such Person, or an involuntary petition seeking liquidation, dissolution, reorganization, rearrangement or readjustment of its debts or similar relief under any bankruptcy or insolvency law; provided that, the same shall not have been vacated, set aside or stayed within such 60 day period; or (iv) the entry of an order for relief against such Person under Title 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. "CABLE SYSTEM": A communication system that allows for the provision of Multi-Channel Video Services and Interactive Television Services to subscribers, which communication system utilizes coaxial cable, fiber optic cable, hybrid fiber-coaxial cable or other cable later developed for the transmission link with the subscribers or a microwave distribution system, multi-channel multi-point distribution system or satellite master antenna television system. For all purposes other than Section 2.1 (which concerns Multi-Channel Video Services and Interactive Television Services), a Hybrid System shall be treated as if it were a "Cable System." "CALLING CARD": A magnetic or non-magnetic card which bears an access number and a unique security code to enable access to any use of a Cable System and which debits the Consumer for the cost of such access and use. "CALLING CARD SERVICES": The provision of local or long distance voice telecommunications services to Consumers who use Calling Cards. "CHANGE OF CONTROL": with respect to Licensee, shall mean the occurrence of the earlier of the following: (a) The beneficial owner (for all purposes hereof, within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) as of the Closing of a majority of (i) the outstanding shares of common stock of the Licensee (the "Outstanding Company Common Stock") or (ii) the combined voting power of the outstanding voting securities of the Licensee entitled to vote generally in the election of directors of the Licensee (the "Outstanding Company Voting Securities"), ceases to beneficially own, together with its Affiliates, at least 40% of the Outstanding Common Stock or the Outstanding Company Voting Securities; or (b) A change of Control of Licensee, as determined by Licensor acting in good faith; provided that, this section (b) shall not apply until the beneficial owner as of the Closing of a majority of the Outstanding Company Common Stock or the Outstanding Company Voting Securities ceases to beneficially own, together with its Affiliates, at least 60% of the Outstanding Common Stock or the Outstanding Company Voting Securities. "CLOSING": As defined in the Restructuring Agreement. "CO-MARKETING": The marketing, promotion, advertising, offering or sale of one Person's goods or services with another Person's goods or services. 3
"CONSUMER": An end-user of any product or service who uses that product or service. "CONSUMER PLATFORM SERVICES": The following services, each provided over a Cable System, or to the extent applicable, a Hybrid System: (a) Telephone Services; (b) High Speed Internet Services; (c) Prepaid Consumer Calling Card Services; (d) Calling Card Services; (e) Home Security Services; (f) Networking Services; and (g) Voice-over IP Services. "CONTROL": The possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such entity, whether through ownership of voting securities or other interests, by contract or otherwise. "DEDICATED WIRELESS DEVICES": Bi-directional cellular telecommunication devices that use Mobile Wireless Services as their sole mode of communication with other devices (other than a personal computer for purposes of synchronizing a calendar or address book) and users, but not including a device (such as the device currently referred to by Licensee as a "Magic Phone") which in whole or in part relies on Mobile Wireless Services where service for such device is billed to customers at least in part as traditional Telephone Services or Voice-Over IP Services. "DEDICATED WIRELESS PORTALS: Portals that are used solely for, and accessed solely through, Mobile Wireless Services. "DMA": Designated marketing area, as determined by Nielson Media Research and published in its Nielson Station Index Directory and Nielson Station Index US Television Household Estimates. "EQUIPMENT AND SOFTWARE": As defined in Section 2.6. "FCC": The Federal Communications Commission and any successor governmental authority. "FIELD OF USE": The provision in the Licensed Territory of Multi-Channel Video Services, Interactive Television Services, Consumer Platform Services, Ancillary Broadband Services, Audio/Video Content Services and Equipment and Software. 4
"HIGH SPEED INTERNET SERVICES": The service of providing subscribers with use of "online services" at a digital signal rate of 128 kilobits per second or above. For purposes of this definition, "online services" means the services available over the Internet. For avoidance of doubt, the "online services" themselves are not High Speed Internet Services. "HOME SECURITY SERVICES": The service of providing residential subscribers with fire alarm and burglar alarm services. "HYBRID SYSTEM": A hybrid transmission system that is for the provision of Multi-Channel Video Services and Interactive Television Services, or to other Licensed Services, (i) to the extent provided by the TWE Broadband Business in connection with other Licensed Services as of the Closing or (ii) a result of Licensee's expenditure of a significant amount of time and resources prior to Closing and which Licensee plans to introduce within three months after the Closing, to subscribers, which hybrid transmission system utilizes coaxial cable, fiber optic cable, hybrid fiber coaxial cable or other cable later developed for one transmission link (the "Principal Link") with the subscribers and either: (a) a satellite link for the other transmission link; or (b) a return transmission link from a cable set-top box that utilizes a twisted pair telephone connection, provided, however, that such return transmission link is only used to communicate ancillary data in order to support a Licensed Service that is primarily provided utilizing the Principal Link. For avoidance of doubt, if such return transmission link (i.e., the twisted pair telephone connection) of a hybrid transmission system is the link that is primarily used to provide Telephone Services or any Internet related services, the system is not a Hybrid System. In each case, a Hybrid System only includes the system that is either (i) of substantially the same character and nature as that offered by the TWE Broadband Business as of the Closing; or (ii) a result of Licensee's expenditure of a significant amount of time and resources and which Licensee plans to introduce within three months after the Closing. "INDEMNIFIED PARTY": As defined in Section 9.3 of this Agreement. "INDEMNIFYING PARTY": As defined in Section 9.3 of this Agreement. "INTERACTIVE TELEVISION SERVICES": The provision of interactive services in connection with one or more video programming streams that are for display primarily on a television, which services support either: (a) subscriber-initiated choices or actions; or (b) the selective delivery, provisioning, authorization or enablement of programming, information (including information in HTML format), products or services 5
to a subscriber based upon current or prior subscriber-initiated choices, actions, preferences or circumstances. "LICENSED MARKS": shall mean the Licensed Master Marks, Licensed Ancillary Marks and Licensee Specific Marks as set forth below: 1. Licensed Master Marks: a. Licensor's representation of an eye and ear design as shown in Schedule 1 to this Agreement in connection with the use of the TIME WARNER CABLE Mark; b. TIME WARNER CABLE; c. TW; d. TWC; e. TW CABLE; and f. Licensor's Trade Dress in connection with the use of the TIME WARNER CABLE Mark. 2. Licensed Ancillary Marks: The Marks listed in Schedule 2 of this Agreement, as amended from time to time, and all common law Marks incorporating the Licensed Master Marks. 3 Licensee Specific Marks: The Marks listed in Schedule 3 of this Agreement. "LICENSED SERVICES": The following services: (a) Multi-Channel Video Services provided over a Cable System and/or a Hybrid System in the Licensed Territory; (b) Interactive Television Services provided over a Cable System and/or a Hybrid System in the Licensed Territory; (c) Consumer Platform Services provided over a Cable System, or to the extent applicable, a Hybrid System, in the Licensed Territory; (d) Ancillary Broadband Services provided in the Licensed Territory; and (e) Audio/Video Content Services provided in the Licensed Territory. 6
"LICENSED TERRITORY": The Licensed Territory shall be the United States and all territories and possessions thereof. "LICENSEE": As defined in the Preamble to this Agreement. "LICENSEE MARKS": All Marks which are adopted, used and owned by Licensee after the Closing in connection with the Licensed Services or Promotional Products. "LICENSOR": As defined in the Preamble to this Agreement. "MARK": Any name, brand, mark, trademark, service mark, sound mark, design, logo, trade dress, trade name, business name, slogan, domain name or other indicia of origin. "MARKETING MATERIALS": Any and all materials, whether written, oral, visual or in any other medium, used by Licensee or its Authorized Dealers, Resellers, Value Added Resellers or Sublicensees to market, advertise or otherwise offer any Licensed Services under the Licensed Marks, including but not limited to Promotional Products. "MOBILE WIRELESS SERVICES": A non-private telecommunications service that provides wide-area communication of information, including voice, data, video or combinations thereof, over a bi-directional communication path that extends through the air from a base-station to a mobile-subscriber communication device, which base-station transmits and receives subscriber-addressed communications to and from more than one addressed subscriber and wherein the communication path is switched from one such base-station to another such base-station in response to movement of the addressed subscriber's mobile communication device. Mobile Wireless Services shall not include a private telecommunications connection within or around a residence or business that provides local-area communication of information at or around such residence or business. "MULTI-CHANNEL VIDEO SERVICES": The provision of multiple audio or video programming that is selectable by a subscriber, where such programming is provided by, or generally comparable to programming provided by, a television broadcast station, cable television network or aggregator of audio or video content for display or performance primarily on a television. "NETWORKING SERVICES": The services of (i) providing subscribers with connectivity between any two or more devices at a single location capable of storing, receiving, displaying or otherwise utilizing products or services offered by Licensee and (ii) planning, constructing and/or maintaining on behalf of third parties local and wide area networks for the transmission of data, in each case, that is either (x) of substantially the same character and nature as that offered by the TWE Broadband Business as of the Closing; or (y) a result of Licensee's expenditure of a significant amount of time and resources and which Licensee plans to introduce within three months after the Closing. 7
"PERSON": Any individual, corporation, partnership, firm, joint venture, limited liability company, limited liability partnership, association, joint-stock company, trust, estate, incorporated or unincorporated organization, governmental or regulatory body, business unit, or other entity. "PORTAL": An Internet web site that serves as a gateway to the Internet and that includes one or more of the following features: a search engine; electronic mail; instant messaging; chat services; or web hosting. "PREPAID CONSUMER CALLING CARDS": Calling Cards which bear an access number and a unique security code to enable access to and use of a Cable System and which the Consumer purchases in advance a specific amount of calling time. "PREPAID CONSUMER CALLING CARD SERVICES": The provision of local or long distance voice telecommunications services to Consumers with Prepaid Consumer Calling Cards. "PROMOTIONAL PRODUCTS": Any goods or services which are used to advertise or promote any Licensed Services, such as t-shirts, golf balls, pens and the like, but not any products or services that, in Licensor's opinion acting in good faith, are not fairly characterized as being used for advertisement or promotion. "QUALITY CONTROL REPRESENTATIVES": Representatives of Licensor appointed in accordance with Article 5. "QUALITY STANDARDS": As defined in Section 5.2 of this Agreement. "REGULATORY AUTHORITY": Any regulatory, administrative or governmental entity, authority, agency, commission, tribunal or official, including without limitation, the FCC and the Export Licensing Office of the U.S. Department of Commerce. "RESELLER": Any Person other than Licensee that sells, distributes or leases Licensed Services from Licensee. "RESTRUCTURING AGREEMENT": The Restructuring Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, by and among AOL Time Warner Inc., a Delaware corporation, AT&T Corp., a New York corporation, and the other parties named therein. "ROAD RUNNER LICENSEES": As defined in that certain Brand License Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, by and between Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc., a Delaware corporation, and Licensee. "ROAD RUNNER MARKS AND COPYRIGHTS": The Licensed Marks and Licensed Copyright as such terms are defined in that certain Brand License Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, by and between Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc., a Delaware corporation, and Licensee. 8
"SERVICE BUNDLES": A single contract offered or supplied to a Person for multiple services or systems integration contracts. For avoidance of doubt, neither Licensee's offering of Multi-Channel Video Services, nor Licensee's offering of any two or more Licensed Services in a package shall itself constitute a Service Bundle hereunder. "SIGNIFICANT BREACH BY LICENSEE": As defined in Section 4.2 of this Agreement. "STYLE GUIDELINES": The guidelines controlling certain aspects of the Licensed Marks including, but not limited to, the size, color and appearance of the Licensed Marks as set forth in the official Style Guide to be provided to Licensee on the Closing and periodically thereafter. "SUBLICENSEE": As defined in Section 3.7 of this Agreement. "SUBMITTED MATERIALS": As defined in Section 5.2 of this Agreement. "SUBSIDIARY": With respect to any Person, any entity of which securities or other ownership interests having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the board of directors or other body performing similar functions are at any time directly or indirectly owned by such Person or, in the case of a Cable System, the right to direct the management or operation of such Cable System pursuant to a management agreement with a term of at least three years, for so long as such management agreement remains in effect; provided that, Licensee shall notify Licensor in writing immediately when it ceases management of any such Cable System. "SUCCESSOR": With respect to any party, any successor, transferee or assignee, including without limitation, any receiver, debtor in possession, trustee, conservator or similar Person with respect to such party or such party's assets. "TELEPHONE SERVICES": The provision to end users of Telephone Exchange Service, as that term is defined in the Telecommunications Act of 1934, as amended. Telephone Services shall include the ability to terminate a telephone call. "TRADE DRESS": The general image or appearance of the Licensed Marks and of the Licensed Services and Marketing Materials or Promotional Products and any packaging and labeling therefor, including without limitation, the combination of colors, designs, sizing configurations, publication formats and the like as set forth in the Style Guidelines and as such trade dress may be modified or replaced pursuant to Section 8.2 of this Agreement, and such other trade dress as may be added thereto or substituted therefor in accordance with Section 8.2. "TW LICENSEES": Those Persons and business units that are part of Licensor as of the Closing and any other Persons who are licensed under, or otherwise permitted to use, the Licensed Marks by Licensor. "TWE": As defined in the Preamble. 9
"TWE BROADBAND BUSINESS" has the meaning assigned to it in the TWE Distribution Agreement. "TWE DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENT": The Distribution Agreement, dated as of the date hereof by and between Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, Warner Communications Inc., a Delaware corporation, and AOL Time Warner Inc., a Delaware corporation. "VALUE ADDED RESELLER": Any Person that combines Licensed Services with additional software, services or features and then sells, distributes or leases such combinations directly to end users. "VOICE-OVER IP SERVICES": The provision to end users of the ability to transmit voice communications over a data network using Internet Protocol technology. 2. GRANT OF LICENSE Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, Licensor makes the following royalty-free license grants: 2.1 Multi-Channel Video Services and Interactive Television Services. Licensor hereby grants to Licensee an exclusive, perpetual right and license to use the Licensed Marks in accordance with the Quality Standards set forth in Article 5 to provide Multi-Channel Video Services and Interactive Television Services over Cable Systems and Hybrid Systems in the Licensed Territory. For avoidance of doubt, outside the Licensed Territory, Licensee has no right or license to use the Licensed Marks in connection with Multi-Channel Video Services, Interactive Television Services or any other products or services. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, Licensor agrees not to use itself, or license to any Person, the Licensed Marks for the provision of such services using DSL (digital subscriber line) or DBS (direct broadcast satellite) technology in the Licensed Territory. For the avoidance of doubt, Licensor shall have the unrestricted right to use the TIME WARNER Mark and any other of Licensor's Marks not included within the Licensed Marks in connection with DSL or DBS technology. 2.2 Consumer Platform Services. Licensor hereby grants to Licensee an exclusive, perpetual right and license to use the Licensed Marks in accordance with the Quality Standards as set forth in Article 5 to provide Consumer Platform Services over Cable Systems in the Licensed Territory. 2.3 Promotional Products. Licensor hereby grants to Licensee an exclusive, perpetual right and license to use the Licensed Marks in accordance with the Quality Standards as set forth in Article 5 on Promotional Products in the Licensed Territory. 2.4 Ancillary Broadband Services. Licensor hereby grants to Licensee an exclusive, perpetual right and license to use the Licensed Marks in accordance with the 10
Quality Standards as set forth in Article 5 for Ancillary Broadband Services provided in the Licensed Territory. 2.5 Portals. Licensor hereby grants to Licensee an exclusive, perpetual right and license to use the Licensed Marks in accordance with the Quality Standards as set forth in Article 5 on Portals that are used in connection with High Speed Internet Services provided in the Licensed Territory. 2.6 Equipment and Software. Licensor hereby grants to Licensee an exclusive, perpetual right and license to use the Licensed Marks in accordance with the Quality Standards as set forth in Article 5 on equipment and software used in connection with the provision of Licensed Services in the Licensed Territory, other than the following: (a) Email devices; (b) Telephone answering devices; and (c) Personal digital assistants, but including cable set top boxes, cable modems and in-home networking equipment for connecting set top boxes or cable modems with other devices for service applications (the "Equipment and Software"). 2.7 Audio/Video Content Services. Licensor hereby grants to Licensee an exclusive, perpetual right and license to use the Licensed Marks in accordance with the Quality Standards as set forth in Article 5 to provide Audio/Video Content Services in the Licensed Territory. 2.8 Corporate Name. Licensor hereby grants to Licensee an exclusive, perpetual right and license to use the Licensed Marks as part of its corporate name to conduct the Licensed Services in the Licensed Territory in accordance with the Quality Standards set forth on Article 5 hereof. 2.9 Non-exclusive License. Licensor hereby grants to Licensee a non-exclusive right and license to use the Mark TIME WARNER COMMUNICATIONS in connection with the Licensed Services, in accordance with the Quality Standards as set forth in Article 5, only to the extent such Mark is used in connection with the Licensed Services as of the Closing. The license granted in this Section 2.9 shall terminate on December 31, 2003. 2.10 Transferability. Except as provided in Section 3.1 with respect to Resellers and Value Added Resellers, in Section 3.6 with respect to Authorized Dealers and in Section 3.7 with respect to Sublicensees, the licenses granted herein shall be non-transferable. 11
2.11 Request for License. If Licensee wishes to use the Licensed Marks on any goods or services other than Licensed Services and Promotional Products or on any goods or services or in any territory not expressly granted by this Agreement, it may request a grant of such license from Licensor. 2.12 Reservation of Rights. Except as expressly licensed in this Article 2, Licensee shall have no rights or license to use any of the Licensed Marks in connection with any products or services. To the extent Licensee has been granted "exclusive" rights pursuant to the provisions of this Article 2, such "exclusive" rights solely relate to the use of the Licensed Marks in connection with the specified provision of the Licensed Services or Promotional Products in the Licensed Territory. Except to the extent Licensee has been granted "exclusive" rights pursuant to the provisions of this Article 2, Licensor retains the sole and exclusive right to use and license others to use any Marks, including the Licensed Marks, for any purpose whatsoever. Licensee covenants and agrees that it will not use any of the Licensed Marks in connection with any products or services or in any territory that are not expressly licensed pursuant to the provisions of this Article 2 and any such unlicensed use by Licensee of the Licensed Marks shall be deemed a "Significant Breach by Licensee" under Section 4.2 of this Agreement unless cured pursuant to Section 4.2(a) of this Agreement. Without in any way limiting the foregoing, Licensee shall not use the Licensed Marks in connection with Dedicated Wireless Devices or Dedicated Wireless Portals, except to the extent use of such equipment is billed to customers at least in part as traditional Telephone Services or Voice-Over IP Services (e.g., as is contemplated by Licensee's proposed "Magic Phone" offering). 3. RESTRICTIONS ON USE OF LICENSED MARKS 3.1 Resellers. Licensee may permit Resellers and Value Added Resellers to use the Licensed Marks on a non-exclusive basis and solely in connection with Licensed Services obtained from Licensee; provided, however, that any such use shall be in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, including the Quality Standards set forth in Article 5, and such use shall only be in the same Field of Use as Licensee. For avoidance of doubt, no Reseller or Value Added Reseller may use any Licensed Marks in any manner that would violate this Agreement if performed by Licensee and any use of Licensed Marks by a Reseller or Value Added Reseller in such manner shall be deemed use by Licensee in violation of the relevant provision(s) of this Agreement. 3.2 Use of Licensed Marks with Licensee Marks. Any use by Licensee of Licensee Marks in conjunction with Licensed Marks must comply with all other terms of this Agreement, including without limitation, the Quality Standards set forth in Article 5. 12
3.3 Bundling. Licensee may use Licensed Marks in connection with Service Bundles in accordance with the Quality Standards set forth in Article 5 on a non-exclusive basis if: a. The Service Bundle is predominantly built around a Licensed Service or is provided in conjunction with an Affiliate of Licensor; and b. Licensee is in compliance with its material obligations under any supply agreement with Licensor or a TW Licensee or, in the case of High Speed Internet Services, a ROAD RUNNER Licensee, for all elements that are included in the Service Bundle, if any such agreement is in place. 3.4 Co-Marketing. a. Licensor shall have the right, upon its request, to review and approve (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld) Licensee's use of the Licensed Marks in Co-Marketing and to request representative copies of materials created in connection with Co-Marketing. b. Any use of the Licensed Marks in connection with Co-Marketing shall comply with the Quality Standards set forth in Article 5 and Licensor's Co-Marketing Guidelines, as in effect from time to time. 3.5 General Purpose Credit Cards. Licensee may not permit Licensed Marks to be used on or in connection with any consumer general credit card. 3.6 Dealers. Licensee may grant Authorized Dealers limited permission to use the Licensed Marks on a non-exclusive basis and solely in connection with the provision of Licensed Services obtained from Licensee; provided, however, that any such use shall be in accordance with the terms of this Agreement including the Quality Standards set forth in Article 5 of this Agreement and as set forth in the Style Guidelines and such use shall only be in the same Field of Use as Licensee. For avoidance of doubt, no Authorized Dealer may use any Licensed Marks in any manner that would violate this Agreement if performed by Licensee and any use of Licensed Marks by an Authorized Dealer in such manner shall be deemed use by Licensee in violation of the relevant provision(s) of this Agreement. 3.7 Sublicenses. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, Licensee shall have the right to grant sublicenses to use the Licensed Marks for Licensed Services or Promotional Products to its Subsidiaries (a "Sublicensee"); provided, however, that any such use shall be in accordance with the terms of this Agreement including the Quality Standards set forth in Article 5 and that the sublicense granted to such Person shall only be effective for so long as such Person remains a Subsidiary of Licensee. 13
Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Article 3, Licensee shall have no right to sublicense the Licensed Marks. 4. TERM AND TERMINATION 4.1 Term. This Agreement shall remain in effect unless terminated in accordance with the provisions hereof. 4.2 Termination. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Licensor shall have the right, subject to Section 4.3 below, to terminate this Agreement without prejudice to any rights which it may have, whether pursuant to this Agreement, or in law or equity or otherwise, upon the occurrence of a Significant Breach by Licensee. A "Significant Breach by Licensee" shall mean, after exhaustion of any applicable cure periods set forth in this Agreement, any one or more of the following events: a. Any of Licensee, an Authorized Dealer, Reseller, Value Added Reseller or any Sublicensee uses the Licensed Marks in a manner which fails to comply in all material respects with the provisions of this Agreement, and fails to cure such breach within sixty (60) days of receipt of written notice of such breach; or b. Any use of the Licensed Marks by any of Licensee, an Authorized Dealer, Reseller, Value Added Reseller or any Sublicensee fails to comply in all material respects with the Quality Standards set forth in Article 5 and continues for more than sixty (60) days after written notice thereof has been given to Licensee in accordance with Section 6.1; or c. Licensee fails to provide performance data and representative samples of Marketing Materials to Licensor's Quality Control Representative for the purposes permitted hereunder pursuant to the provisions of Section 5.3 hereof and fails to cure such breach within sixty (60) days of receipt of written notice of such breach; or d. Licensee, an Authorized Dealer, Reseller, Value Added Reseller or any Sublicensee fails to comply with any material laws, regulations or industry standards, or any governmental agency, Regulatory Authority or other body, office or official vested with appropriate authority finds that the services or products being offered under the Licensed Marks are being provided in contravention of material, applicable laws, regulations or standards and fails to cure such breach within sixty (60) days of receipt of written notice of such breach or such date as is set by the relevant Regulatory Authority, whichever is earlier; or 14
e. Licensee fails to deliver to Licensor or to maintain in full force and effect the insurance referred to in Section 9.4 hereof and fails to cure such breach within sixty (60) days of receipt of written notice of such breach; or f. Licensee shall be unable to pay its debts in the ordinary course of business or when they become due, or shall file for Bankruptcy; or g. Any other material breach of this Agreement by Licensee its Authorized Dealers, Resellers, Value Added Resellers or any Sublicensee which breach continues for more than sixty (60) days after written notice thereof has been given to Licensee, except as may otherwise be provided in Section 6.1; or h. A Change of Control shall have occurred with respect to Licensee; or i. Licensee's breach of Section 12.1, which breach continues for more than sixty (60) days after written notice thereof has been given to Licensee and which breach Licensor reasonably determines has a material adverse effect on Licensor or the Licensed Marks; or j. Licensee shall materially breach any other agreement in effect between Licensee on the one hand and Licensor on the other and Licensor reasonably determines that such breach has a material adverse effect on the relationship between Licensee and Licensor that is not reasonably capable of being cured. 4.3 Notice of Termination. In the event any "Significant Breach by Licensee" occurs, Licensor may give notice of termination in writing to Licensee, whereupon this Agreement shall immediately terminate. 4.4 Effect of Termination. In the event this Agreement is terminated pursuant to this Article, Licensee shall, and shall cause its Authorized Dealers, Resellers, Value Added Resellers and Sublicensees to (i) immediately cease use of the Licensed Marks licensed pursuant to Sections 2.1 - 2.7 hereof upon the effective date of such termination or expiration and (ii) cease all further use of the Licensed Marks licensed pursuant to Section 2.8 hereof as part of its corporate name within thirty (30) days of such termination. Immediately following the termination of this Agreement, Licensee shall return to Licensor, or certify in writing that it has destroyed, all Marketing Materials, Promotional Products and all other materials and tangible property bearing the Licensed Marks. 4.5 Other Rights Unaffected. It is understood and agreed that termination of this Agreement by Licensor on any ground shall be without prejudice to any other remedies at law or equity or otherwise which Licensor may have. 15
4.6 Bankruptcy. This Agreement constitutes a license of "intellectual property" within the meaning of Section 365(n) of the United States Bankruptcy Code. If Section 365(n) of the United States Bankruptcy Code (or any successor provision) is applicable, and the trustee or debtor-in-possession has rejected this Agreement and if the Licensee has elected pursuant to Section 365(n) to retain its rights hereunder, then upon written request of Licensee, to the extent Licensee is otherwise entitled hereunder, the trustee or debtor-in-possession shall provide to Licensee any intellectual property (including embodiments thereof) held or controlled by the trustee or debtor-in-possession. 5. QUALITY CONTROL 5.1 General. Licensee acknowledges that the provision of Licensed Services and Promotional Products under the Licensed Marks pursuant to the terms of this Agreement must be of sufficiently high quality as to protect the Licensed Marks and the goodwill they symbolize. Licensee further acknowledges that the maintenance of high quality services is of the essence in this Agreement, as is the use of the Licensed Marks in connection therewith. In order to preserve the inherent value of the Licensed Marks, Licensee agrees to use its reasonable efforts to ensure that the services and activities to be marketed, promoted, offered and provided by Licensee, Authorized Dealers, Resellers, Value Added Resellers and Sublicensees under the Licensed Marks pursuant to this Agreement shall be of a quality and nature comparable to the products, services and activities provided by Licensor, itself or through its Affiliates, as of the date of this Agreement. Licensee further agrees that it will utilize only Marketing Materials which do not disparage or place in disrepute Licensor, its businesses or its business reputation, and do not adversely affect or detract from Licensor's goodwill or the goodwill appurtenant to the Licensed Marks and will use the Licensed Marks in ways which will not adversely affect Licensor's business reputation and goodwill. 5.2 Quality Standards. Licensee agrees to comply and maintain compliance with the Quality Standards, specifications and rights of approval of Licensor with respect to any and all usage of the Licensed Marks on or in relation to the Licensed Services, Portals, Marketing Materials and Promotional Products throughout the Term. To that end, any and all usage of the Licensed Marks by Licensee, Authorized Dealers, Resellers, Value Added Resellers and Sublicensees shall comply with the following standards, specifications and rights of approval (the "Quality Standards"): a. Licensee shall use the Licensed Marks only in a style and manner commensurate with the current standards and reputation for quality associated with the Licensed Marks and only in the style and manner that has been expressly approved in advance by Licensor as provided herein. Such approval is designed to protect the Licensed Mark and Licensor's rights therein and will not be unreasonably withheld, it being understood and agreed that it shall not be unreasonable for Licensor to disapprove if Licensor believes in good faith that such disapproval is appropriate to preserve the Licensed Marks or the goodwill associated therewith; 16
b. At Licensor's reasonable request, Licensee shall submit to Licensor for prior written approval prototypes of products and materials, including, but not limited to, Marketing Materials and Promotional Products and any packaging and labeling therefor bearing the Licensed Marks (the "Submitted Materials"), such approval not to be unreasonably withheld, it being understood and agreed that it shall not be unreasonable for Licensor to disapprove any Submitted Material if Licensor believes in good faith that such disapproval is appropriate to preserve the Licensed Marks or the goodwill associated therewith. Licensor shall provide its approval or disapproval within a reasonable time after Licensor receives such Submitted Materials. In the event that Licensor disapproves any of the submissions, Licensee shall make modifications consistent with those specified by Licensor and shall resubmit the relevant materials to Licensor for approval. Provided Licensor has given approval of the style(s) and general use(s) of any Submitted Material, Licensee may use such Submitted Material in those styles and for such purposes, without material change, subject to periodic review by Licensor at Licensor's request. Licensee shall not make any material change to the Submitted Materials as approved by Licensor without Licensor's prior written approval; c. The provisions of Section 7.4 of this Agreement; and d. All quality, style and image standards for use of the Licensed Marks delivered by Licensor to Licensee, including the style guide located at http://www.twexcel.com, and the Co-Marketing Guidelines, Usage Guidelines and Trade Dress Guidelines set forth therein, however, it being understood and agreed that any written instructions delivered from Licensor to Licensee shall take priority over such style guide in the event of any conflict. Licensee acknowledges that the Quality Standards may be modified from time to time as may be necessary to continue to protect and preserve the image, reputation and goodwill attached to the Licensed Marks. 5.3 Quality Service Reviews. a. Licensee agrees to collect, maintain and furnish to the Quality Control Representatives all performance data relating to the Licensed Services reasonably requested by the Quality Control Representatives and representative samples of Marketing Materials that are marketed or provided under the Licensed Marks to assure conformance of the Licensed Services and the Marketing Materials with the Quality Standards. At Licensor's reasonable request, Licensee shall send copies to Licensor of performance data relating to technical performance or conformance of the Licensed Services 17
as previously provided by Licensee. Any such data provided to Licensor shall be treated confidentially in accordance with Article 17. b. Licensor may independently, at its own cost, conduct continuous customer satisfaction and other surveys to determine if Licensee is meeting the Quality Standards in connection with its use of the Licensed Marks in the Licensed Services. Licensee shall cooperate, at Licensor's expense, with Licensor fully in the distribution and conduct of such surveys, and otherwise as may be reasonably necessary to verify Licensee's compliance with the Quality Standards, so long as such cooperation shall not unreasonably interfere with the conduct of Licensee's business. If Licensor learns that Licensee is not complying with the Quality Standards in any material respect, it shall notify Licensee and the provisions of Article 6 shall apply to such non-compliance. c. If Licensee learns that it is not complying with the Quality Standards in any material respect, it shall notify Licensor, and the provisions of Article 6 shall apply to such non-compliance. 5.4 Authorized Dealers, Resellers, Value Added Resellers and Sublicensees. Licensee shall provide to Licensor within ten (10) days after the expiration of each calendar year a list of all Sublicensees and a list of all material Authorized Dealers, Resellers and Value Added Resellers. Licensor shall have the right, exercisable in its reasonable discretion, to give Licensee notice requiring Licensee to terminate any Authorized Dealer, Reseller, Value Added Reseller or Sublicensee that Licensor reasonably believes is not in compliance with the Quality Standards (after notice of such non-compliance and a reasonable opportunity to cure has been granted to such Authorized Dealer, Reseller, Value Added Reseller or Sublicensee) effective no later than thirty (30) days from the date such notice is given by Licensor to Licensee. All Authorized Dealers, Resellers, Value Added Resellers and Sublicensees shall be bound by the Quality Standards and by Licensee's obligations under this Agreement. A breach by any such Authorized Dealer, Reseller, Value Added Reseller or Sublicensee of this Agreement shall be deemed a breach of this Agreement by Licensee; provided that, Licensee's termination of such breaching Authorized Dealer, Reseller, Value Added Reseller or Sublicensee shall be deemed to cure any such breach. 6. REMEDIES FOR NON-COMPLIANCE WITH QUALITY STANDARDS 6.1 Non-compliance with Quality Standards and Cure. a. If Licensor becomes aware that Licensee or its Authorized Dealers, Resellers, Value Added Resellers or Sublicensees, are not complying with any Quality Standards in any material respect, Licensor shall notify Licensee in writing of such non-compliance, setting forth, in reasonable detail, a description of the non- 18
compliance and, to the extent such information is available, any suggestions for curing such non-compliance. Licensee shall cure such non-compliance as soon as is practicable but in any event within sixty (60) days thereafter. In the event that the non-compliance with the Quality Standards is being caused by an Authorized Dealer, Reseller, Value Added Reseller or Sublicensee, Licensee's termination of such Authorized Dealer, Reseller, Value Added Reseller or Sublicensee shall be deemed to cure such non-compliance. b. If such non-compliance with the Quality Standards continues beyond the applicable cure periods described above, Licensee shall: (i) and shall cause its Authorized Dealers, Resellers, Value Added Resellers and Sublicensees to, immediately cease any Licensed Services and Promotional Products using the Licensed Marks in the DMA in which it is in non-compliance until it is in compliance with the Quality Standards, subject to the provisions below; and (ii) be deemed to be in breach of this Agreement. c. The waiver by Licensor of a single event of non-compliance or a succession of events shall not deprive Licensor of any rights under this Agreement arising by reason of any subsequent event of non-compliance. 6.2 Potential Injury to Persons or Property. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 6.1, in the event that Licensor reasonably determines that any non-compliance creates a material threat of personal injury or injury to property of any third party, upon notice thereof by Licensor to Licensee, Licensee shall cure such non-compliance as soon as practicable but in any event within sixty (60) days after receiving such notice. If the non-compliance continues beyond such cure period, Licensee shall (and shall cause its Authorized Dealers, Resellers, Value Added Resellers and Sublicensees to) either cease using the Licensed Marks in connection with any Licensed Services and Promotional Products in the DMA in which it is not in compliance until it is in compliance with the Quality Standards, subject to the provisions of Section 6.3 below, or be deemed to be in breach of this Agreement. 6.3 Licensor's Rights to License Others. In addition to the rights granted to Licensor pursuant to Article 4, "Term and Termination," in the event that Licensee is required to cease offering or providing any Licensed Services or Promotional Products using Licensed Marks in a DMA by reason of its failure to comply with the Quality Standards and to cure such failure within the applicable cure periods, Licensor may immediately terminate Licensee's rights under this Agreement with respect to such DMA and may license other Persons to use the Licensed Marks in connection with the Licensed Services and Promotional Products, even though the license granted was an exclusive license in that DMA. 19
7. PROTECTION OF LICENSED MARKS 7.1 Ownership and Rights to the Licensed Marks. a. Licensee acknowledges the great value of the goodwill associated with the Licensed Marks, and acknowledges that the Licensed Marks and all the rights therein, and goodwill attached thereto, belong exclusively to Licensor. b. Licensee will not, at any time, disparage, dilute or adversely affect the validity of the Licensed Marks or take any action, or otherwise suffer to be done any act or thing which may at any time, in any way materially adversely affect any rights of Licensor in and to the Licensed Marks, or any registrations thereof or which, directly or indirectly, may materially reduce the value of the Licensed Marks or detract from their reputation. c. Licensee agrees that any and all goodwill and other rights that may be acquired by the use of the Licensed Marks by Licensee shall inure to the sole benefit of Licensor. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be construed as an assignment or grant to Licensee of any right, title or interest in or to the Licensed Marks, or any of Licensor's other Marks, it being understood that all rights relating thereto are reserved by Licensor, except for the license hereunder to Licensee of the right to use the Licensed Marks only as specifically and expressly provided herein. Licensee further acknowledges that it will not obtain any ownership interest in the Licensed Marks or any other right or entitlement to continued use of them, regardless of how long this Agreement remains in effect and regardless of any reason or lack of reason for the termination thereof by Licensor; provided that, by making this acknowledgment Licensee is not waiving, and does not intend to waive, any contractual rights hereunder or its remedies upon a breach hereof by Licensor. d. Licensee shall not (i) attack Licensor's title or right in and to the Licensed Marks as they relate to the Licensed Services in any jurisdiction or attack the validity of this license or the Licensed Marks or (ii) contest the fact that Licensee's rights under this Agreement cease upon termination of this Agreement. The provisions of this Section 7.1 shall survive the termination of this Agreement. e. Licensee will not grant or attempt to grant a security interest in the Licensed Marks or this Agreement, or to record any security interest in the United States Patent and Trademark Office or 20
elsewhere, against any trademark application or registration belonging to Licensor. f. Licensee shall, at Licensor's expense, cooperate fully and in good faith with Licensor for the purpose of securing, preserving and protecting Licensor's rights in and to the Licensed Marks. At the request of Licensor, and at Licensor's expense, Licensee shall execute and deliver to Licensor any and all documents and do all other reasonable acts and things which Licensor deems necessary or appropriate to make fully effective or to implement the provisions of this Agreement relating to the ownership, registration, maintenance or renewal of the Licensed Marks. For purposes of this Agreement, Licensee and any Sublicensees shall be considered a "related company" under the U.S. Trademark Act, 15 U.S.C. Section 1051 et seq. g. The parties acknowledge and agree that the protection of the Licensed Marks and the goodwill attached thereto are material provisions of this Agreement. 7.2 Similar Marks. Licensee agrees not to register in any country any Mark which resembles or is confusingly similar to the Licensed Marks, or which dilutes the Licensed Marks, and, except as provided for herein, not to use the Licensed Marks, or any independently protectible part of any such Marks, as part of its corporate name (unless otherwise agreed by Licensor), nor use (except in accordance with Article 8) any Mark which could reasonably be deemed to be confusingly similar, deceptive or (except in accordance with Article 8) misleading with respect to the Licensed Marks, or which could reasonably be deemed to dilute the Licensed Marks. If any application for registration is, or has been filed in any country by Licensee which relates to any Mark which, in Licensor's reasonable opinion, is confusingly similar, deceptive or misleading with respect to the Licensed Marks, or which dilutes the Licensed Marks, Licensee shall, at Licensor's sole discretion, immediately abandon any such application or registration or, at Licensor's election, assign it (free and clear of any liens and encumbrances, and for consideration of $1.00, the adequacy and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged by Licensor) to Licensor. If Licensee uses any Mark which, in Licensor's reasonable opinion, is confusingly similar, deceptive or misleading with respect to the Licensed Marks, or which dilutes the Licensed Marks, or if Licensee uses the Licensed Marks in connection with any product, or any service or in any territory not specifically authorized hereunder, Licensee shall, immediately upon receiving a written request from Licensor, permanently cease such use. 7.3 Infringement. In the event that either party learns of any infringement or threatened infringement of the Licensed Marks, or any unfair competition, passing-off or dilution with respect to the Licensed Marks (each such event, an "Infringement"), such party shall promptly notify the other party or its authorized representative giving particulars thereof, and Licensee shall provide necessary information and reasonable assistance, at Licensor's expense, to Licensor or its authorized representatives in the 21
event that Licensor decides that proceedings should be commenced. Licensor shall have exclusive control of any litigation, opposition, cancellation or other legal proceedings relating to an alleged Infringement. The decision whether to bring, maintain or settle any such proceedings shall be at the exclusive option and expense of Licensor, and all recoveries shall belong exclusively to Licensor. Licensee shall not take any action to enforce, protect or defend the Licensed Marks without the prior written consent of Licensor's General Counsel. Licensee will not initiate any such litigation, opposition, cancellation or related legal proceedings in its own name but, at Licensor's request, agrees to be joined as a party in any action taken by Licensor to enforce its rights in the Licensed Marks; provided that, Licensor shall reimburse Licensee for all reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses incurred by Licensee, its Affiliates and authorized representatives (and their respective directors, officers, stockholder, employees and agents) in connection with their participation in such action. Nothing in this Agreement shall require, or be deemed to require Licensor to enforce the Licensed Marks against others. Licensor shall keep all monies derived from litigation or legal proceeding or from settlement of Infringement. 7.4 Compliance with Legal Requirements. a. In the performance of this Agreement, Licensee shall comply in all material respects with all applicable laws and regulations and administrative orders, including those laws and regulations particularly pertaining to the proper use and designation of Marks in the Licensed Territory. b. Licensee shall duly display those reasonable legal notices as shall be provided by Licensor, such as the symbols (R), "TM" or "SM". In no circumstances shall such notices be altered or omitted without the express prior written consent of Licensor. c. Should Licensee be or become aware of any applicable laws or regulations which are inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, Licensee shall promptly notify Licensor of such inconsistency. In such event, Licensor may, at its option, either waive the performance of such inconsistent provisions, or negotiate with Licensee to make changes in such provisions to comply with applicable laws and regulations, it being understood that the parties intend that any such changes shall preserve to the extent reasonably practicable the parties' respective benefits under this Agreement. 8. USE OF LICENSED MARKS AND OTHER MARKS 8.1 Licensee Marks. Licensee shall have the right from time to time to create and use its own Marks, which may be used together with the Licensed Marks, in connection with products or services with respect to which any of the Licensed Marks are used; provided that, said use is in conformance with the Quality Standards set forth in 22
Article 5; and provided further that, upon request, Licensor shall have the right to review and approve Licensee's use of such Marks (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld). For the avoidance of doubt, Licensor's approval of such Mark shall not be deemed to be a statement by Licensor as to the availability or strength of such Mark. Licensee shall have sole responsibility over the availability and strength of the Mark. Unless, in the exercise of Licensor's sole discretion acting in good faith, Licensor shall determine that a Mark that Licensee proposes to use would disparage, tarnish, dilute or potentially cause confusion with respect to any Licensed Marks or is not in conformance with Licensor's Quality Standards set forth in Article 5 or otherwise would have a detrimental effect on the Licensed Marks, Licensor will approve Licensee's use of such proposed Mark. Licensor shall approve or disapprove any Marks proposed to be used by Licensee within a reasonable time of its receipt of a written request for such approval. Licensee shall not file or prosecute a trademark application to register any Mark which consists of or incorporates the Licensed Marks or any material element thereof or any Marks confusingly similar thereto. Under no circumstances shall Licensee be permitted to join the Licensed Marks with any Licensee Marks so as to form a new Mark. 8.2 Modification of Licensed Marks. In the event Licensor modifies or replaces any of the Licensed Marks as they are used in any portion of Licensor's business, and if Licensor requests Licensee to adopt and use any such modified or replaced Licensed Marks, Licensee will adopt and use such modified or replaced Licensed Marks and, in such event, such modified or replaced Licensed Marks shall be considered the Licensed Marks contemplated by this Agreement; provided that, in such event, Licensee shall be granted a 180-day period during which to phase-out its use of the superseded forms of the Licensed Marks, as applicable, and during such 180-day period Licensee shall have the right to use its existing inventory of Marketing Materials bearing the superseded forms of the Licensed Marks, as applicable. 8.3 Third Party Marks. Licensee shall have the right from time to time to use Marks owned by third parties ("Third Party Marks") in conjunction with the Licensed Marks, in connection with products or services with respect to which Licensed Marks are used; provided that, (i) Licensee obtains consent from the relevant third party to use such Third Party Marks; and (ii) use of the Licensed Marks in conjunction with such Third Party Marks shall be in conformance with the Licensor's Quality Standards set forth in Article 5; provided that, upon request, Licensor shall have the right to review and approve Licensee's uses of such Third Party Marks. Under no circumstances shall Licensee be permitted to join the Licensed Marks with any Third Party Marks so as to form a new Mark. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Licensee shall be permitted to use the Road Runner Marks and Copyrights in conjunction with the Licensed Marks in conformance with the Quality Standards set forth in Article 5. 8.4 Internet Domain Names. a. Licensee shall provide to Licensor within ten (10) days after the expiration of each calendar year, a list of all domain names using any of the Licensed Marks or any confusingly similar mark. Any 23
domain name consisting of or incorporating the Licensed Marks or any material element thereof shall be owned and maintained exclusively by Licensor, provided that, Licensee shall be solely responsible for any registration and renewal fees for those domain names used exclusively by, or on behalf of, Licensee. b. Licensee's web sites that use any of the Licensed Marks or that concern Licensed Services or Portals and Promotional Products in connection with which the Licensed Marks are used shall comply with the Quality Standards set forth in Article 5. 9. REPRESENTATIONS; LIABILITY AND INDEMNIFICATION 9.1 Representations and Warranties. Licensor represents and warrants that Licensor has not licensed the use of the Licensed Marks to any third party in connection with the Licensed Services in the Licensed Territory. 9.2 Indemnification. a. Licensor shall defend, indemnify and hold Licensee and its Sublicensees and their respective directors, officers, stockholders, employees and agents (the "Licensee Parties") harmless against all claims, suits, proceedings, costs, damages, losses, fees and expenses (including reasonable attorney's fees) and judgments incurred, claimed or sustained by the Licensee Parties arising out of: (i) any third party claims as to the lack of validity or enforceability of (A) the registrations of the Licensed Marks or (B) Licensor's ownership rights in the Licensed Marks; and (ii) any lack of validity or enforceability of this Agreement caused by Licensor. b. Subject to Licensor's indemnification obligations in Section a. above, Licensee shall defend, indemnify and hold Licensor and its directors, officers, stockholders, employees and agents (the "Licensor Parties") harmless against all claims, suits, proceedings, costs, damages, losses, fees and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees) and judgments incurred, claimed or sustained by the Licensor Parties arising out of Licensee's, or any Authorized Dealer's, Reseller's, Value Added Reseller's or Sublicensee's use of the Licensed Marks other than as expressly provided in this Agreement, and shall indemnify the Licensor Parties from any improper or unauthorized use of the Licensed Marks and for any use by Licensee, or any Authorized Dealer, Reseller, Value Added Reseller or Sublicensee of the Licensee Marks. Licensee shall also defend, indemnify and hold the Licensor Parties harmless against all claims, suits, proceedings, costs, damages, losses, fees and expenses (including reasonable attorney's fees) and judgments 24
incurred, claimed or sustained by the Licensor Parties arising out of: (i) any third party claims as to the lack of validity or enforceability of (x) the Licensee Marks or (y) Licensee's ownership rights in the Licensee Marks; and (ii) any lack of validity or enforceability of this Agreement caused by Licensee. 9.3 Notification and Defense of Claims. a. Notification of Claims. In the event of the occurrence of an event which Licensee or Licensor (the "Indemnified Party"), as the case may be, asserts constitutes a claim under Section 9.2, the Indemnified Party shall provide prompt notice of such event to Licensor, in the case of Licensee as the Indemnified Party, or to Licensee, in the case of Licensor as the Indemnified Party (the "Indemnifying Party"), and shall otherwise make available to the Indemnifying Party all relevant information which is material to the claim. Failure to give timely notice or to furnish the Indemnifying Party with any relevant data and documents in connection with any claim shall not constitute a defense (in part or in whole) to any claim for indemnification by the Indemnified Party, unless, and only to the extent that, such failure results in any material prejudice to the Indemnifying Party. The Indemnifying Party may elect, at its own expense, to assume exclusive control of the defense of such claim, if the Indemnifying Party gives written notice of its intention to do so no later than thirty (30) days following notice of such claim by the Indemnified Party or such shorter time period as required so that the interests of the Indemnified Party would not be materially prejudiced as a result of the failure to have received such notice; provided that, (i) the Indemnifying Party shall obtain the consent of the Indemnified Party (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed) before entering into any settlement, adjustment or compromise of such claims, or ceasing to defend against such claims, if as a result thereof, or pursuant thereto, there would be imposed on the Indemnified Party any material liability or obligation not covered by the indemnity obligations of the Indemnifying Party under this Agreement (including, without limitation, any injunctive relief or other remedy), except with respect to a settlement adjustment or compromise which results solely in a monetary liability and (ii) if the Indemnified Party shall have reasonably concluded that separate counsel is required because a conflict of interest would otherwise exist, the Indemnified Party shall have the right to select separate counsel to participate in the defense of such action on its behalf, at the expense of the Indemnified Party. 25
b. In the event that Indemnifying Party elects to assume control of the defense of any such claim, the Indemnified Party shall cooperate with the Indemnifying Party in such proceeding and shall execute all papers necessary and desirable and shall testify or provide evidence whenever reasonably requested to do so. The Indemnified Party may elect to join in the defense of such claim and to employ counsel to assist it in connection with the handling of such claim, at the sole expense of the Indemnified Party, provided, however, that no such claim shall be settled, adjusted or compromised, or the defense thereof terminated by the Indemnified Party, without the prior consent of the Indemnifying Party (which consent shall not be reasonably withheld or delayed), and provided, further that no Indemnified Party may settle, compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment in any claim for which indemnification may be sought hereunder unless such settlement, compromise or consent also includes an express, unconditional release of the Indemnifying Party and its directors, officers, stockholders, employees and agents from all liabilities and obligations arising therefrom. c. In the event that the Indemnifying Party does not notify the Indemnified Party within thirty (30) days that it will assume control of the defense of any such claim for which the Indemnified Party would be entitled to indemnification hereunder, then the Indemnified Party shall have the right to defend such claim at its own expense, and the Indemnifying Party shall cooperate as requested in such defense, at the expense of the Indemnified Party with respect to documented and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Indemnifying Party in the defense of the claim, provided, however, that no such claim shall be settled, adjusted or compromised, or the defense thereof terminated by the Indemnified Party, without the prior consent of the Indemnifying Party (which consent shall not be reasonably withheld or delayed), and provided, further, that no Indemnified Party may settle, compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment in any claim for which indemnification may be sought hereunder unless such settlement, compromise or consent also includes an express, unconditional release of the Indemnifying Party and its directors, officers, stockholders, employees and agents from all liabilities and obligations arising therefrom. 9.4 Insurance. a. Licensee shall maintain, at its own expense, in full force and effect at all times during which Licensed Services bearing the Licensed Marks are being sold, with a responsible insurance carrier reasonably acceptable to Licensor, at least a Two Million Five 26
Hundred Thousand Dollar ($2,500,000.00) products liability insurance policy with respect to the Licensed Services offered using the Licensed Marks. This insurance shall be primary to any of Licensor's coverage, shall name Licensor as an insured party, shall be for the benefit of Licensor and Licensee and shall provide for at least ten (10) days' prior notice to Licensor and Licensee of the cancellation or any substantial modification of the policy. This insurance may be obtained by Licensee in conjunction with a policy which covers services and/or products other than the services covered under this Agreement. b. Licensee shall from time to time, upon reasonable request by Licensor, promptly furnish or cause to be furnished to Licensor, evidence in form and substance satisfactory to Licensor, of the maintenance of the insurance required by this Section 9.4, including without limitation, originals or copies of policies, certificates of insurance (with applicable riders and endorsements) and proof of premium payments. 10. AGREEMENT PERSONAL 10.1 Personal to Licensee. In recognition of the unique nature of the relationship between Licensor and Licensee, the fact that Licensor would not be willing to enter into an agreement such as this Agreement with any other party in any other circumstances, and the unique nature of Licensee (including without limitation, the fact that part of Licensee was once owned by Licensor), the parties agree that the rights, obligations and benefits of this Agreement shall be personal to Licensee, and Licensor shall not be required to accept performance from, or render performance to, an entity other than Licensee. Pursuant to 11 U.S.C. Section 365(c)(1)(A) (as it may be amended from time to time, and including any successor to such provision), in the event of the Bankruptcy of Licensee, this Agreement may not be assigned or assumed by Licensee (or any Successor) and Licensor shall be excused from rendering performance to, or accepting performance from, Licensee or any Successor. 10.2 Licensee Acknowledgment. Licensee acknowledges and agrees that it understands it may have, or, in the future, may elect to enter into, agreements with Licensor's Affiliates and that neither the execution or continuation nor the renewal of any of those agreements will have any effect on this Agreement and Licensee may choose to contract, or not, with Licensor's Affiliates as it deems appropriate. 11. RETENTION OF RIGHTS Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement, nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed or construed to limit in any way Licensor's rights in and to the Licensed Marks, including without limitation: 27
a. All rights of ownership in and to the Licensed Marks, including the right to license or transfer the same. b. The unimpaired right to use the Licensed Marks in connection with marketing, offering or providing any products or services (except for the particular products and services exclusively licensed under this Agreement, but only to the extent of such license) whether within or without the Licensed Territory. 12. SPONSORSHIP Licensee shall not use the Licensed Marks to sponsor, endorse, or claim affiliation with any event, meeting, charitable endeavor or any other undertaking (each, an "Event"), or a series of related Events, without the express written permission of Licensor. Licensor reserves the right to deny permission to any Event. The Parties acknowledge that an Event shall not include day-to-day ordinary course meetings and events. In the event that Licensee desires to sponsor, endorse or claim affiliation with an Event, or a series of related Events, Licensee shall provide Licensor with at least twenty (20) business days prior written notice of such Event in reasonable detail. Any breach of this provision reasonably determined to have a material adverse effect on Licensor or the Licensed Marks shall be deemed a Significant Breach by Licensee. 13. CONSENT OF LICENSOR Except where another standard is expressly provided for herein, whenever reference is made to Licensor's consent or approval in this Agreement, such consent or approval may be granted or withheld in Licensor's sole discretion and, if granted, may be done so conditionally or unconditionally. 14. NOTICES All notices, requests, demands or other communications required by, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given to any party when delivered personally (by courier service or otherwise), against receipt, when delivered by telecopy and confirmed by return telecopy, or three (3) days after being mailed by registered first-class mail, postage prepaid and return receipt requested in each case to the applicable addresses set forth below: If to Licensee: Time Warner Cable Inc. 290 Harbor Drive Stamford, Connecticut 06902 28
If to Licensor: AOL Time Warner Inc. 75 Rockefeller Plaza New York, NY 10019 Attn: General Counsel Fax: 212-258-3172 or to such other address as such party shall have designated by notice so given to each other party. 15. GOVERNMENTAL LICENSES, PERMITS AND APPROVALS Licensee, at its expense, shall be responsible for obtaining and maintaining all Approvals with respect to this Agreement, and for complying with any requirements of such Regulatory Authorities for the registration or recording of this Agreement. Licensee shall furnish to Licensor written evidence from such Regulatory Authorities of any such Approvals. 16. APPLICABLE LAW The construction, performance and interpretation of this Agreement shall be governed by the U.S. Trademark Act, 15 U.S.C. Section 1051 et seq., and the internal, substantive laws of the State of New York, without regard to its principles of conflicts of law. Except as otherwise provided herein, Licensor and Licensee hereby irrevocably submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, or absent subject matter jurisdiction in that court, the state courts of the State of New York located in New York County for all actions, suits or proceedings arising in connection with this Agreement. 17. CONFIDENTIALITY OF INFORMATION AND USE RESTRICTION The Quality Standards and other technical information furnished to Licensee under this Agreement and other confidential and proprietary information, know-how and trade secrets of Licensor that are disclosed or otherwise provided to Licensee in connection with this Agreement, shall remain the property of Licensor, and shall be returned to Licensor upon request and upon termination of this Agreement. Unless such information was previously known to Licensee free of any obligation to keep it confidential, or has been or is subsequently made public (a) by any person other than Licensee and Licensor is not attempting to limit further dissemination of such information, (b) by Licensor, or (c) by Licensee, as required by law (including securities laws) or to enforce its rights under this Agreement, it shall be held in confidence, and shall be used only for the purposes of this Agreement. All confidential and proprietary information, know-how and trade secrets of Licensee that are disclosed or otherwise provided to Licensor hereunder (including without limitation, during any Inspection) (collectively, "Licensee Information") shall remain the property of Licensee and shall be returned to Licensee upon request and upon termination of this Agreement. Unless such 29
Licensee Information was previously known to Licensor free of any obligation to keep it confidential, or has been or is subsequently made public (a) by any person other than Licensor and Licensee is not attempting to limit further dissemination of such information, (b) by Licensee, or (c) by Licensor, as required by law (including securities law) or to enforce its rights under this Agreement, it shall be held in confidence and shall be used only for purposes of this Agreement. 18. MISCELLANEOUS 18.1 Entire Agreement. The provisions of this Agreement contain the entire agreement between the parties relating to use by Licensee of the Licensed Marks, and supersede all prior agreements and understandings relating to the subject matter hereof. This Agreement shall be interpreted to achieve the objectives and intent of the parties as set forth in the text and factual recitals of the Agreement. It is specifically agreed that no evidence of discussions during the negotiation of the Agreement, or drafts written or exchanged, may be used in connection with the interpretation or construction of this Agreement. No rights are granted to use the Licensed Marks or any other Marks or Trade Dress except as specifically set forth in this Agreement. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and provisions in any other agreement involving Licensee, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. 18.2 Relationship of the Parties. This Agreement is not a franchise under federal or state law, does not create a partnership or joint venture, and shall not be deemed to constitute an assignment of any rights of Licensor to Licensee. Licensee is an independent contractor, not an agent or employee of Licensor, and Licensor is not liable for any acts or omissions by Licensee. 18.3 Amendments, Waivers. This Agreement may not be amended, changed, supplemented, waived or otherwise modified except by an instrument in writing signed by the party against whom enforcement is sought. 18.4 Assignment. Licensee may not assign, pledge, transfer or otherwise hypothecate this Agreement or any of its rights or obligations hereunder, and any purported assignment, pledge, transfer or other hypothecation, whether by operation of law or otherwise, shall be void and of no force or effect. 18.5 Specific Performance. The parties acknowledge that money damages are not an adequate remedy for violation of this Agreement and that any party may, in its sole discretion, apply to the court set forth in Article 16 for specific performance, or injunctive, or such other relief as such court may deem just and proper, in order to enforce this Agreement or prevent any violation hereof, and to the extent permitted by applicable law, each party waives any objection to the imposition of such relief. 18.6 Remedies Cumulative. All rights, powers and remedies provided under this Agreement, or otherwise available in respect hereof at law or in equity shall be cumulative and not alternative, and the exercise or beginning of the exercise of any 30
thereof by any party shall not preclude the simultaneous or later exercise of any other such right, power or remedy by such party. 18.7 No Waiver. The failure of any party hereto to exercise any right, power or remedy provided under this Agreement, or otherwise available in respect hereof at law or in equity, or to insist upon compliance by any other party hereto with its obligations hereunder, and any custom or practice of the parties at variance with the terms hereof, shall not constitute a waiver by such party of its right to exercise any such or other right, power or remedy or to demand such compliance. 18.8 Rules of Construction. As used in this Agreement, (1) neutral pronouns and any derivations thereof shall be deemed to include the feminine and masculine and all terms used in the singular shall be deemed to include the plural and vice versa, as the context may require; (2) the words "hereof," "herein," "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this Agreement as a whole, including all exhibits and schedules as the same may be amended or supplemented from time to time, and not to any subdivision of this Agreement; (3) the word "including" or any variation thereof means "including, without limitation" and shall not be construed to limit any general statement that it follows to the specific or similar items or matters immediately following it; and (4) descriptive headings and titles used in this Agreement are inserted for convenience of reference only and do not constitute a part of and shall not be utilized in interpreting this Agreement. This Agreement shall be fairly interpreted in accordance with its terms and without any strict construction in favor of or against any party. 18.9 No Third Party Beneficiaries. This Agreement is not intended to be for the benefit of and shall not be enforceable by any Person who is not a party and nothing in this Agreement, express or implied, is intended to or shall (1) confer on any Person other than the parties and their respective Successors any rights (including third-party beneficiary rights), remedies, obligations or liabilities under or by reason of this Agreement or (2) constitute the parties as partners or as participants in a joint venture. This Agreement shall not provide third parties with any remedy, claim, liability, reimbursement, cause of action or other right in excess of those existing without reference to the terms of this Agreement and no third party shall have any right, independent of any right that exists irrespective of this Agreement, to bring any suit at law or equity for any matter governed by or subject to the provisions of this Agreement. 18.10 Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, but all of which together shall constitute one instrument. Each counterpart may consist of a number of copies each signed by less than all, but together signed by all the parties hereto. 31
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the parties has caused this Agreement to be executed in duplicate originals by its duly authorized representatives as of the date first stated above. TIME WARNER INC. By: /s/ Spencer B. Hays --------------------------------------- Name: Spencer B. Hays Title: Senior Vice President TIME WARNER CABLE INC. By: /s/ Marc J. Apfelbaum -------------------------------------- Name: Marc J. Apfelbaum Title: Executive Vice President, General Counsel & Secretary 32
Schedule 1 [GRAPHIC] 33
Schedule 2 LICENSED ANCILLARY MARKS
Schedule 3 LICENSEE SPECIFIC MARKS Domain Names timewarnercable.info twcable.info tweasy.info twcentralflorida.info twcf.info twcfast.info twflorida.info twcneo.info And any other domain name incorporating any of the Licensed Marks that was used in the TWE Broadband Business as of the Closing.
Exhibit A TERMINATION AGREEMENT THIS TERMINATION AGREEMENT (this "Agreement") is made and entered into as of the ___ day of _____, 2003, by and between TIME WARNER INC., a Delaware corporation ("Licensor") and TIME WARNER ENTERTAINMENT COMPANY, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership ("Licensee"). W I T N E S S E T H: WHEREAS, Licensee has entered into a license agreement, dated as of June 30, 1992, relating to the use of the TIME WARNER ENTERTAINMENT mark in connection with filmed entertainment, cable and programming businesses (as the same may have been further amended or assigned, the "License Agreement"); and WHEREAS, Licensor and Licensee desire that the License Agreement be cancelled and terminated. NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto do hereby agree as follows: 1. TERMINATION. The parties hereto hereby cancel and terminate the License Agreement as of the date hereof. As of the date hereof, neither party shall have any further rights, obligations or liabilities under the License Agreement. 4. ENTIRE AGREEMENT. This Agreement contains the entire agreement of the parties hereto and no waiver, modification or amendment of this Agreement shall be valid unless it is in writing and signed by the parties hereto. 5. BINDING EFFECT; GOVERNING LAW. This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of all the parties hereto and their respective heirs, administrators, representatives, executors, successors and assigns. This Agreement is made and entered into in the State of New York and shall in all respects be interpreted, enforced and governed under the laws of the said state. 6. MISCELLANEOUS. Whenever possible, each provision of this Agreement shall be interpreted in such a manner as to be effective and valid under applicable law, but if any provision hereof shall be prohibited by or invalid under such law, such provision shall be ineffective to the extent of such prohibition or invalidity, without invalidating the remainder of such provision or the remaining provisions of this Agreement.
7. COUNTERPARTS. This Agreement may be signed in one or more counterparts or duplicate signature pages with the same force and effect as if all required signatures were contained in a single original instrument. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Licensor and Licensee have executed this Agreement as of the day and year first set forth above. LICENSOR: TIME WARNER INC. By: __________________________________ Name: Title: LICENSEE: TIME WARNER ENTERTAINMENT COMPANY, L.P. By: __________________________________ Name: Title:

EXHIBIT: 10.11 Execution Copy =============================================================================== $2,100,000,000 TERM LOAN AGREEMENT Dated as of March 31, 2003 Among MOTH HOLDINGS, INC. (To be renamed at the time of the Closing, TIME WARNER CABLE INC.), as Borrower, The Lenders named herein, CITICORP NORTH AMERICA, INC. and DEUTSCHE BANK AG, NEW YORK BRANCH, as Co-Administrative Agents =============================================================================== DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC. AND SALOMON SMITH BARNEY INC., as Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Book Managers
TABLE OF CONTENTS -i-
-ii-
SCHEDULES: Schedule 2.01 - Commitments Schedule 2.03(A) - Borrowing Notice/Interest Election Notice/Prepayment Notice Schedule 2.03(B) - Authorized Account Numbers & Locations Schedule 6.08 - Unrestricted Subsidiaries Schedule 8 - List of Proper Persons EXHIBITS: Exhibit A - Form of Assignment and Acceptance Exhibit B - Form of Guarantee Exhibit C - Form of Note -iii-
TERM LOAN AGREEMENT (this "Agreement"), dated as of March 31, 2003, among MOTH HOLDINGS, INC., a Delaware corporation (as successor in interest to MediaOne TWE Holdings, Inc. and to be renamed, at the time of the Closing (as defined below), TIME WARNER CABLE INC.) ("Borrower"), the Lenders named on the signature pages hereto (the "Lenders") and DEUTSCHE BANK AG, NEW YORK BRANCH ("DBNY"), and CITICORP NORTH AMERICA, INC., as administrative agents ("CNAI" and together with DBNY, in such capacity, the "Administrative Agents"). W I T N E S S E T H : - - - - - - - - - - WHEREAS, on August 19, 2002, Borrower issued to Comcast of Georgia, Inc., a Colorado corporation and indirect parent of Borrower (formerly named MediaOne of Colorado, Inc.), a Demand Promissory Note in principal amount of $2,100,000,000 (the "Comcast Promissory Note"); WHEREAS, AOL Time Warner, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("AOLTW"), Comcast Corporation (formerly named AT&T Comcast Corporation, "Comcast") and the other parties thereto have entered into a Restructuring Agreement (the "Restructuring Agreement"), dated as of August 20, 2002, for the restructuring of TIME WARNER ENTERTAINMENT COMPANY, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership ("TWE" or the "Guarantor"), (the restructuring of TWE contemplated in the Restructuring Agreement (and related agreements) is hereinafter referred to as the "Restructuring"); WHEREAS, Borrower (after giving effect to the Restructuring) is to be renamed "Time Warner Cable, Inc.", a newly acquired majority-owned subsidiary of AOLTW that will, immediately upon the consummation of the Restructuring, own approximately 94.3% of the partnership interests of TWE; WHEREAS, Borrower desires that the Lenders extend, immediately prior to consummation of Restructuring, a $2,100,000,000 term loan facility to Borrower to fund the repayment of the Comcast Promissory Note; NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the agreements, provisions and covenants herein contained, the parties hereby agree as follows: ARTICLE I DEFINITIONS SECTION 1.01. Defined Terms. As used in this Agreement, the following terms have the meanings specified below: "Adjusted Financial Statements" means, for any period, (a) the balance sheet of Borrower and its Restricted Subsidiaries (treating Unrestricted Subsidiaries as equity investments of Borrower to the extent that such Unrestricted Subsidiaries would not otherwise be treated as equity investments of Borrower in accordance with GAAP) as of the end of such period and (b) the related statements of operations and stockholders equity for such period and, if such period is not a fiscal
-2- year, for the then elapsed portion of the fiscal year (treating Unrestricted Subsidiaries as equity investments of Borrower to the extent that such Unrestricted Subsidiaries would not otherwise be treated as equity investments of Borrower in accordance with GAAP). "Adjusted LIBO Rate" means with respect to any Eurocurrency Borrowing for any Interest Period, an interest rate per annum (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next Basis Point) equal to (a) the LIBO Rate for such Interest Period multiplied by (b) the Statutory Reserve Rate. "Administrative Agents" means (i) DBNY and CNAI, as administrative agents for the Lenders hereunder, together with any of their successors pursuant to Article VIII and (ii) immediately after the consummation of the syndication contemplated by the Separate Letter Agreements, either DBNY or CNAI, as designated by the Borrower, or in the absence of any such designation, as designated by DBNY and CNAI, together with its successors pursuant to Article VIII. "Administrative Questionnaire" means, with respect to each Lender, an Administrative Questionnaire in a form supplied by the Administrative Agents. "Affiliate" means, with respect to a specified Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified; provided, that two or more Persons shall not be deemed Affiliates because an individual is a director and/or officer of each such Person. "Agents" means those Lenders in those capacities, as designated by the Administrative Agents and Borrower in connection with the syndication contemplated by the Separate Letter Agreements, as well as the Paying Agent. "AOLTW" has the meaning assigned to such term in the recitals hereto. "Applicable Margin" means, for any day, the applicable rate per annum set forth below expressed in Basis Points based upon the senior unsecured long-term debt credit rating (or an equivalent thereof) (in each case, a "Rating") assigned by S&P and Moody's, respectively, applicable on such date to Borrower; provided that, until such time as Borrower has received a Rating, the Ratings of TWE shall be used as the basis for calculating the Applicable Margin:
-3- For purposes of determining the Applicable Margin for Borrower, (A) if either S&P or Moody's shall not have in effect a relevant Rating (other than by reason of the circumstances referred to in clause (C) of this definition), then the Rating assigned by the other rating agency shall be used; (B) if the relevant Ratings assigned by S&P and Moody's shall fall within different Categories, the Applicable Margin shall be based on the higher of the two Ratings unless one of the two Ratings is two or more Categories lower than the other, in which case the Applicable Margin shall be determined by reference to the Category next below that of the higher of the two ratings; (C) if either rating agency shall cease to assign a relevant Rating solely because Borrower elects not to participate or otherwise cooperate in the ratings process of such rating agency, the Applicable Margin shall not be less than that in effect immediately before such rating agency's Rating for Borrower became unavailable; and (D) if the relevant Ratings assigned by S&P or Moody's shall be changed (other than as a result of a change in the rating system of S&P or Moody's), such change shall be effective as of the date on which it is first announced by the applicable rating agency. Each change in the Applicable Margin shall apply during the period commencing on the effective date of such change and ending on the date immediately preceding the effective date of the next such change. If the rating system of S&P or Moody's shall change, or if either such rating agency shall cease to be in the business of rating corporate debt obligations, Borrower and the Lenders shall negotiate in good faith to amend this definition to reflect such changed rating system or the unavailability of ratings from such rating agency, and, pending the effectiveness of any such amendment, the Applicable Margin of Borrower shall be determined by reference to the rating most recently in effect prior to such change or cessation, provided that, if Borrower elects to extend the Maturity Date of the Loans outstanding on the Initial Maturity Date pursuant to Section 2.09(f), each of the applicable rates per annum set forth above in Basis Points shall be increased by 25 Basis Points for the period that such Loans remain outstanding subsequent to the Initial Maturity Date. "Applicable Percentage" means for any Lender at any date the percentage set forth next to such Lender's name on Schedule 2.01 to this Agreement, as the same may be modified from time to time, including, without limitation, to reflect the addition or withdrawal of a Lender or the assignment of all or a portion of an existing Lender's Applicable Percentage as permitted pursuant to Section 9.04. "Arrangers" means DBSI and SSBI.
-4- "Assignment and Acceptance" means an assignment and acceptance entered into by a Lender and an assignee (with the consent of any party whose consent is required by Section 9.04), and accepted by the Administrative Agents, in substantially the form of Exhibit A. "Base Lending Rate" means the rate of interest per annum publicly announced from time to time by each Administrative Agent as its base lending rate (and the average of the two during any time in which the Administrative Agents have different base lending rates), in effect from time to time at their principal offices in New York City; each change in the Base Lending Rate shall be effective from and including the date such change is publicly announced as being effective. "Base Rate" means, for any day, a rate per annum equal to the greater of (a) the Base Lending Rate in effect on such day and (b) the Federal Funds Effective Rate in effect on such day plus 1/2 of 1%. Any change in the Base Rate due to a change in the Base Lending Rate or the Federal Funds Effective Rate shall be effective from and including the effective date of such change in the Base Lending Rate or the Federal Funds Effective Rate, respectively. "Basis Point" means 1/100th of 1%. "Board" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States. "Borrower" has the meaning assigned to such term in the preamble hereto. "Borrowing" means Loans of the same Type, made, converted or continued on the same date and, in the case of Eurocurrency Loans, as to which a single Interest Period is in effect. "Borrowing Request" means the request by Borrower for a Borrowing in accordance with Section 2.03 "Business Day" means any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in New York City are authorized or required by law to remain closed; provided that, when used in connection with a Eurocurrency Loan, the term "Business Day" shall also exclude any day on which banks are not open for dealings in deposits in the applicable currency in the London interbank market. "Capital Lease Obligations" of any Person means the obligations of such Person to pay rent or other amounts under any lease of (or other arrangement conveying the right to use) real or personal property, or a combination thereof, which obligations are required to be classified and accounted for as capital leases on a balance sheet of such Person under GAAP, and the amount of such obligations shall be the capitalized amount thereof determined in accordance with GAAP. "Capital Stock" means, with respect to any Person, any and all shares, partnership interests or other equivalents (however designated and whether voting or non-voting) of such Person's equity, whether outstanding on the date hereof or hereafter issued, and any and all equivalent ownership interests in a Person (other than a corporation) and any and all rights, warrants or options to pur-
-5- chase or acquire or exchangeable for or convertible into such shares, partnership interests or other equivalents. "Cash Equivalents" means (a) securities issued or directly and fully guaranteed or insured by the United States or any agency or instrumentality thereof (provided that the full faith and credit of the United States is pledged in support thereof) that (i) have maturities of not more than six months from the date of acquisition thereof or (ii) are subject to a repurchase agreement with an institution described in clause (b)(i) or (ii) below exercisable within six months from the date of acquisition thereof, (b) U.S. Dollar-denominated and Eurocurrency time deposits, certificates of deposit and bankers' acceptances of (i) any domestic commercial bank of recognized standing having capital and surplus in excess of $500,000,000 or (ii) any bank whose short-term commercial paper rating from S&P is at least A-2 or the equivalent thereof, from Moody's is at least P-2 or the equivalent thereof or from Fitch is at least F-2 or the equivalent thereof (any such bank, an "Approved Lender"), in each case with maturities of not more than six months from the date of acquisition thereof, (c) commercial paper and variable and fixed rate notes issued by any Lender or Approved Lender or by the parent company of any Lender or Approved Lender and commercial paper and variable rate notes issued by, or guaranteed by, any industrial or financial company with a short-term commercial paper rating of at least A-2 or the equivalent thereof by S&P or at least P-2 or the equivalent thereof by Moody's or at least F-2 or the equivalent thereof by Fitch, and in each case maturing within six months after the date of acquisition thereof, (d) securities with maturities of one year or less from the date of acquisition issued or fully guaranteed by any state, commonwealth or territory of the United States, by any political subdivision or taxing authority of any such state, commonwealth or territory or by any foreign government, the securities of which state, commonwealth, territory, political subdivision, taxing authority or foreign government (as the case may be) are rated at least A by S&P or A by Moody's, (e) securities with maturities of six months or less from the date of acquisition backed by standby letters of credit issued by any Lender or any commercial bank satisfying the requirements of clause (b) of this definition, (f) tax-exempt commercial paper of U.S. municipal, state or local governments rated at least A-2 or the equivalent thereof by S&P or at least P-2 or the equivalent thereof by Moody's or at least F-2 or the equivalent thereof by Fitch and maturing within six months after the date of acquisition thereof, (g) shares of money market mutual or similar funds sponsored by any registered broker dealer or mutual fund distributor, (h) repurchase obligations entered into with any bank meeting the qualifications of clause (b) above or any registered broker dealer whose short-term commercial paper rating from S&P is at least A-2 or the equivalent thereof or from Moody's is at least P-2 or the equivalent thereof or from Fitch is at least F-2 or the equivalent thereof, having a term of not more than 30 days, with respect to securities issued or fully guaranteed or insured by the United States government or residential whole loan mortgages, and (i) demand deposit accounts maintained in the ordinary course of business. "Change in Control" means (a) a Person or "group" (within the meaning of Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act) other than AOLTW and/or its Subsidiaries acquiring or having beneficial ownership (it being understood that a tender of shares or other equity interests shall not be deemed acquired or giving beneficial ownership until such shares or other equity interests shall have been accepted for payment) of securities (or options to purchase securities) having a majority or more of the ordinary voting power of Borrower (including options to acquire such voting power), (b) persons who are directors of Borrower immediately following consummation of the Restructuring or persons designated or approved by such directors ceasing to constitute a majority of the board of
-6- directors of Borrower, or (c) prior to consummation of syndication of the Loans, Borrower ceasing to own and control at least 94.3% of the residual equity capital or ceasing to be the sole general partner of TWE, (d) following consummation of syndication of the Loans, Borrower ceasing to own and control of record and beneficially securities (or options to purchase securities) representing at least 51% of the ordinary voting power of TWE (including options to acquire such voting power), or (e) a change in control (as defined in the TWE Loan Facility) occurs under the TWE Loan Facility. "Change in Law" means (a) the adoption of any law, rule or regulation after the date of this Agreement, (b) any change in any law, rule or regulation or in the interpretation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority after the date of this Agreement or (c) compliance by any Lender (or, for purposes of Section 2.14(b), by any lending office of such Lender or by such Lender's holding company, if any) with any request, guideline or directive of any Governmental Authority made or issued after the date of this Agreement. "Closing Date" means March 31, 2003 or such later date (not later than June 30, 2003) as may be agreed by the Borrower and the Administrative Agents. "CNAI" means Citicorp North America, Inc. "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time. "Comcast Promissory Note" has the meaning assigned to such term in the recitals hereto. "Commitment" means, with respect to each Lender, the commitment of such Lender to make the Loans hereunder, which Commitment shall be reduced to zero upon the making of Loans on the Closing Date. The amount of each Lender's Commitment is set forth on Schedule 2.01. "Conduit Lender" means any special purpose corporation organized and administered by any Lender for the purpose of making Loans otherwise required to be made by such Lender and designated by such Lender in a written instrument, subject to the consent of Borrower (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld); provided that the designation by any Lender of a Conduit Lender shall not relieve the designating Lender of any of its obligations to fund a Loan under this Agreement if, for any reason, its Conduit Lender fails to fund any such Loan, and the designating Lender (and not the Conduit Lender) shall have the sole right and responsibility to deliver all consents and waivers required or requested under this Agreement with respect to its Conduit Lender; and provided, further, that no Conduit Lender shall (a) be entitled to receive any greater amount pursuant to Section 2.14, 2.15, 2.16 or 9.03 than the designating Lender would have been entitled to receive in respect of the Loans made by such Conduit Lender or (b) be deemed to have any Commitment. The making of a Loan by a Conduit Lender hereunder shall utilize the Commitment of a designating Lender to the same extent, and as if, such Loan were made by such designating Lender. "Consolidated EBITDA" means, for any period, Consolidated Net Income for such period plus, without duplication and to the extent reflected as a charge in the statement of such Consolidated Net Income for such period, the sum of (a) income tax expense, (b) interest expense, amortization or writeoff of debt discount and debt issuance costs and commissions, discounts and other fees
-7- and charges associated with Indebtedness (including the Loans), (c) depreciation and amortization expense (excluding amortization of film inventory that does not constitute amortization of purchase price amortization), (d) amortization of intangibles (including, but not limited to, goodwill) and organization costs (excluding amortization of film inventory that does not constitute amortization of purchase price amortization), (e) any extraordinary, unusual or non-recurring non-cash expenses or losses (including, whether or not otherwise includable as a separate item in the statement of such Consolidated Net Income for such period, non-cash losses on sales of assets outside of the ordinary course of business), and (f) minority interest expense in respect of preferred stock of Subsidiaries of Borrower, and minus, to the extent included in the statement of such Consolidated Net Income for such period, the sum of (a) interest income and (b) any extraordinary, unusual or non-recurring income or gains (including, whether or not otherwise includable as a separate item in the statement of such Consolidated Net Income for such period, gains on the sales of assets outside of the ordinary course of business), all as determined on a consolidated basis. "Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio" means, for any period, the ratio of (a) Consolidated EBITDA for such period to (b) Consolidated Interest Expense for such period. "Consolidated Interest Expense" means, for any period, total cash interest expense (including that attributable to Capital Lease Obligations) of Borrower and its Restricted Subsidiaries for such period with respect to all outstanding Indebtedness of Borrower and its Restricted Subsidiaries (other than the amount amortized during such period in respect of all fees paid in connection with the incurrence of such Indebtedness), such expense to be determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP). "Consolidated Leverage Ratio" means, as at the last day of any period, the ratio of (a) Consolidated Total Debt on such day to (b) Consolidated EBITDA for such period. "Consolidated Net Income" means, for any period, the consolidated net income (or loss) of Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries, determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP; provided that there shall be excluded, without duplication (a) the income (or deficit) of any Person accrued prior to the date it becomes a Subsidiary of Borrower or is merged into or consolidated with Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or that such other Person's assets are acquired by Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, (b) the income (or deficit) of any Person (other than (i) in the case of Borrower, a Restricted Subsidiary and (ii) in the case of any other Person, a Subsidiary of such Person) in which Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries has an ownership interest, except to the extent that any such income is actually received by Borrower (or (i) in the case of Borrower, its Restricted Subsidiary and (ii) in the case of any other Person, its Subsidiary) in the form of dividends or similar distributions and (c) the undistributed earnings of any Subsidiary of Borrower to the extent that the declaration or payment of dividends or similar distributions by such Subsidiary is not at the time permitted by the terms of its charter or any agreement or instrument (other than any Credit Document), judgment, decree, order, statute, rule, governmental regulation or other requirement of law applicable to such Subsidiary; provided that the income of any Subsidiary of Borrower shall not be excluded by reason of this clause (c) so long as such Subsidiary guarantees the Obligations with a Guarantee (plus a related legal opinion as to the enforceability thereof) reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agents.
-8- "Consolidated Total Assets" means at any date, all amounts that would, in conformity with GAAP, be included on a consolidated balance sheet of Borrower and its Subsidiaries under total assets at such date; provided that such amounts shall be calculated in accordance with Section 1.04. "Consolidated Total Debt" means, at any date, the aggregate principal amount of Indebtedness and the aggregate amount liquidation preference of preferred stock of Borrower and its Restricted Subsidiaries minus (a) the aggregate principal amount of any such Indebtedness and aggregate amount liquidation preference of preferred stock (only to the extent that it is payable either by its terms or at the election of the obligor in common equity securities of Borrower or the proceeds of options in respect of such equity securities), (b) to the extent included in the calculation of such Indebtedness, the aggregate principal amount of Film Financings in respect of which TWE has Guarantee Obligations as of the Closing Date and (c) the aggregate amount of cash and Cash Equivalents held by Borrower or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries in excess of $25,000,000, all determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP. "Control" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise. "Controlling" and "Controlled" have meanings correlative thereto. "Copyright Liens" means any Liens granted by Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries prior to the Closing Date on copyrights relating to movies or other programming, which movies or other programming are subject to one or more contracts entitling Borrower or such Subsidiary to future payments in respect of such movies or other programming and which contractual rights to future payments are to be transferred by Borrower or such Subsidiary to a special purpose Subsidiary of Borrower or such Subsidiary organized for the purpose of monetizing such rights to future payments; provided that such Liens (a) are granted directly or indirectly for the benefit of the special purpose Subsidiary and/or the Persons who purchase such contractual rights to future payments from such special purpose Subsidiary and (b) extend only to the copyrights for the movies or other programming subject to such contracts for the purpose of permitting the completion, distribution and exhibition of such movies or other programming. "Credit Documents" means this Agreement, the Guarantee, the Note and the Separate Letter Agreements. "Credit Parties" means Borrower and the Guarantor; and "Credit Party" means any of them. "DBCI" means Deutsche Bank AG, Cayman Islands Branch. "DBSI" means Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. "Default" means any event or condition which constitutes an Event of Default or which upon notice, lapse of time or both would, unless cured or waived, become an Event of Default. "Dollars" or "$" refers to lawful money of the United States.
-9- "Environmental Law" means all applicable and binding laws, rules, regulations, codes, ordinances, orders, decrees, judgments, injunctions, or agreements issued, promulgated or entered into by any Governmental Authority, relating in any way to the environment, preservation or reclamation of natural resources, the management, release or threatened release of any Hazardous Material or to health and safety matters. "Environmental Liability" means any liability, contingent or otherwise (including any liability for damages, costs of environmental remediation, fines, penalties or indemnities), of Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries directly or indirectly resulting from or based upon (a) a violation of any Environmental Law, (b) the generation, use, handling, transportation, storage, treatment or disposal of any Hazardous Materials, (c) the exposure to any Hazardous Materials, (d) the release or threatened release of any Hazardous Materials into the environment or (e) any contract, agreement or other consensual arrangement pursuant to which liability is assumed or imposed with respect to any of the foregoing. "ERISA" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time. "ERISA Affiliate" means, with respect to Borrower, any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) that, together with such Borrower, is treated as a single employer under Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code or, solely for purposes of Section 302 of ERISA and Section 412 of the Code, is treated as a single employer under Section 414 of the Code. "ERISA Event" means (a) any "reportable event," as defined in Section 4043 of ERISA or the regulations issued thereunder with respect to a Plan (other than an event for which the 30-day notice period is waived); (b) the existence with respect to any Plan of an "accumulated funding deficiency" (as defined in Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA), whether or not waived; (c) the filing pursuant to Section 412(d) of the Code or in Section 303(d) of ERISA of an application for a waiver of the minimum funding standard with respect to any Plan; (d) the incurrence by any Credit Party or any of its ERISA Affiliates of any unfunded liability under Title IV of ERISA with respect to the termination of any Plan; (e) the receipt by any Credit Party or any ERISA Affiliate from the PBGC or a Plan administrator of any notice relating to an intention to terminate any Plan or Plans or to appoint a trustee to administer any Plan; (f) the incurrence by any Credit Party or any of its ERISA Affiliates of any liability with respect to the withdrawal or partial withdrawal from any Plan or Multiemployer Plan; (g) the receipt by any Credit Party or any ERISA Affiliate of any notice concerning the imposition on such entity of Withdrawal Liability or a determination that a Multiemployer Plan with respect to which such entity is obligated to contribute or is otherwise liable is, or is expected to be, insolvent or in reorganization, within the meaning of Title IV of ERISA; or (h) the occurrence, with respect to a Plan or a Multiemployer Plan, of a nonexempt "prohibited transaction" (within the meaning of Section 4975 of the Code or Section 406 of ERISA) which could reasonably be expected to result in liability to a Credit Party. "Eurocurrency" when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, are bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Adjusted LIBO Rate.
-10- "Event of Default" has the meaning assigned to such term in Article VII. "Exchange Act" means the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. "Excluded Taxes" means, with respect to the Agents, any Lender or any other recipient of any payment to be made by or on account of any obligation of any Credit Party hereunder, (a) income or franchise taxes imposed on (or measured by) its net income by the United States, or by the jurisdiction under the laws of which such recipient is organized or in which its principal office is located or, in the case of any Lender, in which its applicable lending office is located, (b) any branch profits taxes imposed by the United States or any similar tax imposed by any other jurisdiction described in clause (a) above, (c) in the case of a Foreign Lender (other than an assignee pursuant to a request by Borrower under Section 2.18(b)), any withholding tax (i) that is imposed on amounts payable to such Foreign Lender at the time such Foreign Lender becomes a party to this Agreement or designates a new lending office or (ii) is attributable to such Foreign Lender's failure or inability to comply with Section 2.16(e), except to the extent that such Foreign Lender (or its assignor, if any) was entitled, at the time of such designation of a new lending office or assignment, to receive additional amounts from such Credit Party with respect to such withholding tax pursuant to Section 2.16(a) and (d) in the case of a Lender that is a U.S. Person, any withholding tax that is attributable to the Lender's failure to comply with Section 2.16(f). "Extended Maturity Date" means the Business Day immediately preceding the second anniversary of the Closing Date. "Extension Notice" has the meaning provided in Section 2.09(f). "Federal Funds Effective Rate" means, for any day, the weighted average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next Basis Point) of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the United States Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published on the next succeeding Business Day by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day that is a Business Day, the average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next Basis Point) of the quotations for such day for such transactions received by the Administrative Agents from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by them. "Film Financing" means, without duplication, monetary obligations arising out of transactions consummated prior to the Closing Date in which so-called tax-based financing groups or other third-party investors provided financing for the acquisition, production or distribution of motion pictures, television programs, sound recordings or books or rights with respect thereto in exchange, in part, for certain tax or other benefits which are derived from such motion pictures, television programs, sound recordings, books or rights; provided that no such monetary obligations shall have, directly or indirectly, recourse (including by way of setoff) to Borrower or any Restricted Subsidiary or any of its assets other than to the profits or distribution rights related to such motion pictures, television programs, sound recordings, books or rights and other than to a Subsidiary of Borrower substantially all of the assets of which consist of the motion pictures, television programs, sound recordings, books or rights which are the subject of such transaction and related cash and Cash Equivalents.
-11- "Financial Officer" means, with respect to any Person, the chief financial officer, principal accounting officer, treasurer or controller of such Person. "Fitch" means Fitch, Inc. "Foreign Lender" means any Lender that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than that in which Borrower is located. For purposes of this definition, the United States, each State thereof and the District of Columbia shall be deemed to constitute a single jurisdiction. "Franchise" means, with respect to any Person, a franchise, license, authorization or right to construct, own, operate, manage, promote, extend or otherwise utilize any cable television distribution system operated or to be operated by such Person or any of its Subsidiaries granted by any Governmental Authority, but shall not include any such franchise, license, authorization or right that is incidentally required for the purpose of installing, constructing or extending a cable television system. "GAAP" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. "Governmental Authority" means the government of the United States, any other nation or any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government. "Guarantee" means the guarantee by the Guarantor of the Obligations of Borrower, substantially in the form of Exhibit B. "Guarantee Obligations" of or by any Person (the "guarantor") means any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of the guarantor guaranteeing or having the economic effect of guaranteeing any Indebtedness of any other Person (the "primary obligor") in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, and including any obligation of the guarantor, direct or indirect, (a) to purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Indebtedness or to purchase (or to advance or supply funds for the purchase of) any security for the payment thereof, (b) to purchase or lease property, securities or services for the purpose of assuring the owner of such Indebtedness of the payment thereof, (c) to maintain working capital, equity capital or any other financial statement condition or liquidity of the primary obligor so as to enable the primary obligor to pay such Indebtedness or (d) as an account party in respect of any letter of credit or letter of guaranty issued to support such Indebtedness; provided that the term Guarantee Obligations shall not include endorsements for collection or deposit in the ordinary course of business. "Guarantor" means (i) TWE and (ii) any other Person (other than Borrower) that provides a guarantee pursuant to Section 5.11. "Hazardous Materials" means all explosive or radioactive substances or wastes and all hazardous or toxic substances, wastes or other pollutants, including petroleum or petroleum distillates, asbestos or asbestos containing materials, polychlorinated biphenyls, radon gas, infectious or medical wastes and all other substances or wastes of any nature regulated pursuant to any Environmental Law.
-12- "Indebtedness" of any Person means, without duplication, (a) all obligations of such Person for borrowed money, (b) all obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or similar instruments, (c) all obligations of such Person upon which interest charges are customarily paid, (d) all obligations of such Person under conditional sale or other title retention agreements relating to property acquired by such Person (but not including synthetic or operating leases), (e) all obligations of such Person in respect of the deferred purchase price of property or services (excluding current accounts payable incurred in the ordinary course of business and payment obligations of such Person pursuant to agreements entered into in the ordinary course of business, which payment obligations are contingent on another Person's satisfactory provision of services or products), (f) all Indebtedness of others secured by (or for which the holder of such Indebtedness has an existing right, contingent or otherwise, to be secured by) any Lien (other than Copyright Liens or Liens on interests or Investments in Unrestricted Subsidiaries) on property owned or acquired by such Person, whether or not the Indebtedness secured thereby has been assumed (but only to the extent of the lesser of the fair market value of the property subject to such Lien and the amount of such Indebtedness), (g) all Guarantee Obligations of such Person with respect to Indebtedness of others (except to the extent that such Guarantee Obligation guarantees Indebtedness of a Restricted Subsidiary), (h) all Capital Lease Obligations of such Person, (i) all obligations, contingent or otherwise, of such Person as an account party in respect of letters of credit (but only to the extent of all drafts drawn thereunder) and (j) all obligations, contingent or otherwise, of such Person in respect of bankers' acceptances. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Indebtedness shall not include (i) any obligation of such Person to guarantee performance of, or enter into indemnification agreements with respect to, obligations, entered into in the ordinary course of business, under any and all Franchises, leases, performance bonds, franchise bonds and obligations to reimburse drawings under letters of credit issued in lieu of performance or franchise bonds or (ii) obligations to make Tax Distributions. The Indebtedness of any Person shall include the Indebtedness of any other entity (including any partnership in which such Person is a general partner) to the extent such Person is liable therefor as a result of such Person's ownership interest in or other contractual relationship with such entity, except to the extent the terms of such Indebtedness provide that such Person is not liable therefor. "Indemnified Taxes" means Taxes other than Excluded Taxes. "Initial Maturity Date" means the Business Day immediately preceding the first anniversary of the Closing Date. "Installment Payment Date" has the meaning given in Section 2.10(d). "Interest Election Request" means a request by a Borrower to convert or continue a Borrowing in accordance with Section 2.07. "Interest Payment Date" means (a) with respect to any Base Rate Loan, the last day of each March, June, September and December and (b) with respect to any Eurocurrency Loan, the last day of the applicable Interest Period applicable to the Borrowing of which such Loan is a part and, in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing with an Interest Period of more than three months' duration, each day that is three months, or a whole multiple thereof, after the first day of such Interest Period and the last day of such Interest Period.
-13- "Interest Period" means with respect to any Eurocurrency Borrowing the period commencing on the date of such Borrowing and ending on the numerically corresponding day in the calendar month that is (a) one, two, three or six months (or, with the consent of each Lender, a shorter period) thereafter, as Borrower may elect or (b) one month thereafter, if Borrower has made no election; provided, that (i) if any Interest Period would end on a day other than a Business Day, such Interest Period shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless such next succeeding Business Day would fall in the next calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day and (ii) any Interest Period pertaining to such a Borrowing that commences on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the last calendar month of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the last calendar month of such Interest Period. For purposes hereof, the date of a Borrowing initially shall be the Closing Date and thereafter shall be the effective date of the most recent conversion or continuation of such Borrowing. "Investment" by any Person means any direct or indirect (a) loan, advance or other extension of credit or contribution to any other Person (by means of transfer of cash or other property to others, payments for property or services for the account or use of others, mergers or otherwise), (b) purchase or acquisition of Capital Stock, bonds, notes, debentures or other securities (including any option, warrant or other right to acquire any of the foregoing) or evidences of Indebtedness issued by any other Person (whether by merger, consolidation, amalgamation or otherwise and whether or not purchased directly from the issuer of such securities or evidences of Indebtedness), (c) purchase or acquisition (in one transaction or a series of transactions) of any assets of any other Person constituting a business unit and (d) all other items that would be classified as investments on a balance sheet of such Person prepared in accordance with GAAP. Investments shall exclude extension of trade credit and advances to customers and suppliers to the extent made in the ordinary course of business and in accordance with customary industry practice. "IPO" means any initial public offering (including any offering registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder) of common stock (or securities convertible into or exchangeable for common stock) of Borrower. "Lender Affiliate" means, (a) with respect to any Lender, (i) an Affiliate of such Lender or (ii) any entity (whether a corporation, partnership, trust or otherwise) that is engaged in making, purchasing, holding or otherwise investing in bank loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its business and is administered or managed by a Lender or an Affiliate of such Lender and (b) with respect to any Lender that is a fund which invests in bank loans and similar extensions of credit, any other fund that invests in bank loans and similar extensions of credit and is managed by the same investment advisor as such Lender or by an Affiliate of such investment advisor. "Lenders" means the Persons listed on Schedule 2.01 and any other Person that shall have become a party hereto pursuant to an Assignment and Acceptance, other than any such Person that ceases to be a party hereto pursuant to an Assignment and Acceptance. "LIBO Rate" means, with respect to any Eurocurrency Borrowing for any Interest Period, the rate appearing on Page 3740 or Page 3750, as the case may be, of the Telerate Service (or on any successor or substitute page of such Service, or any successor to or substitute for such Service,
-14- providing rate quotations comparable to those currently provided on such page of such Service, as determined by the Administrative Agents from time to time for purposes of providing quotations of interest rates applicable to Dollar deposits (as applicable) in the London interbank market) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, as the rate for Dollar deposits with a maturity comparable to such Interest Period. In the event that such rate is not available at such time for any reason, then the "LIBO Rate" with respect to such Eurocurrency Borrowing for such Interest Period shall be the rate per annum (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next Basis Point) equal to the arithmetic average of the rates at which deposits in Dollars and for a maturity comparable to such Interest Period are offered with respect to any Eurocurrency Borrowing to the principal London offices of the Reference Banks (or, if any Reference Bank does not at the time maintain a London office, the principal London office of any Affiliate of such Reference Bank) in immediately available funds in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period; provided, however, that, if only two Reference Banks notify the Administrative Agents of the rates offered to such Reference Banks (or any Affiliates of such Reference Lenders) as aforesaid, the LIBO Rate with respect to such Eurocurrency Borrowing shall be equal to the arithmetic average of the rates so offered to such Reference Banks (or any such Affiliates). "Lien" means, with respect to any asset, (a) any mortgage, deed of trust, lien, pledge, hypothecation, encumbrance, charge or security interest in (including sales of accounts), on or of such asset, (b) the interest of a vendor or a lessor under any conditional sale agreement, capital lease or title retention agreement (or any financing lease having substantially the same economic effect as any of the foregoing, but excluding any operating leases) relating to such asset and (c) in the case of securities, any purchase option, call or similar right of a third party with respect to such securities. "Loan" or "Loans" means the loans made by the Lenders to Borrower pursuant to this Agreement. "Local Time" means New York time. "Material Adverse Effect" means a material adverse effect on (a) the financial condition, business, results of operations, properties or liabilities of Borrower and its Restricted Subsidiaries taken as a whole, (b) the ability of any Credit Party to perform any of its material obligations to the Lenders under any Credit Document to which it is or will be a party or (c) the rights of or benefits available to the Lenders under any Credit Document. "Material Indebtedness" means Indebtedness (other than the Loans) of any one or more of Borrower and the Subsidiaries thereof in an aggregate principal amount exceeding $200,000,000, and shall in any event include the TWE Loan Facility. "Material Subsidiary" of any Person means, at any date, each Subsidiary of such Person which, either alone or together with the Subsidiaries of such Subsidiary, meets any of the following conditions: (a) as of the last day of such Person's most recently ended fiscal quarter for which financial statements have been filed with the SEC the investments of such Person and
-15- its Subsidiaries in, or their proportionate share (based on their equity interests) of the book value of the total assets (after intercompany eliminations) of, the Subsidiary in question exceeds 10% of the book value of the total assets of such Person and its consolidated Subsidiaries; (b) for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters ended on the last day of such Person's most recently ended fiscal quarter for which financial statements have been filed with the SEC, the equity of such Person and its Subsidiaries in the revenues from continuing operations of the Subsidiary in question exceeds 10% of the revenues from continuing operations of such Person and its consolidated Subsidiaries; or (c) for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters ended on the last day of such Person's most recently ended fiscal quarter for which financial statements have been filed with the SEC, the equity of such Person and its Subsidiaries in the Consolidated EBITDA of the Subsidiary in question exceeds 10% of the Consolidated EBITDA of such Person. "Maturity Date" means the Initial Maturity Date; provided that if Borrower has delivered an Extension Notice to the Administrative Agents in accordance with Section 2.09(f) the Maturity Date in respect of the Loans (as well as all related interest and fees) shall be the Extended Maturity Date. "Moody's" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. "Multiemployer Plan" means a multiemployer plan as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA. "Net Proceeds" means, in respect of any incurrence of Indebtedness or issuance of Capital Stock, the aggregate cash proceeds received by Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, net of (i) transaction costs relating thereto (including, without limitation, legal, accounting and investment banking fees and sales commissions) and any relocation expenses incurred as a result thereof, (ii) taxes paid or payable as a result thereof (after taking into account any available tax credits or deductions and any tax sharing agreements). "Note" means any promissory note evidencing Loans issued pursuant to Section 2.09(e). "Obligations" has the meaning assigned to such term in the Guarantee. "Officer's Certificate" means, with respect to any Person, a certificate executed by the Chief Financial Officer, the Treasurer or the Controller of such Person or such other officer of such Person reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agents and designated as such in writing to the Administrative Agents by such Person. "Other Taxes" means any and all present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies arising from any payment made hereunder or from the execution, delivery or enforcement of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement.
-16- "Paying Agent" means both Administrative Agents until such time as they shall mutually designate a single Person to act as paying agent hereunder. "PBGC" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation referred to and defined in ERISA and any successor entity thereto. "Person" means any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership, Governmental Authority or other entity. "Plan" means any employee pension benefit plan (other than a Multiemployer Plan) subject to the provisions of Title IV of ERISA or Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA, and in respect of which Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate is (or, if such plan were terminated, would under Section 4069 of ERISA be deemed to be) an "employer" as defined in Section 3(5) of ERISA. "Rating" has the meaning assigned to such term in the definition of "Applicable Margin". "Reference Banks" means DBNY and CNAI and their respective Affiliates. "Register" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.04(c). "Related Parties" means, with respect to any specified Person, such Person's Affiliates and the respective directors, officers, employees, agents and advisors of such Person and such Person's Affiliates. "Required Lenders" means, at any time, Lenders having aggregate Commitments and/or outstanding Loans in excess of 50% of all then outstanding Commitments or Loans, as the case may be. "Responsible Officer" means, as to any Person, any of the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Legal Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer or Controller (or any equivalent of the foregoing officers) of such Person. "Restricted Payment" means, as to any Person, any dividend or other distribution (whether in cash, securities or other property) with respect to any shares of any class of capital stock or other equity interests of such Person, or any payment (whether in cash, securities or other property), including any sinking fund or similar deposit, on account of the purchase, redemption, retirement, acquisition, cancellation or termination of any such shares of capital stock or other equity interests of such Person or any option, warrant or other right to acquire any such shares of capital stock or other equity interests of such Person. "Restricted Subsidiaries" means, as of any date, all Subsidiaries of Borrower that have not been designated as Unrestricted Subsidiaries by Borrower pursuant to Section 6.08 or have been so designated as Unrestricted Subsidiaries by Borrower but prior to such date have been (or have been deemed to be) re-designated by Borrower as Restricted Subsidiaries pursuant to Section 6.08. "Restructuring" has the meaning assigned to such term in the recitals hereto.
-17- "Restructuring Agreement" has the meaning set forth in the recitals hereto. "S&P" means Standard & Poor's Rating Services. "SEC" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, any successor thereto and any analogous Governmental Authority. "Separate Letter Agreements" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.05. "SSBI" means Salomon Smith Barney Inc. "Statutory Reserve Rate" means a fraction (expressed as a decimal), the numerator of which is the number one and the denominator of which is the number one minus the aggregate of the maximum reserve percentage (including any marginal, special, emergency or supplemental reserves) expressed as a decimal established by the Board to which the Administrative Agents are subject for eurocurrency funding (currently referred to as "Eurocurrency Liabilities" in Regulation D of the Board). Such reserve percentage shall include those imposed pursuant to such Regulation D. Eurocurrency Loans shall be deemed to constitute eurocurrency funding and to be subject to such reserve requirements without benefit of or credit for proration, exemptions or offsets that may be available from time to time to any Lender under such Regulation D or any comparable regulation. The Statutory Reserve Rate shall be adjusted automatically on and as of the effective date of any change in any reserve percentage. "Subsidiary" means, with respect to any Person (the "parent") at any date, any corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association or other entity the accounts of which would be consolidated with those of the parent in the parent's consolidated financial statements if such financial statements were prepared in accordance with GAAP as of such date, as well as any other corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association or other entity of which securities or other ownership interests representing more than 50% of the equity or more than 50% of the ordinary voting power or, in the case of a partnership, more than 50% of the general partnership interests are, as of such date, owned, controlled or held. Unless otherwise qualified, all references to a "Subsidiary" or "Subsidiaries" in this Agreement shall refer to a Subsidiary or Subsidiaries of Borrower. "Tax Distribution" means, with respect to any period, distributions made to any Person by a Subsidiary of such Person on or with respect to income and other taxes, which distributions are not in excess of the tax liabilities that (i) in the case of a Subsidiary that is a corporation, would have been payable by such Subsidiary on a standalone basis, and (ii) in the case of a Subsidiary that is a partnership, would have been distributed by such Subsidiary to its owners with respect to taxes, and in each case which are calculated in accordance with, and made no earlier than 10 days prior to the date required by, the terms of the applicable organizational document which requires such distribution but only if and to the extent (and on the terms contained therein) that such organizational documents are in effect immediately upon consummation of the Restructuring (and on the terms contained therein). "Taxes" means any and all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, charges or withholdings imposed by any Governmental Authority.
-18- "Transactions" means (a) consummation of the Restructuring and (b) the execution, delivery and performance by (i) Borrower of this Agreement and (ii) the Guarantor of the Guarantee, and (c) the borrowing of Loans. "TWE" has the meaning assigned to such term in the preamble hereto. "TWE Loan Facility" means the $1,500,000,000 Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Agreement dated as of July 8, 2002 and amended and restated as of March 31, 2003 by and among Borrower, TWE, JPMorgan Chase Bank, as administrative agent, Bank of America, N.A. and Citibank, N.A., as co-syndication agents, ABN Amro Bank N.V. and BNP Paribas, as co-documentation agents, and the other lenders named therein, including any notes, guarantees, instruments and agreements executed in connection therewith, and any liquidity or similar arrangement in substitution therefor in whole or in part, whether by amendment, restatement, modification, extension, renewal, refinancing, replacement or refunding (and whether or not such substitution immediately follows the termination or replacement of the earlier facility). "TWEAN" means Time Warner Entertainment-Advance/Newhouse Partnership, a New York general partnership. "Type", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether the rate of interest on such Loan, or on the Loans comprising such Borrowing, is determined by reference to the Adjusted LIBO Rate or the Base Rate. "United States" means the United States of America. "U.S. Person" means a person who is a citizen or resident of the United States and any corporation or other entity created or organized in or under the laws of the United States. "Unrestricted Subsidiary" means, as of any time, all Subsidiaries of Borrower that have been designated as Unrestricted Subsidiaries by Borrower pursuant to Section 6.08. "Withdrawal Liability" means liability to a Multiemployer Plan as a result of a complete or partial withdrawal from such Multiemployer Plan, as such terms are defined in Part I of Subtitle E of Title IV of ERISA. SECTION 1.02. Classification of Loans and Borrowings. For purposes of this Agreement, Loans may be classified and referred to by Type (e.g., a "Eurocurrency Loan"). Borrowings also may be classified and referred to by Type (e.g., a "Eurocurrency Borrowing"). SECTION 1.03. Terms Generally. The definitions of terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words, "include," "includes" and "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation." The word "will" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word "shall." Unless the context requires otherwise (a) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document herein shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as
-19- from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, supplements or modifications set forth herein), (b) any reference herein to any Person shall be construed to include such Person's successors and assigns, (c) the words "herein," "hereof" and "hereunder," and words of similar import, shall be construed to refer to this Agreement in its entirety and not to any particular provision hereof, (d) all references herein to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be construed to refer to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, this Agreement and (e) the words "asset" and "property" shall, except where the context dictates otherwise, be construed to have the same meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights. SECTION 1.04. Accounting Terms; GAAP. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all terms of an accounting or financial nature shall be construed in accordance with GAAP, as in effect from time to time; provided that, if Borrower notifies the Administrative Agents that Borrower requests an amendment to any provision hereof to eliminate the effect of any change occurring after the date hereof in GAAP or in the application thereof on the operation of such provision (or if the Administrative Agents notify Borrower that the Required Lenders request an amendment to any provision hereof for such purpose), regardless of whether any such notice is given before or after such change in GAAP or in the application thereof, then such provision shall be interpreted on the basis of GAAP as in effect and applied immediately before such change shall have become effective until such notice shall have been withdrawn or such provision amended in accordance herewith. ARTICLE II THE LOANS SECTION 2.01. Commitments. Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Lender agrees to make Loans (each individually a "Loan"; and, collectively, the "Loans") to Borrower in Dollars on the Closing Date in the amount of its Commitment. Principal amounts of the Loans that are repaid or prepaid by Borrower may not be reborrowed. The Loans may from time to time be Eurocurrency Loans or Base Rate Loans, in each case as determined by Borrower and notified to the Administrative Agents in accordance with Sections 2.03 and 2.07 SECTION 2.02. Loans. (a) The Loans shall be made by the Lenders ratably in accordance with their respective Commitments. The failure of any Lender to make any Loan required to be made by it shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligations hereunder. (b) Subject to Section 2.13, the Loans shall be comprised entirely of Borrowings of Base Rate Loans or Eurocurrency Loans as Borrower may request in accordance herewith. Each Lender at its option may make any Eurocurrency Loans by causing any domestic or foreign branch or Affiliate of such Lender to make such Loan; provided that any exercise of such option shall (i) subject to following clause (ii), not affect the obligation of Borrower thereof to repay such Loan in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and (ii) not create any additional liability of Borrower in respect of Sections 2.14 or 2.16. (c) At the commencement of each Interest Period for any Eurocurrency Borrowing, such Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not
-20- less than $10,000,000. At the time that any Base Rate Borrowing is made, such Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $10,000,000. Borrowings of more than one Type may be outstanding at the same time; provided that there shall not at any time be more than a total of 15 Eurocurrency Borrowings outstanding. (d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, Borrower shall not be entitled to request or elect any Interest Period in respect of any Borrowing that would end after the Maturity Date. SECTION 2.03. Notice of Borrowing. To request the Loans, Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agents of such request by telephone in accordance with Schedule 2.03(A). Such telephonic Borrowing Request shall be irrevocable and shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery or facsimile to the Administrative Agents of a written Borrowing Request in a form approved by the Administrative Agents and signed by Borrower. The Borrowing Request shall specify the following information in compliance with Section 2.02: (a) the aggregate amount of the requested Loans; (b) whether Borrowings are to be Base Rate Borrowings or Eurocurrency Borrowings; (c) in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing, the initial Interest Period to be applicable thereto, which shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term "Interest Period"; and (d) the location and number of Borrower's account to which funds are to be disbursed, which shall comply with the requirements of Section 2.06. If no election as to the Type of Borrowings is specified, then the requested Borrowings shall be deemed Base Rate Loans. If no Interest Period is specified with respect to any requested Eurocurrency Borrowings, then Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one month's duration. Promptly following receipt of a Borrowing Request in accordance with this Section, the Administrative Agents shall advise each Lender of the details thereof and of the amount of such Lender's Loan to be made as part of the requested Loans. SECTION 2.04. [INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK] SECTION 2.05. [INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK] SECTION 2.06. Funding of Loans. (a) Each Lender shall make the Loan or Loans to be made by it hereunder on the Closing Date by wire transfer of immediately available funds by 11:00 a.m., Local Time, to the account designated by the Administrative Agents for such purpose by notice to the Lenders. The Administrative Agents will make such Loans available to Borrower by promptly crediting the amounts so received, in like funds, to an account of Borrower specified on Schedule 2.03(B) or another account designated in the Borrowing Request.
-21- (b) Unless the Administrative Agents shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the Closing Date that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agents such Lender's share of such Borrowing, the Administrative Agents may assume that such Lender has made such share available on such date in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section and may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to Borrower a corresponding amount. In such event, if a Lender has not in fact made its share of the applicable Borrowing available to the Administrative Agents, then the Administrative Agents shall have the right to demand payment from the applicable Lender and/or Borrower and they each severally agree to pay to the Administrative Agents forthwith on demand such corresponding amount with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is made available to Borrower to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agents, at (i) in the case of such Lender, the Base Rate or (ii) in the case of Borrower, the interest rate that would otherwise apply to such Borrowing. If such Lender pays such amount to the Administrative Agents, then such amount shall constitute such Lender's Loan included in such Borrowing and such payment shall absolve any obligation of Borrower in respect of any demand made under this Section in respect of such Loan. SECTION 2.07. Interest Elections. (a) Each Borrowing initially shall be of the Type specified in the Borrowing Request and, in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing, shall have an initial Interest Period as specified in the Borrowing Request. Thereafter, Borrower may elect to convert such Borrowing to a different Type or to continue such Borrowing and, in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing, may elect Interest Periods therefor, all as provided in this Section. Borrower may elect different options with respect to different portions of the affected Borrowing, in which case each such portion shall be allocated ratably among the Lenders holding the Loans comprising such Borrowing, and the Loans comprising each such portion shall be considered a separate Borrowing. (b) To make an election pursuant to this Section, Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agents or the Paying Agent, if any, of such election by telephone by the relevant time set forth in Schedule 2.03(A). Each such telephonic Interest Election Request shall be irrevocable and shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery or facsimile to the Administrative Agents or the Paying Agent, if any, of a written Interest Election Request in a form approved by the Administrative Agents or the Paying Agent, if any, and signed by Borrower. (c) Each telephonic and written Interest Election Request shall specify the following information in compliance with Section 2.02: (i) the Borrowing to which such Interest Election Request applies and, if different options are being elected with respect to different portions thereof, the portions thereof to be allocated to each resulting Borrowing (in which case the information to be specified pursuant to clauses (iii) and (iv) below shall be specified for each resulting Borrowing); (ii) the effective date of the election made pursuant to such Interest Election Request, which shall be a Business Day; (iii) whether the resulting Borrowing is to be a Base Rate Borrowing or a Eurocurrency Borrowing;
-22- (iv) if the resulting Borrowing is a Eurocurrency Borrowing, the Interest Period to be applicable thereto after giving effect to such election, which shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term "Interest Period". If any such Interest Election Request requests a Eurocurrency Borrowing but does not specify an Interest Period, then Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one month's duration. (d) Promptly following receipt of an Interest Election Request, the Administrative Agents or the Paying Agent, as the case may be, shall advise each Lender of the details thereof and of such Lender's portion of each resulting Borrowing. (e) If Borrower fails to deliver a timely Interest Election Request with respect to a Eurocurrency Borrowing prior to the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto, then, unless such Borrowing is prepaid as provided herein, at the end of such Interest Period, such Borrowing shall be continued as a Eurocurrency Borrowing, as the case may be, having a one month Interest Period. Notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof, if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and the Administrative Agents or the Paying Agent, if any, at the request of the Required Lenders, so notify Borrower, then, so long as an Event of Default is continuing (i) no outstanding Borrowing may be converted to or continued as a Eurocurrency Borrowing and (ii) unless repaid, each Eurocurrency Borrowing shall be converted to a Base Rate Borrowing at the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto. SECTION 2.08. [INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK] SECTION 2.09. Repayment of Loans at Maturity; Evidence of Debt. Borrower hereby unconditionally promises to pay to the Paying Agent for the account of each Lender the then unpaid principal amount of the Loans on the Maturity Date. (b) Each Lender shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing the indebtedness of Borrower to such Lender resulting from the Loans made by such Lender, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Lender from time to time hereunder. (c) The Administrative Agents or the Paying Agent, if any, shall maintain accounts in which they shall record (i) the amount of each Loan made hereunder and Type thereof and the Interest Period applicable thereto, (ii) the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable from Borrower to each Lender hereunder and (iii) the amount of any sum received by the Paying Agent hereunder for the account of the Lenders and each Lender's share thereof. (d) The entries made in the accounts maintained pursuant to paragraph (b) or (c) of this Section shall be prima facie evidence of the existence and amounts of the obligations recorded therein; provided that the failure of any Lender or the Administrative Agents or the Paying Agent, as the case may be, to maintain such accounts or any error therein shall not in any manner affect the obligation of Borrower to repay the Loans in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
-23- (e) Any Lender may request that Loans made by it be evidenced by a Note. In such event, Borrower shall execute and deliver to such Lender a Note payable to the order of such Lender (or, if requested by such Lender, to such Lender and its registered assigns) substantially in the form of Exhibit C attached hereto, approved by the Administrative Agents or the Paying Agent, as the case may be, and reasonably acceptable to Borrower. Thereafter, the Loans evidenced by such Note and interest thereon shall at all times (including after assignment pursuant to Section 9.04) be represented by one or more Notes in such form payable to the order of the payee named therein (or, if such promissory note is a registered note, to such payee and its registered assigns). (f) Borrower may elect, in its sole discretion, to extend the Maturity Date of the Loans from the Initial Maturity Date to the Extended Maturity Date by giving written notice (the "Extension Notice") of such election to the Administrative Agents or the Paying Agent, as the case may be, no later than five days prior to the Initial Maturity Date. SECTION 2.10. Optional Prepayments and Mandatory Repayments of Loans. (a) Borrower may at any time and from time to time prepay any Borrowing, in whole or in part, subject to prior notice in accordance with paragraph (b) of this Section. (b) Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agents or the Paying Agent, as the case may be, by telephone (confirmed by facsimile) of any prepayment hereunder in accordance with Schedule 2.03(A). Each such notice shall be irrevocable and shall specify the prepayment date and the principal amount of each Borrowing or portion thereof to be prepaid; provided that a notice of prepayment delivered by Borrower may state that such notice is conditioned upon the effectiveness of other credit facilities, in which case such notice may be revoked by Borrower (by notice to the Administrative Agents or the Paying Agent, as the case may be, on or prior to the specified effective date) if such condition is not satisfied. Promptly following receipt of any such notice relating to a Borrowing, the Administrative Agents or the Paying Agent, as the case may be, shall advise the Lenders of the contents thereof. Each partial prepayment of any Borrowing shall be in an amount that would be permitted in the case of a Borrowing of the same Type as provided in Section 2.02. Each prepayment of a Borrowing hereunder shall be applied in accordance with Section 2.10(e) below. Prepayments shall be accompanied by accrued interest to the extent required by Section 2.12. (c) So long as any Loans are outstanding: If, subsequent to the Closing Date, Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall (i) issue any Capital Stock (other than pursuant to any employee stock ownership plan or upon the exercise of any stock option issued pursuant to any employee stock option plan), (ii) incur or permit the incurrence of any Indebtedness (including pursuant to debt securities which are convertible into, or exchangeable or exercisable for, Capital Stock but excluding (x) any Indebtedness of non-Credit Party Subsidiaries permitted by clauses (b) -- (e), inclusive, of Section 6.02 and (y) any Indebtedness up to $1.5 billion (including revolving borrowings) incurred under the TWE Loan Facility), then in each case, 100% of the Net Proceeds thereof shall be applied upon receipt toward the prepayment of the Loans in accordance with Section 2.10(e) below.
-24- (d) The Loans shall be repaid in consecutive quarterly installments on the dates set forth below (each such day, an "Installment Payment Date"), in an aggregate amount equal to the amount specified for each such Installment Payment Date (in each case subject to reduction as described in Section 2.10(e)).
December 31, 2003 $100,000,000 March 31, 2004* $ 75,000,000 June 30, 2004* $ 75,000,000 September 30, 2004* $ 75,000,000 December 31, 2004* $ 75,000,000
- ------------------------- * If Borrower has delivered a valid Extension Request pursuant to Section 2.09(f). (e) Prepayments of Loans pursuant to this Section 2.10 shall be applied to reduce future scheduled amortization payments of the Loans (as specified in Section 2.10(d)) in (i) direct order of Installment Payment Dates in respect of prepayments pursuant to Section 2.10(a) and (ii) inverse order of Installment Payment Dates in respect of prepayments pursuant to Section 2.10(c). SECTION 2.11. Fees. (a) Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agents or the Paying Agent, as the case may be, for their own accounts and the account of each Lender, fees payable in the amounts and at the times set forth in the Separate Letter Agreements. (b) All fees payable hereunder shall be paid on the dates due, in immediately available funds, to the Paying Agent for distribution to the Lenders entitled thereto. Fees paid shall not be refundable under any circumstances absent manifest error in the calculation and/or payment thereof. SECTION 2.12. Interest. (a) Base Rate Loans comprising each Base Rate Borrowing shall bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the Base Rate plus the Applicable Margin. (b) The Loans comprising each Eurocurrency Borrowing shall bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the Adjusted LIBO Rate for the Interest Period in effect for such Borrowing plus the Applicable Margin. (c) [Intentionally left blank] (d) [Intentionally left blank] (e) [Intentionally left blank] (f) [Intentionally left blank]
-25- (g) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any principal of or interest on any Loan or any fee or other amount payable by Borrower hereunder is not paid when due, whether at stated maturity, upon acceleration or otherwise, such overdue amount shall bear interest, after as well as before judgment, at a rate per annum equal to (i) in the case of overdue principal of any Loan, 2% plus the rate otherwise applicable to such Loan as provided above or (ii) in the case of any other amount, 2% plus the rate applicable to Base Rate Loans as provided above. (h) Accrued interest on each Loan shall be payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date for such Loan; provided that (i) interest accrued pursuant to paragraph (g) of this Section shall be payable on demand, (ii) in the event of any repayment or prepayment of any Loan (other than a Base Rate Loan), accrued interest on the principal amount repaid or prepaid shall be payable on the date of such repayment or prepayment, (iii) in the event of any conversion of any Eurocurrency Loan prior to the end of the current Interest Period therefor, accrued interest on such Loan shall be payable on the effective date of such conversion and (iv) all accrued interest shall be payable upon the Maturity Date. (i) All interest and fees hereunder shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days, except that interest computed by reference to the Base Rate at times when the Base Rate is based on the Base Lending Rate and the Market-Based Premium Fee shall be computed on the basis of a year of 365 days (or 366 days in a leap year). The applicable Base Rate, Adjusted LIBO Rate and LIBO Rate and the Market-Based Premium Fee shall be determined by the Administrative Agents, and such determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error. SECTION 2.13. Alternate Rate of Interest. If prior to the commencement of any Interest Period for a Eurocurrency Borrowing: (a) the Administrative Agents determine (which determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error) that adequate and reasonable means do not exist for ascertaining for such Interest Period the Adjusted LIBO Rate; or (b) the Administrative Agents are advised by the Required Lenders that for such Interest Period the Adjusted LIBO Rate will not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders of making or maintaining their Loans included in such Borrowing for such Interest Period; then the Administrative Agents shall give notice thereof to Borrower and the Lenders by telephone or facsimile as promptly as practicable thereafter and, until the Administrative Agents notify Borrower and the Lenders that the circumstances giving rise to such notice no longer exist, (i) any Interest Election Request that requests the conversion of any Borrowing to, or continuation of any Borrowing as, a Eurocurrency Borrowing shall be ineffective and any such Borrowing referred to in such Interest Election Request shall, unless prepaid by Borrower, be converted to (as of the last day of the then current Interest Period), or maintained as, a Base Rate Borrowing, as the case may be (to the extent, in the Administrative Agents' reasonable determination, it is practicable to do so), and (ii) if the Borrowing Request requests a Eurocurrency Borrowing, such Borrowing shall, unless otherwise rescinded by Borrower, be made as a Base Rate Loan (to the extent, in the Administrative Agents' reasonable de-
-26- termination, it is practicable to do so), and if the circumstances giving rise to such notice affect fewer than all Types of Borrowings, then the other Types of Borrowings shall be permitted. SECTION 2.14. Increased Costs. (a) If any Change in Law shall: (i) impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended by, any Lender (except any such reserve requirement reflected in the Adjusted LIBO Rate); or (ii) impose on any Lender or the London interbank market any other condition affecting this Agreement or Eurocurrency Loans made by such Lender; and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Lender of making or maintaining any Eurocurrency Loan (or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Loan) or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Lender hereunder (whether of principal, interest or otherwise), then Borrower will pay to such Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender for such additional costs actually incurred or reduction actually suffered. (b) If any Lender determines that any Change in Law regarding capital requirements has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's capital or on the capital of such Lender's holding company, if any, as a consequence of the Loans made by such Lender, to a level below that which such Lender or such Lender's holding company could have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration such Lender's policies and the policies of such Lender's holding company with respect to capital adequacy), then from time to time Borrower will pay to such Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or such Lender's holding company for any such reduction actually suffered in respect of the Loans made by such Lender hereunder. (c) A certificate of a Lender setting forth in reasonable detail the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender or its holding company, as the case may be, as specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section shall be delivered to Borrower and shall be conclusive absent manifest error. Borrower shall pay such Lender the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof. (d) Failure or delay on the part of any Lender to demand compensation pursuant to this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's right to demand such compensation; provided that Borrower shall not be required to compensate a Lender pursuant to this Section for any increased costs or reductions unless a Lender gives notice to Borrower that it is obligated to pay an amount under this Section within six months after the later of (i) the date the Lender incurs such increased costs, reduction in amounts received or receivable or reduction in return on capital or (ii) the date such Lender has actual knowledge of its incurrence of such increased cost, reduction in amounts received or receivable or reduction in return on capital; provided, further, that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the six-month period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof.
-27- Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section 2.14, no Lender shall demand compensation for any increased costs or reduction referred to above if it shall not be the general policy or practice of such Lender to demand such compensation in similar circumstances under comparable provisions of other credit agreements, if any (it being understood that this sentence shall not in any way limit the discretion of any Lender to waive the right to demand such compensation in any given case). SECTION 2.15. Break Funding Payments. In the event of (a) the payment of any principal of any Eurocurrency Loan other than on the last day of an Interest Period applicable thereto (including as a result of an Event of Default), (b) the conversion of any Eurocurrency Loan other than on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto, (c) the failure to borrow, convert, continue or prepay any Loan on the date specified in any notice delivered pursuant hereto (regardless of whether such notice is permitted to be revocable under Section 2.10(b) and is revoked in accordance herewith), or (d) the assignment of any Eurocurrency Loan other than on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto as a result of a request by Borrower pursuant to Section 2.18, then, in any such event, Borrower shall compensate each Lender for the loss, cost and expense attributable to such event. In the case of a Eurocurrency Loan, the loss to any Lender attributable to any such event shall be deemed to include an amount determined by such Lender to be equal to the excess, if any, of (i) the amount of interest that such Lender would pay for a deposit in Dollars equal to the principal amount of such Loan for the period from the date of such payment, conversion, failure or assignment to the last day of the then current Interest Period for such Loan (or, in the case of a failure to borrow, convert or continue, the duration of the Interest Period that would have resulted from such borrowing, conversion or continuation) if the interest rate payable on such deposit were equal to the Adjusted LIBO Rate for such Interest Period, over (ii) the amount of interest that such Lender would earn on such principal amount for such period if such Lender were to invest such principal amount for such period at the interest rate that would be bid by such Lender (or an affiliate of such Lender) for deposits in Dollars from other banks in the Eurocurrency market at the commencement of such period. A certificate of any Lender setting forth in reasonable detail any amount or amounts that such Lender is entitled to receive pursuant to this Section shall be delivered to Borrower and shall be conclusive absent manifest error. Borrower shall pay such Lender the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof. SECTION 2.16. Taxes. (a) Any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of Borrower hereunder shall be made free and clear of and without deduction for any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes; provided that if Borrower shall be required to deduct any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes from such payments, then (i) the sum payable shall be increased as necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section) each Agent and Lender (as applicable) receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) Borrower shall make such deductions and (iii) Borrower shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law. (b)Borrower shall indemnify each Agent and each Lender, within 10 days after written demand therefor, for the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes (including Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable by such Borrower under this Section unless such amounts have been included in any amount paid pursuant to the proviso to Section 2.16(a)) paid by any Agent or such Lender, as the case may be, and any penalties, interest and reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Indemnified
-28- Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. A certificate as to the amount of such payment or liability delivered to Borrower by a Lender, or by the applicable Agent on its own behalf or on behalf of a Lender, shall be conclusive absent manifest error. (c) If a Lender or an Agent receives a refund in respect of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes as to which it has been indemnified by Borrower or with respect to which Borrower has paid additional amounts pursuant to this Section 2.16, it shall within 30 days from the date of such receipt pay over such refund to Borrower (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made, or additional amounts paid, by Borrower under this Section 2.16 with respect to the Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes giving rise to such refund, as determined by such Lender in its reasonable discretion), net of all out-of-pocket expenses of such Lender or Agent and without interest (other than interest paid by the relevant taxation authority with respect to such refund); provided that Borrower, upon the request of such Lender or Agent, agrees to repay the amount paid over to Borrower (plus penalties, interest or other charges) to such Lender or Agent in the event such Lender or Agent is required to repay such refund to such taxation authority. (d) As soon as practicable after any payment of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes by Borrower to a Governmental Authority, Borrower shall deliver to the Agents the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of the return reporting such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Agents. (e) Any Foreign Lender that is entitled to an exemption from or reduction of withholding tax under the law of the jurisdiction in which Borrower is located, or any treaty to which such jurisdiction is a party, with respect to payments under this Agreement shall deliver to Borrower (with a copy to the Agents), at the time or times prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by Borrower, such properly completed and executed documentation prescribed by applicable law as will permit such payments to be made without withholding or at a reduced rate. (f) Any Lender that is a U.S. Person shall deliver to Borrower (with a copy to the Agents) a statement signed by an authorized signatory of the Lender that it is a U.S. Person and, if necessary to avoid United States backup withholding, a duly completed and signed Internal Revenue Service Form W-9 (or successor form) establishing that such Lender is organized under the laws of the United States and is not subject to United States backup withholding. (g) Nothing in this Section shall be construed to require any Lender to disclose any information regarding its tax returns or affairs other than with respect to the imposition of Indemnified Taxes and Other Taxes. SECTION 2.17. Payments Generally; Pro Rata Treatment; Sharing of Setoffs. (a) Borrower shall make each payment required to be made by it hereunder (whether of principal, interest or fees, or of amounts payable under Section 2.14, 2.15 or 2.16, or otherwise) prior to 1:00 p.m., Local Time, on the date when due, in immediately available funds, without setoff or counterclaim. Any amounts received after such time on any date shall, unless the Paying Agent is able to distribute such amounts to the applicable Lenders on such date, be deemed to have been received on the next
-29- succeeding Business Day for purposes of calculating interest thereon. All such payments shall be made to the Paying Agent, at the offices for the Paying Agent set forth in Section 9.01, except that payments pursuant to Sections 2.14, 2.15, 2.16 and 9.03 shall be made directly to the Persons entitled thereto. The Paying Agent shall distribute any such payments received by it for the account of any other Person to the appropriate recipient in like funds promptly following receipt thereof. If any payment hereunder shall be due on a day that is not a Business Day, the date for payment shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day, and, in the case of any payment accruing interest, interest thereon shall be payable for the period of such extension. All payments hereunder, whether such payments are made in respect of principal, interest or fees, shall be made in Dollars. (b) If at any time insufficient funds are received by and available to the Paying Agent to pay fully all amounts of principal, interest and fees then due from Borrower hereunder, such funds shall be applied (i) first, to pay interest and fees then due from Borrower hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of interest and fees then due to such parties, and (ii) second, to pay principal, then due from Borrower hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of principal then due to such parties. (c) If any Lender shall, by exercising any right of setoff or counterclaim or otherwise, obtain payment in respect of any principal of or interest on its Loans resulting in such Lender receiving payment of a greater proportion of the aggregate amount of its Loans and accrued interest thereon owing by Borrower than the proportion received by any other Lender, then the Lender receiving such greater proportion shall purchase (for cash at face value) participations in the Loans of other Lenders owing from Borrower to the extent necessary so that the benefit of all such payments shall be shared by the Lenders ratably in accordance with the aggregate amount of principal of and accrued interest on their respective Loans; provided that (i) if any such participations are purchased and all or any portion of the payment giving rise thereto is recovered, such participations shall be rescinded and the purchase price restored to the extent of such recovery, without interest, and (ii) the provisions of this paragraph shall not be construed to apply to any payment made by Borrower pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement or any payment obtained by a Lender as consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Loans other than to Borrower or any Subsidiary or Affiliate thereof (as to which the provisions of this paragraph shall apply). Borrower consents to the foregoing and agrees, to the extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, that any Lender acquiring a participation pursuant to the foregoing arrangements may exercise against Borrower rights of setoff and counterclaim with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a direct creditor of Borrower in the amount of such participation. (d) Unless the Administrative Agents shall have received notice from Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due from Borrower to the Paying Agent for the account of the Lenders hereunder that Borrower will not make such payment, the Paying Agent may assume that Borrower has made such payment on such date in accordance herewith and may, in reliance upon such assumption, distribute to the Lenders, the amount due. In such event, if Borrower has not in fact made such payment, then each of the Lenders, severally agrees to repay to the Paying Agent forthwith on demand the amount so distributed to such Lender with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is distributed to it to but excluding the date of payment to the Paying Agent, at the Federal Funds Effective Rate for the amount paid by the Paying Agent on behalf of Borrower.
-30- (e) If any Lender shall fail to make any payment required to be made by it pursuant to Section 2.06(b) or 2.17(d), then the Administrative Agents may, in their discretion (notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof), apply any amounts thereafter received by the Administrative Agents for the account of such Lender from or on behalf of any Credit Party or otherwise in respect of the Obligations to satisfy such Lender's obligations under such Sections until all such unsatisfied obligations are fully paid. SECTION 2.18. Mitigation Obligations; Replacement of enders. (a) If any Lender requests compensation under Section 2.14, or if Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to Section 2.16, then such Lender shall use reasonable efforts to designate a different lending office for funding or booking its Loans hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates, if, in the judgment of such Lender, such designation or assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to Section 2.14 or 2.16, as the case may be, in the future and (ii) would not subject such Lender to any unreimbursed cost or expense and would not otherwise be materially disadvantageous to such Lender. Borrower hereby agrees to pay all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by any Lender in connection with any such designation or assignment. (b) If any Lender requests compensation under Section 2.14, or if Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to Section 2.16, then Borrower may, at its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the Administrative Agents, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in Section 9.04), all its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement to an assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment); provided that (i) Borrower shall have received the prior written consent of the Administrative Agents, which consent shall not unreasonably be withheld, (ii) such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Loans, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder, from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or Borrower (in the case of all other amounts) and (iii) in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under Section 2.14 or payments required to be made pursuant to Section 2.16, such assignment will be made to a Lender reasonably expected to result in a reduction in the compensation or payments to be paid by Borrower pursuant to such sections. A Lender shall not be required to make any such assignment and delegation if, prior thereto, as a result of a waiver by such Lender or otherwise, the circumstances entitling Borrower to require such assignment and delegation cease to apply. ARTICLE III REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES The Borrower represents and warrants, as to itself (and those Restricted Subsidiaries that will exist immediately upon consummation of the Restructuring), to the Lenders that: SECTION 3.01. Organization Powers. Each Credit Party and each of its Restricted Subsidiaries is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction
-31- of its organization, has all requisite power and authority to carry on its business as now conducted and, except where the failure to do so, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, is qualified to do business in, and is in good standing in, every jurisdiction where such qualification is required. SECTION 3.02. Authorization; Enforceability. The Transactions are within the Credit Parties' corporate or partnership (as the case may be) powers and have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or partnership (as the case may be) and, if required, stockholder or partner action of such Credit Parties. Each Credit Document (other than each Note) has been, and each Note when delivered hereunder will have been, duly executed and delivered by the Credit Parties party thereto. Each Credit Document (other than each Note) constitutes, and each Note when delivered hereunder will be, a legal, valid and binding obligation of each such Credit Party, enforceable in accordance with its terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally and subject to general principles of equity, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law. SECTION 3.03. Governmental Approvals; No Conflicts. The Transactions (a) do not require any consent or approval of, registration or filing with, or any other action by, any Governmental Authority, except such as have been obtained or made and are in full force and effect, (b) will not violate (i) any applicable law or regulation or (ii) the charter, by-laws, partnership agreements or other organizational documents of Borrower or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries or any order of any Governmental Authority, (c) will not violate or result in a default under any indenture, agreement or other instrument binding upon Borrower or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries or its assets, or give rise to a right thereunder to require any payment to be made by Borrower or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries and (d) will not result in the creation or imposition of any Lien on any asset of Borrower or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries; except, in each case (other than clause (b)(ii) with respect to any Credit Party), such as could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. SECTION 3.04. Financial Condition; No Material Adverse Change. The unaudited pro forma consolidated balance sheet of Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries as at December 31, 2002 (including the notes thereto) (the "Pro Forma Balance Sheet") and the unaudited pro forma statements of income, stockholders equity and cash flows of Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2002 (the "Pro Forma Income Statements"), copies of which have heretofore been furnished to each Lender, have been prepared giving effect (as if such events had occurred on December 31, 2002 in the case of the Pro Forma Balance Sheet, and on the first day of such fiscal year, in the case of the Pro Forma Income Statements) to the consummation of the Restructuring. The Pro Forma Balance Sheet and the Pro Forma Income Statements have been prepared based on the best information available to Borrower as of the date of delivery thereof, and present fairly, in all material respects, the pro forma (i) financial position of Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries as at December 31, 2002 assuming the Restructuring actually occurred on such date and (ii) results of operations and cash flows of Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2002, assuming that the Restructuring actually occurred on the first day of such period.
-32- (b) Since December 31, 2002 there has been no material adverse change in the business, assets, operations or financial condition of Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries, taken as a whole. SECTION 3.05. Properties. (a) Borrower and each of its Restricted Subsidiaries has good title to, or valid leasehold interests in, all its real and personal property, except for defects in title or interests that could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. (b) Borrower and each of its Restricted Subsidiaries owns, or is licensed to use, all trademarks, trade names, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property material to its business, and the use thereof by Borrower or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries does not infringe upon the rights of any other Person, except for any such infringements that, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. SECTION 3.06. Litigation and Environmental Matters. (a) There are no actions, suits, investigations or proceedings by or before any arbitrator or Governmental Authority pending against or, to the knowledge of Borrower, threatened against or affecting Borrower or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (i) which could reasonably be expected to be adversely determined and that, if adversely determined, could reasonably be expected, individually or in the aggregate, to result in a Material Adverse Effect or (ii) that involve this Agreement or the Transactions. (b) Except with respect to any matters that, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, (x) neither Borrower nor any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (i) has failed to comply with any Environmental Law or to obtain, maintain or comply with any permit, license or other approval required under any Environmental Law, (ii) has become subject to any Environmental Liability or (iii) has received notice of any claim with respect to any Environmental Liability and (y) Borrower has no knowledge of any basis for any Environmental Liability on the part of any of its Restricted Subsidiaries. SECTION 3.07. Compliance with Laws and Agreements. Borrower and each of its Restricted Subsidiaries is in compliance with all laws, regulations and orders of any Governmental Authority applicable to it or its property and all indentures, agreements and other instruments binding upon it or its property, except where the failure to do so, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. No Event of Default has occurred and is continuing. SECTION 3.08. Government Regulation. Neither Borrower nor any of its Restricted Subsidiaries is (a) an "investment company" as defined in, or subject to regulation under, the Investment Company Act of 1940, (b) a "holding company" as defined in, or subject to regulation under, the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, or (c) subject to any other statute or regulation which regulates the incurrence of indebtedness for borrowed money, other than, in the case of this clause (c), Federal and state securities laws and as could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. SECTION 3.09. Taxes. Borrower and each of its Subsidiaries has timely filed or caused to be filed all Tax returns and reports required to have been filed and has paid or caused to be
-33- paid all Taxes required to have been paid by it or as part of the consolidated group of which it is a member, except (a) Taxes that are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and for which Borrower or such Subsidiary, as applicable, has set aside on its books adequate reserves in accordance with GAAP or (b) to the extent that the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. SECTION 3.10. ERISA. No ERISA Event has occurred or is reasonably expected to occur that, when taken together with all other such ERISA Events for which liability is reasonably expected to occur, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. SECTION 3.11. Disclosure. As of the date hereof and the Closing Date, all information heretofore or contemporaneously furnished by or on behalf of Borrower or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (including all information contained in the Credit Documents and the annexes, schedules and other attachments thereto but not including any projected financial statements), when taken together with the reports and other filings with the SEC made under the Exchange Act by any Credit Party since December 31, 2001, is, and all other such information hereafter furnished, including all information contained in any of the Credit Documents, including any annexes or schedules thereto, by or on behalf of Borrower or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to or on behalf of any Lender is and will be (as of their respective dates and the Closing Date), true and accurate in all material respects and not incomplete by omitting to state a material fact to make such information not misleading at such time. There shall be no material and adverse difference between the unaudited financial statements of Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2002 delivered pursuant to Section 4.01(g) and the audited financial statements for such period to be delivered under Section 5.01(a). There is no fact of which any Credit Party is aware which has not been disclosed to the Lenders in writing pursuant to the terms of this Agreement prior to the date hereof and which, singly or in the aggregate with all such other facts of which any Credit Party is aware, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. All statements of fact and representation concerning the present business, operations and assets of Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, the Credit Documents and the transactions referred to therein are true and correct in all material respects. SECTION 3.12. Statements as to Taxes. Each Credit Party confirms that the Administrative Agents have not made or provided to, or for the benefit of, the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries any oral or written statements as to any potential tax consequences that are related to, or may result from, the Loans. ARTICLE IV CONDITIONS SECTION 4.01. Closing Date. This Agreement and the obligations of the Lenders to make Loans hereunder shall not become effective until the date on which each of the following conditions is satisfied (or waived in accordance with Section 9.02): (a) Credit Documents. The Administrative Agents (or their counsel) shall have received each of the Credit Documents, executed and delivered by the all parties thereto.
-34- (b) Opinions of Counsel. The Administrative Agents shall have received favorable written opinions (addressed to the Administrative Agents and the Lenders and dated the Closing Date) from (i) Cravath, Swaine & Moore, counsel for the Credit Parties, and (ii) in-house counsel to the Credit Parties, in each case in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agents. The Credit Parties hereby request such counsel to deliver such opinions. (c) Closing Certificate. The Administrative Agents shall have received a certificate from Borrower, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agents, dated the Closing Date and signed by the president, chief financial officer or equivalent officer of Borrower, including confirmation of compliance with the representations, warranties and conditions set forth in Article III and Article IV, respectively. (d) Consummation of Restructuring. Other than the repayment of the Comcast Promissory Note, which shall be made from the proceeds hereof, all material conditions precedent to the consummation of the Restructuring, as set forth in the documentation relating thereto, shall have been satisfied in all material respects, and not waived in an adverse manner to the Lenders except with the consent of the Agents; provided that Comcast may agree to waive any condition precedent relating to the filing of a Form S-3 in respect of the Restructuring. (e) TWE Loan Facility. TWE (and each of the other parties to the TWE Loan Facility) shall have executed and delivered the documentation governing the TWE Loan Facility, which documentation shall be in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Agents and will be in full force and effect on the Closing Date after the consummation of the Restructuring. All conditions precedent to the effectiveness of such documentation shall have been satisfied other than in respect of funding of Borrowings hereunder and TWE, as borrower thereunder, shall have at least $1.5 billion of funds available to be drawn, or funds previously drawn and outstanding as of the Closing Date (but not to exceed $1.5 billion outstanding as of the Closing Date), pursuant to the TWE Loan Facility. No default or event of default shall have occurred and be outstanding under the TWE Loan Facility. (f) Authorizations, etc. The Administrative Agents shall have received customary officer's certificates, together with incumbency certificates, good standing certificates, charter documents and board resolutions, and other such documents and certificates as the Administrative Agents or their counsel may reasonably request relating to the organization, existence and good standing of Borrower, the authorization of the Transactions and any other legal matters relating to the Credit Parties, this Agreement or the Transactions, all in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agents and their counsel. (g) Financial Statements. The Agents shall have received the unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements of Borrower for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2002 referred to in Section 3.04, all certified by one of Borrower's Financial Officers as having been prepared based on the best information available to Borrower as of the date of delivery thereof, and presenting fairly, in all material respects, the pro forma (i) financial position of Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries as at December 31, 2002 assuming the Restruc-
-35- turing actually occurred on such date and (ii) results of operations and cash flows of Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2002, assuming that the Restructuring actually occurred on the first day of such period. If the Closing Date is a date on or after May 1, 2003, the Agents shall have received the financial statements and other information, if any, required pursuant to Section 5.01 hereof. (h) Representations and Warranties. The representations and warranties of the Credit Parties set forth in the Credit Documents shall be true and correct in all material respects on and as of the Closing Date immediately after giving effect to the Restructuring, and before and after giving effect to the borrowing of the Loans and the application of the proceeds therefrom, as though made on and as of the Closing Date immediately after giving effect to the Restructuring (although any representations and warranties which expressly relate to a given date or period shall be required to be true and correct in all material respects only as of the respective date or for the respective period, as the case may be). (i) Absence of Default. At the time of and immediately after giving effect to the Loans on and as of the Closing Date, no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing. ARTICLE V AFFIRMATIVE COVENANTS So long as any Loan remains outstanding and unpaid to any Lender or the Administrative Agents or the Paying Agent, as the case may be, hereunder, Borrower (for itself and its Restricted Subsidiaries) covenants and agrees with the Lenders that: SECTION 5.01. Financial Statements and Other Information. Borrower will furnish to the Administrative Agents at their New York offices (who will distribute copies to each Lender): (a) within 105 days after the end of each fiscal year (but 135 days after the end of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2002) of Borrower, its audited consolidated balance sheet and related statements of operations, stockholders' equity and cash flows (or, for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2002, its audited combined pro forma balance sheet and related statements of operations, stockholders' equity and cash flows) as of the end of and for such year and its unaudited Adjusted Financial Statements for such fiscal year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous fiscal year, and, (i) in the case of the audited financial statements, reported on by Ernst & Young LLP or other independent public accountants of recognized national standing (without a "going concern" or like qualification or exception and without any qualification or exception as to the scope of such audit) to the effect that such consolidated (or combined, as the case may be) financial statements present fairly in all material respects the financial condition and results of operations of Borrower and its consolidated (or combined, as the case may be) Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP consistently applied and (ii) in the case of the Adjusted Financial Statements, certified by one of Borrower's Financial Officers as presenting fairly in all material re-
-36- spects the financial condition and results of operations of Borrower and its consolidated Restricted Subsidiaries on a consolidated (or combined, as the case may be) basis in accordance with GAAP consistently applied; provided that, so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, Borrower shall not be required to furnish Adjusted Financial Statements for any fiscal year if all Unrestricted Subsidiaries of Borrower (other than any such Unrestricted Subsidiaries that are already treated as equity investments on Borrower's financial statements) on a combined basis would not have constituted a Material Subsidiary of Borrower for such fiscal year; (b) within 60 days after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters (for the avoidance of doubt, including the fiscal quarter ending March 31, 2003) of each fiscal year of Borrower, its consolidated balance sheet and related statements of operations, stockholders' equity and cash flows (or, as applicable, its combined pro forma balance sheet and related statements of operations, stockholders' equity and cash flows) and its Adjusted Financial Statements as of the end of and for such fiscal quarter and the then elapsed portion of the fiscal year, setting forth, beginning with the first fiscal quarter ending March 31, 2004 (or any earlier date, if available), in each case in comparative form the figures for the corresponding period or periods of (or, in the case of the balance sheet, as of the end of) the previous fiscal year, all certified by one of Borrower's Financial Officers as presenting fairly in all material respects the financial condition and results of operations of Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP consistently applied, subject to normal year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes; provided that, so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, Borrower shall not be required to furnish Adjusted Financial Statements for any fiscal quarter if all Unrestricted Subsidiaries of Borrower (other than any such Unrestricted Subsidiaries that are already treated as equity investments on Borrower's financial statements) on a combined basis would not have constituted a Material Subsidiary of Borrower for such fiscal quarter; (c) concurrently with any delivery of financial statements under clause (a) or (b) above, a certificate of a Financial Officer of Borrower (i) certifying as to whether a Default has occurred and, if a Default has occurred, specifying the details thereof and any action taken or proposed to be taken with respect thereto, (ii) setting forth reasonably detailed calculations demonstrating compliance with Sections 6.01, 6.02(a) and 6.03(a) and (k) and (iii) stating whether any change in GAAP or in the application thereof has occurred since the date of the unaudited financial statements referred to in Section 3.04, which has not been previously disclosed by Borrower pursuant to this Section 5.01(c)(iii), and, if any such change has occurred, specifying the effect of such change on the financial statements accompanying such certificate; (d) promptly after the same become publicly available, copies of all periodic and other reports, proxy statements and other materials filed by any of Borrower or its Subsidiaries with the SEC or with any national securities exchange, or distributed by any of Borrower or its Subsidiaries to its security holders generally, as the case may be (other than registration statements on Form S-8, filings under Sections 16(a) or 13(d) of the Exchange Act and routine filings related to employee benefit plans); and
-37- (e) promptly following any request therefor, such other information regarding the operations, business affairs and financial condition of Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or compliance with the terms of this Agreement, as the Administrative Agents or any Lender may reasonably request (it being understood that Borrower and such Subsidiaries shall not be required to provide any information or documents which are subject to confidentiality provisions the nature of which prohibit such disclosure). Information required to be delivered pursuant to paragraphs (a), (b) and (d) shall be deemed to have been delivered on the date on which Borrower provides notice to the Administrative Agents, or as the case may be the Administrative Agents give notice to the Lenders, that such information has been posted on Borrower's website on the internet at the website address listed on the signature pages of such notice, at www.sec.gov or at another website identified in such notice and accessible by the Lenders without charge; provided that Borrower shall deliver paper copies of the reports and financial statements referred to in paragraphs (a), (b) and (d) of this Section 5.01 to the Administrative Agents or any Lender who requests Borrower to deliver such paper copies until written notice to cease delivering paper copies is given by the Administrative Agents or such Lender. SECTION 5.02. Notices of Material Events. Borrower will furnish to the Administrative Agents (who will distribute copies to the Lenders) prompt written notice of the following, upon any such event becoming known to any Responsible Officer of Borrower: (a) the occurrence of any Default; (b) the filing or commencement of any action, suit or proceeding by or before any arbitrator or Governmental Authority against or affecting Borrower or any Affiliate thereof that, if adversely determined, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect; (c) the occurrence of any ERISA Event that, alone or together with any other ERISA Events that have occurred, could reasonably be expected to result in liability to Borrower and its Subsidiaries in an aggregate amount exceeding $200,000,000; and (d) any other development that results in, or could reasonably be expected to result in, a Material Adverse Effect. Each notice delivered under this Section shall be accompanied by a statement of a Financial Officer or other executive officer of Borrower setting forth the details of the event or development requiring such notice and any action taken or proposed to be taken with respect thereto. SECTION 5.03. Existence; Conduct of Business. Borrower will, and will cause each of its Restricted Subsidiaries which are Material Subsidiaries to, do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve, renew and keep in full force and effect its legal existence and the rights, licenses, permits, privileges and franchises material to the conduct of its business; provided that the foregoing shall not prohibit any merger, consolidation, liquidation or dissolution permitted under Section 6.04.
-38- SECTION 5.04. Payment of Obligations. Borrower will, and will cause each of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, pay its obligations, including Tax liabilities, that, if not paid, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, before the same shall become delinquent or in default, except where (a) the validity or amount thereof is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings, (b) Borrower or such Subsidiary has set aside on its books adequate reserves with respect thereto in accordance with GAAP and (c) the failure to make payment pending such contest could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. SECTION 5.05. Maintenance of Properties; Insurance. Borrower will, and will cause each of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, (a) keep and maintain all property material to the conduct of its business (taken as a whole) in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted, and (b) maintain, with financially sound and reputable insurance companies, insurance in such amounts and against such risks as are customarily maintained by companies engaged in the same or similar businesses operating in the same or similar locations (it being understood that, to the extent consistent with prudent business practice, a program of self-insurance for first or other loss layers may be utilized). SECTION 5.06. Books and Records; Inspection Rights. Borrower will, and will cause each of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, keep proper books of record and account in which full, true and correct entries are made of all dealings and transactions in relation to its business and activities. Borrower will, and will cause each of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, permit any representatives designated by the Administrative Agents or any Lender, upon reasonable prior notice, to visit and inspect its properties, to examine its books and records, and to discuss its affairs, finances and condition with its officers and, so long as a representative of Borrower is present, or Borrower has consented to the absence of such a representative, independent accountants (in each case subject to Borrower's or its Restricted Subsidiaries' obligations under applicable confidentiality provisions), all at such reasonable times and as often as reasonably requested. SECTION 5.07. Compliance with Laws. Borrower will, and will cause each of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, comply with all laws, rules, regulations and orders of any Governmental Authority applicable to it or its property, except where the failure to do so, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. SECTION 5.08. Use of Proceeds. The proceeds of the Loans will be used only to fund the repayment of the Comcast Promissory Note. No part of the proceeds of any Loan will be used, whether directly or indirectly, for any purpose that entails a violation of any of the Regulations of the Board, including Regulations U and X. SECTION 5.09. Fiscal Periods; Accounting. Borrower's fiscal year will end on December 31 and its fiscal quarters will end on dates consistent with such fiscal year end. SECTION 5.10. Documentation; Status. Borrower will periodically keep the Administrative Agents updated and informed on a timely basis and from time to time upon their reasonable request with respect to the status of the IPO.
-39- SECTION 5.11. Guarantees. From and after the Closing Date, if any Person, other than American Television and Communications Corporation and Warner Communications Inc., is or becomes a Guarantor in respect of the TWE Loan Facility or the TWE public bonds, Borrower shall cause to be delivered to the Administrative Agents an analogous Guarantee duly executed by such Guarantor (plus a related legal opinion as to the enforceability thereof) reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agents; such that the obligations hereunder shall, in each case, remain at all times pari passu with the obligations under the TWE Loan Facility and the TWE public bonds. SECTION 5.12. Syndication Efforts. Borrower shall, and shall cause each of its Subsidiaries to, comply with the obligations in respect of syndication of the Loans hereunder as set forth in the Separate Letter Agreements. SECTION 5.13. Post-Closing Matters. (a) Borrower shall pay within 31 days following consummation of the Restructuring all costs, fees, expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable legal fees and expenses) and other compensation contemplated by Section 2.11; (b) Immediately upon consummation of the Restructuring, Borrower shall affirm each and all representations and warranties set forth in Article III as to itself and its Restricted Subsidiaries. (c) Immediately upon consummation of the Restructuring, Borrower shall affirm that each component of the Restructuring has been consummated substantially in accordance with the documentation therefor and all applicable laws. ARTICLE VI NEGATIVE COVENANTS Until the principal of and interest on each Loan, all fees payable hereunder and all other Obligations have been paid in full (but with respect to such other Obligations only to the extent that actual amounts hereunder are owing at the time the Loans, together with interest and fees, have been paid in full), Borrower covenants and agrees (for itself and its Restricted Subsidiaries) with the Lenders that, beginning at the earlier of (i) immediately upon consummation of the Restructuring and (ii) 9:00 a.m. on the day following the initial funding of Loans hereunder: SECTION 6.01. Financial Covenants. (a) The Consolidated Leverage Ratio as of the last day of any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters of Borrower (commencing with the first fiscal quarter commencing after the Closing Date) will not exceed 3.50 to 1.00; provided that for the purpose of determining the foregoing ratio for the fiscal quarters ending June 30, 2003, September 30, 2003 and December 31, 2003, Consolidated EBITDA for the relevant period shall be deemed to equal Consolidated EBITDA for such fiscal quarters (and, in the case of the latter two such determinations, each previous fiscal quarter commencing after the Closing Date) multiplied by 4, 2 and 4/3, respectively. (b) The Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio for any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters of Borrower (commencing with the first fiscal quarter commencing after the Closing
-40- Date and, if less, the number of fiscal quarters of Borrower commencing subsequent to the Closing Date) will not be less than 2.00 to 1.00. SECTION 6.02. Indebtedness. Borrower will not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (other than a Credit Party) to create, incur, assume or permit to exist any Indebtedness, except: (a) with respect to all such Restricted Subsidiaries, Indebtedness of up to an aggregate principal amount of $1,000,000,000 at any time outstanding; provided that the aggregate principal amount of Indebtedness of TWEAN permitted by this clause (a) shall not exceed $500,000,000 at any time outstanding; (b) Indebtedness of any such Restricted Subsidiary to Borrower or any Subsidiary; (c) Guarantee Obligations of any such Restricted Subsidiary with respect to Indebtedness of Borrower or any wholly owned Restricted Subsidiary; (d) Indebtedness of any such Restricted Subsidiary incurred to finance the acquisition, construction or improvement of any property, including Capital Lease Obligations and any Indebtedness assumed in connection with the acquisition of any such property or secured by a Lien on any such property prior to the acquisition thereof, and extensions, renewals and replacements of any such Indebtedness that do not increase the outstanding principal amount thereof; provided that the aggregate principal amount of Indebtedness permitted by this clause (d) with respect to any such property shall not exceed 110% of the purchase price for, or the cost of construction or improvement of, such property; and (e) Indebtedness of any Person that becomes a Restricted Subsidiary of Borrower after the date hereof; provided that (x) such Indebtedness exists at the time such Person becomes a Subsidiary and is not created in contemplation of or in connection with such Person becoming a Subsidiary and (y) such Indebtedness does not, directly or indirectly, have recourse (including by way of setoff) to Borrower or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries or any asset thereof other than to the Person so acquired and its Subsidiaries and the assets of the Person so acquired and its Subsidiaries. SECTION 6.03. Liens. Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, to create, incur, assume or permit to exist any Lien on any property or asset now owned or hereafter acquired by it, except: (a) any Lien on any property or asset of Borrower or any Subsidiary existing on the date hereof; provided, that such Lien shall secure only those obligations which it secures on the date hereof and extensions, renewal and replacements thereof that do not increase the outstanding principal amount thereof and such Liens do not secure an aggregate principal amount of Indebtedness in excess of $200,000,000 or apply to property or assets of Borrower and its Restricted Subsidiaries with a fair market value in excess of $200,000,000; provided
-41- that any such Liens securing the TWE Loan Facility or the TWE public bonds shall secure the obligations hereunder equally and ratably; (b) any Lien existing on any property or asset prior to the acquisition thereof by Borrower or any Subsidiary or existing on any property or asset of any Person that becomes a Subsidiary after the date hereof prior to the time such Person becomes a Subsidiary; provided that (i) such Lien is not created in contemplation of or in connection with such acquisition or such Person becoming a Subsidiary, as the case may be, (ii) such Lien shall not apply to any other property or assets of Borrower or any Subsidiary and (iii) such Lien shall secure only those obligations which it secures on the date of such acquisition or the date such Person becomes a Subsidiary, as the case may be and extensions, renewals and replacements thereof that do not increase the outstanding principal amount thereof; (c) Liens on property acquired, constructed or improved by Borrower or any Subsidiary; provided that (i) such security interests secure Indebtedness permitted by clause (d) of Section 6.02, (ii) the Indebtedness secured thereby does not exceed 110% of the cost of acquiring, constructing or improving such property and (iii) such security interests shall not apply to any other property or assets of Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries; (d) [Intentionally left blank] (e) [Intentionally left blank] (f) any Copyright Liens existing on the date hereof securing obligations specified in the definition thereof; (g) Liens securing Indebtedness of Borrower or any Restricted Subsidiary and owing to Borrower or to a Restricted Subsidiary; (h) Liens on interests in or investments in any Unrestricted Subsidiary or in any other Person that is not a Subsidiary of Borrower securing Indebtedness of such Unrestricted Subsidiary or such other Person; (i) Liens for taxes, assessments or governmental charges or levies not yet due and payable or which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings; (j) Liens incidental to the ordinary conduct of Borrower's business or the ownership of its assets which were not incurred in connection with the borrowing of money, such as carrier's, warehousemen's, materialmen's, landlord's and mechanic's liens, and which do not in the aggregate materially detract from the value of its assets or materially impair the use thereof in the ordinary course of its business; and (k) other Liens in respect of property or assets of Borrower or any Restricted Subsidiary so long as at the time of the securing of any obligations related thereto, the aggregate principal amount of all such secured obligations does not exceed 5% of the Consolidated Total Assets of Borrower at such time (it being understood that any Lien permitted under any
-42- other clause in this Section 6.03 shall not be included in the computation described in this paragraph); provided, that no such Liens described or otherwise permitted by this Section 6.03 shall secure obligations under the TWE Loan Facility or the TWE public bonds (or any renewal, refinancing, replacement or refunding thereof) unless the obligations hereunder are simultaneously secured equally and ratably. SECTION 6.04. Mergers, Etc. Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, merge into or consolidate with any other Person, or permit any other Person to merge into or consolidate with it, or sell, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of (in one transaction or in a series of transactions) all or a substantial portion of Borrower's consolidated assets, or all or a substantial portion of the stock of all of its Restricted Subsidiaries, taken as a whole (in each case, whether now owned or hereafter acquired), or liquidate or dissolve, unless (i) at the time thereof and immediately after giving effect thereto no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing and (ii) after giving effect to any such transaction, the business, taken as a whole, of Borrower and its Restricted Subsidiaries shall not have been altered in a fundamental and substantial manner from that conducted by them, taken as a whole, immediately upon consummation of the Restructuring; provided that (x) Borrower shall not merge into or consolidate with such other Person, unless Borrower shall survive such consolidation or merger, and (y) Borrower shall not liquidate or dissolve or permit any Guarantor to liquidate or dissolve except into Borrower or another Guarantor. SECTION 6.05. Investments. Borrower will not, and will not cause or permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, make any Investment if, before or after giving effect thereto, on a pro forma basis, an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing; provided that, during the continuance of any such Event of Default and upon 15 or more days' notice to the Administrative Agents as to the amount and timing of such Investment, Borrower may make ordinary course Investments in respect of Texas Cable Partners, L.P. and Kansas City Cable Partners of the type regularly made prior to the Closing Date on terms substantially similar in all material respects to such Investments. SECTION 6.06. Restricted Payments. Borrower will not, and will not cause or permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, declare or make, or agree to pay or make, directly or indirectly, any Restricted Payment; provided, however, that (a) so long as after giving effect to the making of such Restricted Payment, no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing on a pro forma basis, (b) Subsidiaries of Borrower may make Tax Distributions and (c) Restricted Subsidiaries may pay pro rata dividends on their equity securities so long as the Borrower or any Restricted Subsidiary receives its pro rata share thereof (based upon its equity ownership of such class of equity securities). SECTION 6.07. Transactions with Affiliates. Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly, enter into any material transaction with any of its Affiliates, except (a) transactions entered into prior to the date hereof or contemplated by any agreement entered into prior to the date hereof, (b) in the ordinary course of business or at prices and on terms and conditions not less favorable to Borrower or such Subsidiary than could be obtained on an arm's-length basis from unrelated third parties, (c) transactions between or among Borrower and its Restricted Subsidiaries or between or among Restricted Subsidiaries, (d) any arrangements with
-43- officers, directors, representatives or other employees of Borrower and its Subsidiaries relating specifically to employment as such and (e) transactions that are otherwise permitted by this Agreement. SECTION 6.08. Unrestricted Subsidiaries. (a) Schedule 6.08 sets forth those Subsidiaries that have been designated as Unrestricted Subsidiaries as of the date hereof, which Subsidiaries do not include any Credit Party. Borrower may designate any other of its Subsidiaries (other than a Credit Party) as Unrestricted Subsidiaries from time to time in compliance with the provisions of this Section 6.08. Borrower will not designate any of its Subsidiaries as an Unrestricted Subsidiary unless at the time such Subsidiary is designated as an Unrestricted Subsidiary, before and after giving effect to such designation on a pro forma basis, no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, as certified in an Officers' Certificate delivered to the Administrative Agents at the time of such designation. Such Officers' Certificate also shall state the specific purpose for which such designation is being made. All Subsidiaries of Unrestricted Subsidiaries shall be Unrestricted Subsidiaries. (b) Borrower may designate or re-designate any Unrestricted Subsidiary as a Restricted Subsidiary from time to time in compliance with the provisions of this Section 6.08. Borrower will not designate or re-designate any Unrestricted Subsidiary as a Restricted Subsidiary, unless at the time such Unrestricted Subsidiary is so designated or re-designated as a Restricted Subsidiary, after giving effect to such designation or re-designation on a pro forma basis, no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, as certified in an Officer's Certificate delivered to the Administrative Agents at the time of such designation or re-designation. SECTION 6.09. Maintenance of Corporate Separateness. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, (a) take any action, or conduct its affairs in any manner, which is likely to result in the corporate existence of Borrower or any other Restricted Subsidiary being ignored, or in the assets and liabilities of Borrower or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries being substantively consolidated with those of any other Person, in a bankruptcy, reorganization or other insolvency proceeding; or (b) fail to maintain ownership of all of its principal assets utilized in its business (including franchise agreements) and maintain ownership in Borrower's or such Subsidiary's name including, without limitation, legal title, or (c) permit any Credit Party to make any payment to any creditor of AOLTW or any Unrestricted Subsidiary, or for AOLTW or any Unrestricted Subsidiary to make any payment to any creditor of Borrower; or (d) except for such arrangements existing immediately upon consummation of the Restructuring, provide any direct or indirect guarantee or other credit support for any Indebtedness or other obligations of AOLTW or any Unrestricted Subsidiary. ARTICLE VII EVENTS OF DEFAULT If any of the following events ("Events of Default") shall occur: (a) Borrower shall fail to pay any principal of any Loan when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the due date thereof or at a date fixed for prepayment thereof or otherwise;
-44- (b) Borrower shall fail to pay any interest on any Loan or any fee or any other amount (other than an amount referred to in clause (a) of this Article VII) payable under this Agreement, when and as the same shall become due and payable, and such failure shall continue unremedied for a period of five days; (c) any representation or warranty made or deemed made by or on behalf of any Credit Party in any Credit Document or any amendment or modification thereof, or in any report, certificate, financial statement or other document furnished pursuant to or in connection with any Credit Document or any amendment or modification thereof, shall prove to have been incorrect in any material respect when made or deemed made; (d) Borrower shall fail to observe or perform any covenant, condition or agreement contained in Sections 5.02, 5.03 (with respect to its or any Guarantor's existence), 5.13 or in Article VI; (e) any Credit Party shall fail to observe or perform any covenant, condition or agreement contained in the Credit Documents (other than those specified in clause (a), (b) or (d) of this Article VII), and such failure shall continue unremedied for a period of 30 days after notice thereof from the Administrative Agents (given at the request of any Lender) to Borrower; (f) Borrower or any Restricted Subsidiary shall fail to make any payment (whether of principal or interest and regardless of amount) in respect of any Material Indebtedness, when and as the same shall become due and payable after giving effect to any applicable grace periods; (g) (I) any event or condition occurs that results in any Material Indebtedness becoming due prior to its scheduled maturity or that enables or permits (after giving effect to any applicable grace periods) the holder or holders of any Material Indebtedness or any trustee or agent on its or their behalf to cause any Material Indebtedness to become due, or to require the prepayment, repurchase, redemption or defeasance thereof, prior to its scheduled maturity; provided that this clause (g) shall not apply to secured Indebtedness that becomes due as a result of the voluntary sale or transfer of the property or assets securing such Indebtedness or (II) a default or event of default exists or has occurred under the TWE Loan Facility; (h) an involuntary proceeding shall be commenced or an involuntary petition shall be filed seeking (i) liquidation, reorganization or other relief in respect of Borrower or any Material Subsidiary of Borrower or its debts, or of a substantial part of its assets, under any Federal, state or foreign bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar law now or hereafter in effect or (ii) the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conservator or similar official for Borrower or any Material Subsidiary of Borrower or for a substantial part of its assets, and, in any such case, such proceeding or petition shall continue undismissed for 60 days or an order or decree approving or ordering any of the foregoing shall be entered; (i) Borrower or any Material Subsidiary of Borrower shall (i) voluntarily commence any proceeding or file any petition seeking liquidation, reorganization or other relief
-45- under any Federal, state or foreign bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar law now or hereafter in effect, (ii) consent to the institution of, or fail to contest in a timely and appropriate manner, any proceeding or petition described in clause (h) of this Article VII, (iii) apply for or consent to the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conservator or similar official for Borrower or any Material Subsidiary of Borrower or for a substantial part of its assets, (iv) file an answer admitting the material allegations of a petition filed against it in any such proceeding, (v) make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors or (vi) take any action for the purpose of effecting any of the foregoing; (j) Borrower or any Material Subsidiary of Borrower shall become unable, admit in writing or fail generally to pay its debts as they become due; (k) one or more judgments for the payment of money in an aggregate amount in excess of $200,000,000 shall be rendered against Borrower, any Material Subsidiary of Borrower or any combination thereof or any action shall be legally taken by a judgment creditor (whose liquidated judgment, along with that of any other judgment creditor's, exceeds $200,000,000) to attach or levy upon any assets of Borrower or any Material Subsidiary of Borrower to enforce any such judgment, and the same shall remain undischarged for a period of 60 consecutive days during which execution shall not be effectively stayed, vacated or bonded pending appeal; (l) an ERISA Event shall have occurred that, when taken together with all other ERISA Events (with respect to which Borrower has a liability which has not yet been satisfied) that have occurred, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect; (m) except as otherwise permitted by this Agreement, the Guarantee of any Guarantor shall cease, for any reason, to be in full force and effect or any Credit Party shall so assert; (n) a Change in Control shall occur; or (o) each component of the Restructuring shall not have been consummated substantially in accordance with the documentation therefor and all applicable laws by 9:00 a.m., New York City time, on the day following the making of the Loans under this Agreement; then, and in every such event (other than an event with respect to Borrower described in clause (h) or (i) of this Article VII, or an event described in clause (o) of this Article VII), and at any time thereafter during the continuance of such event, the Administrative Agents may, and at the request of the Required Lenders shall, by notice to Borrower, take either of the following actions (as applicable): (i) prior to funding of Loans on the Closing Date, terminate the Commitments, and thereupon the Commitments shall terminate immediately, or, if any Loans are outstanding, (ii) declare the Loans then outstanding to be due and payable in whole (or in part, in which case any principal not so declared to be due and payable may thereafter be declared to be due and payable), and thereupon the principal of the Loans so declared to be due and payable, together with accrued interest thereon and all fees and other obligations of Borrower accrued hereunder, shall become due and payable immediately, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby waived by Borrower;
-46- and in case of any event with respect to Borrower described in clause (h) or (i) of this Article VII, or an event described in clause (o) of this Article VII, occurring (a) prior to the Closing Date, the Commitments shall automatically terminate, and (b) after the Closing Date, the principal of the Loans then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon and all fees and other obligations of Borrower accrued hereunder, shall automatically become due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby waived by Borrower. ARTICLE VIII THE AGENTS Each of the Lenders hereby irrevocably appoints the Administrative Agents and the Paying Agent, if any, as its agents or agent, as the case may be, and authorizes the Administrative Agents and the Paying Agent, if any, to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Administrative Agents and the Paying Agent, if any, by the terms hereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. Each party serving as an Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not an Agent, and such party and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to and generally engage in any kind of business with Borrower or any Affiliate thereof as if it were not an Agent hereunder. The Administrative Agents and the Paying Agent, if any, shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, (a) the Administrative Agents and the Paying Agent, if any, shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing, (b) the Administrative Agents and the Paying Agent, if any, shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby that the Administrative Agents and the Paying Agent, if any, are required to exercise in writing by the Required Lenders (or, if so specified by this Agreement, all the Lenders), and (c) except as expressly set forth herein, the Administrative Agents and the Paying Agent, if any, shall not have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to any of Borrower or its Subsidiaries that is communicated to or obtained by the banks serving as Administrative Agents and the Paying Agent, if any, or any of their Affiliates in any capacity. The Administrative Agents and the Paying Agent, if any, shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by them with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or, if so specified by this Agreement, all the Lenders) or in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct. The Administrative Agents and the Paying Agent, if any, shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default unless and until written notice thereof is given to the Administrative Agents and the Paying Agent, if any, by Borrower or a Lender, and the Administrative Agents and the Paying Agent, if any, shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Agreement or any other Credit Document, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered under any Credit Document or in connection therewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth in the Credit Document, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of any Credit Document or any other agreement, instrument or document, or (v) the satisfaction of any condi-
-47- tion set forth in Article IV or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Administrative Agents and the Paying Agent, if any. The Administrative Agents and the Paying Agent, if any, shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or sent by a proper Person. An initial list of the proper Persons with respect to Borrower appears on Schedule 8. Schedule 8 shall not be altered except in writing by a Person appearing thereon (or by a successor to such Person occupying the equivalent office). The Administrative Agents and the Paying Agent, if any, also may rely upon any statement made to them orally or by telephone and believed by them to be made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon so long as such statement, in the case of a Borrowing Request, complies with the requirements of Section 2.03 or in the case of an Interest Election, complies with the requirement of Section 2.07, as the case may be, in all material respects (it being understood that oral notices of borrowing will be confirmed in writing by Borrower in accordance with Sections 2.03 and 2.07, as the case may be. The Administrative Agents and the Paying Agent, if any, may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for Borrower), independent accountants and other experts selected by them, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by them in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts. The Administrative Agents and the Paying Agent, if any, may perform any and all its duties and exercise their rights and powers by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by the Administrative Agents and the Paying Agent, if any. The Administrative Agents and the Paying Agent, if any, and any such sub-agents may perform any and all their duties and exercise their rights and powers through their respective Related Parties. The exculpatory provisions of the preceding paragraphs shall apply to any such sub-agents and to the Related Parties of the Administrative Agents and the Paying Agent, if any, and any such sub-agents, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein as well as activities as Administrative Agents and the Paying Agent, if any. Subject to the appointment and acceptance of successor Administrative Agents and the Paying Agent, if any, as provided in this paragraph, an Administrative Agent and the Paying Agent, if any, may resign at any time by notifying the Lenders and Borrower. Upon any such resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right, in consultation with Borrower, to appoint a successor which, so long as no Event of Default is continuing, shall be reasonably acceptable to Borrower. If no successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Administrative Agent and Paying Agent, if any, gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Administrative Agent and Paying Agent, if any, may, on behalf of the Lenders, appoint a successor Administrative Agent and Paying Agent, if any, which shall be a bank with an office in New York, New York, or an Affiliate of any such bank. Upon the acceptance of its appointment as Administrative Agent and Paying Agent, if any, hereunder by a successor, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Administrative Agent and Paying Agent, if any, and the retiring Administrative Agent and Paying Agent, if any, shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder. The fees payable by Borrower to a successor Administrative Agent and Paying Agent, if any, shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between Borrower and such successor. After an
-48- Administrative Agent's and Paying Agent's, if any, resignation hereunder, the provisions of this Article VIII and Section 9.03 shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Administrative Agent and Paying Agent, if any, its sub-agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by it while it was acting as Administrative Agent and Paying Agent, if any. The Lenders agree to indemnify each Agent in its capacity as such (to the extent not reimbursed by Borrower and without limiting the obligation of Borrower to do so), ratably according to their Applicable Percentage on the date on which indemnification is sought under this Article VIII (or, if indemnification is sought after the date upon which the Loans shall have been paid in full, ratably in accordance with their Applicable Percentage immediately prior to such date), from and against any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements of any kind whatsoever that may at any time (whether before or after the payment of the Loans) be imposed on, incurred by or asserted against such Agent in any way relating to or arising out of, the Commitments, this Agreement, any of the other Credit Documents or any documents contemplated by or referred to herein or therein or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby or any action taken or omitted by such Agent under or in connection with any of the foregoing; provided that no Lender shall be liable for the payment of any portion of such liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements that are found by a final and nonappealable decision of a court of competent jurisdiction to have resulted from such Agent's gross negligence or willful misconduct. The agreements in this Section shall survive the payment of the Loans and all other amounts payable hereunder. Each Lender acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon any Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon any Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement, any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder. ARTICLE IX MISCELLANEOUS SECTION 9.01. Notices. Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone, all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by facsimile, as follows: (a) if to Borrower, to it at 290 Harbor Drive, Stamford, CT 06902, Attention of Chief Financial Officer (Facsimile No. (203) 328-4029); with copies to General Counsel, 290 Harbor Drive, Stamford, CT 06902 (Facsimile No. (203) 328-4094) and AOL Time Warner Inc., 75 Rockefeller Plaza, New York, NY 10019, Attention of Treasurer (Facsimile No. (212) 489-4712);
-49- (b) if to the Administrative Agents or the Paying Agent, if any, (i) to Deutsche Bank AG, New York Branch, 90 Hudson Street, Jersey City, NJ 07302, Attention: Joe Cusmai (Facsimile No. (201) 593-2202), and (ii) to Citicorp North America, Inc., 2 Penn's Way, New Castle, Delaware 19270, Attention: Diane Stewart (Facsimile No. (212) 994-0847) for both Base Rate and Eurocurrency Borrowings. (c) if to any other Lender, to it at its address (or facsimile number) set forth in its Administrative Questionnaire. (d) if to the Paying Agent, to the address (or facsimile number) listed at the time of appointment by the Administrative Agents. Any party hereto may change its address or facsimile number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto. All notices and other communications given to any party hereto in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed to have been given on the date of receipt. SECTION 9.02. Waivers; Amendments. (a) No failure or delay by the Administrative Agents or the Paying Agent, if any, or any Lender in exercising any right or power hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right or power, or any abandonment or discontinuance of steps to enforce such a right or power, preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right or power. The rights and remedies of the Administrative Agents and the Paying Agent, if any, and the Lenders hereunder are cumulative and are not exclusive of any rights or remedies that they would otherwise have. No waiver of any provision of this Agreement or consent to any departure by Borrower therefrom shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be permitted by paragraph (b) of this Section, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the purpose for which given. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the making of a Loan shall not be construed as a waiver of any Default, regardless of whether the Administrative Agents and the Paying Agent, if any, or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of such Default at the time. (b) Neither this Agreement nor any provision hereof may be waived, amended or modified except pursuant to an agreement or agreements in writing entered into by Borrower and the Required Lenders or by Borrower and the Administrative Agents or the Paying Agent, as the case may be, with the consent of the Required Lenders; provided that no such agreement shall (i) increase the Commitment of any Lender without the written consent of such Lender, (ii) reduce the principal amount of any Loan or reduce the rate of interest thereon, or reduce any fees payable hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender affected thereby, (iii) reduce or limit the obligations of the Guarantor under the Guarantee or otherwise limit the Guarantor's liability with respect to the obligations owing to the Administrative Agents, the Paying Agent, if any, and the Lenders, without the written consent of each Lender affected thereby, (iv) postpone the scheduled date of payment of the principal amount of any Loan, or any interest thereon, or any fees payable hereunder, or reduce the amount of, waive or excuse any such payment, or postpone the scheduled date of expiration of any Commitment, without the written consent of each Lender affected thereby, (v) change Section 2.17(b) or (c) in a manner that would alter the pro rata sharing of payments required thereby, without the written consent of each Lender, or (vi) change any of the provisions of this Section or the definition of "Required
-50- Lenders" or any other provision hereof specifying the number or percentage of Lenders required to waive, amend or modify any rights hereunder or make any determination or grant any consent hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender; provided further that no such agreement shall amend, modify or otherwise affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agents and the Paying Agent, if any, hereunder without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agents and the Paying Agent, if any. SECTION 9.03. Expenses; Indemnity; Damage Waiver. (a) Borrower shall pay (i) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Arrangers, the Administrative Agents and the Paying Agent, if any, and their Affiliates, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of Cahill Gordon & Reindel, counsel for the Administrative Agents and the Paying Agent, if any, in connection with the preparation and administration of the Credit Documents or any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions thereof (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated) and the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein, and (ii) all out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Agents or the Lenders, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for the Agents or the Lenders in connection with the enforcement or protection of its rights in connection with any Credit Document, including its rights under this Section, or in connection with the Loans made hereunder, including in connection with any workout, restructuring or negotiations in respect thereof, it being understood that the Agents and the Lenders shall use, and Borrower shall only be required to pay such fees, charges and disbursements of, a single counsel, unless (and to the extent) conflicts of interests require the use of more than one counsel. (b) Borrower shall indemnify each Agent and each Lender, and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an "Indemnitee") against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and related expenses, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for any Indemnitee, incurred by or asserted against any Indemnitee arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of any Credit Documents or any agreement or instrument contemplated thereby, the performance by the parties hereto of their respective obligations hereunder or the consummation of the Transactions or any other transactions contemplated hereby, (ii) any Loan or the use of, or the proposed use of, the proceeds therefrom, (iii) any actual or alleged presence or release of Hazardous Materials on or from any property owned or operated by any of Borrower or its Subsidiaries, or any Environmental Liability related in any way to any of Borrower or its Subsidiaries, or (iv) any actual or prospective claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto; provided that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee. (c) To the extent that Borrower fails to pay any amount required to be paid by them to the Administrative Agents or the Paying Agent, as the case may be, under paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section, each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agents or the Paying Agent, as the case may be, such Lender's Applicable Percentage (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought) of such unpaid amount; provided that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may
-51- be, was incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agents or the Paying Agent, as the case may be, in their capacity as such. (d) To the extent permitted by applicable law, Borrower shall not assert, and Borrower hereby waives, any claim against any Indemnitee, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Agreement or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the Transactions, any Loan or the use of the proceeds thereof. (e) All amounts due under this Section shall be payable promptly after written demand therefor. This Section 9.03 shall in no way limit any other reimbursement or expense payment obligations separately agreed upon between Borrower and the Administrative Agents and the Paying Agent, if any. SECTION 9.04. Successors and Assigns. (a) The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, except that no Credit Party may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of each Lender except in accordance with Section 6.04 (and any attempted assignment or transfer by such Credit Party without such consent shall be null and void); provided that the Lenders acknowledge and agree that Time Warner Cable Inc. is a permitted successor of MOTH Holdings, Inc. Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Administrative Agents or the Paying Agent, as the case may be, and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement. (b) Any Lender may assign, and may sell participations in, its rights and obligations under this Agreement. Each Lender other than a Conduit Lender may assign to one or more assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of the Loans at the time owing to it); provided that (i) except in the case of an assignment to a Lender or a Lender Affiliate, each of Borrower and the Administrative Agents or the Paying Agent, as the case may be, must give its prior written consent to such assignment (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed), (ii) except in the case of an assignment to a Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender or an assignment of the entire remaining balance of the Loans at any time owing to the assigning Lender, each assignment shall not be less than an aggregate principal amount of $5,000,000, (iii) except in the case of an assignment to a Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender or an assignment of the entire remaining balance of the Loans at any time owing to the assigning Lender, the remaining principal amount of the Loans at any time owing to the assigning Lender after giving effect to such assignment shall not be less than $5,000,000 unless, in the case of clauses (ii) or (iii), each of Borrower and the Administrative Agents or the Paying Agent, as the case may be, otherwise consents, (iv) each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, (v) except in the case of an assignment to an Affiliate of the assigning Lender on or about the Closing Date, the parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agents or the Paying Agent, as the case may be, an Assignment and Acceptance, together with a processing and recordation fee of $3,500 (which fee shall be waived in respect of any assignment effected pursuant to the initial syndication of the Loans), and (vi) the as-
-52- signee, if it shall not be a Lender, shall deliver to the Administrative Agents or the Paying Agent, as the case may be, an Administrative Questionnaire; provided, further, that any consent of Borrower otherwise required under this paragraph shall not be required if an Event of Default under clause (h) or (i) of Article VII has occurred and is continuing, nor shall Borrower have any consent right (although it shall have a consultation right) in connection with any assignments effected as part of the initial syndication of the Loans. Upon acceptance and recording pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Acceptance, the assignee thereunder shall be a party hereto and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Acceptance, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Acceptance, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Acceptance covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto but shall (i) continue to be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.14, 2.15, 2.16 and 9.03) and (ii) continue to be subject to the confidentiality provisions hereof. Notwithstanding the foregoing, either of DBCI or CNAI may at any time assign or participate their Loans to one another or to any of their Affiliates. (c) The Administrative Agents, or the Paying Agent, as the case may be, acting for this purpose as agents of Borrower, shall maintain at one of their offices in The City of New York a copy of each Assignment and Acceptance delivered to them and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitment of, and principal amount of the Loans owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the "Register"). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive, and Borrower, the Administrative Agents or the Paying Agent, as the case may be, and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary. (d) Upon its receipt of a duly completed Assignment and Acceptance executed by an assigning Lender and an assignee, the assignee's completed Administrative Questionnaire (unless the assignee shall already be a Lender hereunder), the processing and recordation fee referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and any written consent to such assignment required by paragraph (b) of this Section, the Administrative Agents or the Paying Agent, as the case may be, shall accept such Assignment and Acceptance and record the information contained therein in the Register. No assignment shall be effective for purposes of this Agreement unless it has been recorded in the Register as provided in this paragraph. (e) Any Lender other than a Conduit Lender may, without the consent of Borrower or the Administrative Agents or the Paying Agent, as the case may be, sell participations to one or more banks or other entities (a "Participant") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans owing to it); provided that (i) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations and (iii) Borrower, the Administrative Agents or the Paying Agent, as the case may be, and the other Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement. Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to
-53- enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement; provided that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, modification or waiver described in the first proviso to Section 9.02(b) that affects such Participant. Subject to paragraph (f) of this Section, Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.14, 2.15 and 2.16 to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section. Notwithstanding the foregoing, either of DBCI or CNAI may at any time assign or participate their Loans to one another or to one of their affiliates. (f) A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under Section 2.14 or 2.16 than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless the sale of the participation to such Participant is made with Borrower's prior written consent. A Participant that would be a Foreign Lender if it were a Lender shall not be entitled to the benefits of Section 2.16 unless Borrower is notified of the participation sold to such Participant and such Participant agrees, for the benefit of Borrower, to comply with Section 2.16(e) as though it were a Lender. (g) Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement to secure obligations of such Lender, including any such pledge or assignment to a Federal Reserve Bank, and this Section shall not apply to any such pledge or assignment of a security interest; provided that no such pledge or assignment of a security interest shall release a Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such assignee for such Lender as a party hereto. (h) Borrower, upon receipt of written notice from the relevant Lender, agrees to issue Notes to any Lender requiring Notes to facilitate transactions of the type described in paragraph (g) above. (i) Borrower, each Lender and the Administrative Agents or the Paying Agent, as the case may be, hereby confirm that they will not institute against a Conduit Lender or join any other Person in instituting against a Conduit Lender any bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, insolvency or liquidation proceeding under any state bankruptcy or similar law, for one year and one day after the payment in full of the latest maturing commercial paper note issued by such Conduit Lender; provided, however, that each Lender designating any Conduit Lender hereby agrees to indemnify, save and hold harmless each other party hereto for any loss, cost, damage or expense arising out of its inability to institute such a proceeding against such Conduit Lender during such period of forbearance. SECTION 9.05. Survival. All covenants, agreements, representations and warranties made by the Credit Parties herein and in the certificates or other instruments delivered in connection with or pursuant to this Agreement shall be considered to have been relied upon by the other parties hereto and shall survive the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the making of any Loans, regardless of any investigation made by any such other party or on its behalf and notwithstanding that the Administrative Agents and the Paying Agent, if any, or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of any Default or incorrect representation or warranty at the time any credit is extended hereunder, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as the principal of or any accrued interest on any Loan or any fee or any other amount payable under this Agreement is outstanding and unpaid
-54- and so long as the Commitments have not expired or terminated. The provisions of Sections 2.14, 2.15, 2.16 and 9.03 and Article VIII shall survive and remain in full force and effect regardless of the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, the repayment of the Loans, the expiration or termination of the Commitments or the termination of this Agreement or any provision hereof. The letter agreements dated March 31, 2003 (the "Separate Letter Agreements") by and among Borrower and the Agents shall survive and remain in full force and effect to the extent set forth in such letter agreements regardless of the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, the repayment of the Loans, the expiration or termination of the Commitments or the termination of this Agreement or any provision hereof. Each of the Agents and Lenders hereby acknowledges and agrees that, after consummation of the Restructuring, Comcast and its affiliates (other than, for the avoidance of doubt, TWC and its subsidiaries), and its and their directors, officers, employees and other representatives, will have no liabilities or obligations to the Agents and Lenders or any other Lender under any Credit Document or any closing documentation delivered in connection with this Agreement. SECTION 9.06. Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto on different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract. This Agreement and any separate letter agreements with respect to fees payable to the Lenders constitute the entire contract among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersede any and all previous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof. Except as provided in Section 4.01, this Agreement shall become effective when it shall have been executed by the Administrative Agents and the Paying Agent, if any, and when the Administrative Agents and the Paying Agent, if any, shall have received counterparts hereof which, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the other parties hereto, and thereafter shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement by facsimile shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement. SECTION 9.07. Severability. Any provision of this Agreement held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability without affecting the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions hereof; and the invalidity of a particular provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate such provision in any other jurisdiction. SECTION 9.08. Right of Setoff. If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, each Lender is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final) at any time held and other indebtedness at any time owing by such Lender to or for the credit or the account of any of the Credit Parties (other than indebtedness related to commercial advertising and marketing arrangements entered into in the ordinary course of business) against any of and all the obligations of any of the Credit Parties now or hereafter existing under this Agreement held by such Lender, irrespective of whether or not such Lender shall have made any demand under this Agreement and although such obligations may be unmatured. The rights of each Lender under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) which such Lender may have.
-55- SECTION 9.09. Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Consent to Service of Process. (a) This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the law of the State of New York. (b) Borrower and each Credit Party hereby irrevocably and unconditionally submits, for itself and its property, to the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the State of New York sitting in New York County and of the United States District Court of the Southern District of New York, and any appellate court from any thereof, in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to the Credit Documents, or for recognition or enforcement of any judgment, and each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that all claims in respect of any such action or proceeding shall be heard and determined in such New York State or, to the extent permitted by law, in such Federal court. Each of the parties hereto agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by law. (c) Borrower and each Credit Party hereby irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent it may legally and effectively do so, any objection which it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement in any court referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of such action or proceeding in any such court. (d) Each party to this Agreement irrevocably consents to service of process in the manner provided for notices in Section 9.01. Nothing in this Agreement will affect the right of any party to this Agreement to serve process in any other manner permitted by law. SECTION 9.10. WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL. EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY). EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PARTY HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PARTY WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION. SECTION 9.11. Headings. Article and Section headings and the Table of Contents used herein are for convenience of reference only, are not part of this Agreement and shall not affect the construction of, or be taken into consideration in interpreting, this Agreement. SECTION 9.12. Confidentiality. Each of the Agents and the Lenders agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its and its Affiliates' directors, officers, employees and agents, including accountants,
-56- legal counsel and other advisors (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential, subject to an authorization to disclose the U.S. tax treatment and U.S. tax structure of this Agreement and the Loans on the same terms as provided below in this paragraph), (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority or self-regulatory body, (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, provided that in connection with any such requirement by a subpoena or similar legal process, Borrower is given prior notice to the extent such prior notice is permissible under the circumstances and an opportunity to object to such disclosure, (d) to any other party to this Agreement, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or any suit, action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or the enforcement of rights hereunder, (f) subject to an express agreement for the benefit of Borrower containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section, to any (i) assignee (or Conduit Lender) of or Participant in, or any prospective assignee (or Conduit Lender) of or Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement or (ii) hedging agreement counterparty (or such contractual counterparty's professional advisor), (g) with the consent of Borrower or (h) to the extent such Information (i) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section or (ii) becomes available to the Administrative Agents or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than Borrower. Notwithstanding anything herein or elsewhere to the contrary, the Agents, the Lenders and the Borrower, and their respective employees, representatives and agents may disclose to any and all persons, beginning immediately upon commencement of our discussions and without limitation of any kind, the U.S. tax treatment and U.S. tax structure (as defined in Treasury Regulations Sections 1.6011-4(c)(8) and (9)) of this Agreement and the Loans, and all materials of any kind (including opinions or other tax analyses) that are provided to the Agents, the Lenders and the Borrower relating to such U.S. tax treatment and U.S. tax structure. For the purposes of this Section, "Information" means all information received from Borrower, whether oral or written, relating to Borrower or its business, other than any such information that is available to the Administrative Agents or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by Borrower, provided that, in the case of information received from Borrower after the date hereof, such information is clearly identified at the time of delivery as confidential. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information, including in accordance with Regulation FD as promulgated by the SEC. SECTION 9.13. Acknowledgments. Borrower hereby acknowledges that: (a) it has been advised by counsel in the negotiation, execution and delivery of this Agreement and the other Credit Documents; (b) neither the Administrative Agents nor any Lender has any fiduciary relationship with or duty to such Person arising out of or in connection with this Agreement or any of the other Credit Documents, and the relationship between Administrative Agents and Lenders, on one hand, and such Person, on the other hand, in connection herewith or therewith is solely that of debtor and creditor; and
-57- (c) no joint venture is created hereby or by the other Credit Documents or otherwise exists by virtue of the transactions contemplated hereby among the Lenders or among such Person and the Lenders. [Signature page follows.]
-58- IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the day and year first above written. MOTH HOLDINGS, INC. By: /s/ Landel Hobbs -------------------------------------- Name: Landel Hobbs Title: Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer DEUTSCHE BANK AG, NEW YORK BRANCH, as Co-Administrative Agent By: /s/ Andreas Neumeier -------------------------------------- Name: Andreas Neumeier Title: Director By: /s/ Peter Eschmann -------------------------------------- Name: Peter Eschmann Title: Vice President CITICORP NORTH AMERICA, INC. as Co-Administrative Agent and Lender By: /s/ Carolyn Kee -------------------------------------- Name: Carolyn Kee Title: Vice President DEUTSCHE BANK AG, CAYMAN ISLANDS BRANCH as Lender By: /s/ Andreas Neumeier -------------------------------------- Name: Andreas Neumeier Title: Director By: /s/ Peter Eschmann ------------------------------------- Name: Peter Eschmann Title: Vice President
SCHEDULE 2.01 COMMITMENTS
SCHEDULE 2.03(A)
SCHEDULE 2.03(B) AUTHORIZED ACCOUNT NUMBERS & LOCATIONS
Bank Citicorp North America, Inc. Address: 388 Greenwich Street New York, NY 10013 Account Number: 4058-0089 Sort code: 021000089 - -----------------------------------------------------------------------
Bank: Deutsche Bank AG, New York Branch Address: 31 West 52nd Street New York, NY 10019 Account Number: 60200119 Sort code: 021-00-1033 - -----------------------------------------------------------------------
SCHEDULE 6.08 UNRESTRICTED SUBSIDIARIES TWEAN Subsidiary, LLC
SCHEDULE 8 LIST OF PROPER PERSONS Name Title - ---- ----- Landel Hobbs Exec. Vice President and CFO

EXHIBIT: 10.12 EXECUTION COPY GUARANTEE GUARANTEE, dated as of March 31, 2003, made by TIME WARNER ENTERTAINMENT COMPANY, L.P. a Delaware limited partnership ("TWE") ("Guarantor"), in favor of DEUTSCHE BANK AG, NEW YORK BRANCH and CITICORP NORTH AMERICA, INC., as Co-Administrative Agents (in such capacity, the "Administrative Agents") for the lenders (the "Lenders") parties to the Term Loan Agreement, dated as of March 31, 2003 (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the "Term Loan Agreement"), among MOTH HOLDINGS, INC. (to be renamed Time Warner Cable Inc.), the Lenders and the Administrative Agents. W I T N E S S E T H : WHEREAS, pursuant to the Term Loan Agreement, the Lenders have severally agreed to make Loans to the Borrower upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth therein; WHEREAS it is a condition precedent to the obligation of the Lenders to make their respective Loans to the Borrower under the Term Loan Agreement that the Guarantor shall have executed and delivered this Guarantee to the Administrative Agents for the ratable benefit of the Lenders; and WHEREAS Guarantor will upon consummation of the Restructuring become a subsidiary of the Borrower under the Term Loan Agreement, and it is to the advantage of Guarantor that the Lenders make the Loans to the Borrower under the Term Loan Agreement. NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and to induce the Administrative Agents and the Lenders to enter into the Term Loan Agreement and to induce the Lenders to make their respective loans to the Borrower under the Term Loan Agreement, Guarantor hereby agrees with the Administrative Agents, for the ratable benefit of the Lenders, as follows: 1. Defined Terms. Unless otherwise defined herein, terms defined in the Term Loan Agreement and used herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Term Loan Agreement. (a) As used herein, "Borrower" means MOTH Holdings, Inc. (and, once renamed as described in the preamble hereto, Time Warner Cable Inc., as successor in interest). (b) As used herein, "Obligations" means the collective reference to the unpaid principal of and interest on the Loans, fees and all other obligations and liabilities of the Borrower to the Administrative Agents, the Paying Agent and the Lenders (including, without
-2- limitation, interest accruing at the then applicable rate provided in the Term Loan Agreement after the maturity of the Loans and interest accruing at the then applicable rate provided in the Term Loan Agreement after the filing of any petition in bankruptcy, or the commencement of any insolvency, reorganization or like proceeding, relating to either one or both of the Borrower whether or not a claim for post-filing or post-petition interest is allowed in such proceeding), whether direct or indirect, absolute or contingent, due or to become due, or now existing or hereafter incurred, which may arise under, out of, or in connection with, the Term Loan Agreement or any other Credit Document, in each case whether on account of principal, interest, reimbursement obligations, fees, indemnities, costs, expenses or otherwise (including, without limitation, all fees and disbursements of counsel to the Administrative Agents, the Paying Agent or to the Lenders that are required to be paid by the Borrower pursuant to the terms of the Term Loan Agreement or any other Credit Document). (c) The words "hereof," "herein" and "hereunder" and words of similar import when used in this Guarantee shall refer to this Guarantee as a whole and not to any particular provision of this Guarantee, and section and paragraph references are to this Guarantee unless otherwise specified. (d) The meanings given to terms defined herein shall be equally applicable to both the singular and plural forms of such terms. 2. Guarantee. Immediately following consummation of the Restructuring, TWE unconditionally and irrevocably guarantees to the Administrative Agents, for the ratable benefit of the Administrative Agents, the Paying Agent and the Lenders and their respective successors, indorsees, transferees and assigns, the prompt and complete payment and performance by the Borrower when due (whether at the stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise) of the Obligations. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Guarantor's liability shall extend to all amounts that constitute part of the guaranteed Obligations and would be owed by the Borrower to the Bank under the Credit Documents but for the fact that they are unenforceable or not allowable due to the existence of a bankruptcy, reorganization or similar proceeding involving the Borrower. (a) This Guarantee shall remain in full force and effect until the Obligations are paid in full. (b) Guarantor agrees that whenever, at any time, or from time to time, it shall make any payment to the Administrative Agents, the Paying Agent or any Lender on account of its liability hereunder, it will notify the Administrative Agents and such Lender in writing that such payment is made under this Guarantee for such purpose. (c) Anything herein or in any other Credit Document to the contrary notwithstanding, the maximum liability of Guarantor hereunder and under the other Credit
-3- Documents shall in no event exceed the amount which can be guaranteed by such Guarantor under applicable federal and state laws relating to the insolvency of debtors. (d) No payment or payments made by the Borrower, the Guarantor, any other guarantor or any other Person or received or collected by the Administrative Agents, the Paying Agent or any Lender from the Borrower, the Guarantor, any other guarantor or any other Person by virtue of any action or proceeding or any setoff or appropriation or payment of the Obligations shall be deemed to modify, reduce, release or otherwise affect the liability of the Guarantor hereunder who shall, notwithstanding any such payment or payments (other than payments made by the Guarantor in respect of the Obligations or payments received or collected from the Guarantor in respect of the Obligations), remain liable for the Obligations up to the maximum liability of the Guarantor hereunder until the Obligations are paid indefeasibly in full. 3. Right of Setoff. If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, TWE hereby authorizes each Lender at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final), at any time held and other indebtedness at any time owing by such Lender to or for the credit or the account of TWE (other than indebtedness related to commercial advertising and marketing arrangements entered into in the ordinary course of business) against any of and all the obligations of TWE now or hereafter existing under the Term Loan Agreement or any other Credit Document held by such Lender whether or not such Lender has made any demand for payment and although such obligations may be unmatured. Each Lender shall notify TWE promptly of any such setoff and the application made by such Lender of the proceeds thereof; provided that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such setoff and application. The rights of each Lender under this paragraph are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) which such Lender may have. 4. No Subrogation. Notwithstanding any payment or payments made by Guarantor hereunder, or any setoff or application of funds of Guarantor by any Lender, Guarantor shall not be entitled to be subrogated to any of the rights of the Administrative Agents or any Lender against the Borrower or against any collateral security or guarantee or right of offset held by the Administrative Agents or any Lender for the payment of the Obligations, nor shall Guarantor seek or be entitled to seek any contribution or reimbursement from the Borrower in respect of payments made by Guarantor hereunder, until all amounts owing to the Administrative Agents and the Lenders by the Borrower on account of the Obligations are paid indefeasibly in full. If any amount shall be paid to Guarantor on account of such subrogation rights at any time when all of the Obligations shall not have been paid in full, such amount shall be held by Guarantor in trust for the Administrative Agents and the Lenders, segregated from other funds of Guarantor, and shall, forthwith upon receipt by Guarantor, be
-4- turned over to the Administrative Agents in the exact form received by Guarantor (duly indorsed by Guarantor to the Administrative Agents, if required), to be applied against the Obligations, whether matured or unmatured, in such order as the Administrative Agents may determine. 5. Amendments, etc. with Respect to the Obligations; Waiver of Rights. Guarantor shall remain obligated hereunder notwithstanding that, without any reservation of rights against Guarantor, and without notice to or further assent by Guarantor, (a) any demand for payment of any of the Obligations made by the Administrative Agents, the Paying Agent or any Lender may be rescinded by the Administrative Agents, the Paying Agent or such Lender, and any of the Obligations continued, (b) the Obligations or the liability of any other Person upon or for any part thereof, or any collateral security or guarantee therefor or right of offset with respect thereto, may, from time to time, in whole or in part, be renewed, extended, amended, modified, accelerated, compromised, waived, surrendered or released by the Administrative Agents, the Paying Agent or any Lender, (c) the Term Loan Agreement and any other Credit Document may be amended, modified, supplemented or terminated, in whole or in part, and (d) any collateral security, guarantee or right of offset at any time held by the Administrative Agents, the Paying Agent or any Lender for the payment of the Obligations may be sold, exchanged, waived, surrendered or released. Neither the Administrative Agents nor any Lender shall have any obligation to protect, secure, perfect or insure any Lien at any time held by it as security for the Obligations or for this Guarantee or any property subject thereto. 6. Guarantee Absolute and Unconditional. Guarantor waives any and all notice of the creation, renewal, extension or accrual of any of the Obligations and notice of or proof of reliance by the Administrative Agents, the Paying Agent or any Lender upon this Guarantee or acceptance of this Guarantee; the Obligations, and any of them, shall conclusively be deemed to have been created, contracted or incurred, or renewed, extended, amended or waived, in reliance upon this Guarantee; and all dealings between the Borrower or the Guarantor, on the one hand, and the Administrative Agents, the Paying Agent and the Lenders, on the other, shall likewise be conclusively presumed to have been had or consummated in reliance upon this Guarantee. Guarantor waives diligence, presentment, protest, demand for payment and notice of default or nonpayment to or upon the Borrower or Guarantor with respect to the Obligations. This Guarantee shall be construed as a continuing, absolute and unconditional guarantee of payment without regard to (a) the validity, regularity or enforceability of the Term Loan Agreement or any other Credit Document, any of the Obligations or any other collateral security therefor or guarantee or right of offset with respect thereto at any time or from time to time held by the Administrative Agents, the Paying Agent or any Lender, (b) any defense, setoff or counterclaim (other than a defense of payment or performance) which may at any time be available to or be asserted by the Borrower or any other Person against the Administrative Agents, the Paying Agent or any Lender, or (c) any other circumstance whatsoever (with or without notice to or knowledge of the Borrower or Guarantor)
-5- which constitutes, or might be construed to constitute, an equitable or legal discharge of the Borrower from the Obligations, or of Guarantor under this Guarantee, in bankruptcy or in any other instance. When making a demand hereunder or otherwise pursuing its rights and remedies hereunder against Guarantor, the Administrative Agents, the Paying Agent and any Lender may, but shall be under no obligation to, make a similar demand on or otherwise pursue such rights and remedies as it may have against the Borrower, any other Guarantor or any other Person or against any collateral security or guarantee for the Obligations or any right of offset with respect thereto, and any failure by the Administrative Agents or any Lender to make any such demand, to pursue such other rights or remedies or to collect any payments from the Borrower, Guarantor or any such other Person or to realize upon any such collateral security or guarantee or to exercise any such right of offset, or any release of the Borrower, Guarantor or any such other Person or of any such collateral security, guarantee or right of offset, shall not relieve Guarantor of any liability hereunder, and shall not impair or affect the rights and remedies, whether express, implied or available as a matter of law, of the Administrative Agents, the Paying Agent or any Lender against Guarantor. For the purposes hereof "demand" shall include the commencement and continuance of any legal proceedings. 7. Reinstatement. This Guarantee shall continue to be effective, or be reinstated, as the case may be, if at any time payment, or any part thereof, of any of the Obligations is rescinded or must otherwise be restored or returned by the Administrative Agents, Paying Agent or any Lender upon the insolvency, bankruptcy, dissolution, liquidation or reorganization of the Borrower or upon or as a result of the appointment of a receiver, intervenor or conservator of, or trustee or similar officer for, the Borrower or any substantial part of the Borrower's property, or otherwise, all as though such payments had not been made. 8. Payments. Guarantor hereby agrees that payments hereunder will be paid to the Administrative Agents or to the Paying Agent, if any, without setoff or counterclaim in the lawful money of the United States at the office of the Administrative Agents or Paying Agent, if any, specified in the Term Loan Agreement for payments thereunder. 9. Representations and Warranties. To induce the Administrative Agents, the Paying Agent and the Lenders to enter into the Term Loan Agreement and to induce the Lenders to make their respective extensions of credit to the Borrower thereunder, Guarantor hereby represents and warrants to the Administrative Agents and each Lender that the representations and warranties set forth in Article III of the Term Loan Agreement as they relate to the Guarantor or to the Credit Documents to which Guarantor is a party, each of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference, are true and correct, and the Administrative Agents and each Lender shall be entitled to rely on each of them as if they were fully set forth herein (it being understood that any representation or warranty set forth in Article III of the Term Loan Agreement shall apply to the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries in the manner set forth in such Article III).
-6- 10. Authority of Administrative Agents. Guarantor acknowledges that the rights and responsibilities of the Administrative Agents under this Guarantee with respect to any action taken by the Administrative Agents or the exercise or non-exercise by the Administrative Agents of any option, right, request, judgment or other right or remedy provided for herein or resulting or arising out of this Guarantee shall, as between the Administrative Agents and the Lenders, be governed by the Term Loan Agreement and by such other agreements with respect thereto as may exist from time to time among them, but, as between the Administrative Agents and Guarantor, the Administrative Agents shall be conclusively presumed to be acting as Agents for the Lenders with full and valid authority so to act or refrain from acting, and Guarantor shall not be under any obligation, or entitlement, to make any inquiry respecting such authority. 11. Notices. All notices, requests and demands to or upon the Administrative Agents, any Lender or Guarantor shall be effected in the manner provided in Section 9.01 of the Term Loan Agreement; any such notice, request or demand to or upon Guarantor shall be addressed to Guarantor at its notice address set forth on Schedule 1 hereto. 12. Severability. Any provision of this Guarantee which is prohibited or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such prohibition or unenforceability without invalidating the remaining provisions hereof, and any such prohibition or unenforceability in any jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction. 13. Integration. This Guarantee and the other Credit Documents represent the agreement of Guarantor with respect to the subject matter hereof and there are no promises or representations by Guarantor, the Administrative Agents, the Paying Agent or any Lender relative to the subject matter hereof not reflected herein or in the other Credit Documents. 14. Amendments in Writing. Subject to Section 9.02 of the Term Loan Agreement, None of the terms or provisions of this Guarantee may be waived, amended, supplemented or otherwise modified except by a written instrument executed by Guarantor and the Administrative Agents, provided that any right, power or privilege of the Administrative Agents or the Lenders arising under this Guarantee may be waived by the Administrative Agents and the Lenders in a letter or agreement executed by the Administrative Agents; provided, further, that no such amendment or waiver shall release Guarantor from its obligations hereunder without the written consent of each Lender. 15. No Waiver; Cumulative Remedies. Neither the Administrative Agents, the Paying Agent nor any Lender shall by any act (except by a written instrument pursuant to paragraph 15 hereof), delay, indulgence, omission or otherwise be deemed to have waived any right or remedy hereunder or to have acquiesced in any Default or Event of Default or in any breach of any of the terms and conditions hereof. No failure to exercise, nor any delay in ex-
-7- ercising, on the part of the Administrative Agents, the Paying Agent or any Lender, any right, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof. No single or partial exercise of any right, power or privilege hereunder shall preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, power or privilege. A waiver by the Administrative Agents, the Paying Agent or any Lender of any right or remedy hereunder on any one occasion shall not be construed as a bar to any right or remedy which the Administrative Agents, the Paying Agent or such Lender would otherwise have on any future occasion. The rights and remedies herein provided are cumulative, may be exercised singly or concurrently and are not exclusive of any other rights or remedies provided by law. 16. Taxes. Any and all payments by or on account of any Obligation hereunder shall be made by Guarantor in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.16 of the Term Loan Agreement. 17. Section Headings. The section headings used in this Guarantee are for convenience of reference only and are not to affect the construction hereof or be taken into consideration in the interpretation hereof. 18. Successors and Assigns. This Guarantee shall be binding upon the successors and assigns of Guarantor and shall inure to the benefit of the Administrative Agents and the Lenders and their successors and assigns; provided that Guarantor may not assign, transfer or delegate any of its rights or obligations under this Guarantee without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agents. 19. Enforcement Expenses. Guarantor agrees, jointly and severally, to pay or reimburse each Lender, the Paying Agent and the Administrative Agents for all its costs and expenses incurred in collecting against Guarantor under this Guarantee or otherwise enforcing or protecting any rights under this Guarantee and the other Credit Documents to which such Guarantor is a party, including, without limitation, the fees and disbursements of counsel to each Lender and of counsel to the Administrative Agents. 20. Acknowledgements. Guarantor hereby acknowledges that (a) it has been advised by counsel in the negotiation, execution and delivery of this Guarantee; (b) neither the Administrative Agents, the Paying Agent nor any Lender has any fiduciary relationship with or duty to Guarantor arising out of or in connection with this Guarantee or any other Credit Document, and the relationship between Guarantor, on the one hand, and the Administrative Agents, the Paying Agent and Lenders, on the other hand, in connection herewith or therewith is solely that of debtor and creditor; and
-8- (c) no joint venture is created hereby or by the other Credit Documents or otherwise exists by virtue of the transactions contemplated hereby among the Lenders or among the Guarantor and the Lenders. 21. GOVERNING LAW. THIS GUARANTEE SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH AND GOVERNED BY THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK. 22. Jurisdiction; Consent to Service of Process. Guarantor hereby irrevocably and unconditionally submits, for itself and its property, to the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the State of New York sitting in New York County and of the United States District Court of the Southern District of New York, and any appellate court from any thereof, in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Guarantee, or for recognition or enforcement of any judgment, and Guarantor hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that all claims in respect of any such action or proceeding shall be heard and determined in such New York State court or, to the extent permitted by law, in such Federal court. Guarantor agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by law. (a) Guarantor hereby irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent it may legally and effectively do so, any objection which it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Guarantee in any court referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section. Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of such action or proceeding in any such court. (b) Guarantor irrevocably consents to service of process in the manner provided for notices in paragraph 11 of this Guarantee. Nothing in this Guarantee will affect the right of any party to this Guarantee to serve process in any other manner permitted by law. 23. WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL. GUARANTOR HEREBY IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY WAIVES TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL ACTION OR PROCEEDING RELATING TO THIS GUARANTEE OR ANY OTHER CREDIT DOCUMENT AND FOR ANY COUNTERCLAIM THEREIN.
-9- IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has caused this Guarantee to be duly executed and delivered by its duly authorized officer as of the day and year first above written. TIME WARNER ENTERTAINMENT COMPANY, L.P. By: /s/ Edward B. Ruggiero ------------------------------------ Name: Edward B. Ruggiero Title: Vice President, Corporate Finance
SCHEDULE I TO GUARANTEE Address for Notices TIME WARNER ENTERTAINMENT COMPANY, L.P. 75 Rockefeller Plaza New York, NY 10019 Attention: Chief Financial Officer Facsimile: No.: 212-405-5213 Attention: General Counsel Facsimile No.: 212-258-3020

EXHIBIT: 10.13 EXECUTION COPY ================================================================================ AMENDED AND RESTATED CREDIT AGREEMENT Dated as of July 8, 2002 and amended and restated as of March 31, 2003 Among TIME WARNER CABLE, INC., TIME WARNER ENTERTAINMENT COMPANY, L.P., The Lenders Party Hereto, JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, as Administrative Agent, BANK OF AMERICA, N.A. AND CITIBANK, N.A., as Co-Syndication Agents, and ABN AMRO BANK N.V. AND BNP PARIBAS, as Co-Documentation Agents $1,500,000,000 364-DAY REVOLVING CREDIT FACILITY ================================================================================ J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES INC. AND BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC, as Joint-Lead Arrangers and Joint Bookrunners
TABLE OF CONTENTS i
ARTICLE IV Conditions...................................................................................... 39 SECTION 4.01. Amendment Effective Date................................................................. 39 SECTION 4.02. Each Credit Event........................................................................ 40 ARTICLE V Affirmative Covenants............................................................................ 40 SECTION 5.01. Financial Statements and Other Information............................................... 40 SECTION 5.02. Notices of Material Events............................................................... 42 SECTION 5.03. Existence; Conduct of Business........................................................... 42 SECTION 5.04. Payment of Obligations................................................................... 42 SECTION 5.05. Maintenance of Properties; Insurance..................................................... 42 SECTION 5.06. Books and Records; Inspection Rights..................................................... 43 SECTION 5.07. Compliance with Laws..................................................................... 43 SECTION 5.08. Use of Proceeds.......................................................................... 43 SECTION 5.09. Fiscal Periods; Accounting............................................................... 43 ARTICLE VI Negative Covenants.............................................................................. 43 SECTION 6.01. Financial Covenants...................................................................... 43 SECTION 6.02. Indebtedness............................................................................. 44 SECTION 6.03. Liens.................................................................................... 44 SECTION 6.04. Mergers, Etc............................................................................. 46 SECTION 6.05. Investments.............................................................................. 46 SECTION 6.06. Restricted Payments...................................................................... 46 SECTION 6.07. Transactions with Affiliates............................................................. 46 SECTION 6.08. Unrestricted Subsidiaries................................................................ 46 ARTICLE VII Events of Default.............................................................................. 47 ARTICLE VIII The Agents.................................................................................... 49 ARTICLE IX Miscellaneous................................................................................... 52 SECTION 9.01. Notices.................................................................................. 52 SECTION 9.02. Waivers; Amendments...................................................................... 52 SECTION 9.03. Expenses; Indemnity; Damage Waiver....................................................... 53 SECTION 9.04. Successors and Assigns................................................................... 54 SECTION 9.05. Survival................................................................................. 56 SECTION 9.06. Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness................................................. 56 SECTION 9.07. Severability............................................................................. 57 SECTION 9.08. Right of Setoff.......................................................................... 57 SECTION 9.09. Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Consent to Service of Process............................... 57 SECTION 9.10. WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL..................................................................... 58 SECTION 9.11. Headings................................................................................. 58 SECTION 9.12. Confidentiality.......................................................................... 58 SECTION 9.13. Acknowledgements......................................................................... 59 SECTION 9.14. Judgment Currency........................................................................ 59
ii
SECTION 9.15. Relationship of Parent and TWE........................................................... 59 Address of Notices; Commitments............................................................................ 3
SCHEDULES: Schedule 1.01 - Mandatory Cost Rate Schedule 2.01 - Commitments Schedule 2.03(A) - Borrowing Notice/Interest Election Notice/Prepayment Notice Schedule 2.03(B) - Authorized Account Numbers & Locations Schedule 6.08 - Unrestricted Subsidiaries Schedule 8 - List of Proper Persons EXHIBITS: Exhibit A - Form of Assignment and Acceptance Exhibit B - Form of TWE Partner Guarantee Exhibit C - Form of Acknowledgment and Consent iii
AMENDED AND RESTATED 364-DAY CREDIT AGREEMENT (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, this "Agreement") dated as of July 8, 2002 and amended and restated as of March 31, 2003, among TIME WARNER CABLE, INC., a Delaware corporation ("Parent"), TIME WARNER ENTERTAINMENT COMPANY, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership ("TWE"), the several banks and other financial institutions from time to time parties to this Agreement (the "Lenders"), BANK OF AMERICA, N.A. and CITIBANK, N.A., as co-syndication agents (in such capacity, the "Co-Syndication Agents"), ABN AMRO BANK N.V. and BNP PARIBAS, as co-documentation agents (in such capacity, the "Co-Documentation Agents") and JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, as administrative agent (in such capacity, the "Administrative Agent"). W I T N E S S E T H: WHEREAS, AOL Time Warner Inc., a Delaware corporation ("AOLTW"), AOL Time Warner Finance Ireland, a corporation of the Republic of Ireland ("AOLTWFI"), TWE, Time Warner Entertainment/Advance Newhouse Partnership, a New York general partnership ("TWEAN"), the Lenders, the Co-Syndication Agents, the Co-Documentation Agents and the Administrative Agent are parties to a 364-Day Credit Agreement, dated as of July 8, 2002 (the "Existing Credit Agreement"); WHEREAS, AOLTW, AOLTWFI, TWE and TWEAN have requested that the Lenders (under and as defined in, for this purpose only, the Existing Credit Agreement), agree to re-evidence the rights and obligations of TWE under the Existing Credit Agreement and to certain amendments to the Existing Credit Agreement on the terms set forth in this Agreement; WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 2.21 of the Existing Credit Agreement, TWEAN has been terminated as Borrower thereunder; WHEREAS, the Lenders (pursuant to and as defined in, for this purpose only, the Existing Credit Agreement) by executing and delivering lender consent letters, dated as of the date hereof (collectively, the "Lender Consent"), have agreed to the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and have authorized the Administrative Agent to enter into this Agreement in accordance with Section 9.02(b) of the Existing Credit Agreement; ACCORDINGLY, it is agreed that on the Amendment Effective Date (as defined herein) the rights and obligations of TWE under the Existing Credit Agreement shall be amended and re-evidenced as follows: ARTICLE I DEFINITIONS SECTION 1.01. Defined Terms. As used in this Agreement, the following terms have the meanings specified below: "ABR" when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, are bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Alternate Base Rate.
2 "Adjusted Financial Statements" means, for any period, (a) the balance sheet of Testing Party and its Restricted Subsidiaries (treating Unrestricted Subsidiaries as equity investments of Testing Party to the extent that such Unrestricted Subsidiaries would not otherwise be treated as equity investments of Testing Party in accordance with GAAP) as of the end of such period and (b) the related statements of operations and stockholders equity for such period and, if such period is not a fiscal year, for the then elapsed portion of the fiscal year (treating Unrestricted Subsidiaries as equity investments of Testing Party to the extent that such Unrestricted Subsidiaries would not otherwise be treated as equity investments of Testing Party in accordance with GAAP). "Adjusted LIBO Rate" means with respect to any Eurocurrency Borrowing for any Interest Period, an interest rate per annum (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next Basis Point) equal to (a) the LIBO Rate for such Interest Period multiplied by (b) the Statutory Reserve Rate. "Administrative Agent" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, together with its affiliates, as an arranger of the Commitments and as administrative agent for the Lenders hereunder, together with any of its successors pursuant to Article VIII. "Administrative Questionnaire" means, with respect to each Lender, an Administrative Questionnaire in a form supplied by the Administrative Agent. "Affiliate" means, with respect to a specified Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified; provided, that two or more Persons shall not be deemed Affiliates because an individual is a director and/or officer of each such Person. "Agents" means the Co-Syndication Agents, the Co-Documentation Agents and the Administrative Agent. "Alternate Base Rate" means, for any day, a rate per annum equal to the greater of (a) the Prime Rate in effect on such day and (b) the Federal Funds Effective Rate in effect on such day plus 1/2 of 1%. Any change in the Alternate Base Rate due to a change in the Prime Rate or the Federal Funds Effective Rate shall be effective from and including the effective date of such change in the Prime Rate or the Federal Funds Effective Rate, respectively. "Amendment Effective Date" means the date on which the conditions specified in Section 4.01 are satisfied. "AOLTW" has the meaning assigned to such term in the recitals hereto. "AOLTW 364-Day Credit Agreement" means, the Amended and Restated 364-Day Credit Agreement, dated as of July 8 2002 and amended and restated as of the date hereof, among AOLTW, AOLTWFI, the lenders referred to therein, Bank of America, N.A. and Citibank, N.A., as Co-Syndication Agents, ABN AMRO Bank N.V. and BNP Paribas, as Co-Documentation Agents, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as Administrative Agent, as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time. "AOLTW Five-Year Credit Agreement" means the Five-Year Credit Agreement, dated as of July 8, 2002, among AOLTW, AOLTWFI, TWE, TWEAN, the lenders referred to
3 therein, Bank of America, N.A. and Citibank, N.A., as Co-Syndication Agents, ABN AMRO Bank N.V. and BNP Paribas, as Co-Documentation Agents, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as Administrative Agent, as amended by the First Amendment, dated as of the date hereof, and as further amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time. "AOLTWFI" has the meaning assigned to such term in the recitals hereto. "Applicable Percentage" means, with respect to any Lender, the percentage of the sum total of the Commitments which is represented by such Lender's Commitment. If all the Commitments have terminated or expired, the Applicable Percentages shall be determined based upon the Commitments most recently in effect, giving effect to any assignments. "Applicable Rate" means, for any day, with respect to the Facility Fee payable hereunder the applicable rate per annum set forth below expressed in Basis Points under the caption "Facility Fee Rate" based upon the senior unsecured long-term debt credit rating assigned by Moody's and S&P, respectively, applicable on such date to Testing Party, and with respect to any Loan (other than an ABR Loan), the applicable rate per annum set forth below expressed in Basis Points under the caption "Loan (other than ABR Loans) Spread" based upon the senior unsecured long-term debt credit rating (or an equivalent thereof) (in each case, a "Rating") assigned by Moody's and S&P, respectively, applicable on such date to Testing Party: For purposes of determining the Applicable Rate for Testing Party, (A) if either Moody's or S&P shall not have in effect a relevant Rating (other than by reason of the circumstances referred to in clause (C) of this definition), then the Rating assigned by the other rating agency shall be used; (B) if the relevant Ratings assigned by Moody's and S&P shall fall
4 within different Categories, the Applicable Rate shall be based on the higher of the two Ratings unless one of the two Ratings is two or more Categories lower than the other, in which case the Applicable Rate shall be determined by reference to the Category next below that of the higher of the two ratings; (C) if either rating agency shall cease to assign a relevant Rating solely because Testing Party elects not to participate or otherwise cooperate in the ratings process of such rating agency, the Applicable Rate shall not be less than that in effect immediately before such rating agency's Rating for Testing Party became unavailable; and (D) if the relevant Ratings assigned by Moody's or S&P shall be changed (other than as a result of a change in the rating system of Moody's or S&P), such change shall be effective as of the date on which it is first announced by the applicable rating agency. Each change in the Applicable Rate shall apply during the period commencing on the effective date of such change and ending on the date immediately preceding the effective date of the next such change. If the rating system of Moody's or S&P shall change, or if either such rating agency shall cease to be in the business of rating corporate debt obligations, Testing Party and the Lenders shall negotiate in good faith to amend this definition to reflect such changed rating system or the unavailability of ratings from such rating agency, and, pending the effectiveness of any such amendment, the Applicable Rate of Testing Party shall be determined by reference to the rating most recently in effect prior to such change or cessation; provided that, if Testing Party elects to extend the Maturity Date of the Revolving Loans outstanding on the Commitment Termination Date pursuant to Section 2.09(f), each of the applicable rates per annum set forth above in Basis Points under the caption "Loan (other than ABR Loans) Spreads" shall be increased by 25 Basis Points for the period that such Revolving Loans remain outstanding subsequent to the Initial Maturity Date. "Arrangers" means J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Banc of America Securities LLC. "Assignment and Acceptance" means an assignment and acceptance entered into by a Lender and an assignee (with the consent of any party whose consent is required by Section 9.04), and accepted by the Administrative Agent, in substantially the form of Exhibit A. "Availability Period" means the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the Commitment Termination Date. "Basis Point" means 1/100th of 1%. "Base Rate" means (a) with respect to Dollar denominated Loans, the Alternative Base Rate, (b) with respect to Pound Sterling denominated Loans, the Pound Sterling Overnight Rate, and (c) with respect to Euro denominated Loans, the Euro Overnight Rate. "Board" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States. "Borrower" means each of TWE and, subject to Section 9.15, Parent. "Borrowing" means Revolving Loans of the same Type, made, converted or continued on the same date and, in the case of Eurocurrency Loans, as to which a single Interest Period is in effect.
5 "Borrowing Request" means a request by a Borrower for a Borrowing in accordance with Section 2.03. "Business Day" means any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in New York City are authorized or required by law to remain closed; provided that, (a) when used in connection with a Eurocurrency Loan or a Base Rate Loan (other than an ABR Loan), the term "Business Day" shall also exclude any day on which banks are not open for dealings in deposits in the applicable currency in the London interbank market and (b) when used in connection with any Loan denominated in Euro, the term "Business Day" shall also exclude any day on which the TARGET payment system is not open for the settlement of payment in Euro. "Capital Lease Obligations" of any Person means the obligations of such Person to pay rent or other amounts under any lease of (or other arrangement conveying the right to use) real or personal property, or a combination thereof, which obligations are required to be classified and accounted for as capital leases on a balance sheet of such Person under GAAP, and the amount of such obligations shall be the capitalized amount thereof determined in accordance with GAAP. "Capital Stock" means, with respect to any Person, any and all shares, partnership interests or other equivalents (however designated and whether voting or non-voting) of such Person's equity, whether outstanding on the date hereof or hereafter issued, and any and all equivalent ownership interests in a Person (other than a corporation) and any and all rights, warrants or options to purchase or acquire or exchangeable for or convertible into such shares, partnership interests or other equivalents. "Cash Equivalents" means (a) securities issued or directly and fully guaranteed or insured by the United States or any agency or instrumentality thereof (provided that the full faith and credit of the United States is pledged in support thereof) that (i) have maturities of not more than six months from the date of acquisition thereof or (ii) are subject to a repurchase agreement with an institution described in clause (b)(i) or (ii) below exercisable within six months from the date of acquisition thereof, (b) U.S. Dollar-denominated and Eurocurrency time deposits, certificates of deposit and bankers' acceptances of (i) any domestic commercial bank of recognized standing having capital and surplus in excess of $500,000,000 or (ii) any bank whose short-term commercial paper rating from S&P is at least A-2 or the equivalent thereof, from Moody's is at least P-2 or the equivalent thereof or from Fitch is at least F-2 or the equivalent thereof (any such bank, an "Approved Lender"), in each case with maturities of not more than six months from the date of acquisition thereof, (c) commercial paper and variable and fixed rate notes issued by any Lender or Approved Lender or by the parent company of any Lender or Approved Lender and commercial paper and variable rate notes issued by, or guaranteed by, any industrial or financial company with a short-term commercial paper rating of at least A-2 or the equivalent thereof by S&P or at least P-2 or the equivalent thereof by Moody's or at least F-2 or the equivalent thereof by Fitch, and in each case maturing within six months after the date of acquisition thereof, (d) securities with maturities of one year or less from the date of acquisition issued or fully guaranteed by any state, commonwealth or territory of the United States, by any political subdivision or taxing authority of any such state, commonwealth or territory or by any foreign government, the securities of which state, commonwealth, territory, political subdivision, taxing authority or foreign government (as the case may be) are rated at least A by S&P or A by Moody's, (e) securities with maturities of six months or less from the date of acquisition backed
6 by standby letters of credit issued by any Lender or any commercial bank satisfying the requirements of clause (b) of this definition, (f) tax-exempt commercial paper of U.S. municipal, state or local governments rated at least A-2 or the equivalent thereof by S&P or at least P-2 or the equivalent thereof by Moody's or at least F-2 or the equivalent thereof by Fitch and maturing within six months after the date of acquisition thereof, (g) shares of money market mutual or similar funds sponsored by any registered broker dealer or mutual fund distributor, (h) repurchase obligations entered into with any bank meeting the qualifications of clause (b) above or any registered broker dealer whose short-term commercial paper rating from S&P is at least A-2 or the equivalent thereof or from Moody's is at least P-2 or the equivalent thereof or from Fitch is at least F-2 or the equivalent thereof, having a term of not more than 30 days, with respect to securities issued or fully guaranteed or insured by the United States government or residential whole loan mortgages, and (i) demand deposit accounts maintained in the ordinary course of business. "Change in Control" means (a) a Person or "group" (within the meaning of Section 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act) other than AOLTW and/or its Subsidiaries acquiring or having beneficial ownership (it being understood that a tender of shares or other equity interests shall not be deemed acquired or giving beneficial ownership until such shares or other equity interests shall have been accepted for payment) of securities (or options to purchase securities) having a majority or more of the ordinary voting power Parent (including options to acquire such voting power), (b) persons who are directors of Parent as of the date hereof or persons designated or approved by such directors ceasing to constitute a majority of the board of directors of Parent, or (c) Parent ceasing to own and control of record and beneficially securities (or options to purchase securities) representing at least 51% of the ordinary voting power of TWE (including options to acquire such voting power). "Change in Law" means (a) the adoption of any law, rule or regulation after the date of this Agreement, (b) any change in any law, rule or regulation or in the interpretation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority after the date of this Agreement or (c) compliance by any Lender (or, for purposes of Section 2.14(b), by any lending office of such Lender or by such Lender's holding company, if any) with any request, guideline or directive of any Governmental Authority made or issued after the date of this Agreement. "Co-Documentation Agents" has the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto. "Co-Syndication Agents" has the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto. "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time. "Commitment" means, with respect to each Lender, the commitment of such Lender to make Revolving Loans hereunder, expressed as an amount representing the maximum aggregate permitted amount of such Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure hereunder, as such commitment may be (a) reduced from time to time pursuant to Section 2.08 or Section 2.18 and (b) reduced or increased from time to time pursuant to assignments by or to such Lender pursuant to Section 9.04. The amount of each Lender's Commitment as of the Amendment Effective Date is set forth on Schedule 2.01, or in the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which such Lender shall have assumed its Commitment, as applicable.
7 "Commitment Termination Date" means the earlier of (a) the Business Day immediately preceding the first anniversary of the Effective Date and (b) the date on which the Commitments shall terminate in their entirety in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement. "Commitment Utilization Percentage" means on any day the percentage equivalent to a fraction (a) the numerator of which is the sum of the aggregate outstanding Revolving Credit Exposure of the Lenders under the Facilities (as modified or replaced from time to time) then in effect in the aggregate, and (b) the denominator of which is the sum of the aggregate amount of the Commitments of the Lenders then in effect under the Facilities (as modified or replaced from time to time) then in effect in the aggregate; provided that on any day subsequent to (i) the Initial Maturity Date if Testing Party has delivered a Term Out Notice pursuant to Section 2.09(f), the aggregate amount of the Commitments of the Lenders under this Agreement for purposes of this definition shall be the aggregate amount of the outstanding Revolving Credit Exposure of the Lenders and (ii) the Initial Maturity Date (under and as defined in the AOLTW 364-Day Credit Agreement) if AOLTW has delivered a Term Out Notice pursuant to Section 2.09(f) of the AOLTW 364-Day Credit Agreement, the aggregate amount of the Commitments of the Lenders thereunder for purposes of this definition shall be the aggregate amount of the outstanding Revolving Credit Exposure of the Lenders thereunder. "Companies" means each of the Credit Parties and their respective Restricted Subsidiaries, collectively; and "Company" means any of them. "Conduit Lender" means any special purpose corporation organized and administered by any Lender for the purpose of making Loans otherwise required to be made by such Lender and designated by such Lender in a written instrument, subject to the consent of Testing Party (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld); provided, that the designation by any Lender of a Conduit Lender shall not relieve the designating Lender of any of its obligations to fund a Loan under this Agreement if, for any reason, its Conduit Lender fails to fund any such Loan, and the designating Lender (and not the Conduit Lender) shall have the sole right and responsibility to deliver all consents and waivers required or requested under this Agreement with respect to its Conduit Lender, and provided, further, that no Conduit Lender shall (a) be entitled to receive any greater amount pursuant to Section 2.14, 2.15, 2.16 or 9.03 than the designating Lender would have been entitled to receive in respect of the Loans made by such Conduit Lender or (b) be deemed to have any Commitment. The making of a Loan by a Conduit Lender hereunder shall utilize the Commitment of a designating Lender to the same extent, and as if, such Loan were made by such designating Lender. "Consolidated EBITDA" means, for any period, Consolidated Net Income of Testing Party and its Restricted Subsidiaries for such period plus, without duplication and to the extent reflected as a charge in the statement of such Consolidated Net Income of Testing Party and its Restricted Subsidiaries for such period, the sum of (a) income tax expense, (b) interest expense, amortization or writeoff of debt discount and debt issuance costs and commissions, discounts and other fees and charges associated with Indebtedness (including the Loans), (c) depreciation and amortization expense (excluding amortization of film inventory that does not constitute amortization of purchase price amortization), (d) amortization of intangibles (including, but not limited to, goodwill) and organization costs (excluding amortization of film inventory that does not constitute amortization of purchase price amortization), (e) any extraordinary, unusual or non-recurring non-cash expenses or losses (including, whether or not
8 otherwise includable as a separate item in the statement of such Consolidated Net Income for such period, non-cash losses on sales of assets outside of the ordinary course of business), and (f) minority interest expense in respect of preferred stock of Subsidiaries of Testing Party, and minus, to the extent included in the statement of such Consolidated Net Income for such period, the sum of (a) interest income and (b) any extraordinary, unusual or non-recurring income or gains (including, whether or not otherwise includable as a separate item in the statement of such Consolidated Net Income for such period, gains on the sales of assets outside of the ordinary course of business), all as determined on a consolidated basis. "Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio" means, for any period, the ratio of (a) Consolidated EBITDA for such period to (b) Consolidated Interest Expense for such period. "Consolidated Interest Expense" means, for any period, total cash interest expense (including that attributable to Capital Lease Obligations) of Testing Party and its Restricted Subsidiaries for such period with respect to all outstanding Indebtedness of Testing Party and its Restricted Subsidiaries (other than the amount amortized during such period in respect of all fees paid in connection with the incurrence of such Indebtedness), such expense to be determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP). "Consolidated Leverage Ratio" means, as at the last day of any period, the ratio of (a) Consolidated Total Debt on such day to (b) Consolidated EBITDA for such period. "Consolidated Net Income" means, for any period, the consolidated net income (or loss) of any Person and its consolidated Subsidiaries, determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP; provided that there shall be excluded, without duplication (a) the income (or deficit) of any Person accrued prior to the date it becomes a Subsidiary of such Person or is merged into or consolidated with such Person or any of its Subsidiaries or that such other Person's assets are acquired by such Person or any of its Subsidiaries, (b) the income (or deficit) of any Person (other than (i) in the case of such Person, a Restricted Subsidiary of such Person and (ii) in the case of any other Person, a Subsidiary of such Person) in which such Person or any of its Subsidiaries has an ownership interest, except to the extent that any such income is actually received by such Person (or (i) in the case of such Person, its Restricted Subsidiary and (ii) in the case of any other Person, its Subsidiary) in the form of dividends or similar distributions and (c) the undistributed earnings of any Subsidiary of such Person Party to the extent that the declaration or payment of dividends or similar distributions by such Subsidiary is not at the time permitted by the terms of its charter or any agreement or instrument (other than any Credit Document), judgment, decree, order, statute, rule, governmental regulation or other requirement of law applicable to such Subsidiary; provided that the income of any Subsidiary of such Person shall not be excluded by reason of this clause (c) so long as such Subsidiary guarantees the Obligations. "Consolidated Total Assets" means at any date, all amounts that would, in conformity with GAAP, be included on a consolidated balance sheet of Testing Party and its Subsidiaries under total assets at such date; provided that such amounts shall be calculated in accordance with Section 1.04. "Consolidated Total Debt" means, at any date the aggregate principal amount of Indebtedness of Testing Party and its Restricted Subsidiaries minus (a) the aggregate principal amount of any such Indebtedness that is payable either by its terms or at the election of the
9 obligor in equity securities of Testing Party or the proceeds of options in respect of such equity securities, (b) to the extent included in the calculation of such Indebtedness, the aggregate principal amount of Film Financings in respect of which TWE has Guarantee Obligations as of the Amendment Effective Date and (c) the aggregate amount of cash and Cash Equivalents held by Testing Party or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries in excess of $25,000,000, all determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP. "Control" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise. "Controlling" and "Controlled" have meanings correlative thereto. "Copyright Liens" means any Liens granted by any Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries on copyrights relating to movies or other programming, which movies or other programming are subject to one or more contracts entitling such Borrower or such Subsidiary to future payments in respect of such movies or other programming and which contractual rights to future payments are to be transferred by such Borrower or Subsidiary to a special purpose Subsidiary of such Borrower or Subsidiary organized for the purpose of monetizing such rights to future payments, provided that such Liens (a) are granted directly or indirectly for the benefit of the special purpose Subsidiary and/or the Persons who purchase such contractual rights to future payments from such special purpose Subsidiary and (b) extend only to the copyrights for the movies or other programming subject to such contracts for the purpose of permitting the completion, distribution and exhibition of such movies or other programming. "Credit Documents" means this Agreement, the TWE Partner Guarantee and each Note. "Credit Parties" means the Borrowers and the TWE Partner Guarantors; and "Credit Party" means any of them. "Currency" means Dollars or any Optional Currency. "Default" means any event or condition which constitutes an Event of Default or which upon notice, lapse of time or both would, unless cured or waived, become an Event of Default. "Defaulting Lender" means any Lender which fails to make any Loan required to be made by it in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement. "Dollar Equivalent" means, on any date of determination, (a) with respect to any amount denominated in Dollars, such amount, and (b) with respect to an amount denominated in any Optional Currency, the equivalent in Dollars of such amount determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with normal banking industry practice using the Exchange Rate on the date of determination of such equivalent. In making any determination of the Dollar Equivalent (for purposes of calculating the amount of Loans to be borrowed from the respective Lenders on any date or for any other purpose), the Administrative Agent shall use the relevant Exchange Rate in effect on the date on which the applicable Borrower delivers a Borrowing Request (which, in accordance with Section 2.03, may be telephonic) for Loans or on such other date upon which a Dollar Equivalent is required to be determined pursuant to the provisions of
10 this Agreement. As appropriate, amounts specified herein as amounts in Dollars shall be or include any relevant Dollar Equivalent amount. "Dollars" or "$" refers to lawful money of the United States. "Effective Date" means July 8, 2002. "EMU" means the Economic and Monetary Union as contemplated in the Treaty. "EMU Legislation" means the legislative measures of the European Council (including without limitation the European Council regulations) for the introduction of, changeover to or operation of the Euro in one or more member states. "Environmental Law" means all applicable and binding laws, rules, regulations, codes, ordinances, orders, decrees, judgments, injunctions, or agreements issued, promulgated or entered into by any Governmental Authority, relating in any way to the environment, preservation or reclamation of natural resources, the management, release or threatened release of any Hazardous Material or to health and safety matters. "Environmental Liability" means any liability, contingent or otherwise (including any liability for damages, costs of environmental remediation, fines, penalties or indemnities), of any Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries directly or indirectly resulting from or based upon (a) a violation of any Environmental Law, (b) the generation, use, handling, transportation, storage, treatment or disposal of any Hazardous Materials, (c) the exposure to any Hazardous Materials, (d) the release or threatened release of any Hazardous Materials into the environment or (e) any contract, agreement or other consensual arrangement pursuant to which liability is assumed or imposed with respect to any of the foregoing. "ERISA" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time. "ERISA Affiliate" means, with respect to any Borrower, any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) that, together with such Borrower, is treated as a single employer under Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code or, solely for purposes of Section 302 of ERISA and Section 412 of the Code, is treated as a single employer under Section 414 of the Code. "ERISA Event" means (a) any "reportable event," as defined in Section 4043 of ERISA or the regulations issued thereunder with respect to a Plan (other than an event for which the 30-day notice period is waived); (b) the existence with respect to any Plan of an "accumulated funding deficiency" (as defined in Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA), whether or not waived; (c) the filing pursuant to Section 412(d) of the Code or in Section 303(d) of ERISA of an application for a waiver of the minimum funding standard with respect to any Plan; (d) the incurrence by any Credit Party or any of its ERISA Affiliates of any unfunded liability under Title IV of ERISA with respect to the termination of any Plan; (e) the receipt by any Credit Party or any ERISA Affiliate from the PBGC or a Plan administrator of any notice relating to an intention to terminate any Plan or Plans or to appoint a trustee to administer any Plan; (f) the incurrence by any Credit Party or any of its ERISA Affiliates of any liability with respect to the withdrawal or partial withdrawal from any Plan or Multiemployer Plan; (g) the receipt by any Credit Party or any ERISA Affiliate of any notice concerning the imposition on such entity of Withdrawal Liability or a determination that a Multiemployer Plan
11 with respect to which such entity is obligated to contribute or is otherwise liable is, or is expected to be, insolvent or in reorganization, within the meaning of Title IV of ERISA; or (h) the occurrence, with respect to a Plan or a Multiemployer Plan, of a nonexempt "prohibited transaction" (within the meaning of Section 4975 of the Code or Section 406 of ERISA) which could reasonably be expected to result in liability to a Credit Party. "Euro" and "(euro)" means the single currency of Participating Member States introduced in accordance with the provision of Article 123 of the Treaty and, in respect of all payments to be made under this Agreement in Euro, means immediately available, freely transferable funds in such currency. "Eurocurrency," when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, are bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Adjusted LIBO Rate. "Euro Overnight Rate" means, for any day, the sum of (a) the average of the rates per annum quoted at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, to leading banks in the European interbank market by the Reference Banks for the offering of overnight deposits in Euro plus (b) the Applicable Rate. The Administrative Agent shall determine the Euro Overnight Rate by obtaining quotes from the Reference Banks, and if any such Reference Bank fails to timely provide such quote for any day, then the Euro Overnight Rate for such day shall be determined by the average based on the quotes from the Reference Banks that provided quotes on that day. "Event of Default" has the meaning assigned to such term in Article VII. "Exchange Act" means the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. "Exchange Rate" means, with respect to any Optional Currency on a particular date, the rate at which such Optional Currency may be exchanged into Dollars, as set forth at 11:00 a.m. London time on such date on the applicable Reuters Screen page with respect to such Optional Currency. In the event that such rate does not appear on the applicable Reuters currency page, the Exchange Rate with respect to such Optional Currency shall be determined by reference to such other publicly available service for displaying exchange rates as may be agreed upon by the Administrative Agent and Testing Party or, in the absence of such agreement, such Exchange Rate shall instead be the spot rate of exchange of the Administrative Agent in the London interbank or other market where its foreign currency exchange operations in respect of such Optional Currency are then being conducted, at or about 11:00 a.m., London time, at such date for the purchase of Dollars with such Optional Currency, for delivery two Business Days later; provided, however, that if at the time of any such determination, for any reason, no such spot rate is being quoted, the Administrative Agent may use any reasonable method it deems appropriate to determine such rate, and such determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error. "Excluded Taxes" means, with respect to the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any other recipient of any payment to be made by or on account of any obligation of any Credit Party hereunder, (a) income or franchise taxes imposed on (or measured by) its net income by the United States, or by the jurisdiction under the laws of which such recipient is organized or in which its principal office is located or, in the case of any Lender, in which its applicable lending office is located, (b) any branch profits taxes imposed by the United States or
12 any similar tax imposed by any other jurisdiction described in clause (a) above, (c) in the case of a Foreign Lender (other than an assignee pursuant to a request by Testing Party under Section 2.18(b)), any withholding tax (i) that is imposed on amounts payable to such Foreign Lender at the time such Foreign Lender becomes a party to this Agreement or designates a new lending office or (ii) is attributable to such Foreign Lender's failure or inability to comply with Section 2.16(e), except to the extent that such Foreign Lender (or its assignor, if any) was entitled, at the time of such designation of a new lending office or assignment, to receive additional amounts from such Credit Party with respect to such withholding tax pursuant to Section 2.16(a) and (d) in the case of a Lender that is a U.S. Person, any withholding tax that is attributable to the Lender's failure to comply with Section 2.16(f). "Existing Credit Agreement" has the meaning assigned to such term in the recitals to this Agreement. "Extended Maturity Date" means the date that is the second anniversary of the Initial Maturity Date. "Facilities" means the credit facilities extended pursuant to this Agreement, the AOLTW Five-Year Credit Agreement and the AOLTW 364-day Credit Agreement. "Facility Fee" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.11(a). "Federal Funds Effective Rate" means, for any day, the weighted average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next Basis Point) of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the United States Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published on the next succeeding Business Day by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day that is a Business Day, the average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next Basis Point) of the quotations for such day for such transactions received by the Administrative Agent from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it. "Film Financing" means, without duplication, monetary obligations arising out of transactions in which so-called tax-based financing groups or other third-party investors provide financing for the acquisition, production or distribution of motion pictures, television programs, sound recordings or books or rights with respect thereto in exchange, in part, for certain tax or other benefits which are derived from such motion pictures, television programs, sound recordings, books or rights; provided that no such monetary obligations shall have, directly or indirectly, recourse (including by way of setoff) to any Borrower or any Restricted Subsidiary or any of its assets other than to the profits or distribution rights related to such motion pictures, television programs, sound recordings, books or rights and other than to a Subsidiary of TWE substantially all of the assets of which consist of the motion pictures, television programs, sound recordings, books or rights which are the subject of such transaction and related cash and Cash Equivalents. "Financial Officer" means, with respect to any Person, the chief financial officer, principal accounting officer, treasurer or controller of such Person. "Fitch" means Fitch, Inc.
13 "Foreign Lender" means any Lender that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than that in which the applicable Borrower is located. For purposes of this definition, the United States, each State thereof and the District of Columbia shall be deemed to constitute a single jurisdiction. "Franchise" means, with respect to any Person, a franchise, license, authorization or right to construct, own, operate, manage, promote, extend or otherwise utilize any cable television distribution system operated or to be operated by such Person or any of its Subsidiaries granted by any Governmental Authority, but shall not include any such franchise, license, authorization or right that is incidentally required for the purpose of installing, constructing or extending a cable television system. "GAAP" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. "Governmental Authority" means the government of the United States, any other nation or any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government. "Guarantee Obligations" of or by any Person (the "guarantor") means any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of the guarantor guaranteeing or having the economic effect of guaranteeing any Indebtedness of any other Person (the "primary obligor") in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, and including any obligation of the guarantor, direct or indirect, (a) to purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Indebtedness or to purchase (or to advance or supply funds for the purchase of) any security for the payment thereof, (b) to purchase or lease property, securities or services for the purpose of assuring the owner of such Indebtedness of the payment thereof, (c) to maintain working capital, equity capital or any other financial statement condition or liquidity of the primary obligor so as to enable the primary obligor to pay such Indebtedness or (d) as an account party in respect of any letter of credit or letter of guaranty issued to support such Indebtedness; provided, that the term Guarantee Obligations shall not include endorsements for collection or deposit in the ordinary course of business. "Guaranteed Percentage" means with respect to any TWE Partner Guarantor, the percentage of the Obligations of TWE hereunder being guaranteed by such TWE Partner Guarantor, with the Guaranteed Percentage of each TWE Partner Guarantor being as follows: Warner Communications Inc.: 59.27%; American Television and Communications Corporation: 40.73%; provided that the Guaranteed Percentage of any TWE Partner Guarantor may be changed by TWE from time to time by written notice to the Administrative Agent in connection with the merger or consolidation of such TWE Partner Guarantor; provided further that at all times the sum of the Guaranteed Percentages of all TWE Partner Guarantors shall equal 100%, "Hazardous Materials" means all explosive or radioactive substances or wastes and all hazardous or toxic substances, wastes or other pollutants, including petroleum or petroleum distillates, asbestos or asbestos containing materials, polychlorinated biphenyls, radon gas, infectious or medical wastes and all other substances or wastes of any nature regulated pursuant to any Environmental Law.
14 "Indebtedness" of any Person means, without duplication, (a) all obligations of such Person for borrowed money, (b) all obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or similar instruments, (c) all obligations of such Person upon which interest charges are customarily paid, (d) all obligations of such Person under conditional sale or other title retention agreements relating to property acquired by such Person (but not including synthetic or operating leases), (e) all obligations of such Person in respect of the deferred purchase price of property or services (excluding current accounts payable incurred in the ordinary course of business and payment obligations of such Person pursuant to agreements entered into in the ordinary course of business, which payment obligations are contingent on another Person's satisfactory provision of services or products), (f) all Indebtedness of others secured by (or for which the holder of such Indebtedness has an existing right, contingent or otherwise, to be secured by) any Lien (other than Copyright Liens or Liens on interests or Investments in Unrestricted Subsidiaries) on property owned or acquired by such Person, whether or not the Indebtedness secured thereby has been assumed (but only to the extent of the lesser of the fair market value of the property subject to such Lien and the amount of such Indebtedness), (g) all Guarantee Obligations of such Person with respect to Indebtedness of others (except to the extent that such Guarantee Obligation guarantees Indebtedness of a Restricted Subsidiary), (h) all Capital Lease Obligations of such Person, (i) all obligations, contingent or otherwise, of such Person as an account party in respect of letters of credit (but only to the extent of all drafts drawn thereunder) and (j) all obligations, contingent or otherwise, of such Person in respect of bankers' acceptances. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Indebtedness shall not include (i) any obligation of such Person to guarantee performance of, or enter into indemnification agreements with respect to, obligations, entered into in the ordinary course of business, under any and all Franchises, leases, performance bonds, franchise bonds and obligations to reimburse drawings under letters of credit issued in lieu of performance or franchise bonds or (ii) obligations to make Tax Distributions. The Indebtedness of any Person shall include the Indebtedness of any other entity (including any partnership in which such Person is a general partner) to the extent such Person is liable therefor as a result of such Person's ownership interest in or other contractual relationship with such entity, except to the extent the terms of such Indebtedness provide that such Person is not liable therefor. "Indemnified Taxes" means Taxes other than Excluded Taxes. "Initial Maturity Date" means the Business Day immediately preceding the first anniversary of the Effective Date. "Interest Election Request" means a request by a Borrower to convert or continue a Revolving Borrowing in accordance with Section 2.07. "Interest Payment Date" means (a) with respect to any Base Rate Loan, the last day of each March, June, September and December and (b) with respect to any Eurocurrency Loan, the last day of the Interest Period applicable to the Borrowing of which such Loan is a part and, in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing with an Interest Period of more than three months' duration, each day that is three months, or a whole multiple thereof, after the first day of such Interest Period and the last day of such Interest Period. "Interest Period" means with respect to any Eurocurrency Borrowing the period commencing on the date of such Borrowing and ending on the numerically corresponding day in the calendar month that is (a) one, two, three or six months (or, with the consent of each Lender,
15 a shorter period) thereafter, as the applicable Borrower may elect or (b) one month thereafter, if the applicable Borrower has made no election, provided, that (i) if any Interest Period would end on a day other than a Business Day, such Interest Period shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless such next succeeding Business Day would fall in the next calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day and (ii) any Interest Period pertaining to such a Borrowing that commences on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the last calendar month of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the last calendar month of such Interest Period. For purposes hereof, the date of a Borrowing initially shall be the date on which such Borrowing is made and, in the case of a Revolving Borrowing, thereafter shall be the effective date of the most recent conversion or continuation of such Borrowing. "Investment" by any Person means any direct or indirect (a) loan, advance or other extension of credit or contribution to any other Person (by means of transfer of cash or other property to others, payments for property or services for the account or use of others, mergers or otherwise), (b) purchase or acquisition of Capital Stock, bonds, notes, debentures or other securities (including any option, warrant or other right to acquire any of the foregoing) or evidences of Indebtedness issued by any other Person (whether by merger, consolidation, amalgamation or otherwise and whether or not purchased directly from the issuer of such securities or evidences of Indebtedness), (c) purchase or acquisition (in one transaction or a series of transactions) of any assets of any other Person constituting a business unit and (d) all other items that would be classified as investments on a balance sheet of such Person prepared in accordance with GAAP. Investments shall exclude extension of trade credit and advances to customers and suppliers to the extent made in the ordinary course of business and in accordance with customary industry practice. "Lender Affiliate" means, (a) with respect to any Lender, (i) an Affiliate of such Lender or (ii) any entity (whether a corporation, partnership, trust or otherwise) that is engaged in making, purchasing, holding or otherwise investing in bank loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its business and is administered or managed by a Lender or an Affiliate of such Lender and (b) with respect to any Lender that is a fund which invests in bank loans and similar extensions of credit, any other fund that invests in bank loans and similar extensions of credit and is managed by the same investment advisor as such Lender or by an Affiliate of such investment advisor. "Lender Consent" has the meaning assigned to such term in the recitals to this Agreement. "Lenders" means the Persons listed on Schedule 2.01 and any other Person that shall have become a party hereto pursuant to an Assignment and Acceptance, other than any such Person that ceases to be a party hereto pursuant to an Assignment and Acceptance. "LIBO Rate" means, (a) with respect to any Eurocurrency Borrowing denominated in Pounds or Dollars for any Interest Period, the rate appearing on Page 3740 or Page 3750, as the case may be, of the Telerate Service (or on any successor or substitute page of such Service, or any successor to or substitute for such Service, providing rate quotations comparable to those currently provided on such page of such Service, as determined by the Administrative Agent from time to time for purposes of providing quotations of interest rates applicable to Pound or Dollar deposits (as applicable) in the London interbank market) at
16 approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period (or, in the case of Pounds, on the first day of such Interest Period), as the rate for Pound or Dollar deposits, as applicable, with a maturity comparable to such Interest Period and (b) with respect to any Eurocurrency Borrowing denominated in Euro for any Interest Period, the rate appearing on Page 248 of the Telerate Service (it being understood that this rate is the Euro interbank offered rate (known as the "EURIBOR Rate") sponsored by the Banking Federation of the European Union (known as the "FBE") and the Financial Markets Association (known as the "ACI")) at approximately 10:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, as the rate for deposits in Euro with a maturity comparable to such Interest Period. In the event that such rate is not available at such time for any reason, then the "LIBO Rate" with respect to such Eurocurrency Borrowing for such Interest Period shall be the rate per annum (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next Basis Point) equal to the arithmetic average of the rates at which deposits in Dollars or the applicable Optional Currency approximately equal in principal amount to the Dollar Equivalent of $5,000,000 and for a maturity comparable to such Interest Period are offered with respect to any Eurocurrency Borrowing to the principal London offices of the Reference Banks (or, if any Reference Bank does not at the time maintain a London office, the principal London office of any Affiliate of such Reference Bank) in immediately available funds in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period (or, in the case of Pounds, on the first day of such Interest Period) and; provided, however, that, if only two Reference Banks notify the Administrative Agent of the rates offered to such Reference Banks (or any Affiliates of such Reference Lenders) as aforesaid, the LIBO Rate with respect to such Eurocurrency Borrowing shall be equal to the arithmetic average of the rates so offered to such Reference Banks (or any such Affiliates). "Lien" means, with respect to any asset, (a) any mortgage, deed of trust, lien, pledge, hypothecation, encumbrance, charge or security interest in (including sales of accounts), on or of such asset, (b) the interest of a vendor or a lessor under any conditional sale agreement, capital lease or title retention agreement (or any financing lease having substantially the same economic effect as any of the foregoing, but excluding any operating leases) relating to such asset and (c) in the case of securities, any purchase option, call or similar right of a third party with respect to such securities. "Loans" means the loans made by the Lenders to any Borrower pursuant to this Agreement. "Local Time" means, for payments and disbursements (a) in respect of Dollars, New York time and (b) in respect of Euros or Pounds, London time. "Mandatory Cost" means, with respect to any Lender, the cost imputed to such Lender of compliance with the requirements of the Bank of England or the Financial Services Authority during the relevant Interest Period, determined in accordance with Schedule 1.01. "Material Adverse Effect" means a material adverse effect on (a) the financial condition, business, results of operations, properties or liabilities of Testing Party and its Restricted Subsidiaries taken as a whole, (b) the ability of any Credit Party to perform any of its material obligations to the Lenders under any Credit Document to which it is or will be a party or (c) the rights of or benefits available to the Lenders under any Credit Document.
17 "Material Indebtedness" means Indebtedness (other than the Loans), of any one or more of Parent and the Subsidiaries thereof in an aggregate principal amount exceeding $200,000,000. "Material Subsidiary" of any Person means, at any date, each Subsidiary of such Person which, either alone or together with the Subsidiaries of such Subsidiary, meets any of the following conditions: (a) as of the last day of such Person's most recently ended fiscal quarter for which financial statements have been filed with the SEC the investments of such Person and its Subsidiaries in, or their proportionate share (based on their equity interests) of the book value of the total assets (after intercompany eliminations) of, the Subsidiary in question exceeds 10% of the book value of the total assets of such Person and its consolidated Subsidiaries; (b) for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters ended on the last day of such Person's most recently ended fiscal quarter for which financial statements have been filed with the SEC, the equity of such Person and its Subsidiaries in the revenues from continuing operations of the Subsidiary in question exceeds 10% of the revenues from continuing operations of such Person and its consolidated Subsidiaries; or (c) for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters ended on the last day of such Person's most recently ended fiscal quarter for which financial statements have been filed with the SEC, the equity of such Person and its Subsidiaries in the Consolidated EBITDA of the Subsidiary in question exceeds 10% of the Consolidated EBITDA of such Person. "Maturity Date" means the Initial Maturity Date, provided that if Testing Party has delivered a Term Out Notice to the Administrative Agent in accordance with Section 2.09(f) the Maturity Date in respect of the Revolving Loans (as well as all related interest and fees) subject to such Term Out Notice shall be the Extended Maturity Date. "Moody's" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. "Multiemployer Plan" means a multiemployer plan as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA. "National Currency Unit" means the unit of currency (other than the Euro) of a Participating Member State. "Note" means any promissory note evidencing Loans issued pursuant to Section 2.09(e). "Obligations" has the meaning assigned to such term in the TWE Partner Guarantee. "Officer's Certificate" means, with respect to any Person, a certificate executed by the Chief Financial Officer, the Treasurer or the Controller of such Person or such other officer of such Person reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent and designated as such in writing to the Administrative Agent by such Person.
18 "Optional Currency" means, at any time, Pounds and Euros, so long as such currency is freely traded and convertible into Dollars in the United States market and a Dollar Equivalent thereof can be calculated. "Other Taxes" means any and all present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies arising from any payment made hereunder or from the execution, delivery or enforcement of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement. "Parent" has the meaning assigned to such term in the preamble to this Agreement. "Participating Member State" means a member of the European Communities that adopts or has adopted the Euro as its currency in accordance with EMU Legislation. "PBGC" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation referred to and defined in ERISA and any successor entity thereto. "Person" means any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership, Governmental Authority or other entity. "Plan" means any employee pension benefit plan (other than a Multiemployer Plan) subject to the provisions of Title IV of ERISA or Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA, and in respect of which any Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate is (or, if such plan were terminated, would under Section 4069 of ERISA be deemed to be) an "employer" as defined in Section 3(5) of ERISA. "Pounds" or "(pound)" or "Pound Sterling" refer to lawful money of the United Kingdom. "Pound Sterling Overnight Rate" means, for any day, a rate per annum equal to the rate on overnight Pound Sterling deposits in the London interbank market as such rates are quoted on Page 3750 of the Telerate Service (or on any successor or substitute page of such Service, or any successor to or substitute for such Service, providing rate quotations comparable to those currently provided on such page of such Service, as determined by the Administrative Agent from time to time for purposes of providing quotations of interest rates applicable to Pound Sterling deposits in the London interbank market), plus the Mandatory Cost, plus the Applicable Rate. "Prime Rate" means the rate of interest per annum publicly announced from time to time by the Administrative Agent as its prime rate in effect at its principal office in New York City; each change in the Prime Rate shall be effective from and including the date such change is publicly announced as being effective. "Rating" has the meaning assigned to such term in the definition of "Applicable Rate". "Reference Banks" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, Bank of America, N.A. and Citibank, N.A. and their respective Affiliates.
19 "Register" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.04(c). "Related Parties" means, with respect to any specified Person, such Person's Affiliates and the respective directors, officers, employees, agents and advisors of such Person and such Person's Affiliates. "Required Lenders" means, at any time, Lenders having Commitments representing more than 50% of the sum total of the Commitments at such time, or after the Commitment Termination Date, Lenders having Revolving Credit Exposures representing more than 50% of the sum of the total Revolving Credit Exposures at such time. "Responsible Officer" means, as to any Person, any of the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Legal Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer or Controller (or any equivalent of the foregoing officers) of such Person. "Restricted Companies" means the Companies other than any Unrestricted Subsidiaries. "Restricted Payment" means, as to any Person, any dividend or other distribution (whether in cash, securities or other property) with respect to any shares of any class of capital stock or other equity interests of such Person, or any payment (whether in cash, securities or other property), including any sinking fund or similar deposit, on account of the purchase, redemption, retirement, acquisition, cancellation or termination of any such shares of capital stock or other equity interests of such Person or any option, warrant or other right to acquire any such shares of capital stock or other equity interests of such Person. "Restricted Subsidiaries" means, as of any date, all Subsidiaries of Testing Party that have not been designated as Unrestricted Subsidiaries by Testing Party pursuant to Section 6.08 or have been so designated as Unrestricted Subsidiaries by Testing Party but prior to such date have been (or have been deemed to be) re-designated by Testing Party as Restricted Subsidiaries pursuant to Section 6.08. "Restructuring Agreement" means the Restructuring Agreement, dated as of August 20, 2002, among AOLTW, AT&T Corp., Comcast Corporation and the other parties named therein as last made publicly available prior to the Amendment Effective Date. "Revolving Borrowing" means a Borrowing of Revolving Loans. "Revolving Credit Exposure" means, with respect to any Lender at any time, the outstanding principal amount of such Lender's Revolving Loans at such time. "Revolving Loan" means a Loan made pursuant to Section 2.03, including any such Loan outstanding after the Initial Maturity Date pursuant to Section 2.09(f). "S&P" means Standard & Poor's Rating Services. "SEC" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, any successor thereto and any analogous Governmental Authority.
20 "Statutory Reserve Rate" means a fraction (expressed as a decimal), the numerator of which is the number one and the denominator of which is the number one minus the aggregate of the maximum reserve percentage (including any marginal, special, emergency or supplemental reserves) expressed as a decimal established by the Board to which the Administrative Agent is subject for eurocurrency funding (currently referred to as "Eurocurrency Liabilities" in Regulation D of the Board). Such reserve percentage shall include those imposed pursuant to such Regulation D. Eurocurrency Loans shall be deemed to constitute eurocurrency funding and to be subject to such reserve requirements without benefit of or credit for proration, exemptions or offsets that may be available from time to time to any Lender under such Regulation D or any comparable regulation. The Statutory Reserve Rate shall be adjusted automatically on and as of the effective date of any change in any reserve percentage. "Subsequent Participant" means any member state that adopts the Euro as its lawful currency after the date hereof. "Subsidiary" means, with respect to any Person (the "parent") at any date, any corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association or other entity the accounts of which would be consolidated with those of the parent in the parent's consolidated financial statements if such financial statements were prepared in accordance with GAAP as of such date, as well as any other corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association or other entity of which securities or other ownership interests representing more than 50% of the equity or more than 50% of the ordinary voting power or, in the case of a partnership, more than 50% of the general partnership interests are, as of such date, owned, controlled or held. Unless otherwise qualified, all references to a "Subsidiary" or "Subsidiaries" in this Agreement shall refer to a Subsidiary or Subsidiaries of Testing Party. "Tax Distribution" means, with respect to any period, distributions made to any Person by a Subsidiary of such Person on or with respect to income and other taxes, which distributions are not in excess of the tax liabilities that, (i) in the case of a Subsidiary that is a corporation, would have been payable by such Subsidiary on a standalone basis, and (ii) in the case of a Subsidiary that is a partnership, would have been distributed by such Subsidiary to its owners with respect to taxes, and in each case which are calculated in accordance with, and made no earlier than 10 days prior to the date required by, the terms of the applicable organizational document which requires such distribution. "Taxes" means any and all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, charges or withholdings imposed by any Governmental Authority. "Term Out Notice" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.09(f). "Testing Party" means (a) so long as Parent is not a Borrower pursuant to Section 9.15, TWE and (b) at any time after Parent becomes a Borrower pursuant to Section 9.15, Parent. "Transactions" means (a) the execution, delivery and performance by (i) Parent and TWE of this Agreement and (ii) each of the TWE Partner Guarantors of the TWE Partner Guarantee, and (b) the borrowing of Loans. "Treaty" means the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, being the Treaty of Rome of March 25, 1957, as amended by the Single European Act 1987, the
21 Maastricht Treaty (which was signed at Maastricht on February 7, 1992 and came into force on November 1, 1993), the Amsterdam Treaty (which was signed at Amsterdam on October 2, 1997 and came into force on May 1, 1999) and the Nice Treaty (which was signed on February 26, 2001), each as amended from time to time and as referred to in legislative measures of the European Union for the introduction of, changeover to or operating of the Euro in one or more member states. "TWE" has the meaning assigned to such term in the preamble hereto. "TWE Partner Guarantee" means a guarantee by a TWE Partner Guarantor of its Guaranteed Percentage of the Obligations of TWE, substantially in the form of Exhibit B. "TWE Partner Guarantor" means American Television and Communications Corporation and Warner Communications Inc., in each case for so long as such Person remains a party to the TWE Partner Guarantee. "TWEAN" has the meaning assigned to such term in the recitals hereto. "Type", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether the rate of interest on such Loan, or on the Loans comprising such Borrowing, is determined by reference to the Adjusted LIBO Rate, the Alternate Base Rate, the Pound Sterling Overnight Rate or the Euro Overnight Rate. "United States" means the United States of America. "U.S. Person" means a person who is a citizen or resident of the United States and any corporation or other entity created or organized in or under the laws of the United States. "Unrestricted Subsidiary" means, as of any time, all Subsidiaries of Testing Party that have been designated as Unrestricted Subsidiaries by Testing Party pursuant to Section 6.08. "Utilization Fee" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.11(b). "Withdrawal Liability" means liability to a Multiemployer Plan as a result of a complete or partial withdrawal from such Multiemployer Plan, as such terms are defined in Part I of Subtitle E of Title IV of ERISA. SECTION 1.02. Classification of Loans and Borrowings. For purposes of this Agreement, Loans may be classified and referred to by Type (e.g., a "Eurocurrency Loan"). Borrowings also may be classified and referred to by Type (e.g., a "Eurocurrency Borrowing"). SECTION 1.03. Terms Generally. The definitions of terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words, "include," "includes" and "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation." The word "will" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word "shall." Unless the context requires otherwise (a) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document herein shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, supplements or
22 modifications set forth herein), (b) any reference herein to any Person shall be construed to include such Person's successors and assigns, (c) the words "herein," "hereof" and "hereunder," and words of similar import, shall be construed to refer to this Agreement in its entirety and not to any particular provision hereof, (d) all references herein to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be construed to refer to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, this Agreement and (e) the words "asset" and "property" shall, except where the context dictates otherwise, be construed to have the same meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights. SECTION 1.04. Accounting Terms; GAAP. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all terms of an accounting or financial nature shall be construed in accordance with GAAP, as in effect from time to time; provided that, if Testing Party notifies the Administrative Agent that Testing Party requests an amendment to any provision hereof to eliminate the effect of any change occurring after the date hereof in GAAP or in the application thereof on the operation of such provision (or if the Administrative Agent notifies Testing Party that the Required Lenders request an amendment to any provision hereof for such purpose), regardless of whether any such notice is given before or after such change in GAAP or in the application thereof, then such provision shall be interpreted on the basis of GAAP as in effect and applied immediately before such change shall have become effective until such notice shall have been withdrawn or such provision amended in accordance herewith. ARTICLE II THE CREDITS SECTION 2.01. Commitments. Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Lender agrees to make Revolving Loans to each Borrower in Dollars or any Optional Currency from time to time during the Availability Period so long as, after giving effect thereto, (i) such Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure will not exceed such Lender's Commitment, and (ii) the sum of the total Revolving Credit Exposures will not exceed the sum total of the Commitments. Within the foregoing limits and subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Borrower may borrow, prepay and reborrow Revolving Loans. The Revolving Loans made in Dollars may from time to time be Eurocurrency Loans or Alternate Base Rate Loans; the Revolving Loans made in Pounds may from time to time be Eurocurrency Loans or Pound Sterling Overnight Rate Loans; and the Revolving Loans made in Euros may from time to time be Eurocurrency Loans or Euro Overnight Rate Loans, in each case as determined by the applicable Borrower and notified to the Administrative Agent in accordance with Sections 2.03 and 2.07. SECTION 2.02. Loans and Borrowings. (a) Each Borrowing of Revolving Loans shall consist of Revolving Loans made by the Lenders ratably in accordance with their respective Commitments. The failure of any Lender to make any Loan required to be made by it shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligations hereunder. (b) Subject to Section 2.13, each Revolving Borrowing shall be comprised entirely of Base Rate Loans or Eurocurrency Loans as the applicable Borrower may request in accordance herewith. Each Lender at its option may make any Eurocurrency Loan by causing any domestic or foreign branch or Affiliate of such Lender to make such Loan; provided that any exercise of such option shall (i) subject to following clause (ii), not affect the obligation of the
23 Borrower thereof to repay such Loan in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and (ii) not create any additional liability of the Borrowers in respect of Sections 2.14 or 2.16. (c) At the commencement of each Interest Period for any Eurocurrency Revolving Borrowing, such Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount that is an integral multiple of 1,000,000 units of the relevant Currency and not less than an amount which is the Dollar Equivalent to $20,000,000. At the time that any Base Rate Borrowing is made, such Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount that is an integral multiple of 1,000,000 units and not less than an amount which is the Dollar Equivalent to $20,000,000; provided that any Base Rate Borrowing may be in an aggregate amount that is equal to the entire unused balance of the sum total of the Commitments. Borrowings of more than one Type may be outstanding at the same time; provided that there shall not at any time be more than a total of 15 Eurocurrency Revolving Borrowings outstanding. (d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, no Borrower shall be entitled to request or elect any Interest Period in respect of any Borrowing that would end after the Maturity Date. SECTION 2.03. Requests for Revolving Borrowings. To request a Revolving Borrowing, TWE shall notify the Administrative Agent of such request by telephone in accordance with Schedule 2.03(A); provided that no more than the Dollar Equivalent of $500,000,000 of Revolving Loans denominated in Euros shall be outstanding at any time as to which the Administrative Agent was notified the same day as the Revolving Borrowing. Each such telephonic Borrowing Request shall be irrevocable and shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery or facsimile to the Administrative Agent of a written Borrowing Request in a form approved by the Administrative Agent and signed by TWE (and, in the case of a Borrowing directed to Parent at any time after Parent is a Borrower, by Parent). Each such telephonic and written Borrowing Request shall specify the following information in compliance with Section 2.02: (a) the aggregate amount and Currency of the requested Borrowing, and, in the case of an Optional Currency Borrowing, the Dollar Equivalent of the requested Borrowing, as calculated using the Exchange Rate on the date of the request; (b) the date of such Borrowing, which shall be a Business Day; (c) whether such Borrowing is to be an ABR Borrowing, a Pound Sterling Overnight Rate Borrowing, a Euro Overnight Rate Borrowing or a Eurocurrency Borrowing; (d) in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing, the initial Interest Period to be applicable thereto, which shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term "Interest Period"; and (e) the location and number of the applicable Borrower's account to which funds are to be disbursed, which shall comply with the requirements of Section 2.06. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary above in this Section 2.03, no such notice shall alter the information set forth on Schedule 2.03(B) unless such notice shall be written. If no election as to the Type of Revolving Borrowing is specified, then the requested Revolving Borrowing shall be deemed a Base Rate Borrowing. If no Interest Period is specified with respect to any
24 requested Eurocurrency Borrowing, then the applicable Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one month's duration. Promptly following receipt of a Borrowing Request in accordance with this Section, the Administrative Agent shall advise each Lender of the details thereof and of the amount of such Lender's Loan to be made as part of the requested Borrowing. SECTION 2.04. [Intentionally left blank] SECTION 2.05. [Intentionally left blank] SECTION 2.06. Funding of Borrowings. (a) Each Lender shall make each Loan to be made by it hereunder on the proposed date thereof by wire transfer of immediately available funds by 12:00 noon, Local Time for the applicable Currency, to the account of the Administrative Agent most recently designated by it for such purpose by notice to the Lenders. The Administrative Agent will make such Loans available to the applicable Borrower as directed in the applicable Borrowing Request by promptly crediting the amounts so received, in like funds, to an account of the applicable Borrower specified on Schedule 2.03(B) or another account designated in the applicable Borrowing Request. (b) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the proposed date of any Borrowing that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Lender's share of such Borrowing, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such share available on such date in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section and may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the applicable Borrower a corresponding amount. In such event, if a Lender has not in fact made its share of the applicable Borrowing available to the Administrative Agent, then the Administrative Agent shall have the right to demand payment from the applicable Lender and/or the applicable Borrower and they each severally agree to pay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is made available to the applicable Borrower to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at (i) in the case of such Lender, (A) in the case of Borrowings denominated in Dollars, the Alternative Base Rate, and (B) in the case of Borrowings denominated in any Optional Currency, the interest rate reasonably determined by the Administrative Agent as the rate applicable to overnight settlements between banks for the amount advanced by the Administrative Agent on behalf of such Lender or (ii) in the case of the applicable Borrower, the interest rate that would otherwise apply to such Borrowing. If such Lender pays such amount to the Administrative Agent, then such amount shall constitute such Lender's Loan included in such Borrowing and such payment shall absolve any obligation of the applicable Borrower in respect of any demand made under this Section in respect of such Loan. SECTION 2.07. Interest Elections. (a) Each Revolving Borrowing initially shall be of the Type specified in the applicable Borrowing Request and, in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing, shall have an initial Interest Period as specified in such Borrowing Request. Thereafter, the Borrower may elect to convert such Borrowing to a different Type (but of the same currency) or to continue such Borrowing and, in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing, may elect Interest Periods therefor, all as provided in this Section. The Borrower may elect different options with respect to different portions of the affected Borrowing, in which case each such portion shall be allocated ratably among the Lenders holding the Loans comprising such
25 Borrowing, and the Loans comprising each such portion shall be considered a separate Borrowing. (b) To make an election pursuant to this Section, the applicable Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of such election by telephone by the time that a Borrowing Request would be required under Section 2.03 if such Borrower were requesting a Revolving Borrowing of the Type resulting from such election to be made on the effective date of such election (as more specifically set forth in Schedule 2.03(A)). Each such telephonic Interest Election Request shall be irrevocable and shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery or facsimile to the Administrative Agent of a written Interest Election Request in a form approved by the Administrative Agent and signed by the applicable Borrower. (c) Each telephonic and written Interest Election Request shall specify the following information in compliance with Section 2.02: (i) the Borrowing to which such Interest Election Request applies and, if different options are being elected with respect to different portions thereof, the portions thereof to be allocated to each resulting Borrowing (in which case the information to be specified pursuant to clauses (iii) and (iv) below shall be specified for each resulting Borrowing); (ii) the effective date of the election made pursuant to such Interest Election Request, which shall be a Business Day; (iii) whether the resulting Borrowing is to be a Base Rate Borrowing or a Eurocurrency Borrowing; (iv) if the resulting Borrowing is a Eurocurrency Borrowing, the Interest Period to be applicable thereto after giving effect to such election, which shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term "Interest Period". If any such Interest Election Request requests a Eurocurrency Borrowing but does not specify an Interest Period, then the applicable Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one month's duration. (d) Promptly following receipt of an Interest Election Request, the Administrative Agent shall advise each Lender of the details thereof and of such Lender's portion of each resulting Borrowing. (e) If the applicable Borrower fails to deliver a timely Interest Election Request with respect to a Eurocurrency Borrowing prior to the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto, then, unless such Borrowing is repaid as provided herein, at the end of such Interest Period, such Borrowing shall be continued as a Eurocurrency Borrowing, as the case may be, having a one month Interest Period. Notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof, if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and the Administrative Agent, at the request of the Required Lenders, so notifies the applicable Borrower, then, so long as an Event of Default is continuing (i) no outstanding Revolving Borrowing may be converted to or continued as a Eurocurrency Borrowing and (ii) unless repaid, each Eurocurrency Borrowing shall be converted to a Base Rate Borrowing at the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto.
26 SECTION 2.08. Termination and Reduction of Commitments. The Commitments shall terminate on the Commitment Termination Date. (a) Testing Party may at any time terminate, or from time to time reduce, the Commitments; provided that (i) each reduction of the Commitments shall be in an amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $10,000,000 and (ii) Testing Party shall not terminate or reduce the Commitments if, after giving effect thereto and to any concurrent prepayment of the Loans in accordance with Section 2.10, the sum of the Revolving Credit Exposures would exceed the total Commitments. (b) Testing Party shall notify the Administrative Agent of any election to terminate or reduce the Commitments under paragraph (a) of this Section at least one Business Day prior to the effective date of such termination or reduction, specifying such election and the effective date thereof. Promptly following receipt of any notice, the Administrative Agent shall advise the Lenders of the contents thereof. Each notice delivered by Testing Party pursuant to this Section shall be irrevocable; provided that a notice of termination of the Commitments delivered by Testing Party may state that such notice is conditioned upon the effectiveness of other credit facilities, in which case such notice may be revoked by Testing Party (by notice to the Administrative Agent on or prior to the specified effective date) if such condition is not satisfied. Any termination or reduction of the Commitments shall be permanent. Each reduction of the Commitments shall be made ratably among the Lenders in accordance with their respective Commitments. SECTION 2.09. Repayment of Loans; Evidence of Debt. (a) The Borrowers hereby unconditionally promise, jointly and severally, to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender the then unpaid principal amount of each Revolving Loan on the Maturity Date. (b) Each Lender shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing the indebtedness of the Borrowers to such Lender resulting from each Loan made by such Lender, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Lender from time to time hereunder. (c) The Administrative Agent shall maintain accounts in which it shall record (i) the amount and Currency of each Loan made hereunder and Type thereof and the Interest Period applicable thereto, (ii) the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable from the Borrowers to each Lender hereunder and (iii) the amount of any sum received by the Administrative Agent hereunder for the account of the Lenders and each Lender's share thereof. (d) The entries made in the accounts maintained pursuant to paragraph (b) or (c) of this Section shall be prima facie evidence of the existence and amounts of the obligations recorded therein; provided that the failure of any Lender or the Administrative Agent to maintain such accounts or any error therein shall not in any manner affect the obligation of the Borrowers to repay the Loans in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. (e) Any Lender may request that Loans made by it be evidenced by a Note. In such event, each Borrower shall execute and deliver to such Lender a Note payable to the order of such Lender (or, if requested by such Lender, to such Lender and its registered assigns) and in
27 a form approved by the Administrative Agent and reasonably acceptable to the Borrowers. Thereafter, the Loans evidenced by such Note and interest thereon shall at all times (including after assignment pursuant to Section 9.04) be represented by one or more Notes in such form payable to the order of the payee named therein (or, if such promissory note is a registered note, to such payee and its registered assigns). (f) Testing Party may elect to extend the Maturity Date of all or any portion of Revolving Loans outstanding on the Initial Maturity Date to the date that is the second anniversary of the Initial Maturity Date by giving written notice (the "Term Out Notice") of such election to the Administration Agent at least five days prior to the Initial Maturity Date. SECTION 2.10. Prepayment of Loans. (a) Each Borrower shall have the right at any time and from time to time to prepay any Borrowing in whole or in part, subject to prior notice in accordance with paragraph (b) of this Section. (b) The Borrower that desires to make a prepayment shall notify the Administrative Agent by telephone (confirmed by facsimile) of any prepayment hereunder in accordance with Schedule 2.03(A). Each such notice shall be irrevocable and shall specify the prepayment date and the principal amount of each Borrowing or portion thereof to be prepaid; provided that, if a notice of prepayment is given in connection with a conditional notice of termination of the Commitments as contemplated by Section 2.08, then such notice of prepayment may be revoked if such notice of termination is revoked in accordance with Section 2.08. Promptly following receipt of any such notice relating to a Revolving Borrowing, the Administrative Agent shall advise the Lenders of the contents thereof. Each partial prepayment of any Revolving Borrowing shall be in an amount that would be permitted in the case of an advance of a Revolving Borrowing of the same Type as provided in Section 2.02. Each prepayment of a Revolving Borrowing hereunder shall be applied ratably to the Loans included in the prepaid Borrowing. Prepayments shall be accompanied by accrued interest to the extent required by Section 2.12. SECTION 2.11. Fees. (a) The Borrowers agree, jointly and severally, to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender a facility fee (a "Facility Fee") which shall accrue at the Applicable Rate on the average daily amount of the Commitment of such Lender (whether used or unused) during the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the date on which such Commitment terminates; provided that, if such Lender continues to have any Revolving Credit Exposure after its Commitment terminates, then such Facility Fee shall continue to accrue on the average daily amount of such Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure from and including the date on which its Commitment terminates to but excluding the date on which such Lender ceases to have any Revolving Credit Exposure. Accrued Facility Fees shall be payable in arrears on the last day of March, June, September and December of each year and on the Maturity Date (or such earlier date after the Commitment Termination Date on which the Loans are repaid in full), commencing on the first such date to occur after the date hereof. All Facility Fees shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days and shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day). (b) The Borrowers agree, jointly and severally, to pay to the Administrative Agent, for the account of each Lender, during the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the date on which the Commitments terminate and the Revolving Credit
28 Exposures of all the Lenders are paid or extinguished in full, a utilization fee (a "Utilization Fee") which shall accrue, with respect to any day, (a) that the Commitment Utilization Percentage is greater than 0% but less than or equal to 66%, at the rate of 0.0625% per annum on such Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure and (b) that the Commitment Utilization Percentage is greater than 66% at the rate of 0.125% per annum on such Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure. Accrued Utilization Fees shall be payable in arrears on the last day of March, June, September and December of each year, on the Maturity Date and on any date thereafter on which the Revolving Credit Exposures of all the Lenders are paid or extinguished in full, commencing on the first such date to occur after the date hereof. All Utilization Fees shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days and shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day). (c) [Intentionally left blank] (d) The Borrowers agree, jointly and severally, to pay to the Administrative Agent, for its own account, fees payable in the amounts and at the times separately agreed upon between Testing Party and the Administrative Agent. (e) All fees payable hereunder shall be paid on the dates due, in immediately available funds, to the Administrative Agent for distribution, in the case of Facility Fees and Utilization Fees, to the Lenders entitled thereto. Fees paid shall not be refundable under any circumstances absent manifest error in the calculation and/or payment thereof. SECTION 2.12. Interest. (a) The Loans comprising each ABR Borrowing shall bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the Alternate Base Rate. (b) The Loans comprising each Eurocurrency Borrowing shall bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the Adjusted LIBO Rate for the Interest Period in effect for such Borrowing plus the Applicable Rate. (c) The Loans comprising each Pound Sterling Overnight Rate Borrowing shall bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the Pound Sterling Overnight Rate. (d) The Loans comprising each Euro Overnight Rate Borrowing shall bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the Euro Overnight Rate. (e) [Intentionally left blank] (f) [Intentionally left blank] (g) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any principal of or interest on any Loan or any fee or other amount payable by any Borrower hereunder is not paid when due, whether at stated maturity, upon acceleration or otherwise, such overdue amount shall bear interest, after as well as before judgment, at a rate per annum equal to (i) in the case of overdue principal of any Loan, 2% plus the rate otherwise applicable to such Loan as provided above or (ii) in the case of any other amount, 2% plus the rate applicable to Loans in the Base Rate of the relevant Currency as provided above. (h) Accrued interest on each Loan shall be payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date for such Loan; provided that (i) interest accrued pursuant to paragraph (g) of this
29 Section shall be payable on demand, (ii) in the event of any repayment or prepayment of any Loan (other than a prepayment of an ABR Revolving Loan prior to the end of the Availability Period), accrued interest on the principal amount repaid or prepaid shall be payable on the date of such repayment or prepayment, (iii) in the event of any conversion of any Eurocurrency Revolving Loan prior to the end of the current Interest Period therefor, accrued interest on such Loan shall be payable on the effective date of such conversion and (iv) all accrued interest shall be payable upon the Commitment Termination Date. (i) All interest hereunder shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days, except that (i) interest computed by reference to the Alternate Base Rate at times when the Alternate Base Rate is based on the Prime Rate shall be computed on the basis of a year of 365 days (or 366 days in a leap year), and (ii) with respect to Loans denominated in Pounds, the interest rate thereon shall be computed on the basis of a 365-day year, and in each case shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day). The applicable Base Rate, Adjusted LIBO Rate and LIBO Rate shall be determined by the Administrative Agent, and such determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error. SECTION 2.13. Alternate Rate of Interest. If prior to the commencement of any Interest Period for a Eurocurrency Borrowing: (a) the Administrative Agent determines (which determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error) that adequate and reasonable means do not exist for ascertaining for such Interest Period the Adjusted LIBO Rate for the relevant Currency; or (b) the Administrative Agent is advised by the Required Lenders that for such Interest Period the Adjusted LIBO Rate for the relevant Currency will not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders of making or maintaining their Loans included in such Borrowing for such Interest Period; then the Administrative Agent shall give notice thereof to the applicable Borrowers and the Lenders by telephone or facsimile as promptly as practicable thereafter and, until the Administrative Agent notifies the applicable Borrowers and the Lenders that the circumstances giving rise to such notice no longer exist, (i) any Interest Election Request that requests the conversion of any Revolving Borrowing to, or continuation of any Revolving Borrowing as, a Eurocurrency Borrowing shall be ineffective and any such Borrowing referred to in such Interest Election Request shall, unless repaid by the applicable Borrower, be converted to (as of the last day of the then current Interest Period), or maintained as, a Base Rate Borrowing, as the case may be (to the extent, in the Administrative Agent's reasonable determination, it is practicable to do so), and (ii) if any Borrowing Request requests a Eurocurrency Borrowing, such Borrowing shall, unless otherwise rescinded by the applicable Borrower, be made as a Base Rate Loan in the applicable Currency (to the extent, in the Administrative Agent's reasonable determination, it is practicable to do so), and if the circumstances giving rise to such notice affect fewer than all Types of Borrowings, then the other Types of Borrowings shall be permitted. SECTION 2.14. Increased Costs. (a) If any Change in Law shall: (i) impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended by,
30 any Lender (except any such reserve requirement reflected in the Adjusted LIBO Rate); or (ii) impose on any Lender or the London interbank market any other condition affecting this Agreement or Eurocurrency Loans made by such Lender; and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Lender of making or maintaining any Eurocurrency Loan (or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Loan) or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Lender hereunder (whether of principal, interest or otherwise), then the applicable Borrower will pay to such Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender for such additional costs actually incurred or reduction actually suffered. (b) If any Lender determines that any Change in Law regarding capital requirements has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's capital or on the capital of such Lender's holding company, if any, as a consequence of the Commitment or the Loans made by such Lender, to a level below that which such Lender or such Lender's holding company could have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration such Lender's policies and the policies of such Lender's holding company with respect to capital adequacy), then from time to time the applicable Borrowers will pay to such Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or such Lender's holding company for any such reduction actually suffered in respect of the Commitment or Loans made by such Lender hereunder. (c) A certificate of a Lender setting forth in reasonable detail the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender or its holding company, as the case may be, as specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section shall be delivered to the applicable Borrowers and shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The applicable Borrowers shall pay such Lender the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof. (d) Failure or delay on the part of any Lender to demand compensation pursuant to this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's right to demand such compensation; provided that the applicable Borrowers shall not be required to compensate a Lender pursuant to this Section for any increased costs or reductions unless a Lender gives notice to the applicable Borrowers that they are obligated to pay an amount under this Section within six months after the later of (i) the date the Lender incurs such increased costs, reduction in amounts received or receivable or reduction in return on capital or (ii) the date such Lender has actual knowledge of its incurrence of such increased cost, reduction in amounts received or receivable or reduction in return on capital; provided further that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the six-month period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section 2.14, no Lender shall demand compensation for any increased costs or reduction referred to above if it shall not be the general policy or practice of such Lender to demand such compensation in similar circumstances under comparable provisions of other credit agreements, if any (it being understood that this sentence shall not in any way limit the discretion of any Lender to waive the right to demand such compensation in any given case).
31 SECTION 2.15. Break Funding Payments. In the event of (a) the payment of any principal of any Eurocurrency Loan other than on the last day of an Interest Period applicable thereto (including as a result of an Event of Default), (b) the conversion of any Eurocurrency Loan other than on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto, (c) the failure to borrow, convert, continue or prepay any Revolving Loan on the date specified in any notice delivered pursuant hereto (regardless of whether such notice is permitted to be revocable under Section 2.10(b) and is revoked in accordance herewith), or (d) the assignment of any Eurocurrency Loan other than on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto as a result of a request by a Borrower pursuant to Section 2.18, then, in any such event, the applicable Borrower shall compensate each Lender for the loss, cost and expense attributable to such event. In the case of a Eurocurrency Loan, the loss to any Lender attributable to any such event shall be deemed to include an amount determined by such Lender to be equal to the excess, if any, of (i) the amount of interest that such Lender would pay for a deposit in the applicable Currency equal to the principal amount of such Loan for the period from the date of such payment, conversion, failure or assignment to the last day of the then current Interest Period for such Loan (or, in the case of a failure to borrow, convert or continue, the duration of the Interest Period that would have resulted from such borrowing, conversion or continuation) if the interest rate payable on such deposit were equal to the Adjusted LIBO Rate for such Interest Period, over (ii) the amount of interest that such Lender would earn on such principal amount for such period if such Lender were to invest such principal amount for such period at the interest rate that would be bid by such Lender (or an affiliate of such Lender) for deposits in the applicable Currency from other banks in the Eurocurrency market at the commencement of such period. A certificate of any Lender setting forth in reasonable detail any amount or amounts that such Lender is entitled to receive pursuant to this Section shall be delivered to the applicable Borrower and shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The applicable Borrower shall pay such Lender the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof. SECTION 2.16. Taxes. (a) Any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of each Borrower hereunder shall be made free and clear of and without deduction for any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes; provided that if such Borrower shall be required to deduct any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes from such payments, then (i) the sum payable shall be increased as necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section) the Administrative Agent or Lender (as the case may be) receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) such Borrower shall make such deductions and (iii) such Borrower shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law. (b) Each Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent and each Lender, within 10 days after written demand therefor, for the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes (including Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable by such Borrower under this Section unless such amounts have been included in any amount paid pursuant to the proviso to Section 2.16(a)) paid by the Administrative Agent, or such Lender, as the case may be, and any penalties, interest and reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. A certificate as to the amount of such payment or liability delivered to such Borrower by a Lender, or by the Administrative Agent on its own behalf or on behalf of a Lender, shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
32 (c) If a Lender or the Administrative Agent receives a refund in respect of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes as to which it has been indemnified by a Borrower or with respect to which a Borrower has paid additional amounts pursuant to this Section 2.16, it shall within 30 days from the date of such receipt pay over such refund to such Borrower (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made, or additional amounts paid, by such Borrower under this Section 2.16 with respect to the Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes giving rise to such refund, as determined by such Lender in its reasonable discretion), net of all out-of-pocket expenses of such Lender or the Administrative Agent and without interest (other than interest paid by the relevant taxation authority with respect to such refund); provided that such Borrower, upon the request of such Lender or the Administrative Agent, agrees to repay the amount paid over to such Borrower (plus penalties, interest or other charges) to such Lender or the Administrative Agent in the event such Lender or the Administrative Agent is required to repay such refund to such taxation authority. (d) As soon as practicable after any payment of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes by any Borrower to a Governmental Authority, such Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of the return reporting such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent. (e) Any Foreign Lender that is entitled to an exemption from or reduction of withholding tax under the law of the jurisdiction in which any Borrower is located, or any treaty to which such jurisdiction is a party, with respect to payments under this Agreement shall deliver to such Borrower (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), at the time or times prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by such Borrower, such properly completed and executed documentation prescribed by applicable law as will permit such payments to be made without withholding or at a reduced rate. (f) Any Lender that is a U.S. Person shall deliver to Testing Party (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) a statement signed by an authorized signatory of the Lender that it is a U.S. Person and, if necessary to avoid United States backup withholding, a duly completed and signed Internal Revenue Service Form W-9 (or successor form) establishing that such Lender is organized under the laws of the United States and is not subject to United States backup withholding. (g) Nothing in this Section shall be construed to require any Lender to disclose any confidential information regarding its tax returns or affairs. SECTION 2.17. Payments Generally; Pro Rata Treatment; Sharing of Setoffs. (a) Each Borrower shall make each payment required to be made by it hereunder (whether of principal, interest or fees, or of amounts payable under Section 2.14, 2.15 or 2.16, or otherwise) prior to 1:00 p.m., Local Time, on the date when due, in immediately available funds, without setoff or counterclaim. Any amounts received after such time on any date shall, unless the Administrative Agent is able to distribute such amounts to the applicable Lenders on such date, be deemed to have been received on the next succeeding Business Day for purposes of calculating interest thereon. All such payments shall be made to the Administrative Agent (i) in New York, for payments in Dollars, and (ii) in London, for payments in Euros or Pounds, in each case, at the offices for the Administrative Agent set forth in Section 9.01, except that payments pursuant to Sections 2.14, 2.15, 2.16 and 9.03 shall be made directly to the Persons entitled
33 thereto. The Administrative Agent shall distribute any such payments received by it for the account of any other Person to the appropriate recipient in like funds promptly following receipt thereof. If any payment hereunder shall be due on a day that is not a Business Day, the date for payment shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day, and, in the case of any payment accruing interest, interest thereon shall be payable for the period of such extension. All payments hereunder, whether such payments are made in respect of principal, interest or fees, shall be made in the Currency in which the applicable payment obligation is due; provided, that payments in respect of Facility Fees pursuant to Section 2.11 and any other payments (not in respect of principal, interest or fees) or reimbursements shall be payable in Dollars. (b) If at any time insufficient funds are received by and available to the Administrative Agent to pay fully all amounts of principal, interest and fees then due from any Borrower hereunder, such funds shall be applied (i) first, to pay interest and fees then due from such Borrower hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of interest and fees then due to such parties, and (ii) second, to pay principal, then due from such Borrower hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of principal then due to such parties. (c) If any Lender shall, by exercising any right of setoff or counterclaim or otherwise, obtain payment in respect of any principal of or interest on any of its Revolving Loans resulting in such Lender receiving payment of a greater proportion of the aggregate amount of its Revolving Loans and accrued interest thereon owing by the Borrowers than the proportion received by any other Lender, then the Lender receiving such greater proportion shall purchase (for cash at face value) participations in the Revolving Loans of other Lenders owing from the Borrowers to the extent necessary so that the benefit of all such payments shall be shared by the Lenders ratably in accordance with the aggregate amount of principal of and accrued interest on their respective Revolving Loans; provided that (i) if any such participations are purchased and all or any portion of the payment giving rise thereto is recovered, such participations shall be rescinded and the purchase price restored to the extent of such recovery, without interest, and (ii) the provisions of this paragraph shall not be construed to apply to any payment made by a Borrower pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement or any payment obtained by a Lender as consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Loans other than to any Borrower or any Subsidiary or Affiliate thereof (as to which the provisions of this paragraph shall apply). Each Borrower consents to the foregoing and agrees, to the extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, that any Lender acquiring a participation pursuant to the foregoing arrangements may exercise against such Borrower rights of setoff and counterclaim with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a direct creditor of such Borrower in the amount of such participation. (d) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due from such Borrower to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders hereunder that such Borrower will not make such payment, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Borrower has made such payment on such date in accordance herewith and may, in reliance upon such assumption, distribute to the Lenders, the amount due. In such event, if such Borrower has not in fact made such payment, then each of the Lenders, severally agrees to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand the amount so distributed to such Lender with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is distributed to it to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, (i) if the relevant amount is denominated in Pounds Sterling, at the Pound Sterling Overnight Rate (ii)
34 if the relevant amount is denominated in Dollars, at the Federal Funds Effective Rate and (iii) if the relevant amount is denominated in any other Currency, at the interest rate reasonably determined by the Administrative Agent as the rate applicable for overnight settlements between banks for the amount paid by the Administrative Agent on behalf of such Borrower. (e) If any Lender shall fail to make any payment required to be made by it pursuant to Section 2.06(b) or 2.17(d), then the Administrative Agent may, in its discretion (notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof), apply any amounts thereafter received by the Administrative Agent for the account of such Lender from or on behalf of any Credit Party or otherwise in respect of the Obligations to satisfy such Lender's obligations under such Sections until all such unsatisfied obligations are fully paid. SECTION 2.18. Mitigation Obligations; Replacement of Lenders. (a) If any Lender requests compensation under Section 2.14, or if any Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to Section 2.16, then such Lender shall use reasonable efforts to designate a different lending office for funding or booking its Loans hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates, if, in the judgment of such Lender, such designation or assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to Section 2.14 or 2.16, as the case may be, in the future and (ii) would not subject such Lender to any unreimbursed cost or expense and would not otherwise be materially disadvantageous to such Lender. Such Borrower hereby agrees to pay all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by any Lender in connection with any such designation or assignment. (b) If any Lender requests compensation under Section 2.14, or if any Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to Section 2.16, or if any Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender hereunder, then Testing Party may, at its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the Administrative Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in Section 9.04), all its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement to an assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment); provided that (i) Testing Party shall have received the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent, which consent shall not unreasonably be withheld, (ii) such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Loans, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder, from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Borrowers (in the case of all other amounts) and (iii) in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under Section 2.14 or payments required to be made pursuant to Section 2.16, such assignment will be made to a Lender reasonably expected to result in a reduction in the compensation or payments to be paid by the Borrowers pursuant to such sections. A Lender shall not be required to make any such assignment and delegation if, prior thereto, as a result of a waiver by such Lender or otherwise, the circumstances entitling Testing Party to require such assignment and delegation cease to apply. SECTION 2.19. Prepayments Required Due to Currency Fluctuation. (a) Not later than 1:00 p.m., New York City time, on the last Business Day of each fiscal quarter of Testing Party or at such other time as is reasonably determined by the Administrative Agent (the
35 "Calculation Time"), the Administrative Agent shall determine the Dollar Equivalent of the total Revolving Credit Exposures outstanding as of such date. (b) If at the Calculation Time, the Dollar Equivalent of the total Revolving Credit Exposures exceeds the total Commitments then in effect by 5% or more, then within five Business Days of notice to the Borrowers thereof, the applicable Borrowers shall prepay Revolving Loans in an aggregate principal amount at least equal to such excess. Nothing set forth in this Section 2.19(b) shall be construed to require the Administrative Agent to calculate compliance under this Section 2.19(b) other than at the times set forth in Section 2.19(a). SECTION 2.20. Adoption of the Euro. Each provision of this Agreement shall be subject to such reasonable changes of construction as the Administrative Agent may from time to time specify to be appropriate to reflect the adoption of the Euro in any Participating Member State and any relevant market conventions or practices relating to the Euro. Each obligation under this Agreement of a party to this Agreement which has been denominated in the National Currency Unit of a Subsequent Participant shall be redenominated into the Euro in accordance with EMU Legislation immediately upon such Subsequent Participant becoming a Participating Member State (but otherwise in accordance with EMU Legislation). If, in relation to the currency of any Subsequent Participant, the basis of accrual of interest or fees expressed in this Agreement with respect to such currency shall be inconsistent with any convention or practice in the interbank market for the basis of accrual of interest or fees in respect of the Euro, such convention or practice shall replace such expressed basis effective as of and from the date on which such Subsequent Participant becomes a Participating Member State; provided, that if any Loan in the currency of such Subsequent Participant which is subject to an Interest Period is outstanding immediately prior to such date, such replacement shall take effect, with respect to such Loan, at the end of the then current Interest Period. ARTICLE III REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES Testing Party represents and warrants (as to itself and its Restricted Subsidiaries) to the Lenders that: SECTION 3.01. Organization; Powers. Each Credit Party and each of its Restricted Subsidiaries is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization, has all requisite power and authority to carry on its business as now conducted and, except where the failure to do so, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, is qualified to do business in, and is in good standing in, every jurisdiction where such qualification is required. SECTION 3.02. Authorization; Enforceability. The Transactions are within the Credit Parties' corporate or partnership (as the case may be) powers and have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or partnership (as the case may be) and, if required, stockholder or partner action of such Credit Parties. Each Credit Document (other than each Note) has been, and each Note when delivered hereunder will have been, duly executed and delivered by the Credit Parties party thereto. Each Credit Document (other than each Note)
36 constitutes, and each Note when delivered hereunder will be, a legal, valid and binding obligation of each such Credit Party, enforceable in accordance with its terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally and subject to general principles of equity, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law. SECTION 3.03. Governmental Approvals; No Conflicts. The Transactions (a) do not require any consent or approval of, registration or filing with, or any other action by, any Governmental Authority, except such as have been obtained or made and are in full force and effect, (b) will not violate (i) any applicable law or regulation or (ii) the charter, by-laws, partnership agreements or other organizational documents of Testing Party or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries or any order of any Governmental Authority, (c) will not violate or result in a default under any indenture, agreement or other instrument binding upon Testing Party or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries or its assets, or give rise to a right thereunder to require any payment to be made by Testing Party or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries and (d) will not result in the creation or imposition of any Lien on any asset of Testing Party or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries; except, in each case (other than clause (b)(ii) with respect to any Credit Party), such as could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. SECTION 3.04. Financial Condition; No Material Adverse Change. (a) The consolidated balance sheet and statements of income, stockholders equity and cash flows (including the notes thereto) of TWE as of and for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001, reported on by Ernst & Young LLP, independent accountants, copies of which have heretofore been furnished to each Lender, present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position and results of operations and cash flows of TWE and its consolidated Subsidiaries, as of such date and for such period, in accordance with GAAP. (b) The unaudited consolidated balance sheet and statements of income, stockholders equity and cash flows of TWE and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of and for the nine months ended September 30, 2002, copies of which have heretofore been furnished to each Lender, present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position and results of operations and cash flows of TWE and its consolidated Subsidiaries, as of such date and for such period, in accordance with GAAP. (c) The audited consolidated balance sheet and statements of income, stockholders equity and cash flows (including the notes thereto) of Parent and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of and for the twelve months ended December 31, 2001 reported on by Ernst & Young LLP, independent accountants, copies of which have heretofore been furnished to each Lender, present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position and results of operations and cash flows of Parent and its consolidated Subsidiaries, as of such date and for such period, in accordance with GAAP. (d) The unaudited pro forma consolidated balance sheet of TWE and its consolidated Subsidiaries as at September 30, 2002 (including the notes thereto) (the "Pro Forma Balance Sheet") and the unaudited pro forma statements of income, stockholders equity and cash flows of TWE and its consolidated Subsidiaries for the nine-month period ended September 30, 2002 (the "Pro Forma Income Statements"), copies of which have heretofore been furnished to each Lender, have been prepared giving effect (as if such events had occurred on
37 September 30, 2002 in the case of the Pro Forma Balance Sheet, and on the first day of such nine-month period, in the case of the Pro Forma Income Statements) to the consummation of the restructuring of TWE pursuant to the Restructuring Agreement. The Pro Forma Balance Sheet and the Pro Forma Income Statements have been prepared based on the best information available to TWE as of the date of delivery thereof, and present fairly, in all material respects, the pro forma estimated (i) financial position of TWE and its consolidated Subsidiaries as at September 30, 2002 assuming the restructuring of TWE actually occurred on such date and (ii) results of operations and cash flows of TWE and its consolidated Subsidiaries for the nine-month period ending September 30, 2002, assuming that the restructuring of TWE had actually occurred on the first day of such period. (e) Since December 31, 2001 there has been no material adverse change in the business, assets, operations or financial condition of TWE and its consolidated Subsidiaries, taken as a whole (excluding the write-down of goodwill pursuant to the application of Financial Accounting Standard Board Statement No. 142). SECTION 3.05. Properties. (a) Testing Party and each of its Restricted Subsidiaries has good title to, or valid leasehold interests in, all its real and personal property, except for defects in title or interests that could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. (b) Testing Party and each of its Restricted Subsidiaries owns, or is licensed to use, all trademarks, trade names, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property material to its business, and the use thereof by Testing Party or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries does not infringe upon the rights of any other Person, except for any such infringements that, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. SECTION 3.06. Litigation and Environmental Matters. (a) There are no actions, suits, investigations or proceedings by or before any arbitrator or Governmental Authority pending against or, to the knowledge of Testing Party, threatened against or affecting Testing Party or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (i) which could reasonably be expected to be adversely determined and that, if adversely determined, could reasonably be expected, individually or in the aggregate, to result in a Material Adverse Effect or (ii) that involve this Agreement or the Transactions. (b) Except with respect to any matters that, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, (x) neither Testing Party nor any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (i) has failed to comply with any Environmental Law or to obtain, maintain or comply with any permit, license or other approval required under any Environmental Law, (ii) has become subject to any Environmental Liability or (iii) has received notice of any claim with respect to any Environmental Liability and (y) Testing Party has no knowledge of any basis for any Environmental Liability on the part of any of its Restricted Subsidiaries. SECTION 3.07. Compliance with Laws and Agreements. Testing Party and each of its Restricted Subsidiaries is in compliance with all laws, regulations and orders of any Governmental Authority applicable to it or its property and all indentures, agreements and other instruments binding upon it or its property, except where the failure to do so, individually or in
38 the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. No Event of Default has occurred and is continuing. SECTION 3.08. Government Regulation. Neither Testing Party nor any of its Restricted Subsidiaries is (a) an "investment company" as defined in, or subject to regulation under, the Investment Company Act of 1940, (b) a "holding company" as defined in, or subject to regulation under, the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, or (c) is subject to any other statute or regulation which regulates the incurrence of indebtedness for borrowed money, other than, in the case of this clause (c), Federal and state securities laws and as could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. SECTION 3.09. Taxes. Testing Party and each of its Subsidiaries has timely filed or caused to be filed all Tax returns and reports required to have been filed and has paid or caused to be paid all Taxes required to have been paid by it or as part of the consolidated group of which it is a member, except (a) Taxes that are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and for which Testing Party or such Subsidiary, as applicable, has set aside on its books adequate reserves in accordance with GAAP or (b) to the extent that the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. SECTION 3.10. ERISA. No ERISA Event has occurred or is reasonably expected to occur that, when taken together with all other such ERISA Events for which liability is reasonably expected to occur, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. SECTION 3.11. Disclosure. As of the date hereof and the Amendment Effective Date, all information heretofore or contemporaneously furnished by or on behalf of Testing Party or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (including all information contained in the Credit Documents, the Confidential Memorandum dated May 2002 and the annexes, schedules and other attachments thereto but not including any projected financial statements), when taken together with the reports and other filings with the SEC made under the Exchange Act by any Credit Party since December 31, 2001, is, and all other such information hereafter furnished, including all information contained in any of the Credit Documents, including any annexes or schedules thereto, by or on behalf of Testing Party or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to or on behalf of any Lender is and will be (as of their respective dates and the Amendment Effective Date), true and accurate in all material respects and not incomplete by omitting to state a material fact to make such information not misleading at such time. There is no fact of which any Credit Party is aware which has not been disclosed to the Lenders in writing pursuant to the terms of this Agreement prior to the date hereof and which, singly or in the aggregate with all such other facts of which any Credit Party is aware, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. All statements of fact and representation concerning the present business, operations and assets of Testing Party or any of its Subsidiaries, the Credit Documents and the transactions referred to therein are true and correct in all material respects.
39 ARTICLE IV CONDITIONS SECTION 4.01. Amendment Effective Date. This Agreement and the obligations of the Lenders to make Loans hereunder shall not become effective until the date on which each of the following conditions is satisfied (or waived in accordance with Section 9.02): (a) Credit Documents. The Administrative Agent (or its counsel) shall have received (i) the Lender Consent executed and delivered by the Required Lenders (under and as defined in, for this purpose only, the Existing Credit Agreement, (ii) this Agreement executed and delivered by Parent, TWE and the Administrative Agent and (iii) an acknowledgement and consent with respect to the TWE Partner Guarantee, in the form attached hereto as Exhibit C, executed and delivered by the parties thereto. (b) Opinion of Counsel. The Administrative Agent shall have received the favorable written opinions (addressed to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders and dated the Amendment Effective Date) of Cravath, Swaine & Moore, counsel for the Credit Parties and (ii) in-house counsel to the Credit Parties, in each case in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent. The Credit Parties hereby request such counsel to deliver such opinions. (c) Closing Certificate. The Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate from Parent and TWE, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, dated the Amendment Effective Date and signed by the president, a vice president, a financial officer or an equivalent officer of Parent or TWE, as the case may be, including confirmation of compliance with the conditions set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 4.02. (d) Consummation of TWE Restructuring. The restructuring of TWE, as described in the Restructuring Agreement, shall have been consummated substantially in accordance with the Restructuring Agreement. (e) Termination of Borrower Status. The status of TWE and TWEAN as "Borrowers" under the AOLTW Five-Year Credit Agreement shall have been terminated pursuant to Section 2.21 thereof. (f) Fees. Parent or TWE shall have paid all fees required to be paid on or before the Amendment Effective Date by such Person in connection with the revolving credit facilities provided for in this Agreement or the Existing Credit Agreement. (g) Authorizations, etc. The Administrative Agent shall have received such documents and certificates as the Administrative Agent or its counsel may reasonably request relating to the organization, existence and good standing of Parent and TWE, the authorization of the Transactions and any other legal matters relating to the Credit Parties, this Agreement or the Transactions, all in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and its counsel.
40 SECTION 4.02. Each Credit Event. The obligation of each Lender to make a Loan on the occasion of any Borrowing, is subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions: (a) The representations and warranties of the Credit Parties set forth in the Credit Documents (other than those set forth in Sections 3.04(e), 3.06 and 3.10 on any date other than the Amendment Effective Date) shall be true and correct in all material respects on and as of the date of such Borrowing. (b) At the time of and immediately after giving effect to such Borrowing no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing. Each Borrowing shall be deemed to constitute a representation and warranty by the Credit Parties on the date thereof as to the applicable matters specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section. ARTICLE V AFFIRMATIVE COVENANTS Until all the Commitments have expired or been terminated and the principal of and interest on each Loan, all fees payable hereunder and all other Obligations shall have been paid in full (but with respect to such other Obligations only to the extent that actual amounts hereunder are owing at the time the Loans, together with interest and fees, have been paid in full), Testing Party (for itself and its Restricted Subsidiaries) covenants and agrees with the Lenders that: SECTION 5.01. Financial Statements and Other Information. Each Borrower will furnish to the Administrative Agent at its New York office (who will distribute copies to each Lender): (a) within 105 days after the end of each fiscal year of such Person, its audited consolidated balance sheet and related statements of operations, stockholders' equity (or partnership capital) and cash flows as of the end of and for such year and, with respect to Testing Party only, its unaudited Adjusted Financial Statements for such fiscal year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous fiscal year, and, (i) in the case of the audited financial statements, reported on by Ernst & Young LLP or other independent public accountants of recognized national standing (without a "going concern" or like qualification or exception and without any qualification or exception as to the scope of such audit) to the effect that such consolidated financial statements present fairly in all material respects the financial condition and results of operations of such Person and its consolidated Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP consistently applied and (ii) in the case of the Adjusted Financial Statements, certified by one of Testing Party's Financial Officers as presenting fairly in all material respects the financial condition and results of operations of such Person and its consolidated Restricted Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP consistently applied; provided that, so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, Testing Party shall not be required to furnish Adjusted Financial Statements for any fiscal year if all Unrestricted Subsidiaries of Testing Party (other than any such Unrestricted Subsidiaries that are already treated as equity investments on Testing Party's
41 financial statements) on a combined basis would not have constituted a Material Subsidiary of Testing Party for such fiscal year; (b) within 60 days after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year of such Person, its consolidated balance sheet and related statements of operations, stockholders' equity (or partnership capital) and cash flows and, with respect to Testing Party only, its Adjusted Financial Statements as of the end of and for such fiscal quarter and the then elapsed portion of the fiscal year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the corresponding period or periods of (or, in the case of the balance sheet, as of the end of) the previous fiscal year, all certified by one of Testing Party's Financial Officers as presenting fairly in all material respects the financial condition and results of operations of Testing Party and its consolidated Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP consistently applied, subject to normal year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes; provided that, so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, -------- Testing Party shall not be required to furnish Adjusted Financial Statements for any fiscal quarter if all Unrestricted Subsidiaries of Testing Party (other than any such Unrestricted Subsidiaries that are already treated as equity investments on Testing Party's financial statements) on a combined basis would not have constituted a Material Subsidiary of Testing Party for such fiscal quarter; (c) concurrently with any delivery of financial statements under clause (a) or (b) above, a certificate of a Financial Officer of such Person (i) certifying as to whether a Default has occurred and, if a Default has occurred, specifying the details thereof and any action taken or proposed to be taken with respect thereto, (ii) setting forth reasonably detailed calculations demonstrating compliance with Sections 6.01, 6.02(a) and 6.03(a) and (k) and (iii) stating whether any change in GAAP or in the application thereof has occurred since the date of the audited financial statements referred to in Section 3.04, which has not been previously disclosed by either Borrower pursuant to this Section 5.01(c)(iii), and, if any such change has occurred, specifying the effect of such change on the financial statements accompanying such certificate; (d) promptly after the same become publicly available, copies of all periodic and other reports, proxy statements and other materials filed by any Company with the SEC or with any national securities exchange, or distributed by any Company to its security holders generally, as the case may be (other than registration statements on Form S-8, filings under Sections 16(a) or 13(d) of the Exchange Act and routine filings related to employee benefit plans); and (e) promptly following any request therefor, such other information regarding the operations, business affairs and financial condition of such Person or any of its Subsidiaries, or compliance with the terms of this Agreement, as the Administrative Agent or any Lender may reasonably request (it being understood that Testing Party and such Subsidiaries shall not be required to provide any information or documents which are subject to confidentiality provisions the nature of which prohibit such disclosure). Information required to be delivered pursuant to paragraphs (a), (b) and (d) shall be deemed to have been delivered on the date on which a Borrower provides notice to the Administrative Agent, or as the case may be the Administrative Agent gives notice to the
42 Lenders, that such information has been posted on such Borrower's website on the internet at the website address listed on the signature pages of such notice, at www.sec.gov or at another website identified in such notice and accessible by the Lenders without charge; provided that a Borrower shall deliver paper copies of the reports and financial statements referred to in paragraphs (a), (b) and (d) of this Section 5.01 to the Administrative Agent or any Lender who requests such Borrower to deliver such paper copies until written notice to cease delivering paper copies is given by the Administrative Agent or such Lender. SECTION 5.02. Notices of Material Events. Testing Party will furnish to the Administrative Agent (who will distribute copies to the Lenders) prompt written notice of the following, upon any such event becoming known to any Responsible Officer of Testing Party: (a) the occurrence of any Default; (b) the filing or commencement of any action, suit or proceeding by or before any arbitrator or Governmental Authority against or affecting any Borrower or any Affiliate thereof that, if adversely determined, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect; (c) the occurrence of any ERISA Event that, alone or together with any other ERISA Events that have occurred, could reasonably be expected to result in liability to Testing Party and its Subsidiaries in an aggregate amount exceeding $200,000,000; and (d) any other development that results in, or could reasonably be expected to result in, a Material Adverse Effect. Each notice delivered under this Section shall be accompanied by a statement of a Financial Officer or other executive officer of Testing Party setting forth the details of the event or development requiring such notice and any action taken or proposed to be taken with respect thereto. SECTION 5.03. Existence; Conduct of Business. Testing Party will, and will cause each of its Restricted Subsidiaries which are Material Subsidiaries to, do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve, renew and keep in full force and effect its legal existence and the rights, licenses, permits, privileges and franchises material to the conduct of its business; provided that the foregoing shall not prohibit any merger, consolidation, liquidation or dissolution permitted under Section 6.04. SECTION 5.04. Payment of Obligations. Testing Party will, and will cause each of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, pay its obligations, including Tax liabilities, that, if not paid, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, before the same shall become delinquent or in default, except where (a) the validity or amount thereof is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings, (b) Testing Party or such Subsidiary has set aside on its books adequate reserves with respect thereto in accordance with GAAP and (c) the failure to make payment pending such contest could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. SECTION 5.05. Maintenance of Properties; Insurance. Testing Party will, and will cause each of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, (a) keep and maintain all property material to the conduct of its business (taken as a whole) in good working order and condition, ordinary wear
43 and tear excepted, and (b) maintain, with financially sound and reputable insurance companies, insurance in such amounts and against such risks as are customarily maintained by companies engaged in the same or similar businesses operating in the same or similar locations (it being understood that, to the extent consistent with prudent business practice, a program of self-insurance for first or other loss layers may be utilized). SECTION 5.06. Books and Records; Inspection Rights. Testing Party will, and will cause each of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, keep proper books of record and account in which full, true and correct entries are made of all dealings and transactions in relation to its business and activities. Testing Party will, and will cause each of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, permit any representatives designated by the Administrative Agent or any Lender, upon reasonable prior notice, to visit and inspect its properties, to examine its books and records, and to discuss its affairs, finances and condition with its officers and, so long as a representative of Testing Party is present, or Testing Party has consented to the absence of such a representative, independent accountants (in each case subject to Testing Party's or its Restricted Subsidiaries' obligations under applicable confidentiality provisions), all at such reasonable times and as often as reasonably requested. SECTION 5.07. Compliance with Laws. Testing Party will, and will cause each of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, comply with all laws, rules, regulations and orders of any Governmental Authority applicable to it or its property, except where the failure to do so, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. SECTION 5.08. Use of Proceeds. The proceeds of the Loans will be used only for general corporate or partnership (as applicable) purposes, including the repayment of indebtedness of existing and future Subsidiaries of Testing Party and for commercial paper backup. No part of the proceeds of any Loan will be used, whether directly or indirectly, for any purpose that entails a violation of any of the Regulations of the Board, including Regulations U and X. SECTION 5.09. Fiscal Periods; Accounting. Testing Party's fiscal year will end on December 31 and its fiscal quarters will end on dates consistent with such fiscal year end. ARTICLE VI NEGATIVE COVENANTS Until all the Commitments have expired or terminated and the principal of and interest on each Loan, all fees payable hereunder and all other Obligations have been paid in full (but with respect to such other Obligations only to the extent that actual amounts hereunder are owing at the time the Loans, together with interest and fees, have been paid in full), Testing Party covenants and agrees (for itself and its Restricted Subsidiaries) with the Lenders that: SECTION 6.01. Financial Covenants. (a) The Consolidated Leverage Ratio as of the last day of any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters of Testing Party (commencing with the first fiscal quarter commencing after the Amendment Effective Date) will not exceed 5.00 to 1.00; provided
44 that for the purpose of determining the foregoing ratio for the fiscal quarters ending June 30, 2003, September 31, 2003 and December 31, 2003, Consolidated EBITDA for the relevant period shall be deemed to equal Consolidated EBITDA for such fiscal quarter (and, in the case of the latter two such determinations, each previous fiscal quarter commencing after the Amendment Effective Date) multiplied by 4, 2 and 4/3, respectively. (b) The Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio for any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters of Testing Party (or, if less, the number of fiscal quarters of Testing Party commencing subsequent to the Amendment Effective Date) will not be less than 2.00 to 1.00. SECTION 6.02. Indebtedness. Testing Party will not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (other than a Credit Party) to, create, incur, assume or permit to exist any Indebtedness, except: (a) with respect to all such Restricted Subsidiaries, Indebtedness of up to an aggregate principal amount of $1,000,000,000 at any time outstanding; provided that the aggregate principal amount of Indebtedness of TWEAN permitted by this clause (a) shall not exceed $500,000,000 at any time outstanding; (b) Indebtedness of any such Restricted Subsidiary to Testing Party or any Subsidiary; (c) Guarantee Obligations of any such Restricted Subsidiary with respect to Indebtedness of Testing Party or any wholly owned Restricted Subsidiary; (d) Indebtedness of any such Restricted Subsidiary incurred to finance the acquisition, construction or improvement of any property, including Capital Lease Obligations and any Indebtedness assumed in connection with the acquisition of any such property or secured by a Lien on any such property prior to the acquisition thereof, and extensions, renewals and replacements of any such Indebtedness that do not increase the outstanding principal amount thereof; provided that the aggregate principal amount of Indebtedness permitted by this clause (d) with respect to any such property shall not exceed 110% of the purchase price for, or the cost of construction or improvement of, such property; and (e) Indebtedness of any Person that becomes a Restricted Subsidiary of Testing Party after the date hereof; provided that (x) such Indebtedness exists at the time such Person becomes a Subsidiary and is not created in contemplation of or in connection with such Person becoming a Subsidiary and (y) such Indebtedness does not, directly or indirectly, have recourse (including by way of setoff) to Testing Party or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries or any asset thereof other than to the Person so acquired and its Subsidiaries and the assets of the Person so acquired and its Subsidiaries. SECTION 6.03. Liens. Testing Party will not, and will not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, to create, incur, assume or permit to exist any Lien on any property or asset now owned or hereafter acquired by it, except:
45 (a) any Lien on any property or asset of Testing Party or any Subsidiary existing on the date hereof; provided, that such Lien shall secure only those obligations which it secures on the date hereof and extensions, renewal and replacements thereof that do not increase the outstanding principal amount thereof and such Liens do not secure an aggregate principal amount of Indebtedness in excess of $200,000,000 or apply to property or assets of Testing Party and its Restricted Subsidiaries in excess of $200,000,000. (b) any Lien existing on any property or asset prior to the acquisition thereof by Testing Party or any Subsidiary or existing on any property or asset of any Person that becomes a Subsidiary after the date hereof prior to the time such Person becomes a Subsidiary; provided that (i) such Lien is not created in contemplation of or in connection with such acquisition or such Person becoming a Subsidiary, as the case may be, (ii) such Lien shall not apply to any other property or assets of Testing Party or any Subsidiary and (iii) such Lien shall secure only those obligations which it secures on the date of such acquisition or the date such Person becomes a Subsidiary, as the case may be and extensions, renewals and replacements thereof that do not increase the outstanding principal amount thereof; (c) Liens on property acquired, constructed or improved by Testing Party or any Subsidiary; provided that (i) such security interests secure Indebtedness permitted by clause (d) of Section 6.02, (ii) the Indebtedness secured thereby does not exceed 110% of the cost of acquiring, constructing or improving such property and (iii) such security interests shall not apply to any other property or assets of Testing Party or any of its Subsidiaries; (d) [Intentionally left blank] (e) [Intentionally left blank] (f) any Copyright Liens securing obligations specified in the definition thereof; (g) Liens securing Indebtedness of Testing Party or any Restricted Subsidiary and owing to Testing Party or to a Restricted Subsidiary; (h) Liens on interests in or investments in any Unrestricted Subsidiary or in any other Person that is not a Subsidiary of Testing Party securing Indebtedness of such Unrestricted Subsidiary or such other Person; (i) Liens for taxes, assessments or governmental charges or levies not yet due and payable or which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings; (j) Liens incidental to the ordinary conduct of Testing Party's business or the ownership of its assets which were not incurred in connection with the borrowing of money, such as carrier's, warehousemen's, materialmen's, landlord's and mechanic's liens, and which do not in the aggregate materially detract from the value of its assets or materially impair the use thereof in the ordinary course of its business; and (k) other Liens in respect of property or assets of Testing Party or any Restricted Subsidiary so long as at the time of the securing of any obligations related thereto, the
46 aggregate principal amount of all such secured obligations does not exceed 5% of the Consolidated Total Assets of Testing Party at such time (it being understood that any Lien permitted under any other clause in this Section 6.03 shall not be included in the computation described in this paragraph). SECTION 6.04. Mergers, Etc. Testing Party will not, and will not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, merge into or consolidate with any other Person, or permit any other Person to merge into or consolidate with it, or sell, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of (in one transaction or in a series of transactions) all or a substantial portion of Testing Party's consolidated assets, or all or a substantial portion of the stock of all of its Restricted Subsidiaries, taken as a whole (in each case, whether now owned or hereafter acquired), or liquidate or dissolve, unless (a) at the time thereof and immediately after giving effect thereto no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing and (b) after giving effect to any such transaction, the business, taken as a whole, of Testing Party and its Restricted Subsidiaries shall not have been altered in a fundamental and substantial manner from that conducted by them, taken as a whole, immediately prior to the Amendment Effective Date, provided that (i) a Borrower shall not merge into or consolidate with such other Person, unless a Borrower shall survive such consolidation or merger, and (ii) a Borrower shall not liquidate or dissolve or permit any TWE Partner Guarantor to liquidate or dissolve except into such Borrower or another TWE Partner Guarantor. SECTION 6.05. Investments. Testing Party will not, and will not cause or permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, make any Investment (other than any Investment in the ordinary course of the operation of its business) if, before or after giving effect to the commitment thereto on a pro forma basis, an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing. SECTION 6.06. Restricted Payments. Testing Party will not declare or make, or agree to pay or make, directly or indirectly, any Restricted Payment, except Testing Party may (a) declare and pay dividends with respect to its capital stock payable solely in additional shares of its common stock and (b) make Restricted Payments so long as after giving effect to the making of such Restricted Payment, no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing on a pro forma basis. SECTION 6.07. Transactions with Affiliates. Testing Party will not, and will not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly, enter into any material transaction with any of its Affiliates, except (a) transactions entered into prior to the date hereof or contemplated by any agreement entered into prior to the date hereof, (b) in the ordinary course of business or at prices and on terms and conditions not less favorable to Testing Party or such Subsidiary than could be obtained on an arm's-length basis from unrelated third parties, (c) transactions between or among Testing Party and its Restricted Subsidiaries or between or among Restricted Subsidiaries, (d) any arrangements with officers, directors, representatives or other employees of Testing Party and its Subsidiaries relating specifically to employment as such and (e) transactions that are otherwise permitted by this Agreement. SECTION 6.08. Unrestricted Subsidiaries. (a) Schedule 6.08 sets forth those Subsidiaries that have been designated as Unrestricted Subsidiaries as of the date hereof, which Subsidiaries do not include any Credit Party. Testing Party may designate any other of its Subsidiaries (other than a Credit Party) as Unrestricted Subsidiaries from time to time in
47 compliance with the provisions of this Section 6.08. Testing Party will not designate any of its Subsidiaries as an Unrestricted Subsidiary unless at the time such Subsidiary is designated as an Unrestricted Subsidiary, before and after giving effect to such designation on a pro forma basis, no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, as certified in an Officers' Certificate delivered to the Administrative Agent at the time of such designation. Such Officers' Certificate also shall state the specific purpose for which such designation is being made. All Subsidiaries of Unrestricted Subsidiaries shall be Unrestricted Subsidiaries. (b) Testing Party may designate or re-designate any Unrestricted Subsidiary as a Restricted Subsidiary from time to time in compliance with the provisions of this Section 6.08. Testing Party will not designate or re-designate any Unrestricted Subsidiary as a Restricted Subsidiary, unless at the time such Unrestricted Subsidiary is so designated or re-designated as a Restricted Subsidiary, after giving effect to such designation or re-designation on a pro forma basis, no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, as certified in an Officer's Certificate delivered to the Administrative Agent at the time of such designation or re-designation. ARTICLE VII EVENTS OF DEFAULT If any of the following events ("Events of Default") shall occur: (a) any Borrower shall fail to pay any principal of any Loan when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the due date thereof or at a date fixed for prepayment thereof or otherwise; (b) any Borrower shall fail to pay any interest on any Loan or any fee or any other amount (other than an amount referred to in clause (a) of this Article) payable under this Agreement, when and as the same shall become due and payable, and such failure shall continue unremedied for a period of five days; (c) any representation or warranty made or deemed made by or on behalf of any Credit Party in any Credit Document or any amendment or modification thereof, or in any report, certificate, financial statement or other document furnished pursuant to or in connection with any Credit Document or any amendment or modification thereof, shall prove to have been incorrect in any material respect when made or deemed made; (d) Testing Party shall fail to observe or perform any covenant, condition or agreement contained in Section 5.02 or 5.03 (with respect to its or any Borrower's existence) or in Article VI; (e) Parent or any Credit Party shall fail to observe or perform any covenant, condition or agreement contained in the Credit Documents (other than those specified in clause (a), (b) or (d) of this Article), and such failure shall continue unremedied for a period of 30 days after notice thereof from the Administrative Agent (given at the request of any Lender) to Testing Party;
48 (f) Parent, any Borrower or any Restricted Subsidiary shall fail to make any payment (whether of principal or interest and regardless of amount) in respect of any Material Indebtedness, when and as the same shall become due and payable after giving effect to any applicable grace periods; (g) any event or condition occurs that results in any Material Indebtedness becoming due prior to its scheduled maturity or that enables or permits (after giving effect to any applicable grace periods) the holder or holders of any Material Indebtedness or any trustee or agent on its or their behalf to cause any Material Indebtedness to become due, or to require the prepayment, repurchase, redemption or defeasance thereof, prior to its scheduled maturity; provided that this clause (g) shall not apply to secured Indebtedness that becomes due as a result of the voluntary sale or transfer of the property or assets securing such Indebtedness; (h) an involuntary proceeding shall be commenced or an involuntary petition shall be filed seeking (i) liquidation, reorganization or other relief in respect of Parent, any Borrower or any Material Subsidiary of Parent or its debts, or of a substantial part of its assets, under any Federal, state or foreign bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar law now or hereafter in effect or (ii) the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conservator or similar official for Parent, any Borrower or any Material Subsidiary of Parent or for a substantial part of its assets, and, in any such case, such proceeding or petition shall continue undismissed for 60 days or an order or decree approving or ordering any of the foregoing shall be entered; (i) Parent, any Borrower or any Material Subsidiary of Parent shall (i) voluntarily commence any proceeding or file any petition seeking liquidation, reorganization or other relief under any Federal, state or foreign bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar law now or hereafter in effect, (ii) consent to the institution of, or fail to contest in a timely and appropriate manner, any proceeding or petition described in clause (h) of this Article, (iii) apply for or consent to the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conservator or similar official for Parent, any Borrower or any Material Subsidiary of Parent or for a substantial part of its assets, (iv) file an answer admitting the material allegations of a petition filed against it in any such proceeding, (v) make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors or (vi) take any action for the purpose of effecting any of the foregoing; (j) Parent, any Borrower or any Material Subsidiary of Parent shall become unable, admit in writing or fail generally to pay its debts as they become due; (k) one or more judgments for the payment of money in an aggregate amount in excess of $200,000,000 shall be rendered against Parent, any Borrower, any Material Subsidiary of Parent or any combination thereof or any action shall be legally taken by a judgment creditor (whose liquidated judgment, along with those of any other judgment creditor's, exceeds $200,000,000) to attach or levy upon any assets of Parent, any Borrower or any Material Subsidiary of Parent to enforce any such judgment, and the same shall remain undischarged for a period of 60 consecutive days during which execution shall not be effectively stayed, vacated or bonded pending appeal;
49 (l) an ERISA Event shall have occurred that, when taken together with all other ERISA Events (with respect to which Parent or a Borrower has a liability which has not yet been satisfied) that have occurred, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect; (m) except as otherwise permitted by this Agreement, the TWE Partner Guarantee shall cease, for any reason, to be in full force and effect or any Credit Party shall so assert; or (n) a Change in Control shall occur; then, and in every such event (other than an event with respect to a Borrower described in clause (h) or (i) of this Article), and at any time thereafter during the continuance of such event, the Administrative Agent may, and at the request of the Required Lenders shall, by notice to Testing Party, take either or both of the following actions, at the same or different times: (i) terminate the Commitments, and thereupon the Commitments shall terminate immediately, and (ii) declare the Loans then outstanding to be due and payable in whole (or in part, in which case any principal not so declared to be due and payable may thereafter be declared to be due and payable), and thereupon the principal of the Loans so declared to be due and payable, together with accrued interest thereon and all fees and other obligations of any Borrower accrued hereunder, shall become due and payable immediately, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby waived by each Borrower; and in case of any event with respect to any Borrower described in clause (h) or (i) of this Article, the Commitments shall automatically terminate and the principal of the Loans then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon and all fees and other obligations of any Borrower accrued hereunder, shall automatically become due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby waived by each Borrower. ARTICLE VIII THE AGENTS Each of the Lenders hereby irrevocably appoints the Administrative Agent as its agent and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. Each bank serving as an Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not an Agent, and such bank and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to and generally engage in any kind of business with any Company or Affiliate thereof as if it were not an Agent hereunder. The Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, (a) the Administrative Agent shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing, (b) the Administrative Agent shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby that the Administrative Agent is
50 required to exercise in writing by the Required Lenders (or, if so specified by this Agreement, all the Lenders), and (c) except as expressly set forth herein, the Administrative Agent shall not have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to any Company that is communicated to or obtained by the bank serving as Administrative Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity. The Administrative Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or, if so specified by this Agreement, all the Lenders) or in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct. The Administrative Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default unless and until written notice thereof is given to the Administrative Agent by Parent, any Borrower or a Lender, and the Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Agreement or any other Credit Document, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered under any Credit Document or in connection therewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth in the Credit Document, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of any Credit Document or any other agreement, instrument or document, or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in Article IV or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or sent by a proper Person. An initial list of the proper Persons with respect to the Borrowers appears on Schedule 8. Schedule 8 shall not be altered except in writing by a Person appearing thereon (or by a successor to such Person occupying the equivalent office). The Administrative Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to be made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon so long as such statement, in the case of a Borrowing Request, complies with the requirements of Section 2.03 in all material respects (it being understood that oral notices of borrowing will be confirmed in writing by such Borrower in accordance with Section 2.03). The Administrative Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for the Borrowers), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts. The Administrative Agent may perform any and all its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all its duties and exercise its rights and powers through their respective Related Parties. The exculpatory provisions of the preceding paragraphs shall apply to any such sub-agent and to the Related Parties of the Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein as well as activities as Administrative Agent. Subject to the appointment and acceptance of a successor Administrative Agent as provided in this paragraph, the Administrative Agent may resign at any time by notifying the Lenders and the Borrowers. Upon any such resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right, in consultation with the Borrowers, to appoint a successor which, so long as no Event of Default is continuing, shall be reasonably acceptable to the Borrowers. If no successor shall
51 have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Administrative Agent gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Administrative Agent may, on behalf of the Lenders, appoint a successor Administrative Agent which shall be a bank with an office in New York, New York, or an Affiliate of any such bank. Upon the acceptance of its appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder by a successor, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder. The fees payable by the Borrowers to a successor Administrative Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Borrowers and such successor. After the Administrative Agent's resignation hereunder, the provisions of this Article and Section 9.03 shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Administrative Agent, its sub-agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by it while it was acting as Administrative Agent. The Lenders agree to indemnify each Agent in its capacity as such (to the extent not reimbursed by the Borrowers and without limiting the obligation of the Borrowers to do so), ratably according to their Commitments in effect (or at any time after the Commitments have terminated, their Revolving Credit Exposure) on the date on which indemnification is sought under this Section (or, if indemnification is sought after the date upon which the Commitments shall have terminated and the Loans shall have been paid in full, ratably in accordance with their Commitments (or, if the Commitments have terminated earlier, their Revolving Credit Exposures) immediately prior to such date), from and against any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements of any kind whatsoever that may at any time (whether before or after the payment of the Loans) be imposed on, incurred by or asserted against such Agent in any way relating to or arising out of, the Commitments, this Agreement, any of the other Credit Documents or any documents contemplated by or referred to herein or therein or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby or any action taken or omitted by such Agent under or in connection with any of the foregoing; provided that no Lender shall be liable for the payment of any portion of such liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements that are found by a final and nonappealable decision of a court of competent jurisdiction to have resulted from such Agent's gross negligence or willful misconduct. The agreements in this Section shall survive the payment of the Loans and all other amounts payable hereunder. Each Lender acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon any Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon any Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement, any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder. The Co-Syndication Agents and Co-Documentation Agents shall not have any duties or responsibilities hereunder in their capacity as such.
52 ARTICLE IX MISCELLANEOUS SECTION 9.01. Notices. Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone, all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by facsimile, as follows: (a) if to Parent or TWE, to it at 75 Rockefeller Plaza, New York, New York 10019, Attention of Chief Financial Officer (Facsimile No. (212) 405-5213), with copies to its General Counsel (Facsimile No. (212) 258-3172), and its Treasurer (Facsimile No. (212) 258-3020); (b) if to the Administrative Agent, to JPMorgan Chase Bank, Agent Bank Services Group, One Chase Manhattan Plaza, New York, New York 10081, Attention of Janet Belden (Facsimile No. 212-552-5658), with a copy to (i) JPMorgan Chase Bank, 270 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10017, Attention of Joan Fitzgibbon (Facsimile No. 212-270-4164); and (ii) in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing, JPMorgan Chase Bank, London Branch, 125 London Wall, London, EC2Y 5AJ, Attention of Steve Clarke (Facsimile No. 44-20-7777-2360); and (c) if to any other Lender, to it at its address (or facsimile number) set forth in its Administrative Questionnaire. Any party hereto may change its address or facsimile number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto. All notices and other communications given to any party hereto in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed to have been given on the date of receipt. SECTION 9.02. Waivers; Amendments. (a) No failure or delay by the Administrative Agent or any Lender in exercising any right or power hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right or power, or any abandonment or discontinuance of steps to enforce such a right or power, preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right or power. The rights and remedies of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders hereunder are cumulative and are not exclusive of any rights or remedies that they would otherwise have. No waiver of any provision of this Agreement or consent to any departure by any Borrower therefrom shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be permitted by paragraph (b) of this Section, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the purpose for which given. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the making of a Loan shall not be construed as a waiver of any Default, regardless of whether the Administrative Agent or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of such Default at the time. (b) Neither this Agreement nor any provision hereof may be waived, amended or modified except pursuant to an agreement or agreements in writing entered into by the Borrowers and the Required Lenders or by the Borrowers and the Administrative Agent with the consent of the Required Lenders; provided that no such agreement shall (i) increase the Commitment of any Lender without the written consent of such Lender, (ii) reduce the principal
53 amount of any Loan or reduce the rate of interest thereon, or reduce any fees payable hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender affected thereby, (iii) postpone the scheduled date of payment of the principal amount of any Loan, or any interest thereon, or any fees payable hereunder, or reduce the amount of, waive or excuse any such payment, or postpone the scheduled date of expiration of any Commitment, without the written consent of each Lender affected thereby, (iv) change Section 2.17(b) or (c) in a manner that would alter the pro rata sharing of payments required thereby, without the written consent of each Lender, or (v) change any of the provisions of this Section or the definition of "Required Lenders" or any other provision hereof specifying the number or percentage of Lenders required to waive, amend or modify any rights hereunder or make any determination or grant any consent hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender; provided further that no such agreement shall amend, modify or otherwise affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent hereunder without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent. SECTION 9.03. Expenses; Indemnity; Damage Waiver. (a) The Borrowers shall pay (i) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Arrangers, the Administrative Agent and its Affiliates, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel for the Administrative Agent in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein, the preparation and administration of the Credit Documents or any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions thereof (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated), and (ii) all out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Agents or the Lenders, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for the Agents or the Lenders in connection with the enforcement or protection of its rights in connection with any Credit Document, including its rights under this Section, or in connection with the Loans made hereunder, including in connection with any workout, restructuring or negotiations in respect thereof, it being understood that the Agents and the Lenders shall use, and the Borrowers shall only be required to pay such fees, charges and disbursements of, a single counsel, unless (and to the extent) conflicts of interests require the use of more than one counsel. (b) The Borrowers shall indemnify each Agent and each Lender, and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an "Indemnitee") against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and related expenses, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for any Indemnitee, incurred by or asserted against any Indemnitee arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of any Credit Documents or any agreement or instrument contemplated thereby, the performance by the parties hereto of their respective obligations hereunder or the consummation of the Transactions or any other transactions contemplated hereby, (ii) any Loan or the use of, or the proposed use of, the proceeds therefrom, (iii) any actual or alleged presence or release of Hazardous Materials on or from any property owned or operated by any Company, or any Environmental Liability related in any way to any Company, or (iv) any actual or prospective claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto; provided that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee. (c) To the extent that any of the Borrowers fail to pay any amount required to be paid by them to the Administrative Agent under paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section, each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent such Lender's Applicable Percentage
54 (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought) of such unpaid amount; provided that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agent in its capacity as such. (d) To the extent permitted by applicable law, no Borrower shall assert, and each Borrower hereby waives, any claim against any Indemnitee, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Agreement or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the Transactions, any Loan or the use of the proceeds thereof. (e) All amounts due under this Section shall be payable promptly after written demand therefor. SECTION 9.04. Successors and Assigns. (a) The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, except that no Credit Party may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of each Lender except in accordance with Section 6.04 (and any attempted assignment or transfer by such Credit Party without such consent shall be null and void). Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement. (b) Any Lender other than a Conduit Lender may assign to one or more assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans at the time owing to it); provided that (i) except in the case of an assignment to a Lender or a Lender Affiliate, each of Testing Party and the Administrative Agent must give its prior written consent to such assignment (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed), (ii) except in the case of an assignment to a Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender or an assignment of the entire remaining balance of the assigning Lender's Commitment, each assignment shall not be less than an aggregate principal amount of $15,000,000, (iii) except in the case of an assignment to a Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender or an assignment of the entire remaining balance of the assigning Lender's Commitment, the remaining amount of the Commitment of the assigning Lender after giving effect to such assignment shall not be less than $15,000,000 unless, in the case of clauses (ii) or (iii), each of Testing Party and the Administrative Agent otherwise consents, (iv) each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, (v) except in the case of an assignment to an Affiliate of the assigning Lender on or about the Effective Date, the parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent an Assignment and Acceptance, together with a processing and recordation fee of $3,500 (which fee shall be sufficient to record an assignment under all Facilities), and (vi) the assignee, if it shall not be a Lender, shall deliver to the Administrative Agent an Administrative Questionnaire; provided further that any consent of Testing Party otherwise required under this paragraph shall not be required if an Event of Default under clause (h) or (i) of Article VII has occurred and is continuing. Upon acceptance and recording pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Acceptance, the assignee thereunder shall be a party hereto and, to the extent of the interest
55 assigned by such Assignment and Acceptance, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Acceptance, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Acceptance covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto but shall (i) continue to be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.14, 2.15, 2.16 and 9.03) and (ii) continue to be subject to the confidentiality provisions hereof. Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this paragraph shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with paragraph (e) of this Section. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Conduit Lender may assign at any time to its designating Lender hereunder without the consent of any Borrower or the Administrative Agent any or all of the Loans it may have funded hereunder and pursuant to its designation agreement and without regard to the limitations set forth in the first sentence of this Section. (c) The Administrative Agent, acting for this purpose as an agent of the Borrowers, shall maintain at one of its offices in The City of New York a copy of each Assignment and Acceptance delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitment of, and principal amount of the Loans owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the "Register"). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive, and the Borrowers, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary. (d) Upon its receipt of a duly completed Assignment and Acceptance executed by an assigning Lender and an assignee, the assignee's completed Administrative Questionnaire (unless the assignee shall already be a Lender hereunder), the processing and recordation fee referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and any written consent to such assignment required by paragraph (b) of this Section, the Administrative Agent shall accept such Assignment and Acceptance and record the information contained therein in the Register. No assignment shall be effective for purposes of this Agreement unless it has been recorded in the Register as provided in this paragraph. (e) Any Lender other than a Conduit Lender may, without the consent of any Borrower or the Administrative Agent, sell participations to one or more banks or other entities (a "Participant") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans owing to it); provided that (i) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations and (iii) the Borrowers, the Administrative Agent and the other Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement. Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement; provided that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, modification or waiver described in the first proviso to Section 9.02(b) that affects such Participant. Subject to paragraph (f) of this Section, each Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.14, 2.15 and
56 2.16 to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section. (f) A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under Section 2.14 or 2.16 than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless the sale of the participation to such Participant is made with the Borrowers' prior written consent. A Participant that would be a Foreign Lender if it were a Lender shall not be entitled to the benefits of Section 2.16 unless the Borrowers are notified of the participation sold to such Participant and such Participant agrees, for the benefit of the Borrowers, to comply with Section 2.16(e) as though it were a Lender. (g) Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement to secure obligations of such Lender, including any such pledge or assignment to a Federal Reserve Bank, and this Section shall not apply to any such pledge or assignment of a security interest; provided that no such pledge or assignment of a security interest shall release a Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such assignee for such Lender as a party hereto. (h) Each Borrower, upon receipt of written notice from the relevant Lender, agrees to issue Notes to any Lender requiring Notes to facilitate transactions of the type described in paragraph (g) above. (i) Each Borrower, each Lender and the Administrative Agent hereby confirms that it will not institute against a Conduit Lender or join any other Person in instituting against a Conduit Lender any bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, insolvency or liquidation proceeding under any state bankruptcy or similar law, for one year and one day after the payment in full of the latest maturing commercial paper note issued by such Conduit Lender; provided, however, that each Lender designating any Conduit Lender hereby agrees to indemnify, save and hold harmless each other party hereto for any loss, cost, damage or expense arising out of its inability to institute such a proceeding against such Conduit Lender during such period of forbearance. SECTION 9.05. Survival. All covenants, agreements, representations and warranties made by the Credit Parties herein and in the certificates or other instruments delivered in connection with or pursuant to this Agreement shall be considered to have been relied upon by the other parties hereto and shall survive the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the making of any Loans, regardless of any investigation made by any such other party or on its behalf and notwithstanding that the Administrative Agent or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of any Default or incorrect representation or warranty at the time any credit is extended hereunder, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as the principal of or any accrued interest on any Loan or any fee or any other amount payable under this Agreement is outstanding and unpaid and so long as the Commitments have not expired or terminated. The provisions of Sections 2.14, 2.15, 2.16 and 9.03 and Article VIII shall survive and remain in full force and effect regardless of the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, the repayment of the Loans, the expiration or termination of the Commitments or the termination of this Agreement or any provision hereof. SECTION 9.06. Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto on different counterparts), each of
57 which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract. This Agreement and any separate letter agreements with respect to fees payable to the Lenders constitute the entire contract among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersede any and all previous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof. Except as provided in Section 4.01, this Agreement shall become effective when it shall have been executed by the Administrative Agent and when the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof which, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the other parties hereto, and thereafter shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement by facsimile shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement. SECTION 9.07. Severability. Any provision of this Agreement held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability without affecting the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions hereof; and the invalidity of a particular provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate such provision in any other jurisdiction. SECTION 9.08. Right of Setoff. If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, each Lender is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final) at any time held and other indebtedness at any time owing by such Lender to or for the credit or the account of any of the Credit Parties (other than indebtedness related to commercial advertising and marketing arrangements entered into in the ordinary course of business) against any of and all the obligations of any of the Credit Parties now or hereafter existing under this Agreement held by such Lender, irrespective of whether or not such Lender shall have made any demand under this Agreement and although such obligations may be unmatured. The rights of each Lender under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) which such Lender may have. SECTION 9.09. Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Consent to Service of Process. (a) This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the law of the State of New York. (b) Parent and each Credit Party hereby irrevocably and unconditionally submits, for itself and its property, to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the State of New York sitting in New York County and of the United States District Court of the Southern District of New York, and any appellate court from any thereof, in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to the Credit Documents, or for recognition or enforcement of any judgment, and each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that all claims in respect of any such action or proceeding shall be heard and determined in such New York State or, to the extent permitted by law, in such Federal court. Each of the parties hereto agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by law. (c) Parent and each Credit Party hereby irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent it may legally and effectively do so, any objection which it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement in any court referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. Each of the parties
58 hereto hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of such action or proceeding in any such court. (d) Each party to this Agreement irrevocably consents to service of process in the manner provided for notices in Section 9.01. Nothing in this Agreement will affect the right of any party to this Agreement to serve process in any other manner permitted by law. SECTION 9.10. WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL. EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY). EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PARTY HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PARTY WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION. SECTION 9.11. Headings. Article and Section headings and the Table of Contents used herein are for convenience of reference only, are not part of this Agreement and shall not affect the construction of, or be taken into consideration in interpreting, this Agreement. SECTION 9.12. Confidentiality. Each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its and its Affiliates' directors, officers, employees and agents, including accountants, legal counsel and other advisors (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority, (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, provided that in connection with any such requirement by a subpoena or similar legal process, Testing Party is given prior notice to the extent such prior notice is permissible under the circumstances and an opportunity to object to such disclosure, (d) to any other party to this Agreement, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or any suit, action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or the enforcement of rights hereunder, (f) subject to an express agreement for the benefit of the Borrowers containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section, to any (i) assignee (or Conduit Lender) of or Participant in, or any prospective assignee (or Conduit Lender) of or Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement or (ii) hedging agreement counterparty (or such contractual counterparty's professional advisor), (g) with the consent of Testing Party or (h) to the extent such Information (i) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section or (ii) becomes available to the Administrative Agent or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than Parent or TWE. For the purposes of this Section, "Information" means all information received from Parent or TWE, whether oral or written, relating to Parent or TWE or their business, other than any such information that is available to the Administrative Agent or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by Parent or TWE; provided that, in the case of information received from Parent or TWE after the date hereof, such information is clearly identified at the time of delivery as confidential. Any Person
59 required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information, including in accordance with Regulation FD as promulgated by the SEC. SECTION 9.13. Acknowledgements. Each of Parent and TWE hereby acknowledges that: (a) it has been advised by counsel in the negotiation, execution and delivery of this Agreement and the other Credit Documents; (b) neither the Administrative Agent nor any Lender has any fiduciary relationship with or duty to such Person arising out of or in connection with this Agreement or any of the other Credit Documents, and the relationship between Administrative Agent and Lenders, on one hand, and such Person, on the other hand, in connection herewith or therewith is solely that of debtor and creditor; and (c) no joint venture is created hereby or by the other Credit Documents or otherwise exists by virtue of the transactions contemplated hereby among the Lenders or among such Person and the Lenders. SECTION 9.14. Judgment Currency. If, for the purposes of obtaining judgment in any court, it is necessary to convert a sum due hereunder or under any other Credit Document in one currency into another currency, the rate of exchange used shall be that at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Administrative Agent could purchase the first currency with such other currency on the Business Day preceding that on which final judgment is given. The obligation of each of the applicable Borrowers in respect of any such sum due from it to either the Administrative Agent or any Lender hereunder or under any other Credit Document shall, notwithstanding any judgment in a currency (the "Judgment Currency") other than that in which such sum is denominated in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Agreement (the "Agreement Currency"), be discharged only to the extent that on the Business Day following receipt by the Administrative Agent or such Lender of any sum adjudged to be so due in the Judgment Currency, the Administrative Agent or such Lender may in accordance with normal banking procedures in the relevant jurisdiction purchase the Agreement Currency with the Judgment Currency; if the amount of the Agreement Currency so purchased is less than the sum originally adjudged to be due to the Administrative Agent or such Lender in the Agreement Currency (as converted on the date of final judgment), the Borrowers agree, jointly and severally, as a separate obligation and notwithstanding any such judgment, to indemnify the Administrative Agent or such Lender against such loss. If the amount of the Agreement Currency so purchased is greater than the sum originally adjudged to be due to the Administrative Agent or such Lender in such currency, the Administrative Agent or such Lender agrees to return the amount of any excess to the Borrowers (or to any other Person who may be entitled thereto under applicable law). The obligations of the Borrowers contained in this Section 9.14 shall survive the termination of this Agreement and the payment of all other amounts owing hereunder. SECTION 9.15. Relationship of Parent and TWE . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, the parties hereto acknowledge and agree that from and after the date that Parent
60 consummates an initial public offering of its common stock (a) Parent shall be deemed to be Testing Party and a Borrower under this Agreement and (b) each of Parent and TWE hereby agree, for the ratable benefit of the Lenders, to be jointly and severally and unconditionally liable for the prompt and complete performance when due (whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise) of the Obligations.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the day and year first above written. TIME WARNER CABLE, INC. By /s/ Landel Hobbs ----------------------------------------- Name: Landel Hobbs Title: Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer TIME WARNER ENTERTAINMENT COMPANY, L.P. By /s/ Raymond G. Murphy ------------------------------------------ Name: Raymond G. Murphy Title: Vice President & Treasurer Time Warner Cable, Inc. and Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P. Amended and Restated Credit Agreement
JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, as Administrative Agent By /s/ Joan Fitzgibbon ------------------------------------------- Name: Joan M. Fitzgibbon Title: Managing Director Time Warner Cable, Inc. and Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P. Amended and Restated Credit Agreement
SCHEDULE 1.01 CALCULATION OF MANDATORY COST The mandatory cost rate referred to in the definition of "Pound Sterling Overnight Rate" in Section 1.01 of the Credit Agreement will be the rate determined by the Administrative Agent (rounded upward, if necessary, to four decimal places) in accordance with the following formula (expressed as a percentage per annum): CL + S(L - Z) + 0.01F --------------------- 100 - (C + S) Where on the day of application of the formula: C The amount required to be held as a non-interest bearing cash ratio deposit with the Bank of England expressed as a percentage of each of the Reference Bank's Eligible Liabilities (above any stated minimum). F The amount of Pound Sterling per L 1,000,000 of the fee base of each Reference Bank payable to the Financial Services Authority per annum (disregarding any minimum fee payable under the Fees Regulations). L The rate of interest per annum at which Pound Sterling deposits of an amount comparable to the Borrowing or other amount are offered by each Reference Bank to leading banks in the London interbank market at or about 11:00 a.m. on the date of calculation for a period comparable to the period for which the Mandatory Cost is to be calculated; or The Pound Sterling Overnight Rate for the relevant day as calculated without taking into account the Mandatory Cost is the rate of interest (less margin and the Mandatory Cost) payable on that day on the related Borrowing pursuant to clause Section 2.12 of this Agreement. S The amount required to be placed as Special Deposits with the Bank of England, expressed as a percentage of each of the Reference Bank's Eligible Liabilities (above any stated minimum). Z The lower of L and the rate of interest per annum paid by the Bank of England on Special Deposits at or about 11:00 a.m. on the date of calculation.
For the purposes of calculating the Mandatory Cost: (i) C, L, S and Z are included in the formula as numbers and not as percentages, e.g. if C = 0.15 percent and L = 7 percent, CL is calculated at 0.15 x 7; (ii) the formula is applied on the first day of each period for which it falls to be calculated (and the result shall apply for the duration of such period); (iii) each amount is rounded up to the nearest four decimal places; and (iv) if the formula produces a negative percentage, the percentage shall be taken as zero. If alternative or additional financial requirements are imposed by the Bank of England, the Financial Services Authority or any other fiscal, monetary or governmental authority or agency (including the European Central Bank) which in the Administrative Agent's reasonable opinion make the above formula (or any element thereof, or any defined term used therein) no longer appropriate, the Administrative Agent (following consultation with the Borrowers and the Required Lenders) shall be entitled by notice to the Borrowers to stipulate such other formula as shall be suitable to apply in substitution for the above formulae. Any such variation shall, in the absence of manifest error, be conclusive and binding on all parties and shall apply from the date specified in such notice. For the purposes of this Schedule: "Bank of England Act" means the Bank of England Act 1998; "Eligible Liabilities" has the meaning given to that term in the Cash Ratio Deposits (Eligible Liabilities) Order 1998 or the applicable substitute order made under the Bank of England Act as in force on the date of application of the formula; "Fee Base" has the meaning given to that term in the Fees Regulations; "Fees Regulations" means the Banking Supervision (Fees) Regulations 2001 or the applicable substitute regulations made under the Bank of England Act as are in force on the date of application of the formula; and "Special Deposits" has the meaning given to that term by the Bank of England on the date of application of the formula. Any reference to a provision of any statute, directive, order or regulation herein is a reference to that provision as amended or re-enacted from time to time.
SCHEDULE 2.01 TO BE UPDATED/SPLIT Address of Notices; Commitments
BankOne, N.A. $ 71,250,000.00 One Bank One Plaza Chicago, IL 60670 Attn: Jennifer L. Jones Telephone: 312-732-1005 Facsimile: 312-732-8587 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Barclays Bank PLC $ 71,250,000.00 101 California Street, Suite 1800 San Francisco, CA 94111 Attn: Danielle Lacovone Telephone: 415-765-4736 Facsimile: 415-765-4760 200 Park Avenue New York, NY 10265 Attn: Peter Yetman Telephone: 212-412-7683 Facsimile: 212-412-7511 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Deutsche Bank AG, New York Branch $ 71,250,000.00 31 West 52nd Street New York, NY 10019 Attn: William W. McGinty Telephone: 212-469-8662 Facsimile: 212-469-7070 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Royal Bank of Scotland plc $ 71,250,000.00 101 Park Avenue, 10th Floor New York, NY 10178 Attn: Brian Woods Telephone: 212-401-3403 Facsimile: 212-401-3456 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- WestLB AG, New York Branch $ 71,250,000.00 1211 Avenue of the Americas New York, NY 10036 Attn: Lucie Guernsey Telephone: 212-852-6335 Facsimile: 212-852-6307 - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The Bank of Nova Scotia $ 63,750,000.00 One Liberty Plaza, 26th Floor New York, NY 10006 Attn: Jonathan Silsby Telephone: 212-225-5230 Facsimile: 212-225-5090 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Dresdner Bank AG, New York and Grand Cayman Branches $ 52,500,000.00 75 Wall Street New York, NY 10005 Attn: Brian Haughney Telephone: 212-429-2443 Facsimile: 212-429-4181 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Fleet National Bank $ 52,500,000.00 100 Federal Street Boston, MA 02110 Attn: Patrick Bonebrake Telephone: 617-434-1156 Facsimile: 617-434-8426 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- HSBC Bank USA $ 52,500,000.00 452 Fifth Avenue, 5th Floor New York, NY 10005 Attn: Christopher J. Heusler Telephone: 212-525-2496 Facsimile: 212-525-2479 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Mizuho Corporate Bank, LTD. $ 52,500,000.00 1251 Avenue of the Americas New York, NY 10020 Attn: Daniel Guevara Telephone: 212-282-4537 Facsimile: 212-282-4383 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Morgan Stanley Bank $ 33,750,000.00 1221 Avenue of the Americas, 35th Floor New York, NY 10020 Attn: Joseph DiTomaso Telephone: 212-762-5811 Facsimile: 212-762-9181 - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi Ltd., NY Branch $ 48,750,000.00 1251 Avenue of the Americas, 12th Floor New York, NY 10020 Attn: Jeffrey Millar Telephone: 212-782-4358 Facsimile: 212-782-6445 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Bear Stearns Corporate Lending Inc. $ 37,500,000.00 383 Madison Ave., 8th Floor New York, NY 10179 Attn: Stephen Okeefe Telephone: 212-272-9430 Facsimile: 212-272-9184 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Commerzbank AG, New York and Grand Cayman Branches $ 37,500,000.00 2 World Financial Center New York, NY 10281 Attn: Robert Donohue Telephone: 212-266-7336 Facsimile: 212-266-7594 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Merrill Lynch Bank USA $ 15,000,000.00 15 West South Temple, Suite 300 Salt Lake City, UT 84101 Attn: Butch Adler Telephone: 801-526-8324 Facsimile: 801-531-7470 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Lehman Commercial Paper Inc. $ 37,500,000.00 c/o Simpson Thacher & Bartlett 425 Lexington Avenue, Room 2533 New York, NY 10017 Attn: Andrew Keith Telephone: 212-455-7569 Facsimile: 212-455-7241 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Societe Generale $ 37,500,000.00 1221 Avenue of the Americas New York, NY 10020 Attn: Richard Knowlton Telephone: 212-278-6163 Facsimile: 212-278-6146 - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Mellon Bank, N.A. $ 22,500,000.00 1 Mellon Bank Center 500 Grant Street, Rm. 4450 Pittsburgh, PA 15258 Attn: Thomas Tarasovich, Jr. Telephone: 412-236-2790 Facsimile: 412-236-6112 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Lloyds TSB Bank, plc $ 15,000,000.00 575 Fifth Avenue, 17th Floor New York, NY 10017 Attn: Windsor Davies Telephone: 212-930-8909 Facsimile: 212-930-5098 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- National Australia Bank Limited, $ 15,000,000.00 A.C.N 200 Park Avenue, 34th Floor New York, NY 10166 Attn: Ed Salazar Telephone: 212-916-9515 Facsimile: 212-983-1969 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Norddeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale New York $ 15,000,000.00 Branch and/or Cayman Island Branch 1114 Avenue of the Americas, 37th Floor New York, NY 10036 Attn: Stephanie Finnen Telephone: 212-812-6806 Facsimile: 212-812-6860 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation $ 22,500,000.00 277 Park Avenue New York, NY 10172 Attn: Leo Pagarigan Telephone: 212-224-4306 Facsimile: 212-224-4384 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Bank of New York $ 15,000,000.00 One Wall Street, 16th Floor New York, NY 10286 Attn: Geoffrey C. Brooks Telephone: 212-635-8475 Facsimile: 212-635-8593 - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
UFJ Bank Limited $ 11,250,000.00 55 East 52nd Street, 26th Floor New York, NY 10055 Attn: Joseph Leo Telephone: 212-339-6205 Facsimile: 212-754-1304 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Credit Lyonnais $ 7,500,000.00 1301 Avenue of the Americas New York, NY 10019 Attn: Patrick McCarthy Telephone: 212-261-7263 Facsimile: 212-261-3288 - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SCHEDULE 2.03(A)
SCHEDULE 2.03(B) AUTHORIZED ACCOUNT NUMBERS & LOCATIONS Bank: The JPMorgan Chase Bank Address: One Chase Manhattan Plaza New York, NY 10005 ABA: 021 000 021 Account Name: Time Warner Entertainment Co., L.P. d/b/a Time Warner Cable Account Number: 325-005265
SCHEDULE 6.08 UNRESTRICTED SUBSIDIARIES TWEAN Subsidiary, LLC
SCHEDULE 8 LIST OF PROPER PERSONS
ACKNOWLEDGMENT AND CONSENT Each of the undersigned parties to the TWE Partner Guarantee, dated as of July 8, 2002 and as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, made by the undersigned in favor of JPMorgan Chase Bank, as Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the Lenders, hereby (a) consents to the transactions contemplated by the foregoing Agreement and (b) acknowledges and agrees that the guarantee of such party contained in the TWE Partner Guarantee is, and shall remain, in full force and effect after giving effect to the foregoing Agreement and all prior modifications thereto. AMERICAN TELEVISION AND COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION By: /s/ Raymond G. Murphy --------------------------------- Name: Raymond G. Murphy Title: Vice President & Treasurer WARNER COMMUNICATIONS INC. By: /s/ Raymond G. Murphy --------------------------------- Name: Raymond G. Murphy Title: Vice President & Treasurer

EXHIBIT: 10.14 FIRST AMENDMENT TWC 364-DAY AMENDED AND RESTATED CREDIT AGREEMENT DATED AS OF JULY 8, 2002, AND AMENDED AND RESTATED AS OF MARCH 31, 2003 FIRST AMENDMENT, dated as of March 31, 2003 (this "Amendment"), to the AMENDED AND RESTATED 364-DAY CREDIT AGREEMENT (the "Agreement"), dated as of July 8, 2002 and amended and restated as of March 31, 2003, among TIME WARNER CABLE INC., a Delaware corporation ("Parent"), Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership ("TWE"; together with Parent, the "Companies"), the several banks and other financial institutions from time to time parties to the Agreement (the "Lenders"), ABN AMRO BANK N.V. and BNP Paribas, as co-documentation agents, BANK OF AMERICA, N.A. and CITIBANK, N.A., as co-syndication agents, and JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, as administrative agent (in such capacity, the "Administrative Agent"). W I T N E S S E T H : WHEREAS, pursuant to the Agreement, the Lenders have agreed to make, and have made, certain loans and extensions of credit to the Companies; and WHEREAS, the Companies have requested that the Administrative Agent and the Lenders enter into this Amendment. NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and of the mutual agreements herein contained, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: I. Definitions. Unless otherwise defined herein, terms defined in the Agreement shall be used as so defined. II. Amendments to Agreement. (a) Section 1.01 of the Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the definitions of the following defined terms contained therein in their respective entireties and substituting in lieu thereof the following definitions: "'Commitment Termination Date' means the earlier to occur of (a) the Initial Maturity Date and (b) the date on which the Commitments shall terminate in their entirety in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement." "'Commitment Utilization Percentage' means on any day the percentage expressed as a fraction (a) the numerator of which is the sum of the aggregate outstanding Revolving Credit Exposure of the Lenders under this Agreement on such day and (b) the denominator of which is the sum of the Commitments of the Lenders under this Agreement on such day; provided that on any day subsequent to the Initial Maturity Date, if a Term Out Notice has been delivered pursuant to Section 2.09(f), the aggregate amount of the Commitments of the Lenders under this Agreement for the purposes of this definition shall be the aggregate amount of the outstanding Revolving Credit Exposure of the Lenders."
"'Extended Maturity Date' means the date that is the first anniversary of the Initial Maturity Date." "'Initial Maturity Date' means the Business Day immediately preceding the earlier to occur of (a) the date that is six months after the first anniversary of the Effective Date and (b) the first anniversary of the Amendment Effective Date." (b) Section 2.09 of the Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the words "second anniversary" in paragraph (f) thereof and inserting in lieu thereof the words "first anniversary". III. Conditions to Effectiveness. This Amendment shall become effective on the date upon which the Administrative Agent shall have received this Amendment, duly executed and delivered by each Company, each TWE Partner Guarantor and each Lender. IV. Representations and Warranties. The Companies represent and warrant to each Lender that: (a) the representations and warranties made by the Companies and the other Credit Parties in or pursuant to the Credit Documents are true and correct in all material respects on and as of the date hereof (except to the extent that such representations and warranties are expressly made only as of an earlier date, in which case such representations and warranties shall have been true and correct in all material respects on and as of such earlier date) and all references to the Agreement therein shall be deemed to include the Agreement as amended by this Amendment, and (b) after giving effect to the amendments contained herein, no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing. V. Continuing Effect. Except as expressly amended hereby, the Agreement and the other Credit Documents shall continue to be and shall remain in full force and effect in accordance with their terms. Except as expressly set forth herein, this Amendment shall not by implication or otherwise limit, impair, constitute a waiver of, or otherwise affect the rights and remedies of the Lenders under the Agreement or any other Credit Document, and shall not alter, modify, amend or in any way affect any of the terms, conditions, obligations, covenants or agreements contained in the Agreement or any other Credit Document. VI. GOVERNING LAW. THIS AMENDMENT SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH AND GOVERNED BY THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK. VII. Counterparts. This Amendment may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto on different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page to this Amendment by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Amendment. [Remainder of Page Intentionally Left Blank] 2
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized, as of the date first above written. TIME WARNER ENTERTAINMENT COMPANY, L.P. By: /s/ Raymond G. Murphy ------------------------------------- Name: Raymond G. Murphy Title: Vice President & Treasurer TIME WARNER CABLE, INC. By: /s/ Landel Hobbs ------------------------------------- Name: Landel Hobbs Title: Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, as Administrative Agent By: /s/ Joan Fitzgibbon -------------------------------------- Name: Joan M. Fitzgibbon Title: Managing Director
JPMORGAN CHASE BANK By: /s/ Joan Fitzgibbon -------------------------------------- Name: Joan M. Fitzgibbon Title: Managing Director BANK OF AMERICA, N.A. By: /s/ James T Gilland -------------------------------------- Name: James T. Gilland Title: Managing Director ABN AMRO BANK N.V. By: /s/ David Carrington -------------------------------------- Name: David Carrington Title: Group Vice President By: /s/ Shilpa Parandekar -------------------------------------- Name: Shilpa Parandekar Title: Assistant Vice President CITIBANK, N.A. By: /s/ Julio Ojea-Quintana -------------------------------------- Name: Julio Ojea-Quintana Title: Director BNP PARIBAS By: /s/ Nuala Marley -------------------------------------- Name: Nuala Marley Title: Director By: /s/ Todd Rodgers -------------------------------------- Name: Todd Rodgers Title: Vice President BANK ONE, NA By: /s/ Jennifer L. Jones -------------------------------------- Name: Jennifer L. Jones Title: Associate Director
BARCLAYS BANK PLC By: /s/ L. Peter Yetman -------------------------------------- Name: L. Peter Yetman Title: Director DEUTSCHE BANK AG, NEW YORK BRANCH By: /s/ Andreas Neumeier -------------------------------------- Name: Andreas Neumeier Title: Director By: /s/ Peter Eschmann -------------------------------------- Name: Peter Eschmann Title: Vice President THE ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND PLC By: /s/ David A. Lucas -------------------------------------- Name: David A. Lucas Title: Senior Vice President WESTLB AG, NEW YORK BRANCH (formerly known as Westdeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale) By: /s/ Lucie Guernsey -------------------------------------- Name: Lucie Guernsey Title: Director By: /s/ Richard Pearse -------------------------------------- Name: Richard Pearse Title: Executive Director THE BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA By: /s/ Vincent J. Fitzgerald, Jr. -------------------------------------- Name: Vincent J. Fitzgerald, Jr. Title: Authorized Signatory DRESDNER BANK AG, NEW YORK & GRAND CAYMAN BRANCHES 5
By: /s/ Brian Haughney -------------------------------------- Name: Brian Haughney Title: Vice President By: /s/ William E. Lambert -------------------------------------- Name: William E. Lambert Title: Vice President FLEET NATIONAL BANK By: /s/ Patrick Bonebrake -------------------------------------- Name: Patrick Bonebrake Title: Director HSBC BANK USA By: /s/ Christopher J. Heusler -------------------------------------- Name: Christopher J. Heusler Title: Vice President MIZUHO CORPORATE BANK, LTD. By: /s/ Raymond Ventura -------------------------------------- Name: Raymond Venture Title: Senior Vice President MORGAN STANLEY BANK By: /s/ Jaap L. Tonckens -------------------------------------- Name: Jaap L. Tonkens Title: Vice President THE BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI, LTD., NY BRANCH By: /s/ Spencer Hughes -------------------------------------- Name: Spencer Hughes Title: Authorized Signatory BEAR STEARNS CORPORATE LENDING INC. 6
By: /s/ Victor F. Bulzacchelli -------------------------------------- Name: Victor F. Bulzacchelli Title: Authorized Signatory COMMERZBANK AG, NEW YORK AND GRAND CAYMAN BRANCHES By: /s/ Robert S. Taylor, Jr. -------------------------------------- Name: Robert S. Taylor, Jr. Title: Senior Vice President By: /s/ Andrew P. Lusk -------------------------------------- Name: Andrew P. Lusk Title: Assistant Vice President MERRILL LYNCH BANK USA By: /s/ Louis Alder -------------------------------------- Name: Louis Alder Title: Vice President LEHMAN COMMERCIAL PAPER INC. By: /s/ Suzanne Flynn -------------------------------------- Name: Suzanne Flynn Title: Authorized Signatory SOCIETE GENERALE By: /s/ Mark Vigil -------------------------------------- Name: Mark Vigil Title: Managing Director MELLON BANK, NA By: /s/ Thomas J. Tarasovich, Jr. -------------------------------------- Name: Thomas J. Tarasovich, Jr. Title: Lending Officer LLYODS TSB BANK PLC By: /s/ Windsor R. Davies -------------------------------------- Name: Windsor R. Davies Title: Director 7
By: /s/ Richard M. Heath -------------------------------------- Name: Richard M. Heath Title: Vice President NATIONAL AUSTRALIA BANK A.C.N. 004044937 By: /s/ Eduardo Salazar -------------------------------------- Name: Eduardo Salazar Title: Head, TMT - Americas NORDDEUTSCHE LANESBANK GIROZENTRALE NEW YORK AND/OR CAYMAN ISLANDS BRANCH By: /s/ Josef Haas -------------------------------------- Name: Josef Haas Title: Vice President By: /s/ Stephanie Finnen -------------------------------------- Name: Stephanie Finnen Title: Vice President SUMITOMO MITSUI BANKING CORPORATION By: /s/ Leo E. Pagarigan -------------------------------------- Name: Leo E. Pagarigan Title: Senior Vice President THE BANK OF NEW YORK By: /s/ Geoffrey C. Brooks -------------------------------------- Name: Geoffrey C. Brooks Title: Senior Vice President UFJ BANK LIMITED By: /s/ Joseph E. Leo -------------------------------------- Name: Joseph E. Leo Title: Vice President 8
CREDIT LYONNAIS NEW YORK BRANCH By: /s/ Patrick McCarthy -------------------------------------- Name: Patrick McCarthy Title: Vice President 9
ACKNOWLEDGMENT AND CONSENT Each of the undersigned parties to the TWE Partner Guarantee, dated as of July 8, 2002 and as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, made by the undersigned in favor of JPMorgan Chase Bank, as Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the Lenders, hereby (a) consents to the transactions contemplated by the foregoing Amendment to the Agreement and (b) acknowledges and agrees that the guarantee of such party contained in the TWE Partner Guarantee is, and shall remain, in full force and effect after giving effect to such Amendment and all prior modifications to the Agreement. AMERICAN TELEVISION AND COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION By: /s/ Raymond G. Murphy -------------------------------------- Name: Raymond G. Murphy Title: Vice President & Treasurer WARNER COMMUNICATIONS INC. By: /s/ Raymond G. Murphy -------------------------------------- Name: Raymond G. Murphy Title: Vice President & Treasurer

EXHIBIT:10.15 EXECUTION COPY ================================================================================ AMENDED AND RESTATED CREDIT AGREEMENT Dated as of July 8, 2002 and amended and restated as of March 31, 2003 Among AOL TIME WARNER INC., AOL TIME WARNER FINANCE IRELAND, as Borrowers, The Lenders Party Hereto, JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, as Administrative Agent, BANK OF AMERICA, N.A. AND CITIBANK, N.A., as Co-Syndication Agents, and ABN AMRO BANK N.V. AND BNP PARIBAS, as Co-Documentation Agents $2,500,000,000 364-DAY REVOLVING CREDIT FACILITY ================================================================================ J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES INC. AND BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC, as Joint-Lead Arrangers and Joint Bookrunners
TABLE OF CONTENTS i
ARTICLE IV Conditions............................................................................................ 40 SECTION 4.01. Amendment Effective Date.................................................................. 40 SECTION 4.02. Each Credit Event......................................................................... 41 ARTICLE V Affirmative Covenants.................................................................................. 42 SECTION 5.01. Financial Statements and Other Information................................................ 42 SECTION 5.02. Notices of Material Events................................................................ 43 SECTION 5.03. Existence; Conduct of Business............................................................ 44 SECTION 5.04. Payment of Obligations.................................................................... 44 SECTION 5.05. Maintenance of Properties; Insurance...................................................... 44 SECTION 5.06. Books and Records; Inspection Rights...................................................... 44 SECTION 5.07. Compliance with Laws...................................................................... 45 SECTION 5.08. Use of Proceeds........................................................................... 45 SECTION 5.09. Fiscal Periods; Accounting................................................................ 45 ARTICLE VI Negative Covenants.................................................................................... 45 SECTION 6.01. Financial Covenants....................................................................... 45 SECTION 6.02. Indebtedness.............................................................................. 45 SECTION 6.03. Liens..................................................................................... 46 SECTION 6.04. Mergers, Etc. ............................................................................ 47 SECTION 6.05. Investments............................................................................... 48 SECTION 6.06. Restricted Payments....................................................................... 48 SECTION 6.07. Transactions with Affiliates.............................................................. 48 SECTION 6.08. Unrestricted Subsidiaries................................................................. 48 ARTICLE VII Events of Default.................................................................................... 49 ARTICLE VIII The Agents.......................................................................................... 51 ARTICLE IX Miscellaneous......................................................................................... 53 SECTION 9.01. Notices................................................................................... 53 SECTION 9.02. Waivers; Amendments....................................................................... 54 SECTION 9.03. Expenses; Indemnity; Damage Waiver........................................................ 55 SECTION 9.04. Successors and Assigns.................................................................... 56 SECTION 9.05. Survival.................................................................................. 58 SECTION 9.06. Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness.................................................. 58 SECTION 9.07. Severability.............................................................................. 59 SECTION 9.08. Right of Setoff........................................................................... 59 SECTION 9.09. Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Consent to Service of Process................................ 59 SECTION 9.10. WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL...................................................................... 59 SECTION 9.11. Headings.................................................................................. 60 SECTION 9.12. Confidentiality........................................................................... 60 SECTION 9.13. Acknowledgements.......................................................................... 60 SECTION 9.14. Judgment Currency......................................................................... 61
ii
SECTION 9.15. Loans to Borrowers Separate Credit Facility............................................... 61 SCHEDULES: Schedule 1.01 - Mandatory Cost Rate Schedule 2.01 - Commitments Schedule 2.03(A) - Borrowing Notice/Interest Election Notice/Prepayment Notice Schedule 2.03(B) - Authorized Account Numbers & Locations Schedule 6.08 - Unrestricted Subsidiaries Schedule 8 - List of Proper Persons EXHIBITS: Exhibit A - Form of Assignment and Acceptance Exhibit B - Form of Primary Guarantee
iii
AMENDED AND RESTATED 364-DAY CREDIT AGREEMENT (as further amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, this "Agreement") dated as of July 8, 2002 and amended and restated as of March 31, 2003, among AOL TIME WARNER INC., a Delaware corporation ("AOLTW"), and AOL TIME WARNER FINANCE IRELAND, a corporation of the Republic of Ireland ("AOLTWFI"), the several banks and other financial institutions from time to time parties to this Agreement (the "Lenders"), BANK OF AMERICA, N.A. and CITIBANK, N.A., as co-syndication agents (in such capacity, the "Co-Syndication Agents"), ABN AMRO BANK N.V. and BNP PARIBAS, as co-documentation agents (in such capacity, the "Co-Documentation Agents") and JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, as administrative agent (in such capacity, the "Administrative Agent"). W I T N E S S E T H: WHEREAS, AOLTW, AOLTWFI, Time Warner Entertainment, Company L.P., a Delaware limited partnership ("TWE"), Time Warner Entertainment-Advance/Newhouse Partnership, a New York general partnership ("TWEAN"), the Lenders, the Co-Syndication Agents, the Co-Documentation Agents and the Administrative Agent are parties to a 364-Day Credit Agreement, dated as of July 8, 2002 (the "Existing Credit Agreement"); WHEREAS, AOLTW, AOLTWFI, TWE and TWEAN have requested that the Lenders (under and as defined in, for this purpose only, the Existing Credit Agreement), agree to re-evidence the rights and obligations of AOLTW and AOLTWFI under the Existing Credit Agreement and to certain amendments to the Existing Credit Agreement on the terms set forth in this Agreement; WHEREAS, the Lenders (pursuant to and as defined in, for this purpose only, the Existing Credit Agreement) by executing and delivering lender consent letters, dated as of the date hereof (collectively, the "Lender Consent"), have agreed to such amendments on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and have authorized the Administrative Agent to enter into this Agreement in accordance with Section 9.02(b) of the Existing Credit Agreement; ACCORDINGLY, it is agreed that on the Amendment Effective Date (as defined herein) the rights and obligations of AOLTW and AOLTWFI under the Existing Credit Agreement shall be amended and re-evidenced as follows: ARTICLE I DEFINITIONS SECTION 1.01. Defined Terms. As used in this Agreement, the following terms have the meanings specified below: "ABR" when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, are bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Alternate Base Rate. "Adjusted Financial Statements" means, for any period, (a) the balance sheet of AOLTW and its Restricted Subsidiaries (treating Unrestricted Subsidiaries as equity investments
2 of AOLTW to the extent that such Unrestricted Subsidiaries would not otherwise be treated as equity investments of AOLTW in accordance with GAAP) as of the end of such period and (b) the related statements of operations and stockholders equity for such period and, if such period is not a fiscal year, for the then elapsed portion of the fiscal year (treating Unrestricted Subsidiaries as equity investments of AOLTW to the extent that such Unrestricted Subsidiaries would not otherwise be treated as equity investments of AOLTW in accordance with GAAP). "Adjusted LIBO Rate" means, with respect to any Eurocurrency Borrowing for any Interest Period, an interest rate per annum (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next Basis Point) equal to (a) the LIBO Rate for such Interest Period multiplied by (b) the Statutory Reserve Rate. "Administrative Agent" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, together with its affiliates, as an arranger of the Commitments and as administrative agent for the Lenders hereunder, together with any of its successors pursuant to Article VIII. "Administrative Questionnaire" means, with respect to each Lender, an Administrative Questionnaire in a form supplied by the Administrative Agent. "Affiliate" means, with respect to a specified Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified; provided, that two or more Persons shall not be deemed Affiliates because an individual is a director and/or officer of each such Person. "Agents" means the Co-Syndication Agents, the Co-Documentation Agents and the Administrative Agent. "Alternate Base Rate" means, for any day, a rate per annum equal to the greater of (a) the Prime Rate in effect on such day and (b) the Federal Funds Effective Rate in effect on such day plus 1/2 of 1%. Any change in the Alternate Base Rate due to a change in the Prime Rate or the Federal Funds Effective Rate shall be effective from and including the effective date of such change in the Prime Rate or the Federal Funds Effective Rate, respectively. "Amendment Effective Date" means the date on which the conditions specified in Section 4.01 are satisfied. "America Online" means America Online, Inc., a Delaware corporation. "AOLTW" has the meaning assigned to such term in the preamble hereto. "AOLTWFI" has the meaning assigned to such term in the preamble hereto. "Applicable Percentage" means, with respect to any Lender, the percentage of the sum total of the Commitments which is represented by such Lender's Commitment. If all the Commitments have terminated or expired, the Applicable Percentages shall be determined based upon the Commitments most recently in effect, giving effect to any assignments. "Applicable Rate" means, for any day, with respect to the Facility Fee payable hereunder the applicable rate per annum set forth below expressed in Basis Points under the caption "Facility Fee Rate" based upon the senior unsecured long-term debt credit rating
3 assigned by Moody's and S&P, respectively, applicable on such date to AOLTW, and with respect to any Loan (other than an ABR Loan), the applicable rate per annum set forth below expressed in Basis Points under the caption "Loan (other than ABR Loans) Spread" based upon the senior unsecured long-term debt credit rating (or an equivalent thereof) (in each case, a "Rating") assigned by Moody's and S&P, respectively, applicable on such date to AOLTW: For purposes of determining the Applicable Rate, (a) if either Moody's or S&P shall not have in effect a relevant Rating (other than by reason of the circumstances referred to in clause (c) of this definition), then the Rating assigned by the other rating agency shall be used; (b) if the relevant Ratings assigned by Moody's and S&P shall fall within different Categories, the Applicable Rate shall be based on the higher of the two Ratings unless one of the two Ratings is two or more Categories lower than the other, in which case the Applicable Rate shall be determined by reference to the Category next below that of the higher of the two ratings; (c) if either rating agency shall cease to assign a relevant Rating solely because AOLTW elects not to participate or otherwise cooperate in the ratings process of such rating agency, the Applicable Rate shall not be less than that in effect immediately before such rating agency's Rating for AOLTW became unavailable; and (d) if the relevant Ratings assigned by Moody's or S&P shall be changed (other than as a result of a change in the rating system of Moody's or S&P), such change shall be effective as of the date on which it is first announced by the applicable rating agency. Each change in the Applicable Rate shall apply during the period commencing on the effective date of such change and ending on the date immediately preceding the effective date of the next such change. If the rating system of Moody's or S&P shall change, or if either such rating agency shall cease to be in the business of rating corporate debt obligations, AOLTW and the Lenders shall negotiate in good faith to amend this definition to reflect such changed rating system or the unavailability of ratings from such rating agency, and, pending the effectiveness of
4 any such amendment, the Applicable Rate shall be determined by reference to the rating most recently in effect prior to such change or cessation; provided that, if AOLTW elects to extend the Maturity Date of the Revolving Loans outstanding on the Commitment Termination Date pursuant to Section 2.09(f), each of the applicable rates per annum set forth above in Basis Points under the caption "Loan (other than ABR Loans) Spreads" shall be increased by 25 Basis Points for the period that such Revolving Loans remain outstanding subsequent to the Initial Maturity Date. "Arrangers" means J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Banc of America Securities LLC. "Assignment and Acceptance" means an assignment and acceptance entered into by a Lender and an assignee (with the consent of any party whose consent is required by Section 9.04), and accepted by the Administrative Agent, in substantially the form of Exhibit A. "Availability Period" means the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the Commitment Termination Date. "Basis Point" means 1/100th of 1%. "Base Rate" means (a) with respect to Dollar denominated Loans, the Alternative Base Rate, (b) with respect to Pound Sterling denominated Loans, the Pound Sterling Overnight Rate, and (c) with respect to Euro denominated Loans, the Euro Overnight Rate. "Board" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States. "Borrower" means each of AOLTW and AOLTWFI. "Borrowing" means Revolving Loans of the same Type, made, converted or continued on the same date and, in the case of Eurocurrency Loans or TIBOR Loans, as to which a single Interest Period is in effect. "Borrowing Request" means a request by a Borrower for a Borrowing in accordance with Section 2.03. "Business Day" means any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in New York City are authorized or required by law to remain closed; provided that, (a) when used in connection with a Eurocurrency Loan or a Base Rate Loan (other than an ABR Loan), the term "Business Day" shall also exclude any day on which banks are not open for dealings in deposits in the applicable currency in the London interbank market, (b) when used in connection with any Loan denominated in Euro, the term "Business Day" shall also exclude any day on which the TARGET payment system is not open for the settlement of payment in Euro and (c) when used in connection with any Loan denominated in Yen, the term "Business Day" shall also exclude any day on which banks are not open for dealings in deposits in Yen in the interbank market in Tokyo. "Capital Lease Obligations" of any Person means the obligations of such Person to pay rent or other amounts under any lease of (or other arrangement conveying the right to use)
5 real or personal property, or a combination thereof, which obligations are required to be classified and accounted for as capital leases on a balance sheet of such Person under GAAP, and the amount of such obligations shall be the capitalized amount thereof determined in accordance with GAAP. "Capital Stock" means, with respect to any Person, any and all shares, partnership interests or other equivalents (however designated and whether voting or non-voting) of such Person's equity, whether outstanding on the date hereof or hereafter issued, and any and all equivalent ownership interests in a Person (other than a corporation) and any and all rights, warrants or options to purchase or acquire or exchangeable for or convertible into such shares, partnership interests or other equivalents. "Cash Equivalents" means (a) securities issued or directly and fully guaranteed or insured by the United States or any agency or instrumentality thereof (provided that the full faith and credit of the United States is pledged in support thereof) that (i) have maturities of not more than six months from the date of acquisition thereof or (ii) are subject to a repurchase agreement with an institution described in clause (b)(i) or (ii) below exercisable within six months from the date of acquisition thereof, (b) U.S. Dollar-denominated and Eurocurrency time deposits, certificates of deposit and bankers' acceptances of (i) any domestic commercial bank of recognized standing having capital and surplus in excess of $500,000,000 or (ii) any bank whose short-term commercial paper rating from S&P is at least A-2 or the equivalent thereof, from Moody's is at least P-2 or the equivalent thereof or from Fitch is at least F-2 or the equivalent thereof (any such bank, an "Approved Lender"), in each case with maturities of not more than six months from the date of acquisition thereof, (c) commercial paper and variable and fixed rate notes issued by any Lender or Approved Lender or by the parent company of any Lender or Approved Lender and commercial paper and variable rate notes issued by, or guaranteed by, any industrial or financial company with a short-term commercial paper rating of at least A-2 or the equivalent thereof by S&P or at least P-2 or the equivalent thereof by Moody's or at least F-2 or the equivalent thereof by Fitch, and in each case maturing within six months after the date of acquisition thereof, (d) securities with maturities of one year or less from the date of acquisition issued or fully guaranteed by any state, commonwealth or territory of the United States, by any political subdivision or taxing authority of any such state, commonwealth or territory or by any foreign government, the securities of which state, commonwealth, territory, political subdivision, taxing authority or foreign government (as the case may be) are rated at least A by S&P or A by Moody's, (e) securities with maturities of six months or less from the date of acquisition backed by standby letters of credit issued by any Lender or any commercial bank satisfying the requirements of clause (b) of this definition, (f) tax-exempt commercial paper of U.S. municipal, state or local governments rated at least A-2 or the equivalent thereof by S&P or at least P-2 or the equivalent thereof by Moody's or at least F-2 or the equivalent thereof by Fitch and maturing within six months after the date of acquisition thereof, (g) shares of money market mutual or similar funds sponsored by any registered broker dealer or mutual fund distributor, (h) repurchase obligations entered into with any bank meeting the qualifications of clause (b) above or any registered broker dealer whose short-term commercial paper rating from S&P is at least A-2 or the equivalent thereof or from Moody's is at least P-2 or the equivalent thereof or from Fitch is at least F-2 or the equivalent thereof, having a term of not more than 30 days, with respect to securities issued or fully guaranteed or insured by the United States government or residential whole loan mortgages, and (i) demand deposit accounts maintained in the ordinary course of business.
6 "Change in Control" means either (a) a Person or "group" (within the meaning of Section 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act) acquiring or having beneficial ownership (it being understood that a tender of shares or other equity interests shall not be deemed acquired or giving beneficial ownership until such shares or other equity interests shall have been accepted for payment) of securities (or options to purchase securities) having a majority or more of the ordinary voting power of AOLTW (including options to acquire such voting power) or (b) persons who are directors of AOLTW as of the date hereof or persons designated or approved by such directors ceasing to constitute a majority of the board of directors of AOLTW. "Change in Law" means (a) the adoption of any law, rule or regulation after the date of this Agreement, (b) any change in any law, rule or regulation or in the interpretation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority after the date of this Agreement or (c) compliance by any Lender (or, for purposes of Section 2.14(b), by any lending office of such Lender or by such Lender's holding company, if any) with any request, guideline or directive of any Governmental Authority made or issued after the date of this Agreement. "Co-Documentation Agents" has the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto. "Co-Syndication Agents" has the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto. "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time. "Commitment" means, with respect to each Lender, the commitment of such Lender to make Revolving Loans and/or to acquire participations in Yen Loans hereunder, expressed as an amount representing the maximum aggregate permitted amount of such Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure hereunder, as such commitment may be (a) reduced from time to time pursuant to Section 2.08 or Section 2.18 and (b) reduced or increased from time to time pursuant to assignments by or to such Lender pursuant to Section 9.04. The amount of each Lender's Commitment as of the Amendment Effective Date is set forth on Schedule 2.01, or in the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which such Lender shall have assumed its Commitment, as applicable. "Commitment Termination Date" means the earlier of (a) the Business Day immediately preceding the first anniversary of the Effective Date and (b) the date on which the Commitments shall terminate in their entirety in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement. "Commitment Utilization Percentage" means on any day the percentage equivalent to a fraction (a) the numerator of which is the sum of the aggregate outstanding Revolving Credit Exposure of the Lenders under the Facilities (as modified or replaced from time to time) then in effect in the aggregate, and (b) the denominator of which is the sum of the aggregate amount of the Commitments of the Lenders then in effect under the Facilities (as modified or replaced from time to time) then in effect in the aggregate; provided that on any day subsequent to (i) the Initial Maturity Date if AOLTW has delivered a Term Out Notice pursuant to Section 2.09(f), the aggregate amount of the Commitments of the Lenders under this Agreement for purposes of this definition shall be the aggregate amount of the outstanding Revolving Credit Exposure of the Lenders and (ii) the Initial Maturity Date (under and as defined in the TWC 364-Day Credit Agreement) if a Term Out Notice has been delivered pursuant to Section 2.09(f) of the TWC 364-Day Credit Agreement, the aggregate amount of the
7 Commitments of the Lenders thereunder for purposes of this definition shall be the aggregate amount of the outstanding Revolving Credit Exposure of the Lenders thereunder. "Companies" means each of the Credit Parties and their respective Restricted Subsidiaries, collectively; and "Company" means any of them. "Conduit Lender" means any special purpose corporation organized and administered by any Lender for the purpose of making Loans otherwise required to be made by such Lender and designated by such Lender in a written instrument, subject to the consent of AOLTW (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld); provided, that the designation by any Lender of a Conduit Lender shall not relieve the designating Lender of any of its obligations to fund a Loan under this Agreement if, for any reason, its Conduit Lender fails to fund any such Loan, and the designating Lender (and not the Conduit Lender) shall have the sole right and responsibility to deliver all consents and waivers required or requested under this Agreement with respect to its Conduit Lender, and provided, further, that no Conduit Lender shall (a) be entitled to receive any greater amount pursuant to Section 2.14, 2.15, 2.16 or 9.03 than the designating Lender would have been entitled to receive in respect of the Loans made by such Conduit Lender or (b) be deemed to have any Commitment. The making of a Loan by a Conduit Lender hereunder shall utilize the Commitment of a designating Lender to the same extent, and as if, such Loan were made by such designating Lender. "Consolidated EBITDA" means, for any period, Consolidated Net Income of AOLTW and its Restricted Subsidiaries for such period plus, without duplication and to the extent reflected as a charge in the statement of such Consolidated Net Income of AOLTW and its Restricted Subsidiaries for such period, the sum of (a) income tax expense, (b) interest expense, amortization or writeoff of debt discount and debt issuance costs and commissions, discounts and other fees and charges associated with Indebtedness (including the Loans), (c) depreciation and amortization expense (excluding amortization of film inventory that does not constitute amortization of purchase price amortization), (d) amortization of intangibles (including, but not limited to, goodwill) and organization costs (excluding amortization of film inventory that does not constitute amortization of purchase price amortization), (e) any extraordinary, unusual or non-recurring non-cash expenses or losses (including, whether or not otherwise includable as a separate item in the statement of such Consolidated Net Income for such period, non-cash losses on sales of assets outside of the ordinary course of business), and (f) minority interest expense in respect of preferred stock of Subsidiaries of AOLTW, and minus, to the extent included in the statement of such Consolidated Net Income for such period, the sum of (a) interest income and (b) any extraordinary, unusual or non-recurring income or gains (including, whether or not otherwise includable as a separate item in the statement of such Consolidated Net Income for such period, gains on the sales of assets outside of the ordinary course of business), all as determined on a consolidated basis. "Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio" means, for any period, the ratio of (a) Consolidated EBITDA for such period to (b) Consolidated Interest Expense for such period. "Consolidated Interest Expense" means, for any period, total cash interest expense (including that attributable to Capital Lease Obligations) of AOLTW and its Restricted Subsidiaries for such period with respect to all outstanding Indebtedness of AOLTW and its
8 Restricted Subsidiaries (other than the amount amortized during such period in respect of all fees paid in connection with the incurrence of such Indebtedness), such expense to be determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP). "Consolidated Leverage Ratio" means, as at the last day of any period, the ratio of (a) Consolidated Total Debt on such day to (b) Consolidated EBITDA for such period. "Consolidated Net Income" means, for any period, the consolidated net income (or loss) of any Person and its consolidated Subsidiaries, determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP; provided that there shall be excluded, without duplication (a) the income (or deficit) of any Person accrued prior to the date it becomes a Subsidiary of such Person or is merged into or consolidated with such Person or any of its Subsidiaries or that such other Person's assets are acquired by such Person or any of its Subsidiaries, (b) the income (or deficit) of any Person (other than (i) in the case of such Person, a Restricted Subsidiary and (ii) in the case of any other Person, a Subsidiary of such Person) in which such Person or any of its Subsidiaries has an ownership interest, except to the extent that any such income is actually received by such Person (or (i) in the case of such Person, its Restricted Subsidiary and (ii) in the case of any other Person, its Subsidiary) in the form of dividends or similar distributions and (c) the undistributed earnings of any Subsidiary of such Person to the extent that the declaration or payment of dividends or similar distributions by such Subsidiary is not at the time permitted by the terms of its charter or any agreement or instrument (other than any Credit Document), judgment, decree, order, statute, rule, governmental regulation or other requirement of law applicable to such Subsidiary; provided that the income of any Subsidiary of such Person shall not be excluded by reason of this clause (c) so long as such Subsidiary guarantees the Obligations of such Person. "Consolidated Total Assets" means at any date, all amounts that would, in conformity with GAAP, be included on a consolidated balance sheet of AOLTW and its Subsidiaries under total assets at such date; provided that such amounts shall be calculated in accordance with Section 1.04. "Consolidated Total Debt" means, at any date, the aggregate principal amount of Indebtedness of AOLTW and its Restricted Subsidiaries minus (a) the aggregate principal amount of any such Indebtedness that is payable either by its terms or at the election of the obligor in equity securities of AOLTW or the proceeds of options in respect of such equity securities, (b) the aggregate amount of any Stock Option Loans, (c) the aggregate principal amount of Film Financings and (d) the aggregate amount of cash and Cash Equivalents held by AOLTW or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries in excess of $200,000,000, all determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP. "Control" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise. "Controlling" and "Controlled" have meanings correlative thereto. "Copyright Liens" means any Liens granted by any Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries on copyrights relating to movies or other programming, which movies or other programming are subject to one or more contracts entitling such Borrower or such Subsidiary to future payments in respect of such movies or other programming and which contractual rights to
9 future payments are to be transferred by such Borrower or Subsidiary to a special purpose Subsidiary of such Borrower or Subsidiary organized for the purpose of monetizing such rights to future payments, provided that such Liens (a) are granted directly or indirectly for the benefit of the special purpose Subsidiary and/or the Persons who purchase such contractual rights to future payments from such special purpose Subsidiary and (b) extend only to the copyrights for the movies or other programming subject to such contracts for the purpose of permitting the completion, distribution and exhibition of such movies or other programming. "Credit Documents" means this Agreement, the Primary Guarantee and each Note. "Credit Parties" means the Borrowers and the Guarantors; and "Credit Party" means any of them. "Currency" means Dollars or any Optional Currency. "Default" means any event or condition which constitutes an Event of Default or which upon notice, lapse of time or both would, unless cured or waived, become an Event of Default. "Defaulting Lender" means any Lender which fails to make any Loan required to be made by it in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement. "Dollar Equivalent" means, on any date of determination, (a) with respect to any amount denominated in Dollars, such amount, and (b) with respect to an amount denominated in any Optional Currency, the equivalent in Dollars of such amount determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with normal banking industry practice using the Exchange Rate on the date of determination of such equivalent. In making any determination of the Dollar Equivalent (for purposes of calculating the amount of Loans to be borrowed from the respective Lenders on any date or for any other purpose), the Administrative Agent shall use the relevant Exchange Rate in effect on the date on which the applicable Borrower delivers a Borrowing Request (which, in accordance with Section 2.03, may be telephonic) for Loans or on such other date upon which a Dollar Equivalent is required to be determined pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement. As appropriate, amounts specified herein as amounts in Dollars shall be or include any relevant Dollar Equivalent amount. "Dollars" or "$" refers to lawful money of the United States. "Effective Date" means July 8, 2002. "EMU" means the Economic and Monetary Union as contemplated in the Treaty. "EMU Legislation" means the legislative measures of the European Council (including without limitation the European Council regulations) for the introduction of, changeover to or operation of the Euro in one or more member states. "Environmental Law" means all applicable and binding laws, rules, regulations, codes, ordinances, orders, decrees, judgments, injunctions, or agreements issued, promulgated or entered into by any Governmental Authority, relating in any way to the environment,
10 preservation or reclamation of natural resources, the management, release or threatened release of any Hazardous Material or to health and safety matters. "Environmental Liability" means any liability, contingent or otherwise (including any liability for damages, costs of environmental remediation, fines, penalties or indemnities), of any Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries directly or indirectly resulting from or based upon (a) a violation of any Environmental Law, (b) the generation, use, handling, transportation, storage, treatment or disposal of any Hazardous Materials, (c) the exposure to any Hazardous Materials, (d) the release or threatened release of any Hazardous Materials into the environment or (e) any contract, agreement or other consensual arrangement pursuant to which liability is assumed or imposed with respect to any of the foregoing. "ERISA" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time. "ERISA Affiliate" means, with respect to any Borrower, any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) that, together with such Borrower, is treated as a single employer under Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code or, solely for purposes of Section 302 of ERISA and Section 412 of the Code, is treated as a single employer under Section 414 of the Code. "ERISA Event" means (a) any "reportable event," as defined in Section 4043 of ERISA or the regulations issued thereunder with respect to a Plan (other than an event for which the 30-day notice period is waived); (b) the existence with respect to any Plan of an "accumulated funding deficiency" (as defined in Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA), whether or not waived; (c) the filing pursuant to Section 412(d) of the Code or in Section 303(d) of ERISA of an application for a waiver of the minimum funding standard with respect to any Plan; (d) the incurrence by any Credit Party or any of its ERISA Affiliates of any unfunded liability under Title IV of ERISA with respect to the termination of any Plan; (e) the receipt by any Credit Party or any ERISA Affiliate from the PBGC or a Plan administrator of any notice relating to an intention to terminate any Plan or Plans or to appoint a trustee to administer any Plan; (f) the incurrence by any Credit Party or any of its ERISA Affiliates of any liability with respect to the withdrawal or partial withdrawal from any Plan or Multiemployer Plan; (g) the receipt by any Credit Party or any ERISA Affiliate of any notice concerning the imposition on such entity of Withdrawal Liability or a determination that a Multiemployer Plan with respect to which such entity is obligated to contribute or is otherwise liable is, or is expected to be, insolvent or in reorganization, within the meaning of Title IV of ERISA; or (h) the occurrence, with respect to a Plan or a Multiemployer Plan, of a nonexempt "prohibited transaction" (within the meaning of Section 4975 of the Code or Section 406 of ERISA) which could reasonably be expected to result in liability to a Credit Party. "Euro" and "(euro)" means the single currency of Participating Member States introduced in accordance with the provision of Article 123 of the Treaty and, in respect of all payments to be made under this Agreement in Euro, means immediately available, freely transferable funds in such currency. "Eurocurrency," when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, are bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Adjusted LIBO Rate.
11 "Euro Overnight Rate" means, for any day, the sum of (a) the average of the rates per annum quoted at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, to leading banks in the European interbank market by the Reference Banks for the offering of overnight deposits in Euro plus (b) the Applicable Rate. The Administrative Agent shall determine the Euro Overnight Rate by obtaining quotes from the Reference Banks, and if any such Reference Bank fails to timely provide such quote for any day, then the Euro Overnight Rate for such day shall be determined by the average based on the quotes from the Reference Banks that provided quotes on that day. "Event of Default" has the meaning assigned to such term in Article VII. "Exchange Act" means the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. "Exchange Rate" means, with respect to any Optional Currency on a particular date, the rate at which such Optional Currency may be exchanged into Dollars, as set forth at 11:00 a.m. London time on such date on the applicable Reuters Screen page with respect to such Optional Currency. In the event that such rate does not appear on the applicable Reuters currency page, the Exchange Rate with respect to such Optional Currency shall be determined by reference to such other publicly available service for displaying exchange rates as may be agreed upon by the Administrative Agent and AOLTW or, in the absence of such agreement, such Exchange Rate shall instead be the spot rate of exchange of the Administrative Agent in the London interbank or other market where its foreign currency exchange operations in respect of such Optional Currency are then being conducted, at or about 11:00 a.m., London time, at such date for the purchase of Dollars with such Optional Currency, for delivery two Business Days later; provided, however, that if at the time of any such determination, for any reason, no such spot rate is being quoted, the Administrative Agent may use any reasonable method it deems appropriate to determine such rate, and such determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error. "Excluded Taxes" means, with respect to the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any other recipient of any payment to be made by or on account of any obligation of any Credit Party hereunder, (a) income or franchise taxes imposed on (or measured by) its net income by the United States, or by the jurisdiction under the laws of which such recipient is organized or in which its principal office is located or, in the case of any Lender, in which its applicable lending office is located, (b) any branch profits taxes imposed by the United States or any similar tax imposed by any other jurisdiction described in clause (a) above, (c) in the case of a Foreign Lender (other than an assignee pursuant to a request by AOLTW under Section 2.18(b)), any withholding tax (i) that is imposed on amounts payable to such Foreign Lender at the time such Foreign Lender becomes a party to this Agreement or designates a new lending office or (ii) is attributable to such Foreign Lender's failure or inability to comply with Section 2.16(e), except to the extent that such Foreign Lender (or its assignor, if any) was entitled, at the time of such designation of a new lending office or assignment, to receive additional amounts from such Credit Party with respect to such withholding tax pursuant to Section 2.16(a) and (d) in the case of a Lender that is a U.S. Person, any withholding tax that is attributable to the Lender's failure to comply with Section 2.16(f). "Existing Credit Agreement" has the meaning assigned to such term in the recitals to this Agreement.
12 "Extended Maturity Date" means the date that is the second anniversary of the Initial Maturity Date. "Facilities" means the credit facilities extended pursuant to this Agreement, the Five-Year Credit Agreement and the TWC 364-Day Credit Agreement. "Facility Fee" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.11(a). "Federal Funds Effective Rate" means, for any day, the weighted average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next Basis Point) of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the United States Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published on the next succeeding Business Day by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day that is a Business Day, the average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next Basis Point) of the quotations for such day for such transactions received by the Administrative Agent from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it. "Film Financing" means, without duplication, monetary obligations arising out of transactions in which so-called tax-based financing groups or other third-party investors provide financing for the acquisition, production or distribution of motion pictures, television programs, sound recordings or books or rights with respect thereto in exchange, in part, for certain tax or other benefits which are derived from such motion pictures, television programs, sound recordings, books or rights; provided that no such monetary obligations shall have, directly or indirectly, recourse (including by way of setoff) to any Borrower or any Restricted Subsidiary or any of its assets other than to the profits or distribution rights related to such motion pictures, television programs, sound recordings, books or rights and other than to a Subsidiary of Warner Communications Inc. or TBS substantially all of the assets of which consist of the motion pictures, television programs, sound recordings, books or rights which are the subject of such transaction and related cash and Cash Equivalents. "Financial Officer" means, with respect to any Person, the chief financial officer, principal accounting officer, treasurer or controller of such Person. "Fitch" means Fitch, Inc. "Five-Year Credit Agreement" means the Five-Year Credit Agreement, dated as of July 8, 2002, among AOLTW, AOLTWFI, TWE, TWEAN, the lenders referred to therein, Bank of America, N.A. and Citibank, N.A., as Co-Syndication Agents, ABN AMRO Bank N.V. and BNP Paribas, as Co-Documentation Agents, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as Administrative Agent, as amended by the First Amendment, dated as of the date hereof, and as further amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time. "Foreign Lender" means any Lender that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than that in which the applicable Borrower is located. For purposes of this definition, the United States, each State thereof and the District of Columbia shall be deemed to constitute a single jurisdiction. "Franchise" means, with respect to any Person, a franchise, license, authorization or right to construct, own, operate, manage, promote, extend or otherwise utilize any cable television distribution system operated or to be operated by such Person or any of its Subsidiaries
13 granted by any Governmental Authority, but shall not include any such franchise, license, authorization or right that is incidentally required for the purpose of installing, constructing or extending a cable television system. "GAAP" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. "Governmental Authority" means the government of the United States, any other nation or any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government. "Guarantee Obligations" of or by any Person (the "guarantor") means any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of the guarantor guaranteeing or having the economic effect of guaranteeing any Indebtedness of any other Person (the "primary obligor") in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, and including any obligation of the guarantor, direct or indirect, (a) to purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Indebtedness or to purchase (or to advance or supply funds for the purchase of) any security for the payment thereof, (b) to purchase or lease property, securities or services for the purpose of assuring the owner of such Indebtedness of the payment thereof, (c) to maintain working capital, equity capital or any other financial statement condition or liquidity of the primary obligor so as to enable the primary obligor to pay such Indebtedness or (d) as an account party in respect of any letter of credit or letter of guaranty issued to support such Indebtedness; provided, that the term Guarantee Obligations shall not include endorsements for collection or deposit in the ordinary course of business. "Guarantors" means (a) with respect to the Obligations of AOLTW, (i) directly, America Online and Time Warner, (ii) indirectly, TBS and TWCI who shall guarantee the guarantee obligations of Time Warner and (iii) any other Person that becomes and remains a party to the Primary Guarantee after the Effective Date, and (b) with respect to the Obligations of AOLTWFI, AOLTW and the Guarantors listed in clause (a) above. "Hazardous Materials" means all explosive or radioactive substances or wastes and all hazardous or toxic substances, wastes or other pollutants, including petroleum or petroleum distillates, asbestos or asbestos containing materials, polychlorinated biphenyls, radon gas, infectious or medical wastes and all other substances or wastes of any nature regulated pursuant to any Environmental Law. "Indebtedness" of any Person means, without duplication, (a) all obligations of such Person for borrowed money, (b) all obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or similar instruments, (c) all obligations of such Person upon which interest charges are customarily paid, (d) all obligations of such Person under conditional sale or other title retention agreements relating to property acquired by such Person (but not including synthetic or operating leases), (e) all obligations of such Person in respect of the deferred purchase price of property or services (excluding current accounts payable incurred in the ordinary course of business and payment obligations of such Person pursuant to agreements entered into in the ordinary course of business, which payment obligations are contingent on another Person's satisfactory provision of services or products), (f) all Indebtedness of others secured by (or for which the holder of such Indebtedness has an existing right, contingent or
14 otherwise, to be secured by) any Lien (other than a Copyright Lien or Liens on interests or Investments in Unrestricted Subsidiaries) on property owned or acquired by such Person, whether or not the Indebtedness secured thereby has been assumed (but only to the extent of the lesser of the fair market value of the property subject to such Lien and the amount of such Indebtedness), (g) all Guarantee Obligations of such Person with respect to Indebtedness of others (except to the extent that such Guarantee Obligation guarantees Indebtedness of a Restricted Subsidiary), (h) all Capital Lease Obligations of such Person, (i) all obligations, contingent or otherwise, of such Person as an account party in respect of letters of credit (but only to the extent of all drafts drawn thereunder) and (j) all obligations, contingent or otherwise, of such Person in respect of bankers' acceptances. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Indebtedness shall not include (i) any obligation of such Person to guarantee performance of, or enter into indemnification agreements with respect to, obligations, entered into in the ordinary course of business, under any and all Franchises, leases, performance bonds, franchise bonds and obligations to reimburse drawings under letters of credit issued in lieu of performance or franchise bonds, (ii) completion bonds or guarantees or indemnities of a similar nature issued in the ordinary course of business in connection with the production of motion pictures and video and television programming or (iii) obligations to make Tax Distributions. The Indebtedness of any Person shall include the Indebtedness of any other entity (including any partnership in which such Person is a general partner) to the extent such Person is liable therefor as a result of such Person's ownership interest in or other contractual relationship with such entity, except to the extent the terms of such Indebtedness provide that such Person is not liable therefor. "Indemnified Taxes" means Taxes other than Excluded Taxes. "Initial Maturity Date" means the Business Day immediately preceding the first anniversary of the Effective Date. "Interest Election Request" means a request by a Borrower to convert or continue a Revolving Borrowing in accordance with Section 2.07. "Interest Payment Date" means (a) with respect to any Base Rate Loan, the last day of each March, June, September and December and (b) with respect to any Eurocurrency Loan or TIBOR Loan, as the case may be, the last day of the Interest Period applicable to the Borrowing of which such Loan is a part and, in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing or TIBOR Borrowing, as the case may be, with an Interest Period of more than three months' duration, each day that is three months, or a whole multiple thereof, after the first day of such Interest Period and the last day of such Interest Period. "Interest Period" means with respect to any Eurocurrency Borrowing or TIBOR Borrowing, as the case may be, the period commencing on the date of such Borrowing and ending on the numerically corresponding day in the calendar month that is (a) one, two, three or six months (or, with the consent of each Lender, a shorter period) thereafter, as the applicable Borrower may elect or (b) one month thereafter, if the applicable Borrower has made no election, provided, that (i) if any Interest Period would end on a day other than a Business Day, such Interest Period shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless such next succeeding Business Day would fall in the next calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day and (ii) any Interest Period pertaining to such a Borrowing that commences on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the last calendar month of such Interest
15 Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the last calendar month of such Interest Period. For purposes hereof, the date of a Borrowing initially shall be the date on which such Borrowing is made and, in the case of a Revolving Borrowing, thereafter shall be the effective date of the most recent conversion or continuation of such Borrowing. "Investment" by any Person means any direct or indirect (a) loan, advance or other extension of credit or contribution to any other Person (by means of transfer of cash or other property to others, payments for property or services for the account or use of others, mergers or otherwise), (b) purchase or acquisition of Capital Stock, bonds, notes, debentures or other securities (including any option, warrant or other right to acquire any of the foregoing) or evidences of Indebtedness issued by any other Person (whether by merger, consolidation, amalgamation or otherwise and whether or not purchased directly from the issuer of such securities or evidences of Indebtedness), (c) purchase or acquisition (in one transaction or a series of transactions) of any assets of any other Person constituting a business unit and (d) all other items that would be classified as investments on a balance sheet of such Person prepared in accordance with GAAP. Investments shall exclude extension of trade credit and advances to customers and suppliers to the extent made in the ordinary course of business and in accordance with customary industry practice. "Lender Affiliate" means, (a) with respect to any Lender, (i) an Affiliate of such Lender or (ii) any entity (whether a corporation, partnership, trust or otherwise) that is engaged in making, purchasing, holding or otherwise investing in bank loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its business and is administered or managed by a Lender or an Affiliate of such Lender and (b) with respect to any Lender that is a fund which invests in bank loans and similar extensions of credit, any other fund that invests in bank loans and similar extensions of credit and is managed by the same investment advisor as such Lender or by an Affiliate of such investment advisor. "Lender Consent" has the meaning assigned to such term in the recitals to this Agreement. "Lenders" means the Persons listed on Schedule 2.01 and any other Person that shall have become a party hereto pursuant to an Assignment and Acceptance, other than any such Person that ceases to be a party hereto pursuant to an Assignment and Acceptance. "LIBO Rate" means, (a) with respect to any Eurocurrency Borrowing denominated in Pounds or Dollars for any Interest Period, the rate appearing on Page 3740 or Page 3750, as the case may be, of the Telerate Service (or on any successor or substitute page of such Service, or any successor to or substitute for such Service, providing rate quotations comparable to those currently provided on such page of such Service, as determined by the Administrative Agent from time to time for purposes of providing quotations of interest rates applicable to Pound or Dollar deposits (as applicable) in the London interbank market) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period (or, in the case of Pounds, on the first day of such Interest Period), as the rate for Pound or Dollar deposits, as applicable, with a maturity comparable to such Interest Period and (b) with respect to any Eurocurrency Borrowing denominated in Euro for any Interest Period, the rate appearing on Page 248 of the Telerate Service (it being understood that this rate is the Euro interbank offered rate (known as the "EURIBOR Rate") sponsored by the Banking Federation of the European Union (known as the "FBE") and the Financial Markets Association (known as the
16 "ACI")) at approximately 10:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, as the rate for deposits in Euro with a maturity comparable to such Interest Period. In the event that such rate is not available at such time for any reason, then the "LIBO Rate" with respect to such Eurocurrency Borrowing for such Interest Period shall be the rate per annum (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next Basis Point) equal to the arithmetic average of the rates at which deposits in Dollars or the applicable Optional Currency approximately equal in principal amount to the Dollar Equivalent of $5,000,000 and for a maturity comparable to such Interest Period are offered with respect to any Eurocurrency Borrowing to the principal London offices of the Reference Banks (or, if any Reference Bank does not at the time maintain a London office, the principal London office of any Affiliate of such Reference Bank) in immediately available funds in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period (or, in the case of Pounds, on the first day of such Interest Period) and; provided, however, that, if only two Reference Banks notify the Administrative Agent of the rates offered to such Reference Banks (or any Affiliates of such Reference Lenders) as aforesaid, the LIBO Rate with respect to such Eurocurrency Borrowing shall be equal to the arithmetic average of the rates so offered to such Reference Banks (or any such Affiliates). "Lien" means, with respect to any asset, (a) any mortgage, deed of trust, lien, pledge, hypothecation, encumbrance, charge or security interest in (including sales of accounts), on or of such asset, (b) the interest of a vendor or a lessor under any conditional sale agreement, capital lease or title retention agreement (or any financing lease having substantially the same economic effect as any of the foregoing, but excluding any operating leases) relating to such asset and (c) in the case of securities, any purchase option, call or similar right of a third party with respect to such securities. "Loans" means the loans made by the Lenders to any Borrower pursuant to this Agreement. "Local Time" means, for payments and disbursements (a) in respect of Dollars, New York time, (b) in respect of Euros or Pounds, London time and (c) in respect of Yen, Tokyo time. "Mandatory Cost" means, with respect to any Lender, the cost imputed to such Lender of compliance with the requirements of the Bank of England or the Financial Services Authority during the relevant Interest Period, determined in accordance with Schedule 1.01. "Material Adverse Effect" means a material adverse effect on (a) the financial condition, business, results of operations, properties or liabilities of any Borrower and its Restricted Subsidiaries taken as a whole, (b) the ability of any Credit Party to perform any of its material obligations to the Lenders under any Credit Document to which it is or will be a party or (c) the rights of or benefits available to the Lenders under any Credit Document. "Material Indebtedness" means Indebtedness (other than the Loans), of any one or more of the Borrowers and the Restricted Subsidiaries thereof in an aggregate principal amount exceeding $200,000,000.
17 "Material Subsidiary" of any Person means, at any date, each Subsidiary of such Person which, either alone or together with the Subsidiaries of such Subsidiary, meets any of the following conditions: (a) as of the last day of such Person's most recently ended fiscal quarter for which financial statements have been filed with the SEC the investments of such Person and its Subsidiaries in, or their proportionate share (based on their equity interests) of the book value of the total assets (after intercompany eliminations) of, the Subsidiary in question exceeds 10% of the book value of the total assets of such Person and its consolidated Subsidiaries; (b) for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters ended on the last day of such Person's most recently ended fiscal quarter for which financial statements have been filed with the SEC, the equity of such Person and its Subsidiaries in the revenues from continuing operations of the Subsidiary in question exceeds 10% of the revenues from continuing operations of such Person and its consolidated Subsidiaries; or (c) for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters ended on the last day of such Person's most recently ended fiscal quarter for which financial statements have been filed with the SEC, the equity of such Person and its Subsidiaries in the Consolidated EBITDA of the Subsidiary in question exceeds 10% of the Consolidated EBITDA of such Person. "Maturity Date" means the Initial Maturity Date, provided that if AOLTW has delivered a Term Out Notice to the Administrative Agent in accordance with Section 2.09(f) the Maturity Date in respect of the Revolving Loans (as well as all related interest and fees) subject to such Term Out Notice shall be the Extended Maturity Date. "Moody's" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. "Multiemployer Plan" means a multiemployer plan as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA. "National Currency Unit" means the unit of currency (other than the Euro) of a Participating Member State. "Note" means any promissory note evidencing Loans issued pursuant to Section 2.09(e). "Obligations" has the meaning assigned to such term in the Primary Guarantee. "Officer's Certificate" means, with respect to any Person, a certificate executed by the Chief Financial Officer, the Treasurer or the Controller of such Person or such other officer of such Person reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent and designated as such in writing to the Administrative Agent by such Person. "Optional Currency" means, at any time, Pounds, Euros and Yen, so long as such currency is freely traded and convertible into Dollars in the United States market and a Dollar Equivalent thereof can be calculated. "Other Taxes" means any and all present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies arising from any payment made
18 hereunder or from the execution, delivery or enforcement of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement. "Participating Member State" means a member of the European Communities that adopts or has adopted the Euro as its currency in accordance with EMU Legislation. "PBGC" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation referred to and defined in ERISA and any successor entity thereto. "Person" means any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership, Governmental Authority or other entity. "Plan" means any employee pension benefit plan (other than a Multiemployer Plan) subject to the provisions of Title IV of ERISA or Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA, and in respect of which any Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate is (or, if such plan were terminated, would under Section 4069 of ERISA be deemed to be) an "employer" as defined in Section 3(5) of ERISA. "Pounds" or "L" or "Pound Sterling" refer to lawful money of the United Kingdom. "Pound Sterling Overnight Rate" means, for any day, a rate per annum equal to the rate on overnight Pound Sterling deposits in the London interbank market as such rates are quoted on Page 3750 of the Telerate Service (or on any successor or substitute page of such Service, or any successor to or substitute for such Service, providing rate quotations comparable to those currently provided on such page of such Service, as determined by the Administrative Agent from time to time for purposes of providing quotations of interest rates applicable to Pound Sterling deposits in the London interbank market), plus the Mandatory Cost, plus the Applicable Rate. "Primary Guarantee" means a guarantee by the Guarantors described in clauses (a) and (b) of the definition thereof, substantially in the form of Exhibit B. "Prime Rate" means the rate of interest per annum publicly announced from time to time by the Administrative Agent as its prime rate in effect at its principal office in New York City; each change in the Prime Rate shall be effective from and including the date such change is publicly announced as being effective. "Rating" has the meaning assigned to such term in the definition of "Applicable Rate". "Reference Banks" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, Bank of America, N.A. and Citibank, N.A. and their respective Affiliates. "Register" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.04(c). "Related Parties" means, with respect to any specified Person, such Person's Affiliates and the respective directors, officers, employees, agents and advisors of such Person and such Person's Affiliates.
19 "Required Lenders" means, at any time, Lenders having Commitments representing more than 50% of the sum total of the Commitments at such time, or after the Commitment Termination Date, Lenders having Revolving Credit Exposures representing more than 50% of the sum of the total Revolving Credit Exposures at such time. "Responsible Officer" means, as to any Person, any of the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Legal Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer or Controller (or any equivalent of the foregoing officers) of such Person. "Restricted Companies" means the Companies other than any Unrestricted Subsidiaries. "Restricted Payment" means, as to any Person, any dividend or other distribution (whether in cash, securities or other property) with respect to any shares of any class of capital stock or other equity interests of such Person, or any payment (whether in cash, securities or other property), including any sinking fund or similar deposit, on account of the purchase, redemption, retirement, acquisition, cancellation or termination of any such shares of capital stock or other equity interests of such Person or any option, warrant or other right to acquire any such shares of capital stock or other equity interests of such Person. "Restricted Subsidiaries" of any Borrower means, as of any date, all Subsidiaries of such Borrower that have not been designated as Unrestricted Subsidiaries by such Borrower pursuant to Section 6.08 or have been so designated as Unrestricted Subsidiaries by such Borrower but prior to such date have been (or have been deemed to be) re-designated by such Borrower as Restricted Subsidiaries pursuant to Section 6.08. "Restructuring Agreement" means the Restructuring Agreement, dated as of August 20, 2002, among AOLTW, AT&T Corp., Comcast Corporation and the other parties named therein as last made publicly available prior to the Amendment Effective Date. "Revolving Borrowing" means a Borrowing of Revolving Loans. "Revolving Credit Exposure" means, with respect to any Lender at any time, the sum of the outstanding principal amount of such Lender's Revolving Loans and its Yen Exposure at such time. "Revolving Loan" means a Loan made pursuant to Section 2.03, including any such Loan outstanding after the Initial Maturity Date pursuant to Section 2.09(f). "S&P" means Standard & Poor's Rating Services. "SEC" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, any successor thereto and any analogous Governmental Authority. "Statutory Reserve Rate" means a fraction (expressed as a decimal), the numerator of which is the number one and the denominator of which is the number one minus the aggregate of the maximum reserve percentage (including any marginal, special, emergency or supplemental reserves) expressed as a decimal established by the Board to which the Administrative Agent is subject for eurocurrency funding (currently referred to as "Eurocurrency Liabilities" in Regulation D of the Board). Such reserve percentage shall include those imposed
20 pursuant to such Regulation D. Eurocurrency Loans shall be deemed to constitute eurocurrency funding and to be subject to such reserve requirements without benefit of or credit for proration, exemptions or offsets that may be available from time to time to any Lender under such Regulation D or any comparable regulation. The Statutory Reserve Rate shall be adjusted automatically on and as of the effective date of any change in any reserve percentage. "Stock Option Loans" means (a) borrowings under that certain Credit Agreement dated as of March 13, 1998, as amended, among Time Warner, The Chase Manhattan Bank, as administrative agent thereunder, and the lenders party thereto; provided the lenders thereunder shall not have the benefit of any Lien other than on the Capital Stock of AOLTW and proceeds therefrom or (b) borrowings under substantially similar facilities. "Subsequent Participant" means any member state that adopts the Euro as its lawful currency after the date hereof. "Subsidiary" means, with respect to any Person (the "parent") at any date, any corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association or other entity the accounts of which would be consolidated with those of the parent in the parent's consolidated financial statements if such financial statements were prepared in accordance with GAAP as of such date, as well as any other corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association or other entity of which securities or other ownership interests representing more than 50% of the equity or more than 50% of the ordinary voting power or, in the case of a partnership, more than 50% of the general partnership interests are, as of such date, owned, controlled or held. Unless otherwise qualified, all references to a "Subsidiary" or "Subsidiaries" in this Agreement shall refer to a Subsidiary or Subsidiaries of AOLTW. "Tax Distribution" means, with respect to any period, distributions made to any Person by a Subsidiary of such Person on or with respect to income and other taxes, which distributions are not in excess of the tax liabilities that, (i) in the case of a Subsidiary that is a corporation, would have been payable by such Subsidiary on a standalone basis, and (ii) in the case of a Subsidiary that is a partnership, would have been distributed by such Subsidiary to its owners with respect to taxes, and in each case which are calculated in accordance with, and made no earlier than 10 days prior to the date required by, the terms of the applicable organizational document which requires such distribution. "Taxes" means any and all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, charges or withholdings imposed by any Governmental Authority. "TBS" means Turner Broadcasting System, Inc., a Georgia corporation. "Term Out Notice" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.09(f). "TIBOR" means, when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, are bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the TIBOR Rate. "TIBOR Rate" means, with respect to any TIBOR Borrowing for any Interest Period, the rate per annum appearing on the TIBM Page under the caption "Average of 10 Banks" of Reuters (or on any successor or substitute page of such service, or any successor to or substitute for such service, providing rate quotations comparable to those currently provided on
21 such page of such service, as determined by the Administrative Agent from time to time for purposes of providing quotations of interest rates applicable to Yen deposits in the Tokyo interbank market) at approximately 11:00 a.m., Tokyo time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, as the rate applicable to deposits in Yen with a maturity comparable to such Interest Period, plus any costs incurred by making or funding such TIBOR Borrowing hereunder, if such costs result directly from any applicable banking law or regulation or from any applicable requirement or directive of any Governmental Authority, including the imposition of any reserve requirement. "Time Warner" means Time Warner Inc., a Delaware corporation. "Transactions" means (a) the execution, delivery and performance by (i) each of the Borrowers of this Agreement and (ii) each of the Guarantors of the Primary Guarantee, and (b) the borrowing of Loans. "Treaty" means the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, being the Treaty of Rome of March 25, 1957, as amended by the Single European Act 1987, the Maastricht Treaty (which was signed at Maastricht on February 7, 1992 and came into force on November 1, 1993), the Amsterdam Treaty (which was signed at Amsterdam on October 2, 1997 and came into force on May 1, 1999) and the Nice Treaty (which was signed on February 26, 2001), each as amended from time to time and as referred to in legislative measures of the European Union for the introduction of, changeover to or operating of the Euro in one or more member states. "TWCI" means Time Warner Companies, Inc., a Delaware corporation. "TWC Parent" means Time Warner Cable Inc., a Delaware corporation. "TWC 364-Day Credit Agreement" means, the Amended and Restated 364-Day Credit Agreement, dated as of July 8, 2002 and amended and restated as of the date hereof, among TWE, TWC Parent, the lenders referred to therein, Bank of America, N.A. and Citibank, N.A., as Co-Syndication Agents, ABN AMRO Bank N.V. and BNP Paribas, as Co-Documentation Agents, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as Administrative Agent, as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time. "TWE" has the meaning assigned to such term in the recitals hereto. "TWEAN" has the meaning assigned to such term in the recitals hereto. "Type", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether the rate of interest on such Loan, or on the Loans comprising such Borrowing, is determined by reference to the Adjusted LIBO Rate, the Alternate Base Rate, the Pound Sterling Overnight Rate, the Euro Overnight Rate or the TIBOR Rate. "United States" means the United States of America. "U.S. Person" means a person who is a citizen or resident of the United States and any corporation or other entity created or organized in or under the laws of the United States.
22 "Unrestricted Subsidiary" of any Borrower means, as of any time, all Subsidiaries of such Borrower that have been designated as Unrestricted Subsidiaries by such Borrower pursuant to Section 6.08. "Utilization Fee" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.11(b). "Withdrawal Liability" means liability to a Multiemployer Plan as a result of a complete or partial withdrawal from such Multiemployer Plan, as such terms are defined in Part I of Subtitle E of Title IV of ERISA. "Yen" and "Y" refer to lawful money of Japan. "Yen Commitment" means, with respect to each Yen Fronting Lender, the commitment of such Yen Fronting Lender to make Yen Loans hereunder, as such commitment may be (a) reduced from time to time pursuant to Section 2.08 or Section 2.18 and (b) reduced or increased from time to time pursuant to assignments by or to such Lender pursuant to Section 9.04. The initial amount of each Yen Fronting Lender's Yen Commitment is set forth on Schedule 2.01, or in the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which such Lender shall have assumed its Yen Commitment, as applicable. "Yen Exposure" means, at any time, the aggregate principal amount of all Yen Loans outstanding at such time. The Yen Exposure of any Lender at any time shall be its Applicable Percentage of the total Yen Exposure at such time. "Yen Fronting Lenders" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, Bank of America, N.A., Citibank, N.A., BNP Paribas and ABN AMRO Bank N.V., in their capacity as Lenders of Yen Loans hereunder. "Yen Loans" means a Loan denominated in Yen. "Yen Sublimit" means $500,000,000. SECTION 1.02. Classification of Loans and Borrowings. For purposes of this Agreement, Loans may be classified and referred to by Type (e.g., a "Eurocurrency Loan"). Borrowings also may be classified and referred to by Type (e.g., a "Eurocurrency Borrowing"). SECTION 1.03. Terms Generally. The definitions of terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words, "include," "includes" and "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation." The word "will" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word "shall." Unless the context requires otherwise (a) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document herein shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, supplements or modifications set forth herein), (b) any reference herein to any Person shall be construed to include such Person's successors and assigns, (c) the words "herein," "hereof" and "hereunder," and words of similar import, shall be construed to refer to this Agreement in its entirety and not to any particular provision hereof, (d) all references herein to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be construed to refer to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to,
23 this Agreement and (e) the words "asset" and "property" shall, except where the context dictates otherwise, be construed to have the same meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights. SECTION 1.04. Accounting Terms; GAAP. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all terms of an accounting or financial nature shall be construed in accordance with GAAP, as in effect from time to time; provided that, if AOLTW notifies the Administrative Agent that AOLTW requests an amendment to any provision hereof to eliminate the effect of any change occurring after the date hereof in GAAP or in the application thereof on the operation of such provision (or if the Administrative Agent notifies AOLTW that the Required Lenders request an amendment to any provision hereof for such purpose), regardless of whether any such notice is given before or after such change in GAAP or in the application thereof, then such provision shall be interpreted on the basis of GAAP as in effect and applied immediately before such change shall have become effective until such notice shall have been withdrawn or such provision amended in accordance herewith. ARTICLE II THE CREDITS SECTION 2.01. Commitments. (a) Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Lender agrees to make Revolving Loans to each Borrower in Dollars or any Optional Currency other than Yen from time to time during the Availability Period so long as, after giving effect thereto, (i) such Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure will not exceed such Lender's Commitment, and (ii) the sum of the total Revolving Credit Exposures will not exceed the sum total of the Commitments. Within the foregoing limits and subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Borrower may borrow, prepay and reborrow Revolving Loans. The Revolving Loans made in Dollars may from time to time be Eurocurrency Loans or Alternate Base Rate Loans; the Revolving Loans made in Pounds may from time to time be Eurocurrency Loans or Pound Sterling Overnight Rate Loans; and the Revolving Loans made in Euros may from time to time be Eurocurrency Loans or Euro Overnight Rate Loans, in each case as determined by the applicable Borrower and notified to the Administrative Agent in accordance with Sections 2.03 and 2.07. (b) (i) Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Yen Fronting Lenders agree to make Yen Loans, ratably in accordance with their Yen Commitments, to each Borrower from time to time during the Availability Period so long as, after giving effect thereto, (A) the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Yen Loans will not exceed the Yen Sublimit, (B) the sum of the total Revolving Credit Exposures will not exceed the sum total of the Commitments, (C) such Yen Fronting Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure will not exceed such Yen Fronting Lender's Commitment and (D) the aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Yen Loans made by any Yen Fronting Lender will not exceed such Yen Fronting Lender's Yen Commitment. Within the foregoing limits and subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Borrower may borrow, prepay and reborrow Yen Loans. (ii) If any Event of Default shall occur and be continuing, any Yen Fronting Lender may by written notice to the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 am, New York time, on any Business Day require the Lenders to acquire participations on such Business Day in all or a portion of the Yen Loans outstanding. Such notice shall specify the aggregate amount of
24 Yen Loans in which Lenders will participate. Promptly upon receipt of such notice, the Administrative Agent will give notice thereof to each Lender, specifying in such notice such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Dollar Equivalent Amount of such Yen Loan or Loans. Each Lender hereby absolutely and unconditionally agrees, upon receipt of notice as provided above, to pay to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the Yen Fronting Lender, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of such Yen Loan or Loans in Dollars. Each Lender acknowledges and agrees that its obligation to acquire participations in Yen Loans pursuant to this paragraph is absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance whatsoever, including the occurrence and continuance of a Default or reduction or termination of the Commitments, and that each such payment shall be made without any offset, abatement, withholding or reduction whatsoever. Each Lender shall comply with its obligation under this paragraph by wire transfer of immediately available funds, in the same manner as provided in Section 2.06 with respect to Loans made by such Lender (and Section 2.06 shall apply, mutatis mutandis, to the payment obligations of the Lenders), and the Administrative Agent shall promptly pay to the Yen Fronting Lenders pro rata according to their Yen Exposures the amounts so received by it from the Lenders. The Administrative Agent shall notify the applicable Borrower of any participations in any Yen Loan to it acquired pursuant to this paragraph. Any amounts received by the Administrative Agent from the applicable Borrower (or other party on behalf of the applicable Borrower) in respect of such Loan after receipt by the Yen Fronting Lender of the proceeds of a sale of participations therein shall be promptly remitted by the Administrative Agent to the Lenders that shall have made their payments pursuant to this paragraph and to the Yen Fronting Lenders, pro rata as their interests may appear. The purchase of participations in a Yen Loan pursuant to this paragraph shall not relieve the applicable Borrower of its obligations in respect of the payment thereof. From and after such purchase, (i) the outstanding Yen Loans in which the Lenders have purchased such participations shall be deemed to have been converted into Alternate Base Rate Loans denominated in Dollars (with such conversion constituting, for purposes of Section 2.15, a prepayment of such Yen Loans before the last day of the Interest Period with respect thereto) and (ii) all amounts from time to time accruing, and all amounts from time to time payable, on account of such Loans (including, without limitation, any interest and other amounts which were accrued but unpaid on the date of such purchase) shall be payable in Dollars as if such Loan had originally been made in Dollars. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Lender shall not have any obligation to acquire a participation in a Yen Loan pursuant to this paragraph if an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing at the time such Yen Loan was made and such Lender shall have notified the Yen Fronting Lenders in writing, at least one Business Day prior to the time such Yen Loan was made, that such Event of Default has occurred and that such Lender will not acquire participations in Yen Loans made while such Event of Default is continuing. SECTION 2.02. Loans and Borrowings. (a) Each Borrowing of Revolving Loans (other than Yen Loans) shall consist of Revolving Loans made by the Lenders ratably in accordance with their respective Commitments. Each Yen Loan shall be made as part of a Borrowing consisting of Yen Loans made by the Yen Fronting Lenders ratably in accordance with their respective Yen Commitments. The failure of any Lender to make any Loan required to be made by it shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligations hereunder; provided that the Commitments and Yen Commitments of the Lenders are several and no Lender shall be responsible for any other Lender's failure to make Loans as required. (b) Subject to Section 2.13, each Revolving Borrowing shall be comprised entirely of Base Rate Loans, Eurocurrency Loans or TIBOR Loans as the applicable Borrower
25 may request in accordance herewith. Each Lender at its option may make any Eurocurrency Loan or TIBOR Loan, as applicable, by causing any domestic or foreign branch or Affiliate of such Lender to make such Loan; provided that any exercise of such option shall (i) subject to following clause (ii), not affect the obligation of the Borrower thereof to repay such Loan in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and (ii) not create any additional liability of the Borrowers in respect of Sections 2.14 or 2.16. (c) At the commencement of each Interest Period for any Eurocurrency or TIBOR Revolving Borrowing, such Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount that is an integral multiple of 1,000,000 units of the relevant Currency and not less than an amount which is the Dollar Equivalent to $20,000,000. At the time that any Base Rate Borrowing is made, such Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount that is an integral multiple of 1,000,000 units and not less than an amount which is the Dollar Equivalent to $20,000,000; provided that any Base Rate Borrowing may be in an aggregate amount that is equal to the entire unused balance of the sum total of the Commitments. Borrowings of more than one Type may be outstanding at the same time; provided that there shall not at any time be more than a total of 20 Eurocurrency Revolving Borrowings outstanding nor more than five TIBOR Borrowings outstanding. (d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, no Borrower shall be entitled to request or elect any Interest Period in respect of any Borrowing that would end after the Maturity Date. SECTION 2.03. Requests for Revolving Borrowings. To request a Revolving Borrowing, a Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of such request by telephone in accordance with Schedule 2.03(A); provided that no more than the Dollar Equivalent of $1,500,000,000 of Revolving Loans denominated in Euros shall be outstanding at any time as to which the Administrative Agent was notified the same day as the Revolving Borrowing. Each such telephonic Borrowing Request shall be irrevocable and shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery or facsimile to the Administrative Agent of a written Borrowing Request in a form approved by the Administrative Agent and signed by such Borrower. Each such telephonic and written Borrowing Request shall specify the following information in compliance with Section 2.02: (a) the aggregate amount and Currency of the requested Borrowing, and, in the case of an Optional Currency Borrowing, the Dollar Equivalent of the requested Borrowing, as calculated using the Exchange Rate on the date of the request; (b) the date of such Borrowing, which shall be a Business Day; (c) whether such Borrowing is to be an ABR Borrowing, a Pound Sterling Overnight Rate Borrowing, a Euro Overnight Rate Borrowing, a Eurocurrency Borrowing or a TIBOR Borrowing; (d) in the case of a Eurocurrency or TIBOR Borrowing, the initial Interest Period to be applicable thereto, which shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term "Interest Period"; and (e) the location and number of the applicable Borrower's account to which funds are to be disbursed, which shall comply with the requirements of Section 2.06.
26 Notwithstanding anything to the contrary above in this Section 2.03, no such notice shall alter the information set forth on Schedule 2.03(B) unless such notice shall be written. If no election as to the Type of Revolving Borrowing is specified, then the requested Revolving Borrowing shall be deemed a Base Rate Borrowing. If no Interest Period is specified with respect to any requested Eurocurrency or TIBOR Revolving Borrowing, then the applicable Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one month's duration. Promptly following receipt of a Borrowing Request in accordance with this Section, the Administrative Agent shall advise each Lender of the details thereof and of the amount of such Lender's Loan to be made as part of the requested Borrowing. SECTION 2.04. [Intentionally left blank] SECTION 2.05. [Intentionally left blank] SECTION 2.06. Funding of Borrowings. (a) Each Lender shall make each Loan to be made by it hereunder on the proposed date thereof by wire transfer of immediately available funds by 12:00 noon, Local Time for the applicable Currency, to the account of the Administrative Agent most recently designated by it for such purpose by notice to the Lenders. The Administrative Agent will make such Loans available to the applicable Borrower by promptly crediting the amounts so received, in like funds, to an account of the applicable Borrower specified on Schedule 2.03(B) or designated by the applicable Borrower in the applicable Borrowing Request. (b) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the proposed date of any Borrowing that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Lender's share of such Borrowing, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such share available on such date in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section and may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the applicable Borrower a corresponding amount. In such event, if a Lender has not in fact made its share of the applicable Borrowing available to the Administrative Agent, then the Administrative Agent shall have the right to demand payment from the applicable Lender and/or the applicable Borrower and they each severally agree to pay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is made available to the applicable Borrower to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at (i) in the case of such Lender, (A) in the case of Borrowings denominated in Dollars, the Alternative Base Rate, and (B) in the case of Borrowings denominated in any Optional Currency, the interest rate reasonably determined by the Administrative Agent as the rate applicable to overnight settlements between banks for the amount advanced by the Administrative Agent on behalf of such Lender or (ii) in the case of the applicable Borrower, the interest rate that would otherwise apply to such Borrowing. If such Lender pays such amount to the Administrative Agent, then such amount shall constitute such Lender's Loan included in such Borrowing and such payment shall absolve any obligation of the applicable Borrower in respect of any demand made under this Section in respect of such Loan. SECTION 2.07. Interest Elections. (a) Each Revolving Borrowing initially shall be of the Type specified in the applicable Borrowing Request and, in the case of a Eurocurrency or TIBOR Revolving Borrowing, shall have an initial Interest Period as specified in such Borrowing Request. Thereafter, the Borrower may elect to convert such Borrowing to a different Type (but of the same currency) or to continue such Borrowing and, in the case of a
27 Eurocurrency or TIBOR Revolving Borrowing, may elect Interest Periods therefor, all as provided in this Section. The Borrower may elect different options with respect to different portions of the affected Borrowing, in which case each such portion shall be allocated ratably among the Lenders holding the Loans comprising such Borrowing, and the Loans comprising each such portion shall be considered a separate Borrowing. (b) To make an election pursuant to this Section, the applicable Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of such election by telephone by the time that a Borrowing Request would be required under Section 2.03 if such Borrower were requesting a Revolving Borrowing of the Type resulting from such election to be made on the effective date of such election (as more specifically set forth in Schedule 2.03(A)). Each such telephonic Interest Election Request shall be irrevocable and shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery or facsimile to the Administrative Agent of a written Interest Election Request in a form approved by the Administrative Agent and signed by the applicable Borrower. (c) Each telephonic and written Interest Election Request shall specify the following information in compliance with Section 2.02: (i) the Borrowing to which such Interest Election Request applies and, if different options are being elected with respect to different portions thereof, the portions thereof to be allocated to each resulting Borrowing (in which case the information to be specified pursuant to clauses (iii) and (iv) below shall be specified for each resulting Borrowing); (ii) the effective date of the election made pursuant to such Interest Election Request, which shall be a Business Day; (iii) whether the resulting Borrowing is to be a Base Rate Borrowing or a Eurocurrency or a TIBOR Borrowing; (iv) if the resulting Borrowing is a Eurocurrency or TIBOR Borrowing, the Interest Period to be applicable thereto after giving effect to such election, which shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term "Interest Period". If any such Interest Election Request requests a Eurocurrency Borrowing or TIBOR Borrowing but does not specify an Interest Period, then the applicable Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one month's duration. All Loans denominated in Yen in each case shall be TIBOR Loans. (d) Promptly following receipt of an Interest Election Request, the Administrative Agent shall advise each Lender of the details thereof and of such Lender's portion of each resulting Borrowing. (e) If the applicable Borrower fails to deliver a timely Interest Election Request with respect to a Eurocurrency or TIBOR Revolving Borrowing prior to the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto, then, unless such Borrowing is repaid as provided herein, at the end of such Interest Period, such Borrowing shall be continued as a Eurocurrency or TIBOR Revolving Borrowing, as the case may be, having a one month Interest Period. Notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof, if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and the Administrative Agent, at the request of the Required Lenders, so notifies the applicable
28 Borrower, then, so long as an Event of Default is continuing (i) no outstanding Revolving Borrowing may be converted to or continued as a Eurocurrency or TIBOR Borrowing and (ii) unless repaid, each Eurocurrency and TIBOR Revolving Borrowing shall be converted to a Base Rate Borrowing at the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto. SECTION 2.08. Termination and Reduction of Commitments. The Commitments shall terminate on the Commitment Termination Date. (a) AOLTW may at any time terminate, or from time to time reduce, the Commitments; provided that (i) each reduction of the Commitments shall be in an amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $20,000,000 and (ii) AOLTW shall not terminate or reduce the Commitments if, after giving effect thereto and to any concurrent prepayment of the Loans in accordance with Section 2.10, the sum of the Revolving Credit Exposures would exceed the total Commitments. (b) AOLTW shall notify the Administrative Agent of any election to terminate or reduce the Commitments under paragraph (a) of this Section at least one Business Day prior to the effective date of such termination or reduction, specifying such election and the effective date thereof. Promptly following receipt of any notice, the Administrative Agent shall advise the Lenders of the contents thereof. Each notice delivered by AOLTW pursuant to this Section shall be irrevocable; provided that a notice of termination of the Commitments delivered by AOLTW may state that such notice is conditioned upon the effectiveness of other credit facilities, in which case such notice may be revoked by AOLTW (by notice to the Administrative Agent on or prior to the specified effective date) if such condition is not satisfied. Any termination or reduction of the Commitments shall be permanent. Each reduction of the Commitments shall be made ratably among the Lenders in accordance with their respective Commitments. SECTION 2.09. Repayment of Loans; Evidence of Debt. (a) Each Borrower hereby unconditionally promises to pay (i) to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender the then unpaid principal amount of each Revolving Loan made to such Borrower on the Maturity Date, and (ii) to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Yen Fronting Lender and the participating Lenders as their interests may appear the then unpaid principal amount of each Yen Loan owed by such Borrower on the Maturity Date. (b) Each Lender shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing the indebtedness of each Borrower to such Lender resulting from each Loan made by such Lender, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Lender from time to time hereunder. (c) The Administrative Agent shall maintain accounts in which it shall record (i) the amount and Currency of each Loan made hereunder and Type thereof and the Interest Period applicable thereto, (ii) the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable from each Borrower to each Lender hereunder and (iii) the amount of any sum received by the Administrative Agent hereunder for the account of the Lenders and each Lender's share thereof. (d) The entries made in the accounts maintained pursuant to paragraph (b) or (c) of this Section shall be prima facie evidence of the existence and amounts of the obligations recorded therein; provided that the failure of any Lender or the Administrative Agent to maintain
29 such accounts or any error therein shall not in any manner affect the obligation of the applicable Borrower to repay the Loans in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. (e) Any Lender may request that Loans made by it be evidenced by a Note. In such event, each Borrower shall execute and deliver to such Lender a Note payable to the order of such Lender (or, if requested by such Lender, to such Lender and its registered assigns) and in a form approved by the Administrative Agent and reasonably acceptable to the applicable Borrowers. Thereafter, the Loans evidenced by such Note and interest thereon shall at all times (including after assignment pursuant to Section 9.04) be represented by one or more Notes in such form payable to the order of the payee named therein (or, if such promissory note is a registered note, to such payee and its registered assigns). (f) AOLTW may elect to extend the Maturity Date of all or any portion of Revolving Loans outstanding on the Initial Maturity Date to the date that is the second anniversary of the Initial Maturity Date by giving written notice (the "Term Out Notice") of such election to the Administration Agent at least five days prior to the Initial Maturity Date. SECTION 2.10. Prepayment of Loans. (a) Each Borrower shall have the right at any time and from time to time to prepay any Borrowing in whole or in part, subject to prior notice in accordance with paragraph (b) of this Section. (b) The Borrower that desires to make a prepayment shall notify the Administrative Agent by telephone (confirmed by facsimile) of any prepayment hereunder in accordance with Schedule 2.03(A). Each such notice shall be irrevocable and shall specify the prepayment date and the principal amount of each Borrowing or portion thereof to be prepaid; provided that, if a notice of prepayment is given in connection with a conditional notice of termination of the Commitments as contemplated by Section 2.08, then such notice of prepayment may be revoked if such notice of termination is revoked in accordance with Section 2.08. Promptly following receipt of any such notice relating to a Revolving Borrowing, the Administrative Agent shall advise the Lenders of the contents thereof. Each partial prepayment of any Revolving Borrowing shall be in an amount that would be permitted in the case of an advance of a Revolving Borrowing of the same Type as provided in Section 2.02. Each prepayment of a Revolving Borrowing hereunder shall be applied ratably to the Loans included in the prepaid Borrowing. Prepayments shall be accompanied by accrued interest to the extent required by Section 2.12. SECTION 2.11. Fees. (a) The Borrowers agree, jointly and severally, to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender a facility fee (a "Facility Fee") which shall accrue at the Applicable Rate on the average daily amount of the Commitment of such Lender (whether used or unused) during the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the date on which such Commitment terminates; provided that, if such Lender continues to have any Revolving Credit Exposure after its Commitment terminates, then such Facility Fee shall continue to accrue on the average daily amount of such Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure from and including the date on which its Commitment terminates to but excluding the date on which such Lender ceases to have any Revolving Credit Exposure. Accrued Facility Fees shall be payable in arrears on the last day of March, June, September and December of each year and on the Maturity Date (or such earlier date after the Commitment Termination Date on which the Loans are repaid in full), commencing on the first such date to occur after the date hereof. All Facility Fees shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360
30 days and shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day). (b) The Borrowers agree, jointly and severally, to pay to the Administrative Agent, for the account of each Lender, during the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the date on which the Commitments terminate and the Revolving Credit Exposures of all the Lenders are paid or extinguished in full, a utilization fee (a "Utilization Fee") which shall accrue, with respect to any day, (a) that the Commitment Utilization Percentage is greater than 33% but less than or equal to 66%, at the rate of 0.0625% per annum on such Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure, and (b) that the Commitment Utilization Percentage is greater than 66%, at the rate of 0.125% per annum on such Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure. Accrued Utilization Fees shall be payable in arrears on the last day of March, June, September and December of each year, on the Maturity Date and on any date thereafter on which the Revolving Credit Exposures of all the Lenders are paid or extinguished in full, commencing on the first such date to occur after the date hereof. All Utilization Fees shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days and shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day). (c) [Intentionally left blank] (d) The Borrowers agree, jointly and severally, to pay to the Administrative Agent, for its own account, fees payable in the amounts and at the times separately agreed upon between AOLTW and the Administrative Agent. (e) All fees payable hereunder shall be paid on the dates due, in immediately available funds, to the Administrative Agent for distribution, in the case of Facility Fees and Utilization Fees, to the Lenders entitled thereto. Fees paid shall not be refundable under any circumstances absent manifest error in the calculation and/or payment thereof. SECTION 2.12. Interest. (a) The Loans comprising each ABR Borrowing shall bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the Alternate Base Rate. (b) The Loans comprising each Eurocurrency Borrowing shall bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the Adjusted LIBO Rate for the Interest Period in effect for such Borrowing plus the Applicable Rate. (c) The Loans comprising each Pound Sterling Overnight Rate Borrowing shall bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the Pound Sterling Overnight Rate. (d) The Loans comprising each Euro Overnight Rate Borrowing shall bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the Euro Overnight Rate. (e) The Loans comprising each TIBOR Borrowing shall bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the TIBOR Rate plus the Applicable Rate. (f) [Intentionally left blank] (g) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any principal of or interest on any Loan or any fee or other amount payable by any Borrower hereunder is not paid when due, whether at stated maturity, upon acceleration or otherwise, such overdue amount shall bear interest, after as
31 well as before judgment, at a rate per annum equal to (i) in the case of overdue principal of any Loan, 2% plus the rate otherwise applicable to such Loan as provided above or (ii) in the case of any other amount, 2% plus the rate applicable to Loans in the Base Rate of the relevant Currency as provided above. (h) Accrued interest on each Loan shall be payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date for such Loan; provided that (i) interest accrued pursuant to paragraph (g) of this Section shall be payable on demand, (ii) in the event of any repayment or prepayment of any Loan (other than a prepayment of an ABR Revolving Loan prior to the end of the Availability Period), accrued interest on the principal amount repaid or prepaid shall be payable on the date of such repayment or prepayment, (iii) in the event of any conversion of any Eurocurrency Revolving Loan prior to the end of the current Interest Period therefor, accrued interest on such Loan shall be payable on the effective date of such conversion and (iv) all accrued interest shall be payable upon the Commitment Termination Date. (i) All interest hereunder shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days, except that (i) interest computed by reference to the Alternate Base Rate at times when the Alternate Base Rate is based on the Prime Rate shall be computed on the basis of a year of 365 days (or 366 days in a leap year), and (ii) with respect to Loans denominated in Pounds, the interest rate thereon shall be computed on the basis of a 365-day year, and in each case shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day). The applicable Base Rate, TIBOR Rate, Adjusted LIBO Rate and LIBO Rate shall be determined by the Administrative Agent, and such determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error. SECTION 2.13. Alternate Rate of Interest. If prior to the commencement of any Interest Period for a Eurocurrency Borrowing or TIBOR Borrowing: (a) the Administrative Agent determines (which determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error) that adequate and reasonable means do not exist for ascertaining for such Interest Period the Adjusted LIBO Rate for the relevant Currency or the TIBOR Rate; or (b) the Administrative Agent is advised by the Required Lenders that for such Interest Period the Adjusted LIBO Rate for the relevant Currency or the TIBOR Rate will not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders of making or maintaining their Loans included in such Borrowing for such Interest Period; then the Administrative Agent shall give notice thereof to the applicable Borrowers and the Lenders by telephone or facsimile as promptly as practicable thereafter and, until the Administrative Agent notifies the applicable Borrowers and the Lenders that the circumstances giving rise to such notice no longer exist, (i) any Interest Election Request that requests the conversion of any Revolving Borrowing to, or continuation of any Revolving Borrowing as, a Eurocurrency Borrowing or TIBOR Borrowing, as applicable, shall be ineffective and any such Borrowing referred to in such Interest Election Request shall, unless repaid by the applicable Borrower, be converted to (as of the last day of the then current Interest Period), or maintained as, a Base Rate Borrowing, as the case may be (to the extent, in the Administrative Agent's reasonable determination, it is practicable to do so), and (ii) if any Borrowing Request requests a Eurocurrency Revolving Borrowing or TIBOR Revolving Borrowing, such Borrowing shall, unless otherwise rescinded by the applicable Borrower, be made as a Base Rate Loan in the
32 applicable Currency (to the extent, in the Administrative Agent's reasonable determination, it is practicable to do so), and if the circumstances giving rise to such notice affect fewer than all Types of Borrowings, then the other Types of Borrowings shall be permitted. SECTION 2.14. Increased Costs. (a) If any Change in Law shall: (i) impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended by, any Lender (except any such reserve requirement reflected in the Adjusted LIBO Rate); or (ii) impose on any Lender or the London interbank market or the Tokyo interbank market any other condition affecting this Agreement or Eurocurrency or TIBOR Loans made by such Lender; and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Lender of making or maintaining any Eurocurrency or TIBOR Loan (or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Loan) or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Lender hereunder (whether of principal, interest or otherwise), then the applicable Borrower will pay to such Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender for such additional costs actually incurred or reduction actually suffered. (b) If any Lender determines that any Change in Law regarding capital requirements has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's capital or on the capital of such Lender's holding company, if any, as a consequence of the Commitment or the Loans made by such Lender, to a level below that which such Lender or such Lender's holding company could have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration such Lender's policies and the policies of such Lender's holding company with respect to capital adequacy), then from time to time the applicable Borrowers will pay to such Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or such Lender's holding company for any such reduction actually suffered in respect of the Commitment or Loans made by such Lender hereunder. (c) A certificate of a Lender setting forth in reasonable detail the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender or its holding company, as the case may be, as specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section shall be delivered to the applicable Borrowers and shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The applicable Borrowers shall pay such Lender the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof. (d) Failure or delay on the part of any Lender to demand compensation pursuant to this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's right to demand such compensation; provided that the applicable Borrowers shall not be required to compensate a Lender pursuant to this Section for any increased costs or reductions unless a Lender gives notice to the applicable Borrowers that they are obligated to pay an amount under this Section within six months after the later of (i) the date the Lender incurs such increased costs, reduction in amounts received or receivable or reduction in return on capital or (ii) the date such Lender has actual knowledge of its incurrence of such increased cost, reduction in amounts received or receivable or reduction in return on capital; provided further that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs
33 or reductions is retroactive, then the six-month period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section 2.14, no Lender shall demand compensation for any increased costs or reduction referred to above if it shall not be the general policy or practice of such Lender to demand such compensation in similar circumstances under comparable provisions of other credit agreements, if any (it being understood that this sentence shall not in any way limit the discretion of any Lender to waive the right to demand such compensation in any given case). SECTION 2.15. Break Funding Payments. In the event of (a) the payment of any principal of any Eurocurrency or TIBOR Loan other than on the last day of an Interest Period applicable thereto (including as a result of an Event of Default), (b) the conversion of any Eurocurrency or TIBOR Loan other than on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto, (c) the failure to borrow, convert, continue or prepay any Revolving Loan on the date specified in any notice delivered pursuant hereto (regardless of whether such notice is permitted to be revocable under Section 2.10(b) and is revoked in accordance herewith), or (d) the assignment of any Eurocurrency or TIBOR Loan other than on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto as a result of a request by a Borrower pursuant to Section 2.18, then, in any such event, the applicable Borrower shall compensate each Lender for the loss, cost and expense attributable to such event. In the case of a Eurocurrency or TIBOR Loan, the loss to any Lender attributable to any such event shall be deemed to include an amount determined by such Lender to be equal to the excess, if any, of (i) the amount of interest that such Lender would pay for a deposit in the applicable Currency equal to the principal amount of such Loan for the period from the date of such payment, conversion, failure or assignment to the last day of the then current Interest Period for such Loan (or, in the case of a failure to borrow, convert or continue, the duration of the Interest Period that would have resulted from such borrowing, conversion or continuation) if the interest rate payable on such deposit were equal to the Adjusted LIBO Rate or the TIBOR Rate, as applicable, for such Interest Period, over (ii) the amount of interest that such Lender would earn on such principal amount for such period if such Lender were to invest such principal amount for such period at the interest rate that would be bid by such Lender (or an affiliate of such Lender) for deposits in the applicable Currency from other banks in the Eurocurrency market at the commencement of such period. A certificate of any Lender setting forth in reasonable detail any amount or amounts that such Lender is entitled to receive pursuant to this Section shall be delivered to the applicable Borrower and shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The applicable Borrower shall pay such Lender the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof. SECTION 2.16. Taxes. (a) Any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of each Borrower hereunder shall be made free and clear of and without deduction for any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes; provided that if such Borrower shall be required to deduct any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes from such payments, then (i) the sum payable shall be increased as necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section) the Administrative Agent or Lender (as the case may be) receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) such Borrower shall make such deductions and (iii) such Borrower shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
34 (b) Each Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent and each Lender, within 10 days after written demand therefor, for the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes (including Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable by such Borrower under this Section unless such amounts have been included in any amount paid pursuant to the proviso to Section 2.16(a)) paid by the Administrative Agent, or such Lender, as the case may be, and any penalties, interest and reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. A certificate as to the amount of such payment or liability delivered to such Borrower by a Lender, or by the Administrative Agent on its own behalf or on behalf of a Lender, shall be conclusive absent manifest error. (c) If a Lender or the Administrative Agent receives a refund in respect of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes as to which it has been indemnified by a Borrower or with respect to which a Borrower has paid additional amounts pursuant to this Section 2.16, it shall within 30 days from the date of such receipt pay over such refund to such Borrower (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made, or additional amounts paid, by such Borrower under this Section 2.16 with respect to the Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes giving rise to such refund, as determined by such Lender in its reasonable discretion), net of all out-of-pocket expenses of such Lender or the Administrative Agent and without interest (other than interest paid by the relevant taxation authority with respect to such refund); provided that such Borrower, upon the request of such Lender or the Administrative Agent, agrees to repay the amount paid over to such Borrower (plus penalties, interest or other charges) to such Lender or the Administrative Agent in the event such Lender or the Administrative Agent is required to repay such refund to such taxation authority. (d) As soon as practicable after any payment of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes by any Borrower to a Governmental Authority, such Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of the return reporting such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent. (e) Any Foreign Lender that is entitled to an exemption from or reduction of withholding tax under the law of the jurisdiction in which any Borrower is located, or any treaty to which such jurisdiction is a party, with respect to payments under this Agreement shall deliver to such Borrower (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), at the time or times prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by such Borrower, such properly completed and executed documentation prescribed by applicable law as will permit such payments to be made without withholding or at a reduced rate. (f) Any Lender that is a U.S. Person shall deliver to AOLTW (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) a statement signed by an authorized signatory of the Lender that it is a U.S. Person and, if necessary to avoid United States backup withholding, a duly completed and signed Internal Revenue Service Form W-9 (or successor form) establishing that such Lender is organized under the laws of the United States and is not subject to United States backup withholding. (g) Nothing in this Section shall be construed to require any Lender to disclose any confidential information regarding its tax returns or affairs.
35 SECTION 2.17. Payments Generally; Pro Rata Treatment; Sharing of Setoffs. (a) Each Borrower shall make each payment required to be made by it hereunder (whether of principal, interest or fees, or of amounts payable under Section 2.14, 2.15 or 2.16, or otherwise) prior to 1:00 p.m., Local Time, on the date when due, in immediately available funds, without setoff or counterclaim. Any amounts received after such time on any date shall, unless the Administrative Agent is able to distribute such amounts to the applicable Lenders on such date, be deemed to have been received on the next succeeding Business Day for purposes of calculating interest thereon. All such payments shall be made to the Administrative Agent (i) in New York, for payments in Dollars, (ii) in London, for payments in Euros or Pounds and (iii) in Tokyo, for payments in Yen, in each case, at the offices for the Administrative Agent set forth in Section 9.01, except that payments pursuant to Sections 2.14, 2.15, 2.16 and 9.03 shall be made directly to the Persons entitled thereto. The Administrative Agent shall distribute any such payments received by it for the account of any other Person to the appropriate recipient in like funds promptly following receipt thereof. If any payment hereunder shall be due on a day that is not a Business Day, the date for payment shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day, and, in the case of any payment accruing interest, interest thereon shall be payable for the period of such extension. All payments hereunder, whether such payments are made in respect of principal, interest or fees, shall be made in the Currency in which the applicable payment obligation is due; provided, that payments in respect of Facility Fees pursuant to Section 2.11 and any other payments (not in respect of principal, interest or fees) or reimbursements shall be payable in Dollars. (b) If at any time insufficient funds are received by and available to the Administrative Agent to pay fully all amounts of principal, interest and fees then due from any Borrower hereunder, such funds shall be applied (i) first, to pay interest and fees then due from such Borrower hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of interest and fees then due to such parties, and (ii) second, to pay principal, then due from such Borrower hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of principal then due to such parties. (c) If any Lender shall, by exercising any right of setoff or counterclaim or otherwise, obtain payment in respect of any principal of or interest on any of its Revolving Loans resulting in such Lender receiving payment of a greater proportion of the aggregate amount of its Revolving Loans and accrued interest thereon owing by any Borrower than the proportion received by any other Lender, then the Lender receiving such greater proportion shall purchase (for cash at face value) participations in the Revolving Loans of other Lenders owing from such Borrower to the extent necessary so that the benefit of all such payments shall be shared by the Lenders ratably in accordance with the aggregate amount of principal of and accrued interest on their respective Revolving Loans; provided that (i) if any such participations are purchased and all or any portion of the payment giving rise thereto is recovered, such participations shall be rescinded and the purchase price restored to the extent of such recovery, without interest, and (ii) the provisions of this paragraph shall not be construed to apply to any payment made by such Borrower pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement or any payment obtained by a Lender as consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Loans other than to any Borrower or any Subsidiary or Affiliate thereof (as to which the provisions of this paragraph shall apply). Each Borrower consents to the foregoing and agrees, to the extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, that any Lender acquiring a participation pursuant to the foregoing arrangements may exercise against such Borrower rights
36 of setoff and counterclaim with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a direct creditor of such Borrower in the amount of such participation. (d) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due from such Borrower to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders hereunder that such Borrower will not make such payment, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Borrower has made such payment on such date in accordance herewith and may, in reliance upon such assumption, distribute to the Lenders, the amount due. In such event, if such Borrower has not in fact made such payment, then each of the Lenders, severally agrees to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand the amount so distributed to such Lender with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is distributed to it to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, (i) if the relevant amount is denominated in Pounds Sterling, at the Pound Sterling Overnight Rate (ii) if the relevant amount is denominated in Dollars, at the Federal Funds Effective Rate and (iii) if the relevant amount is denominated in any other Currency, at the interest rate reasonably determined by the Administrative Agent as the rate applicable for overnight settlements between banks for the amount paid by the Administrative Agent on behalf of such Borrower. (e) If any Lender shall fail to make any payment required to be made by it pursuant to Section 2.06(b) or 2.17(d), then the Administrative Agent may, in its discretion (notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof), apply any amounts thereafter received by the Administrative Agent for the account of such Lender from or on behalf of any Credit Party or otherwise in respect of the Obligations to satisfy such Lender's obligations under such Sections until all such unsatisfied obligations are fully paid. SECTION 2.18. Mitigation Obligations; Replacement of Lenders. (a) If any Lender requests compensation under Section 2.14, or if any Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to Section 2.16, then such Lender shall use reasonable efforts to designate a different lending office for funding or booking its Loans hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates, if, in the judgment of such Lender, such designation or assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to Section 2.14 or 2.16, as the case may be, in the future and (ii) would not subject such Lender to any unreimbursed cost or expense and would not otherwise be materially disadvantageous to such Lender. Such Borrower hereby agrees to pay all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by any Lender in connection with any such designation or assignment. (b) If any Lender requests compensation under Section 2.14, or if any Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to Section 2.16, or if any Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender hereunder, then AOLTW may, at its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the Administrative Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in Section 9.04), all its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement to an assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment); provided that (i) AOLTW shall have received the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent, which consent shall not unreasonably be withheld, (ii) such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Loans, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder, from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding
37 principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Borrowers (in the case of all other amounts) and (iii) in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under Section 2.14 or payments required to be made pursuant to Section 2.16, such assignment will be made to a Lender reasonably expected to result in a reduction in the compensation or payments to be paid by the Borrowers pursuant to such sections. A Lender shall not be required to make any such assignment and delegation if, prior thereto, as a result of a waiver by such Lender or otherwise, the circumstances entitling AOLTW to require such assignment and delegation cease to apply. SECTION 2.19. Prepayments Required Due to Currency Fluctuation. (a) Not later than 1:00 p.m., New York City time, on the last Business Day of each fiscal quarter of AOLTW or at such other time as is reasonably determined by the Administrative Agent (the "Calculation Time"), the Administrative Agent shall determine the Dollar Equivalent of the total Revolving Credit Exposures outstanding as of such date. (b) If at the Calculation Time, the Dollar Equivalent of the total Revolving Credit Exposures exceeds the total Commitments then in effect by 5% or more, then within five Business Days of notice to the Borrowers thereof, the applicable Borrowers shall prepay Revolving Loans in an aggregate principal amount at least equal to such excess. Nothing set forth in this Section 2.19(b) shall be construed to require the Administrative Agent to calculate compliance under this Section 2.19(b) other than at the times set forth in Section 2.19(a). (c) If at the Calculation Time, the Dollar Equivalent of the total Yen Loans exceeds the total Yen Commitments then in effect by 5% or more, then within five Business Days of notice to the Borrowers thereof, the applicable Borrowers shall prepay Yen Loans in an aggregate principal amount at least equal to such excess. Nothing set forth in this Section 2.19(c) shall be construed to require the Administrative Agent to calculate compliance under this Section 2.19(c) other than at the times set forth in Section 2.19(a). SECTION 2.20. Adoption of the Euro. Each provision of this Agreement shall be subject to such reasonable changes of construction as the Administrative Agent may from time to time specify to be appropriate to reflect the adoption of the Euro in any Participating Member State and any relevant market conventions or practices relating to the Euro. Each obligation under this Agreement of a party to this Agreement which has been denominated in the National Currency Unit of a Subsequent Participant shall be redenominated into the Euro in accordance with EMU Legislation immediately upon such Subsequent Participant becoming a Participating Member State (but otherwise in accordance with EMU Legislation). If, in relation to the currency of any Subsequent Participant, the basis of accrual of interest or fees expressed in this Agreement with respect to such currency shall be inconsistent with any convention or practice in the interbank market for the basis of accrual of interest or fees in respect of the Euro, such convention or practice shall replace such expressed basis effective as of and from the date on which such Subsequent Participant becomes a Participating Member State; provided, that if any Loan in the currency of such Subsequent Participant which is subject to an Interest Period is outstanding immediately prior to such date, such replacement shall take effect, with respect to such Loan, at the end of the then current Interest Period.
38 ARTICLE III REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES Each Borrower represents and warrants (as to itself and its Restricted Subsidiaries) to the Lenders that: SECTION 3.01. Organization; Powers. Each Credit Party and each of its Restricted Subsidiaries is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization, has all requisite power and authority to carry on its business as now conducted and, except where the failure to do so, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, is qualified to do business in, and is in good standing in, every jurisdiction where such qualification is required. SECTION 3.02. Authorization; Enforceability. The Transactions are within the Credit Parties' corporate or partnership (as the case may be) powers and have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or partnership (as the case may be) and, if required, stockholder or partner action of such Credit Parties. Each Credit Document (other than each Note) has been, and each Note when delivered hereunder will have been, duly executed and delivered by the Credit Parties party thereto. Each Credit Document (other than each Note) constitutes, and each Note when delivered hereunder will be, a legal, valid and binding obligation of each such Credit Party, enforceable in accordance with its terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally and subject to general principles of equity, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law. SECTION 3.03. Governmental Approvals; No Conflicts. The Transactions (a) do not require any consent or approval of, registration or filing with, or any other action by, any Governmental Authority, except such as have been obtained or made and are in full force and effect, (b) will not violate (i) any applicable law or regulation or (ii) the charter, by-laws, partnership agreements or other organizational documents of such Borrower or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries or any order of any Governmental Authority, (c) will not violate or result in a default under any indenture, agreement or other instrument binding upon such Borrower or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries or its assets, or give rise to a right thereunder to require any payment to be made by such Borrower or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries and (d) will not result in the creation or imposition of any Lien on any asset of such Borrower or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries; except, in each case (other than clause (b)(ii) with respect to any Credit Party), such as could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. SECTION 3.04. Financial Condition; No Material Adverse Change. (a) The consolidated balance sheet and statements of income, stockholders equity and cash flows (including the notes thereto) of AOLTW as of and for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001, reported on by Ernst & Young LLP, independent accountants, copies of which have heretofore been furnished to each Lender, when combined with all public filings with the SEC by AOLTW since December 31, 2001 and prior to the Amendment Effective Date, present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position and results of operations and cash flows of AOLTW and its consolidated Subsidiaries, as of such date and for such period, in accordance with GAAP.
39 (b) The unaudited consolidated balance sheets and statements of income, stockholders equity and cash flows of AOLTW and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of and for the nine months ended September 30, 2002, copies of which have heretofore been furnished to each Lender, present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position and results of operations and cash flows of AOLTW and its consolidated Subsidiaries, as of such date and for such period, in accordance with GAAP. (c) Since December 31, 2001, there has been no material adverse change in the business, assets, operations or financial condition of AOLTW and its consolidated Subsidiaries, taken as a whole (excluding the write-down of goodwill pursuant to the application of Financial Accounting Standard Board Statement No. 142). SECTION 3.05. Properties. (a) Such Borrower and each of its Restricted Subsidiaries has good title to, or valid leasehold interests in, all its real and personal property, except for defects in title or interests that could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. (b) Such Borrower and each of its Restricted Subsidiaries owns, or is licensed to use, all trademarks, trade names, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property material to its business, and the use thereof by such Borrower or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries does not infringe upon the rights of any other Person, except for any such infringements that, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. SECTION 3.06. Litigation and Environmental Matters. (a) There are no actions, suits, investigations or proceedings by or before any arbitrator or Governmental Authority pending against or, to the knowledge of the Borrowers, threatened against or affecting any Borrower or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (i) which could reasonably be expected to be adversely determined and that, if adversely determined, could reasonably be expected, individually or in the aggregate, to result in a Material Adverse Effect or (ii) that involve this Agreement or the Transactions. (b) Except with respect to any matters that, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, (x) neither such Borrower nor any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (i) has failed to comply with any Environmental Law or to obtain, maintain or comply with any permit, license or other approval required under any Environmental Law, (ii) has become subject to any Environmental Liability or (iii) has received notice of any claim with respect to any Environmental Liability and (y) no Borrower has knowledge of any basis for any Environmental Liability on the part of any of its Restricted Subsidiaries. SECTION 3.07. Compliance with Laws and Agreements. Such Borrower and each of its Restricted Subsidiaries is in compliance with all laws, regulations and orders of any Governmental Authority applicable to it or its property and all indentures, agreements and other instruments binding upon it or its property, except where the failure to do so, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. No Event of Default has occurred and is continuing. SECTION 3.08. Government Regulation. Neither such Borrower nor any of its Restricted Subsidiaries is (a) an "investment company" as defined in, or subject to regulation
40 under, the Investment Company Act of 1940, (b) a "holding company" as defined in, or subject to regulation under, the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, or (c) is subject to any other statute or regulation which regulates the incurrence of indebtedness for borrowed money, other than, in the case of this clause (c), Federal and state securities laws and as could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. SECTION 3.09. Taxes. Such Borrower and each of its Subsidiaries has timely filed or caused to be filed all Tax returns and reports required to have been filed and has paid or caused to be paid all Taxes required to have been paid by it or as part of the consolidated group of which it is a member, except (a) Taxes that are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and for which such Borrower or such Subsidiary, as applicable, has set aside on its books adequate reserves in accordance with GAAP or (b) to the extent that the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. SECTION 3.10. ERISA. No ERISA Event has occurred or is reasonably expected to occur that, when taken together with all other such ERISA Events for which liability is reasonably expected to occur, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. SECTION 3.11. Disclosure. As of the date hereof and the Amendment Effective Date, all information heretofore or contemporaneously furnished by or on behalf of such Borrower or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (including all information contained in the Credit Documents, the Confidential Memorandum dated May 2002 and the annexes, schedules and other attachments thereto but not including any projected financial statements), when taken together with the reports and other filings with the SEC made under the Exchange Act by any Credit Party since December 31, 2001, is, and all other such information hereafter furnished, including all information contained in any of the Credit Documents, including any annexes or schedules thereto, by or on behalf of such Borrower or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to or on behalf of any Lender is and will be (as of their respective dates and the Amendment Effective Date), true and accurate in all material respects and not incomplete by omitting to state a material fact to make such information not misleading at such time. There is no fact of which such Borrower or any Guarantor is aware which has not been disclosed to the Lenders in writing pursuant to the terms of this Agreement prior to the date hereof and which, singly or in the aggregate with all such other facts of which any Borrower or any Guarantor is aware, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. All statements of fact and representation concerning the present business, operations and assets of such Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, the Credit Documents and the transactions referred to therein are true and correct in all material respects. ARTICLE IV CONDITIONS SECTION 4.01. Amendment Effective Date. The effectiveness of this Agreement and the obligations of the Lenders to make Loans hereunder shall not become effective until the date on which each of the following conditions is satisfied (or waived in accordance with Section 9.02):
41 (a) Credit Documents. The Administrative Agent (or its counsel) shall have received (i) the Lender Consent executed and delivered by the Required Lenders, (ii) this Agreement executed and delivered by each Borrower and the Administrative Agent and (iii) an acknowledgement and consent with respect to the Primary Guarantee, in the form attached hereto as Exhibit C, executed and delivered by the parties thereto. (b) Opinion of Counsel. The Administrative Agent shall have received the favorable written opinions (addressed to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders and dated the Amendment Effective Date) of (i) Cravath, Swaine & Moore, counsel for the Credit Parties, (ii) in-house counsel to the Credit Parties, and (iii) Arthur Cox, counsel to AOLTWFI, in each case in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent. The Credit Parties hereby request each such counsel to deliver such opinions. (c) Closing Certificate. The Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate from each Borrower, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, dated the Amendment Effective Date and signed by the president, a vice president, a financial officer or an equivalent officer of such Borrower confirmation of compliance with the conditions set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 4.02. (d) Consummation of TWE Restructuring. The restructuring of TWE, as described in the Restructuring Agreement, shall have been consummated substantially in accordance with the Restructuring Agreement. (e) Fees. The Borrowers shall have paid all fees required to be paid on or before the Amendment Effective Date by the Borrowers in connection with the revolving credit facilities provided for in this Agreement and the Existing Credit Agreement. (f) Authorizations, etc. The Administrative Agent shall have received such documents and certificates as the Administrative Agent or its counsel may reasonably request relating to the organization, existence and good standing of the Credit Parties, the authorization of the Transactions and any other legal matters relating to the Credit Parties, this Agreement or the Transactions, all in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and its counsel. SECTION 4.02. Each Credit Event. The obligation of each Lender to make a Loan on the occasion of any Borrowing, is subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions: (a) The representations and warranties of the Credit Parties set forth in the Credit Documents (other than those set forth in Sections 3.04(c), 3.06 and 3.10 on any date other than the Amendment Effective Date) shall be true and correct in all material respects on and as of the date of such Borrowing. (b) At the time of and immediately after giving effect to such Borrowing no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing. Each Borrowing shall be deemed to constitute a representation and warranty by the Credit Parties on the date thereof as to the applicable matters specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section.
42 ARTICLE V AFFIRMATIVE COVENANTS Until all the Commitments have expired or been terminated and the principal of and interest on each Loan, all fees payable hereunder and all other Obligations shall have been paid in full (but with respect to such other Obligations only to the extent that actual amounts hereunder are owing at the time the Loans, together with interest and fees, have been paid in full), each Borrower (for itself and its Restricted Subsidiaries) covenants and agrees with the Lenders that: SECTION 5.01. Financial Statements and Other Information. AOLTW will furnish to the Administrative Agent at its New York office (who will distribute copies to each Lender): (a) within 105 days after the end of each fiscal year of AOLTW, its audited consolidated balance sheet and related statements of operations, stockholders' equity (or partnership capital) and cash flows as of the end of and for such year and its unaudited Adjusted Financial Statements for such fiscal year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous fiscal year, and, (i) in the case of the audited financial statements, reported on by Ernst & Young LLP or other independent public accountants of recognized national standing (without a "going concern" or like qualification or exception and without any qualification or exception as to the scope of such audit) to the effect that such consolidated financial statements present fairly in all material respects the financial condition and results of operations of AOLTW and its consolidated Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP consistently applied and (ii) in the case of the Adjusted Financial Statements, certified by one of AOLTW's Financial Officers as presenting fairly in all material respects the financial condition and results of operations of AOLTW and its consolidated Restricted Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP consistently applied; provided that, so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, AOLTW shall not be required to furnish Adjusted Financial Statements for any fiscal year if all Unrestricted Subsidiaries of AOLTW (other than any such Unrestricted Subsidiaries that are already treated as equity investments on AOLTW's financial statements) on a combined basis would not have constituted a Material Subsidiary of AOLTW for such fiscal year; (b) within 60 days after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year of AOLTW, its consolidated balance sheet and related statements of operations, stockholders' equity (or partnership capital) and cash flows and its Adjusted Financial Statements as of the end of and for such fiscal quarter and the then elapsed portion of the fiscal year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the corresponding period or periods of (or, in the case of the balance sheet, as of the end of) the previous fiscal year, all certified by one of AOLTW's Financial Officers as presenting fairly in all material respects the financial condition and results of operations of AOLTW and its consolidated Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP consistently applied, subject to normal year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes; provided that, so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, AOLTW shall not be required to furnish Adjusted Financial Statements for
43 any fiscal quarter if all Unrestricted Subsidiaries of AOLTW (other than any such Unrestricted Subsidiaries that are already treated as equity investments on AOLTW's financial statements) on a combined basis would not have constituted a Material Subsidiary of AOLTW for such fiscal quarter; (c) concurrently with any delivery of financial statements under clause (a) or (b) above, a certificate of a Financial Officer of AOLTW (i) certifying as to whether a Default has occurred and, if a Default has occurred, specifying the details thereof and any action taken or proposed to be taken with respect thereto, (ii) setting forth reasonably detailed calculations demonstrating compliance with Sections 6.01, 6.02(a) and 6.03(a) and (k) and (iii) stating whether any change in GAAP or in the application thereof has occurred since the date of the audited financial statements referred to in Section 3.04 which has not been previously disclosed by AOLTW pursuant to this Section 5.01(c)(iii) and, if any such change has occurred, specifying the effect of such change on the financial statements accompanying such certificate; (d) promptly after the same become publicly available, copies of all periodic and other reports, proxy statements and other materials filed by any Company with the SEC or with any national securities exchange, or distributed by any Company to its security holders generally, as the case may be (other than registration statements on Form S-8, filings under Sections 16(a) or 13(d) of the Exchange Act and routine filings related to employee benefit plans); and (e) promptly following any request therefor, such other information regarding the operations, business affairs and financial condition of AOLTW or any of its Subsidiaries, or compliance with the terms of this Agreement, as the Administrative Agent or any Lender may reasonably request (it being understood that AOLTW and such Subsidiaries shall not be required to provide any information or documents which are subject to confidentiality provisions the nature of which prohibit such disclosure). Information required to be delivered pursuant to paragraphs (a), (b) and (d) shall be deemed to have been delivered on the date on which AOLTW provides notice to the Administrative Agent, or as the case may be the Administrative Agent gives notice to the Lenders, that such information has been posted on AOLTW's website on the internet at the website address listed on the signature pages of such notice, at www.sec.gov or at another website identified in such notice and accessible by the Lenders without charge; provided that AOLTW shall deliver paper copies of the reports and financial statements referred to in paragraphs (a), (b) and (d) of this Section 5.01 to the Administrative Agent or any Lender who requests AOLTW to deliver such paper copies until written notice to cease delivering paper copies is given by the Administrative Agent or such Lender. SECTION 5.02. Notices of Material Events. Such Borrower will furnish to the Administrative Agent (who will distribute copies to the Lenders) prompt written notice of the following, upon any such event becoming known to any Responsible Officer of such Borrower: (a) the occurrence of any Default; (b) the filing or commencement of any action, suit or proceeding by or before any arbitrator or Governmental Authority against or affecting any Borrower or any Affiliate
44 thereof that, if adversely determined, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect; (c) the occurrence of any ERISA Event that, alone or together with any other ERISA Events that have occurred, could reasonably be expected to result in liability to AOLTW and its Subsidiaries in an aggregate amount exceeding $200,000,000; and (d) any other development that results in, or could reasonably be expected to result in, a Material Adverse Effect. Each notice delivered under this Section shall be accompanied by a statement of a Financial Officer or other executive officer of such Borrower setting forth the details of the event or development requiring such notice and any action taken or proposed to be taken with respect thereto. SECTION 5.03. Existence; Conduct of Business. Such Borrower will, and will cause each of its Restricted Subsidiaries which are Material Subsidiaries to, do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve, renew and keep in full force and effect its legal existence and the rights, licenses, permits, privileges and franchises material to the conduct of its business; provided that the foregoing shall not prohibit any merger, consolidation, liquidation or dissolution permitted under Section 6.04. SECTION 5.04. Payment of Obligations. Such Borrower will, and will cause each of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, pay its obligations, including Tax liabilities, that, if not paid, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, before the same shall become delinquent or in default, except where (a) the validity or amount thereof is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings, (b) such Borrower or such Subsidiary has set aside on its books adequate reserves with respect thereto in accordance with GAAP and (c) the failure to make payment pending such contest could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. SECTION 5.05. Maintenance of Properties; Insurance. Such Borrower will, and will cause each of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, (a) keep and maintain all property material to the conduct of its business (taken as a whole) in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted, and (b) maintain, with financially sound and reputable insurance companies, insurance in such amounts and against such risks as are customarily maintained by companies engaged in the same or similar businesses operating in the same or similar locations (it being understood that, to the extent consistent with prudent business practice, a program of self-insurance for first or other loss layers may be utilized). SECTION 5.06. Books and Records; Inspection Rights. Such Borrower will, and will cause each of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, keep proper books of record and account in which full, true and correct entries are made of all dealings and transactions in relation to its business and activities. Such Borrower will, and will cause each of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, permit any representatives designated by the Administrative Agent or any Lender, upon reasonable prior notice, to visit and inspect its properties, to examine its books and records, and to discuss its affairs, finances and condition with its officers and, so long as a representative of such Borrower is present, or such Borrower has consented to the absence of such a representative, independent accountants (in each case subject to such Borrower's or its Restricted
45 Subsidiaries' obligations under applicable confidentiality provisions), all at such reasonable times and as often as reasonably requested. SECTION 5.07. Compliance with Laws. Such Borrower will, and will cause each of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, comply with all laws, rules, regulations and orders of any Governmental Authority applicable to it or its property, except where the failure to do so, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. SECTION 5.08. Use of Proceeds. The proceeds of the Loans will be used only for general corporate or partnership (as applicable) purposes, including the repayment of indebtedness of existing and future Subsidiaries of any of the Borrowers and for commercial paper backup. No part of the proceeds of any Loan will be used, whether directly or indirectly, for any purpose that entails a violation of any of the Regulations of the Board, including Regulations U and X. SECTION 5.09. Fiscal Periods; Accounting. Such Borrower will keep the same financial reporting periods as are in effect on the date hereof. ARTICLE VI NEGATIVE COVENANTS Until all the Commitments have expired or terminated and the principal of and interest on each Loan, all fees payable hereunder and all other Obligations have been paid in full (but with respect to such other Obligations only to the extent that actual amounts hereunder are owing at the time the Loans, together with interest and fees, have been paid in full), each Borrower covenants and agrees (for itself and its Restricted Subsidiaries) with the Lenders that: SECTION 6.01. Financial Covenants. (a) The Consolidated Leverage Ratio as of the last day of any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters of AOLTW (commencing with the first fiscal quarter ending after the Effective Date) will not exceed 4.50 to 1.00. (b) The Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio for any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters of AOLTW (commencing with the first fiscal quarter ending after the Amendment Effective Date) will not be less than 2.00 to 1.00. SECTION 6.02. Indebtedness. AOLTW will not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (other than a Credit Party, TWC Parent or the consolidated Subsidiaries of TWC Parent) to, create, incur, assume or permit to exist any Indebtedness, except: (a) with respect to all such Restricted Subsidiaries, Indebtedness of up to an aggregate principal amount of $1,500,000,000 at any time outstanding; (b) Indebtedness of any such Restricted Subsidiary to a Borrower or any Subsidiary;
46 (c) Guarantee Obligations of any such Restricted Subsidiary with respect to Indebtedness of a Borrower or any wholly owned Restricted Subsidiary; (d) Indebtedness of any such Restricted Subsidiary incurred to finance the acquisition, construction or improvement of any property, including Capital Lease Obligations and any Indebtedness assumed in connection with the acquisition of any such property or secured by a Lien on any such property prior to the acquisition thereof, and extensions, renewals and replacements of any such Indebtedness that do not increase the outstanding principal amount thereof; provided that the aggregate principal amount of Indebtedness permitted by this clause (d) with respect to any such property shall not exceed 110% of the purchase price for, or the cost of construction or improvement of, such property; (e) Indebtedness of any Person that becomes a Restricted Subsidiary after the date hereof; provided that (x) such Indebtedness exists at the time such Person becomes a Subsidiary and is not created in contemplation of or in connection with such Person becoming a Subsidiary and (y) such Indebtedness does not, directly or indirectly, have recourse (including by way of setoff) to AOLTW or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries or any asset thereof other than to the Person so acquired and its Subsidiaries and the assets of the Person so acquired and its Subsidiaries; and (f) Film Financings. SECTION 6.03. Liens. Such Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, to create, incur, assume or permit to exist any Lien on any property or asset now owned or hereafter acquired by it, except: (a) any Lien on any property or asset of AOLTW or any Subsidiary existing on the date hereof; provided, that such Lien shall secure only those obligations which it secures on the date hereof and extensions, renewal and replacements thereof that do not increase the outstanding principal amount thereof and such Liens do not secure an aggregate principal amount of Indebtedness in excess of $200,000,000 or apply to property or assets of AOLTW and its Restricted Subsidiaries in excess of $200,000,000; (b) any Lien existing on any property or asset prior to the acquisition thereof by any Borrower or any Subsidiary or existing on any property or asset of any Person that becomes a Subsidiary after the date hereof prior to the time such Person becomes a Subsidiary; provided that (i) such Lien is not created in contemplation of or in connection with such acquisition or such Person becoming a Subsidiary, as the case may be, (ii) such Lien shall not apply to any other property or assets of any Borrower or any Subsidiary and (iii) such Lien shall secure only those obligations which it secures on the date of such acquisition or the date such Person becomes a Subsidiary, as the case may be and extensions, renewals and replacements thereof that do not increase the outstanding principal amount thereof; (c) Liens on property acquired, constructed or improved by any Borrower or any Subsidiary; provided that (i) such security interests secure Indebtedness permitted by clause (d) of Section 6.02, (ii) the Indebtedness secured thereby does not exceed 110% of the cost of acquiring, constructing or improving such property and (iii) such security
47 interests shall not apply to any other property or assets of the any Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries; (d) Liens to secure Film Financings; provided that such Liens shall extend only to the property or assets acquired with such Film Financing; (e) Liens on Capital Stock of AOLTW and proceeds therefrom supporting Stock Option Loans to the extent contemplated by the definition thereof; (f) any Copyright Liens securing obligations specified in the definition thereof; (g) Liens securing Indebtedness of any Borrower or any Restricted Subsidiary and owing to such Borrower or to a Restricted Subsidiary of such Borrower; (h) Liens on interests in or investments in any Unrestricted Subsidiary or in any other Person that is not a Subsidiary of AOLTW securing Indebtedness of such Unrestricted Subsidiary or such other Person; (i) Liens for taxes, assessments or governmental charges or levies not yet due and payable or which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings; (j) Liens incidental to the ordinary conduct of such Borrower's business or the ownership of its assets which were not incurred in connection with the borrowing of money, such as carrier's, warehousemen's, materialmen's, landlord's and mechanic's liens, and which do not in the aggregate materially detract from the value of its assets or materially impair the use thereof in the ordinary course of its business; and (k) other Liens in respect of property or assets of AOLTW or any Restricted Subsidiary so long as at the time of the securing of any obligations related thereto, the aggregate principal amount of all such secured obligations does not exceed 5% of the Consolidated Total Assets of AOLTW at such time (it being understood that any Lien permitted under any other clause in this Section 6.03 shall not be included in the computation described in this paragraph). SECTION 6.04. Mergers, Etc. Such Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, merge into or consolidate with any other Person, or permit any other Person to merge into or consolidate with it, or sell, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of (in one transaction or in a series of transactions) all or a substantial portion of such Borrower's consolidated assets, or all or a substantial portion of the stock of all of its Restricted Subsidiaries, taken as a whole (in each case, whether now owned or hereafter acquired), or liquidate or dissolve, unless (a) at the time thereof and immediately after giving effect thereto no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing and (b) after giving effect to any such transaction, the business, taken as a whole, of such Borrower and its Restricted Subsidiaries shall not have been altered in a fundamental and substantial manner from that conducted by them, taken as a whole, immediately prior to the Effective Date, provided that (i) a Borrower shall not merge into or consolidate with such other Person, unless such Borrower shall survive such consolidation or merger, and (ii) a Borrower shall not liquidate or dissolve or permit any Guarantor to liquidate or dissolve except into such Borrower or another Guarantor.
48 SECTION 6.05. Investments. Such Borrower will not, and will not cause or permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, make any Investment (other than any Investment in the ordinary course of the operation of its business) if, before or after giving effect to the commitment thereto on a pro forma basis, an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing. SECTION 6.06. Restricted Payments. Such Borrower will not declare or make, or agree to pay or make, directly or indirectly, any Restricted Payment, except such Borrower may (a) declare and pay dividends with respect to its capital stock payable solely in additional shares of its common stock and (b) make Restricted Payments so long as after giving effect to the making of such Restricted Payment, no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing on a pro forma basis. SECTION 6.07. Transactions with Affiliates. Such Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly, enter into any material transaction with any of its Affiliates, except (a) transactions entered into prior to the date hereof or contemplated by any agreement entered into prior to the date hereof, (b) in the ordinary course of business or at prices and on terms and conditions not less favorable to such Borrower or such Subsidiary than could be obtained on an arm's-length basis from unrelated third parties, (c) transactions between or among such Borrower and its Restricted Subsidiaries or between or among Restricted Subsidiaries, (d) any arrangements with officers, directors, representatives or other employees of such Borrower and its Subsidiaries relating specifically to employment as such and (e) transactions that are otherwise permitted by this Agreement. SECTION 6.08. Unrestricted Subsidiaries. (a) Schedule 6.08 sets forth those Subsidiaries that have been designated as Unrestricted Subsidiaries as of the date hereof, which Subsidiaries do not include any Guarantor or a Borrower. A Borrower may designate any other of its Subsidiaries (other than a Borrower or a Guarantor) as Unrestricted Subsidiaries from time to time in compliance with the provisions of this Section 6.08. Such Borrower will not designate any of its Subsidiaries as an Unrestricted Subsidiary unless at the time such Subsidiary is designated as an Unrestricted Subsidiary, before and after giving effect to such designation on a pro forma basis, no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, as certified in an Officers' Certificate delivered to the Administrative Agent at the time of such designation. Such Officers' Certificate also shall state the specific purpose for which such designation is being made. All Subsidiaries of Unrestricted Subsidiaries shall be Unrestricted Subsidiaries. (b) A Borrower may designate or re-designate any Unrestricted Subsidiary as a Restricted Subsidiary from time to time in compliance with the provisions of this Section 6.08. Such Borrower will not designate or re-designate any Unrestricted Subsidiary as a Restricted Subsidiary, unless at the time such Unrestricted Subsidiary is so designated or re-designated as a Restricted Subsidiary, after giving effect to such designation or re-designation on a pro forma basis, no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, as certified in an Officer's Certificate delivered to the Administrative Agent at the time of such designation or re-designation.
49 ARTICLE VII EVENTS OF DEFAULT If any of the following events ("Events of Default") shall occur: (a) any Borrower shall fail to pay any principal of any Loan when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the due date thereof or at a date fixed for prepayment thereof or otherwise; (b) any Borrower shall fail to pay any interest on any Loan or any fee or any other amount (other than an amount referred to in clause (a) of this Article) payable under this Agreement, when and as the same shall become due and payable, and such failure shall continue unremedied for a period of five days; (c) any representation or warranty made or deemed made by or on behalf of any Credit Party in any Credit Document or any amendment or modification thereof, or in any report, certificate, financial statement or other document furnished pursuant to or in connection with any Credit Document or any amendment or modification thereof, shall prove to have been incorrect in any material respect when made or deemed made; (d) any Borrower shall fail to observe or perform any covenant, condition or agreement contained in Section 5.02 or 5.03 (with respect to such Borrower's existence) or in Article VI; (e) any Credit Party shall fail to observe or perform any covenant, condition or agreement contained in the Credit Documents (other than those specified in clause (a), (b) or (d) of this Article), and such failure shall continue unremedied for a period of 30 days after notice thereof from the Administrative Agent (given at the request of any Lender) to any Borrower; (f) any Borrower or any Restricted Subsidiary shall fail to make any payment (whether of principal or interest and regardless of amount) in respect of any Material Indebtedness, when and as the same shall become due and payable after giving effect to any applicable grace periods; (g) any event or condition occurs that results in any Material Indebtedness becoming due prior to its scheduled maturity or that enables or permits (after giving effect to any applicable grace periods) the holder or holders of any Material Indebtedness or any trustee or agent on its or their behalf to cause any Material Indebtedness to become due, or to require the prepayment, repurchase, redemption or defeasance thereof, prior to its scheduled maturity; provided that this clause (g) shall not apply to secured Indebtedness that becomes due as a result of the voluntary sale or transfer of the property or assets securing such Indebtedness; (h) an involuntary proceeding shall be commenced or an involuntary petition shall be filed seeking (i) liquidation, reorganization or other relief in respect of any Borrower or any Material Subsidiary of any Borrower or its debts, or of a substantial part of its assets, under any Federal, state or foreign bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar
50 law now or hereafter in effect or (ii) the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conservator or similar official for any Borrower or any Material Subsidiary of any Borrower or for a substantial part of its assets, and, in any such case, such proceeding or petition shall continue undismissed for 60 days or an order or decree approving or ordering any of the foregoing shall be entered; (i) any Borrower or any Material Subsidiary of any Borrower shall (i) voluntarily commence any proceeding or file any petition seeking liquidation, reorganization or other relief under any Federal, state or foreign bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar law now or hereafter in effect, (ii) consent to the institution of, or fail to contest in a timely and appropriate manner, any proceeding or petition described in clause (h) of this Article, (iii) apply for or consent to the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conservator or similar official for any Borrower or any Material Subsidiary of any Borrower or for a substantial part of its assets, (iv) file an answer admitting the material allegations of a petition filed against it in any such proceeding, (v) make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors or (vi) take any action for the purpose of effecting any of the foregoing; (j) any Borrower or any Material Subsidiary of any Borrower shall become unable, admit in writing or fail generally to pay its debts as they become due; (k) one or more judgments for the payment of money in an aggregate amount in excess of $200,000,000 shall be rendered against any Borrower, any Material Subsidiary of any Borrower or any combination thereof or any action shall be legally taken by a judgment creditor (whose liquidated judgment, along with those of any other judgment creditor's, exceeds $200,000,000) to attach or levy upon any assets of any Borrower or any Material Subsidiary of any Borrower to enforce any such judgment, and the same shall remain undischarged for a period of 60 consecutive days during which execution shall not be effectively stayed, vacated or bonded pending appeal; (l) an ERISA Event shall have occurred that, when taken together with all other ERISA Events (with respect to which a Borrower has a liability which has not yet been satisfied) that have occurred, could, reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect; (m) except as otherwise permitted by this Agreement, the Primary Guarantee shall cease, for any reason, to be in full force and effect or any Credit Party shall so assert; or (n) a Change in Control shall occur; then, and in every such event (other than an event with respect to a Borrower described in clause (h) or (i) of this Article), and at any time thereafter during the continuance of such event, the Administrative Agent may, and at the request of the Required Lenders shall, by notice to AOLTW, take either or both of the following actions, at the same or different times: (i) terminate the Commitments, and thereupon the Commitments shall terminate immediately, and (ii) declare the Loans then outstanding to be due and payable in whole (or in part, in which case any principal not so declared to be due and payable may thereafter be declared to be due and payable), and thereupon the principal of the Loans so declared to be due and payable, together with accrued interest thereon and all fees and other obligations of any
51 Borrower accrued hereunder, shall become due and payable immediately, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby waived by each Borrower; and in case of any event with respect to any Borrower described in clause (h) or (i) of this Article, the Commitments shall automatically terminate and the principal of the Loans then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon and all fees and other obligations of any Borrower accrued hereunder, shall automatically become due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby waived by each Borrower. ARTICLE VIII THE AGENTS Each of the Lenders hereby irrevocably appoints the Administrative Agent as its agent and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. Each bank serving as an Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not an Agent, and such bank and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to and generally engage in any kind of business with any Company or Affiliate thereof as if it were not an Agent hereunder. The Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, (a) the Administrative Agent shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing, (b) the Administrative Agent shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby that the Administrative Agent is required to exercise in writing by the Required Lenders (or, if so specified by this Agreement, all the Lenders), and (c) except as expressly set forth herein, the Administrative Agent shall not have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to any Company that is communicated to or obtained by the bank serving as Administrative Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity. The Administrative Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or, if so specified by this Agreement, all the Lenders) or in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct. The Administrative Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default unless and until written notice thereof is given to the Administrative Agent by any Borrower or a Lender, and the Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Agreement or any other Credit Document, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered under any Credit Document or in connection therewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth in the Credit Document, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of any Credit Document or any other agreement, instrument or document, or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in Article IV or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent.
52 The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or sent by a proper Person. An initial list of the proper Persons with respect to the Borrowers appears on Schedule 8. Schedule 8 shall not be altered except in writing by a Person appearing thereon (or by a successor to such Person occupying the equivalent office). The Administrative Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to be made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon so long as such statement, in the case of a Borrowing Request, complies with the requirements of Section 2.03 in all material respects (it being understood that oral notices of borrowing will be confirmed in writing by such Borrower in accordance with Section 2.03). The Administrative Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for the Borrowers), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts. The Administrative Agent may perform any and all its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all its duties and exercise its rights and powers through their respective Related Parties. The exculpatory provisions of the preceding paragraphs shall apply to any such sub-agent and to the Related Parties of the Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein as well as activities as Administrative Agent. Subject to the appointment and acceptance of a successor Administrative Agent as provided in this paragraph, the Administrative Agent may resign at any time by notifying the Lenders and the Borrowers. Upon any such resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right, in consultation with the Borrowers, to appoint a successor which, so long as no Event of Default is continuing, shall be reasonably acceptable to the Borrowers. If no successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Administrative Agent gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Administrative Agent may, on behalf of the Lenders, appoint a successor Administrative Agent which shall be a bank with an office in New York, New York, or an Affiliate of any such bank. Upon the acceptance of its appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder by a successor, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder. The fees payable by the Borrowers to a successor Administrative Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Borrowers and such successor. After the Administrative Agent's resignation hereunder, the provisions of this Article and Section 9.03 shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Administrative Agent, its sub-agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by it while it was acting as Administrative Agent. The Lenders agree to indemnify each Agent in its capacity as such (to the extent not reimbursed by the Borrowers and without limiting the obligation of the Borrowers to do so), ratably according to their Commitments in effect (or at any time after the Commitments have terminated, their Revolving Credit Exposure) on the date on which indemnification is sought under this Section (or, if indemnification is sought after the date upon which the Commitments
53 shall have terminated and the Loans shall have been paid in full, ratably in accordance with their Commitments (or, if the Commitments have terminated earlier, their Revolving Credit Exposures) immediately prior to such date), from and against any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements of any kind whatsoever that may at any time (whether before or after the payment of the Loans) be imposed on, incurred by or asserted against such Agent in any way relating to or arising out of, the Commitments, this Agreement, any of the other Credit Documents or any documents contemplated by or referred to herein or therein or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby or any action taken or omitted by such Agent under or in connection with any of the foregoing; provided that no Lender shall be liable for the payment of any portion of such liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements that are found by a final and nonappealable decision of a court of competent jurisdiction to have resulted from such Agent's gross negligence or willful misconduct. The agreements in this Section shall survive the payment of the Loans and all other amounts payable hereunder. Each Lender acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon any Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon any Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement, any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder. The Co-Syndication Agents and Co-Documentation Agents shall not have any duties or responsibilities hereunder in their capacity as such. ARTICLE IX MISCELLANEOUS SECTION 9.01. Notices. Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone, all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by facsimile, as follows: (a) if to AOLTW, to it at 75 Rockefeller Plaza, New York, New York 10019, Attention of Chief Financial Officer (Facsimile No. (212) 405-5213), with copies to its General Counsel (Facsimile No. (212) 258-3172), and its Treasurer (Facsimile No. (212) 258-3020); (b) if to AOLTWFI, to it at 1 North Wall Quay, Dublin 1 Ireland, Attention of Gillian Connolly (Facsimile No. 353-1-622-2222), with a copy to AOLTW as specified above; (c) if to the Administrative Agent, to JPMorgan Chase Bank, Agent Bank Services Group, One Chase Manhattan Plaza, New York, New York 10081, Attention of Janet Belden (Facsimile No. 212-552-5658), with a copy to (i) JPMorgan Chase Bank, 270 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10017, Attention of Joan Fitzgibbon (Facsimile
54 No. 212-270-4164); (ii) in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing, JPMorgan Chase Bank, London Branch, 125 London Wall, London, EC2Y 5AJ, Attention of Steve Clarke (Facsimile No. 44-20-7777-2360); and (iii) in the case of a Yen Loan, JPMorgan Chase Bank, Tokyo Branch, 5-2-20, Akasaka, Minato-ku, Tokyo 107-6151 Japan, Attention of Naoko Morimoto, Banking Service Operations (Facsimile No. 813-5570-7539); and (d) if to any other Lender, to it at its address (or facsimile number) set forth in its Administrative Questionnaire. Any party hereto may change its address or facsimile number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto. All notices and other communications given to any party hereto in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed to have been given on the date of receipt. SECTION 9.02. Waivers; Amendments. (a) No failure or delay by the Administrative Agent or any Lender in exercising any right or power hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right or power, or any abandonment or discontinuance of steps to enforce such a right or power, preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right or power. The rights and remedies of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders hereunder are cumulative and are not exclusive of any rights or remedies that they would otherwise have. No waiver of any provision of this Agreement or consent to any departure by any Borrower therefrom shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be permitted by paragraph (b) of this Section, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the purpose for which given. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the making of a Loan shall not be construed as a waiver of any Default, regardless of whether the Administrative Agent or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of such Default at the time. (b) Neither this Agreement nor any provision hereof may be waived, amended or modified except pursuant to an agreement or agreements in writing entered into by the Borrowers and the Required Lenders or by the Borrowers and the Administrative Agent with the consent of the Required Lenders; provided that no such agreement shall (i) increase the Commitment of any Lender without the written consent of such Lender, (ii) reduce the principal amount of any Loan or reduce the rate of interest thereon, or reduce any fees payable hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender affected thereby, (iii) postpone the scheduled date of payment of the principal amount of any Loan, or any interest thereon, or any fees payable hereunder, or reduce the amount of, waive or excuse any such payment, or postpone the scheduled date of expiration of any Commitment, without the written consent of each Lender affected thereby, (iv) change Section 2.17(b) or (c) in a manner that would alter the pro rata sharing of payments required thereby, without the written consent of each Lender, (v) release any Guarantor under the Primary Guarantee without the written consent of each Lender, or (vi) change any of the provisions of this Section or the definition of "Required Lenders" or any other provision hereof specifying the number or percentage of Lenders required to waive, amend or modify any rights hereunder or make any determination or grant any consent hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender; provided further that no such agreement shall amend, modify or otherwise affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent hereunder without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent.
55 SECTION 9.03. Expenses; Indemnity; Damage Waiver. (a) AOLTW shall, or shall cause the other Borrower to, pay (i) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Arrangers, the Administrative Agent and its Affiliates, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel for the Administrative Agent in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein, the preparation and administration of the Credit Documents or any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions thereof (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated), and (ii) all out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Agents or the Lenders, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for the Agents or the Lenders in connection with the enforcement or protection of its rights in connection with any Credit Document, including its rights under this Section, or in connection with the Loans made hereunder, including in connection with any workout, restructuring or negotiations in respect thereof, it being understood that the Agents and the Lenders shall use, and AOLTW shall only be required to pay such fees, charges and disbursements of, a single counsel, unless (and to the extent) conflicts of interests require the use of more than one counsel. (b) AOLTW shall, or shall cause the other Borrower to, indemnify each Agent and each Lender, and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an "Indemnitee") against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and related expenses, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for any Indemnitee, incurred by or asserted against any Indemnitee arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of any Credit Documents or any agreement or instrument contemplated thereby, the performance by the parties hereto of their respective obligations hereunder or the consummation of the Transactions or any other transactions contemplated hereby, (ii) any Loan or the use of, or the proposed use of, the proceeds therefrom, (iii) any actual or alleged presence or release of Hazardous Materials on or from any property owned or operated by any Company, or any Environmental Liability related in any way to any Company, or (iv) any actual or prospective claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto; provided that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee. (c) To the extent that any of the Borrowers fail to pay any amount required to be paid by them to the Administrative Agent under paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section, each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent such Lender's Applicable Percentage (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought) of such unpaid amount; provided that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agent in its capacity as such. (d) To the extent permitted by applicable law, no Borrower shall assert, and each Borrower hereby waives, any claim against any Indemnitee, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Agreement or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the Transactions, any Loan or the use of the proceeds thereof.
56 (e) All amounts due under this Section shall be payable promptly after written demand therefor. SECTION 9.04. Successors and Assigns. (a) The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, except that no Credit Party may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of each Lender except in accordance with Section 6.04 (and any attempted assignment or transfer by such Credit Party without such consent shall be null and void). Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement. (b) Any Lender other than a Conduit Lender may assign to one or more assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans at the time owing to it); provided that (i) except in the case of an assignment to a Lender or a Lender Affiliate, each of AOLTW and the Administrative Agent must give its prior written consent to such assignment (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed), (ii) except in the case of an assignment to a Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender or an assignment of the entire remaining balance of the assigning Lender's Commitment, each assignment shall not be less than an aggregate principal amount of $15,000,000, (iii) except in the case of an assignment to a Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender or an assignment of the entire remaining balance of the assigning Lender's Commitment, the remaining amount of the Commitment of the assigning Lender after giving effect to such assignment shall not be less than $15,000,000 unless, in the case of clauses (ii) or (iii), each of AOLTW and the Administrative Agent otherwise consents, (iv) each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, (v) except in the case of an assignment to an Affiliate of the assigning Lender on or about the Effective Date, the parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent an Assignment and Acceptance, together with a processing and recordation fee of $3,500 (which fee shall be sufficient to record an assignment under all Facilities), and (vi) the assignee, if it shall not be a Lender, shall deliver to the Administrative Agent an Administrative Questionnaire; provided further that any consent of AOLTW otherwise required under this paragraph shall not be required if an Event of Default under clause (h) or (i) of Article VII has occurred and is continuing. Upon acceptance and recording pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Acceptance, the assignee thereunder shall be a party hereto and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Acceptance, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Acceptance, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Acceptance covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto but shall (i) continue to be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.14, 2.15, 2.16 and 9.03) and (ii) continue to be subject to the confidentiality provisions hereof. Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this paragraph shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with paragraph (e) of this Section. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Conduit Lender may assign at any time to its designating Lender hereunder
57 without the consent of any Borrower or the Administrative Agent any or all of the Loans it may have funded hereunder and pursuant to its designation agreement and without regard to the limitations set forth in the first sentence of this Section. (c) The Administrative Agent, acting for this purpose as an agent of the Borrowers, shall maintain at one of its offices in The City of New York a copy of each Assignment and Acceptance delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitment of, and principal amount of the Loans owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the "Register"). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive, and the Borrowers, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary. (d) Upon its receipt of a duly completed Assignment and Acceptance executed by an assigning Lender and an assignee, the assignee's completed Administrative Questionnaire (unless the assignee shall already be a Lender hereunder), the processing and recordation fee referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and any written consent to such assignment required by paragraph (b) of this Section, the Administrative Agent shall accept such Assignment and Acceptance and record the information contained therein in the Register. No assignment shall be effective for purposes of this Agreement unless it has been recorded in the Register as provided in this paragraph. (e) Any Lender other than a Conduit Lender may, without the consent of any Borrower or the Administrative Agent, sell participations to one or more banks or other entities (a "Participant") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans owing to it); provided that (i) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations and (iii) the Borrowers, the Administrative Agent and the other Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement. Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement; provided that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, modification or waiver described in the first proviso to Section 9.02(b) that affects such Participant. Subject to paragraph (f) of this Section, each Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.14, 2.15 and 2.16 to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section. (f) A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under Section 2.14 or 2.16 than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless the sale of the participation to such Participant is made with the Borrowers' prior written consent. A Participant that would be a Foreign Lender if it were a Lender shall not be entitled to the benefits of Section 2.16 unless the Borrowers are notified of the participation sold to such Participant and such Participant agrees, for the benefit of the Borrowers, to comply with Section 2.16(e) as though it were a Lender.
58 (g) Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement to secure obligations of such Lender, including any such pledge or assignment to a Federal Reserve Bank, and this Section shall not apply to any such pledge or assignment of a security interest; provided that no such pledge or assignment of a security interest shall release a Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such assignee for such Lender as a party hereto. (h) Each Borrower, upon receipt of written notice from the relevant Lender, agrees to issue Notes to any Lender requiring Notes to facilitate transactions of the type described in paragraph (g) above. (i) Each Borrower, each Lender and the Administrative Agent hereby confirms that it will not institute against a Conduit Lender or join any other Person in instituting against a Conduit Lender any bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, insolvency or liquidation proceeding under any state bankruptcy or similar law, for one year and one day after the payment in full of the latest maturing commercial paper note issued by such Conduit Lender; provided, however, that each Lender designating any Conduit Lender hereby agrees to indemnify, save and hold harmless each other party hereto for any loss, cost, damage or expense arising out of its inability to institute such a proceeding against such Conduit Lender during such period of forbearance. SECTION 9.05. Survival. All covenants, agreements, representations and warranties made by the Credit Parties herein and in the certificates or other instruments delivered in connection with or pursuant to this Agreement shall be considered to have been relied upon by the other parties hereto and shall survive the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the making of any Loans, regardless of any investigation made by any such other party or on its behalf and notwithstanding that the Administrative Agent or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of any Default or incorrect representation or warranty at the time any credit is extended hereunder, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as the principal of or any accrued interest on any Loan or any fee or any other amount payable under this Agreement is outstanding and unpaid and so long as the Commitments have not expired or terminated. The provisions of Sections 2.14, 2.15, 2.16 and 9.03 and Article VIII shall survive and remain in full force and effect regardless of the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, the repayment of the Loans, the expiration or termination of the Commitments or the termination of this Agreement or any provision hereof. SECTION 9.06. Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto on different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract. This Agreement and any separate letter agreements with respect to fees payable to the Lenders constitute the entire contract among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersede any and all previous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof. Except as provided in Section 4.01, this Agreement shall become effective when it shall have been executed by the Administrative Agent and when the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof which, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the other parties hereto, and thereafter shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement by facsimile shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
59 SECTION 9.07. Severability. Any provision of this Agreement held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability without affecting the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions hereof; and the invalidity of a particular provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate such provision in any other jurisdiction. SECTION 9.08. Right of Setoff. If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, each Lender is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final) at any time held and other indebtedness at any time owing by such Lender to or for the credit or the account of any of the Credit Parties (other than indebtedness related to commercial advertising and marketing arrangements entered into in the ordinary course of business) against any of and all the obligations of any of the Credit Parties now or hereafter existing under this Agreement held by such Lender, irrespective of whether or not such Lender shall have made any demand under this Agreement and although such obligations may be unmatured. The rights of each Lender under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) which such Lender may have. SECTION 9.09. Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Consent to Service of Process. (a) This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the law of the State of New York. (b) Each Credit Party hereby irrevocably and unconditionally submits, for itself and its property, to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the State of New York sitting in New York County and of the United States District Court of the Southern District of New York, and any appellate court from any thereof, in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to the Credit Documents, or for recognition or enforcement of any judgment, and each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that all claims in respect of any such action or proceeding shall be heard and determined in such New York State or, to the extent permitted by law, in such Federal court. Each of the parties hereto agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by law. (c) Each Credit Party hereby irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent it may legally and effectively do so, any objection which it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement in any court referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of such action or proceeding in any such court. (d) Each party to this Agreement irrevocably consents to service of process in the manner provided for notices in Section 9.01. Nothing in this Agreement will affect the right of any party to this Agreement to serve process in any other manner permitted by law. SECTION 9.10. WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL. EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON
60 CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY). EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PARTY HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PARTY WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION. SECTION 9.11. Headings. Article and Section headings and the Table of Contents used herein are for convenience of reference only, are not part of this Agreement and shall not affect the construction of, or be taken into consideration in interpreting, this Agreement. SECTION 9.12. Confidentiality. Each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its and its Affiliates' directors, officers, employees and agents, including accountants, legal counsel and other advisors (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority, (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, provided that in connection with any such requirement by a subpoena or similar legal process, AOLTW is given prior notice to the extent such prior notice is permissible under the circumstances and an opportunity to object to such disclosure, (d) to any other party to this Agreement, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or any suit, action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or the enforcement of rights hereunder, (f) subject to an express agreement for the benefit of the Borrowers containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section, to any (i) assignee (or Conduit Lender) of or Participant in, or any prospective assignee (or Conduit Lender) of or Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement or (ii) hedging agreement counterparty (or such contractual counterparty's professional advisor), (g) with the consent of AOLTW or (h) to the extent such Information (i) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section or (ii) becomes available to the Administrative Agent or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than the Borrowers. For the purposes of this Section, "Information" means all information received from one or more of the Borrowers, whether oral or written, relating to the Borrowers or their business, other than any such information that is available to the Administrative Agent or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by one or more of the Borrowers; provided that, in the case of information received from one or more of the Borrowers after the date hereof, such information is clearly identified at the time of delivery as confidential. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information, including in accordance with Regulation FD as promulgated by the SEC. SECTION 9.13. Acknowledgements. Each Borrower hereby acknowledges that: (a) it has been advised by counsel in the negotiation, execution and delivery of this Agreement and the other Credit Documents;
61 (b) neither the Administrative Agent nor any Lender has any fiduciary relationship with or duty to any Borrower arising out of or in connection with this Agreement or any of the other Credit Documents, and the relationship between Administrative Agent and Lenders, on one hand, and the Borrowers, on the other hand, in connection herewith or therewith is solely that of debtor and creditor; and (c) no joint venture is created hereby or by the other Credit Documents or otherwise exists by virtue of the transactions contemplated hereby among the Lenders or among the Borrowers and the Lenders. SECTION 9.14. Judgment Currency. If, for the purposes of obtaining judgment in any court, it is necessary to convert a sum due hereunder or under any other Credit Document in one currency into another currency, the rate of exchange used shall be that at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Administrative Agent could purchase the first currency with such other currency on the Business Day preceding that on which final judgment is given. The obligation of each of the applicable Borrowers in respect of any such sum due from it to either the Administrative Agent or any Lender hereunder or under any other Credit Document shall, notwithstanding any judgment in a currency (the "Judgment Currency") other than that in which such sum is denominated in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Agreement (the "Agreement Currency"), be discharged only to the extent that on the Business Day following receipt by the Administrative Agent or such Lender of any sum adjudged to be so due in the Judgment Currency, the Administrative Agent or such Lender may in accordance with normal banking procedures in the relevant jurisdiction purchase the Agreement Currency with the Judgment Currency; if the amount of the Agreement Currency so purchased is less than the sum originally adjudged to be due to the Administrative Agent or such Lender in the Agreement Currency (as converted on the date of final judgment), the Borrowers agree, jointly and severally, as a separate obligation and notwithstanding any such judgment, to indemnify the Administrative Agent or such Lender against such loss. If the amount of the Agreement Currency so purchased is greater than the sum originally adjudged to be due to the Administrative Agent or such Lender in such currency, the Administrative Agent or such Lender agrees to return the amount of any excess to the Borrowers (or to any other Person who may be entitled thereto under applicable law). The obligations of the Borrowers contained in this Section 9.14 shall survive the termination of this Agreement and the payment of all other amounts owing hereunder. SECTION 9.15. Loans to Borrowers Separate Credit Facility. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, the parties hereto acknowledge and agree that (a) the Commitments being provided hereunder are set forth in a single agreement for convenience only, and the Loans to each of the Borrowers are to be considered by the parties hereto as being made under a separate credit facility for each Borrower and (b) the obligations of the Borrowers under this Agreement are several and not joint except as otherwise explicitly provided in this Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the day and year first above written. AOL TIME WARNER INC. By /s/ Raymond G. Murphy --------------------------------- Name: Raymond G. Murphy Title: Vice President & Treasurer AOL TIME WARNER FINANCE IRELAND By /s/ Raymond G. Murphy --------------------------------- Name: Raymond G. Murphy Title: Vice President & Treasurer AOL Time Warner Inc and AOL Time Warner Finance Ireland Amended and Restated Credit Agreement
JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, as Administrative Agent By /s/ Joan Fitzgibbon ------------------------ Name: Joan Fitzgibbon Title: Managing Director
SCHEDULE 1.01 CALCULATION OF MANDATORY COST The mandatory cost rate referred to in the definition of "Pound Sterling Overnight Rate" in Section 1.01 of the Credit Agreement will be the rate determined by the Administrative Agent (rounded upward, if necessary, to four decimal places) in accordance with the following formula (expressed as a percentage per annum): CL + S(L - Z) + 0.01F --------------------- 100 - (C + S) Where on the day of application of the formula: C The amount required to be held as a non-interest bearing cash ratio deposit with the Bank of England expressed as a percentage of each of the Reference Bank's Eligible Liabilities (above any stated minimum). F The amount of Pound Sterling per L 1,000,000 of the fee base of each Reference Bank payable to the Financial Services Authority per annum (disregarding any minimum fee payable under the Fees Regulations). L The rate of interest per annum at which Pound Sterling deposits of an amount comparable to the Borrowing or other amount are offered by each Reference Bank to leading banks in the London interbank market at or about 11:00 a.m. on the date of calculation for a period comparable to the period for which the Mandatory Cost is to be calculated; or The Pound Sterling Overnight Rate for the relevant day as calculated without taking into account the Mandatory Cost is the rate of interest (less margin and the Mandatory Cost) payable on that day on the related Borrowing pursuant to clause Section 2.12 of this Agreement. S The amount required to be placed as Special Deposits with the Bank of England, expressed as a percentage of each of the Reference Bank's Eligible Liabilities (above any stated minimum). Z The lower of L and the rate of interest per annum paid by the Bank of England on Special Deposits at or about 11:00 a.m. on the date of calculation.
For the purposes of calculating the Mandatory Cost: (i) C, L, S and Z are included in the formula as numbers and not as percentages, e.g. if C = 0.15 percent and L = 7 percent, CL is calculated at 0.15 x 7; (ii) the formula is applied on the first day of each period for which it falls to be calculated (and the result shall apply for the duration of such period); (iii) each amount is rounded up to the nearest four decimal places; and (iv) if the formula produces a negative percentage, the percentage shall be taken as zero. If alternative or additional financial requirements are imposed by the Bank of England, the Financial Services Authority or any other fiscal, monetary or governmental authority or agency (including the European Central Bank) which in the Administrative Agent's reasonable opinion make the above formula (or any element thereof, or any defined term used therein) no longer appropriate, the Administrative Agent (following consultation with the Borrowers and the Required Lenders) shall be entitled by notice to the Borrowers to stipulate such other formula as shall be suitable to apply in substitution for the above formulae. Any such variation shall, in the absence of manifest error, be conclusive and binding on all parties and shall apply from the date specified in such notice. For the purposes of this Schedule: "Bank of England Act" means the Bank of England Act 1998; "Eligible Liabilities" has the meaning given to that term in the Cash Ratio Deposits (Eligible Liabilities) Order 1998 or the applicable substitute order made under the Bank of England Act as in force on the date of application of the formula; "Fee Base" has the meaning given to that term in the Fees Regulations; "Fees Regulations" means the Banking Supervision (Fees) Regulations 2001 or the applicable substitute regulations made under the Bank of England Act as are in force on the date of application of the formula; and "Special Deposits" has the meaning given to that term by the Bank of England on the date of application of the formula. Any reference to a provision of any statute, directive, order or regulation herein is a reference to that provision as amended or re-enacted from time to time.
SCHEDULE 2.01 Address of Notices; Commitments
BankOne, N.A. $ 118,750,000.00 $ 0.00 1 BankOne Plaza Chicago, IL 60670 Attn: Jennifer L. Jones Telephone: 312-732-1005 Facsimile: 312-732-8587 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------- Barclays Bank PLC $ 118,750,000.00 $ 0.00 101 California Street, Suite 1800 San Francisco, CA 94111 Attn: Danielle Lacovone Telephone: 415-765-4736 Facsimile: 415-765-4760 200 Park Avenue New York, NY 10265 Attn: Peter Yetman Telephone: 212-412-7683 Facsimile: 212-412-7511 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------- Deutsche Bank AG, New York Branch $ 118,750,000.00 $ 0.00 31 West 52nd Street New York, NY 10019 Attn: William W. McGinty Telephone: 212-489-8662 Facsimile: 212-469-7070 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------- Royal Bank of Scotland plc $ 118,750,000.00 $ 0.00 101 Park Avenue, 10th Floor New York, NY 10178 Attn: Brian Woods Telephone: 212-401-3403 Facsimile: 212-401-3456 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------- WestLB AG, New York Branch $ 118,750,000.00 $ 0.00 1211 Avenue of the Americas New York, NY 10036 Attn: Lucie Guernsey Telephone: 212-852-6335 Facsimile: 212-852-6307 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------- The Bank of Nova Scotia $ 106,250,000.00 $ 0.00 One Liberty Plaza, 26th Floor New York, NY 10006 Attn: Jonathan Silsby Telephone: 212-225-5230 Facsimile: 212-225-5090 - --------------------------------------------------------------------------
Dresdner Bank AG, New York and $ 87,500,000.00 $ 0.00 Grand Cayman Branches 75 Wall Street New York, NY 10005 Attn: Brian Haughney Telephone: 212-429-2443 Facsimile: 212-429-4181 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------- Fleet National Bank $ 87,500,000.00 $ 0.00 100 Federal Street Boston, MA 02110 Attn: Patrick Bonebrake Telephone: 617-434-1156 Facsimile: 617-434-8426 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------- HSBC Bank USA $ 87,500,000.00 $ 0.00 452 Fifth Avenue, 5th Floor New York, NY 10005 Attn: Christopher J. Heusler Telephone: 212-525-2496 Facsimile: 212-525-2479 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------- Mizuho Corporate Bank, LTD. $ 87,500,000.00 $ 0.00 1251 Avenue of the Americas New York, NY 10020 Attn: Daniel Guevara Telephone: 212-282-4537 Facsimile: 212-282-4383 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------- Morgan Stanley Bank $ 56,250,000.00 $ 0.00 1221 Avenue of the Americas, 35th Floor New York, NY 10020 Attn: Joseph DiTomaso Telephone: 212-762-5811 Facsimile: 212-762-9181 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------- Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi Ltd., NY $ 81,250,000.00 $ 0.00 Branch 1251 Avenue of the Americas, 12th Floor New York, NY 10020 Attn: Jeffrey Millar Telephone: 212-782-4358 Facsimile: 212-782-6445 - --------------------------------------------------------------------------
Bear Stearns Corporate Lending Inc. $ 62,500,000.00 $ 0.00 383 Madison Avenue, 8th Floor New York, NY 10179 Attn: Stephen Okeefe Telephone: 212-272-9430 Facsimile: 212-272-9184 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------- Commerzbank AG, New York and $ 62,500,000.00 $ 0.00 Grand Cayman Branches 2 World Financial Center New York, NY 10281 Attn: Robert Donohue Telephone: 212-266-7336 Facsimile: 212-266-7594 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------- Merrill Lynch Bank USA $ 25,000,000.00 $ 0.00 15 West South Temple, Suite 300 Salt Lake City, UT 84101 Attn: Butch Adler Telephone: 801-526-8324 Facsimile: 801-531-7470 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------- Lehman Commercial Paper Inc. $ 62,500,000.00 $ 0.00 c/o Simpson Thacher & Bartlett 425 Lexington Avenue, Room 2533 New York, NY 10017 Attn: Andrew Keith Telephone: 212-455-7569 Facsimile: 212-455-7241 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------- Societe Generale $ 62,500,000.00 $ 0.00 1221 Avenue of the Americas New York, NY 10020 Attn: Richard Knowlton Telephone: 212-278-6163 Facsimile: 212-278-6146 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------- Mellon Bank, N.A. $ 37,500,000.00 $ 0.00 1 Mellon Bank Center 500 Grant Street, Rm. 4450 Pittsburgh, PA 15258 Attn: Thomas Tarasovich, Jr. Telephone: 412-236-2790 Facsimile: 412-236-6112 - --------------------------------------------------------------------------
Lloyds TSB Bank, plc $ 25,000,000.00 $ 0.00 575 Fifth Avenue, 17th Floor New York, NY 10017 Attn: Windsor Davies Telephone: 212-930-8909 Facsimile: 212-930-5098 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------- National Australia Bank Limited, $ 25,000,000.00 $ 0.00 A.C.N 200 Park Avenue, 34th Floor New York, NY 10166 Attn: Ed Salazar Telephone: 212-916-9515 Facsimile: 212-983-1969 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------- Norddeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale $ 25,000,000.00 $ 0.00 New York Branch and/or Cayman Island Branch 1114 Avenue of the Americas, 37th Floor New York, NY 10036 Attn: Stephanie Finnen Telephone: 212-812-6806 Facsimile: 212-812-6860 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------- Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation $ 37,500,000.00 $ 0.00 277 Park Avenue New York, NY 10172 Attn: Leo Pagarigan Telephone: 212-224-4306 Facsimile: 212-224-4384 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------- Bank of New York $ 25,000,000.00 One Wall Street, 16th Floor New York, NY 10286 Attn: Geoffrey C. Brooks Telephone: 212-635-8475 Facsimile: 212-635-8593 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------- UFJ Bank Limited $ 18,750,000.00 55 East 52nd Street, 26th Floor New York, NY 10055 Attn: Joseph Leo Telephone: 212-339-6205 Facsimile: 212-754-1304 - --------------------------------------------------------------------------
Credit Lyonnais $ 12,500,000.00 1301 Avenue of the Americas New York, NY 10019 Attn: Patrick McCarthy Telephone: 212-261-7263 Facsimile: 212-261-3288 - --------------------------------------------------------------------------
SCHEDULE 2.03(A)
SCHEDULE 2.03(B) AUTHORIZED ACCOUNT NUMBERS & LOCATIONS
Bank: The JPMorgan Chase Bank Address: One Chase Manhattan Plaza New York, NY 10005 ABA: 021 000 021 Account Name: Time Warner Entertainment Co., L.P. d/b/a Time Warner Cable Account Number: 325-005265 - -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
SCHEDULE 6.08 UNRESTRICTED SUBSIDIARIES 1. AOL Canada, Inc. 2. AP Financing, Inc. 3. Astronaut Financing, Inc. 4. Atlanta Hawks, L. P. 5. Blade Financing, Inc. 6. Blast Financing, Inc. 7. Corruptor Financing, Inc. 8. DRC Financing, Inc. 9. Frequency Financing, Inc. 10. Invisible Financing, Inc. 11. LIS Financing, Inc. 12. LN Financing, Inc. 13. LOR Financing, Inc. 14. LS Financing, Inc. 15. Magnolia Avenue Financing, Inc. 16. NL Receivables LLC 17. Pleasantville Financing, Inc. 18. POG Financing, Inc. 19. Rush Hour Financing, Inc. 20. TAC Financing, Inc. 21. TBS Funding Corp. 22. Time Receivables Company LLC 23. TWE-NL Receivables LLC 24. TWE Receivable Trust I 25. TW Receivables, Inc. 26. Turner Arena Operations, Inc. 27. WAG Financing, Inc. 28. TWEAN Subsidiary, LLC
SCHEDULE 8 LIST OF PROPER PERSONS - ----------- * The Administrative Agent may act upon Mr. Schott's verbal instructions which will be followed by written confirmation from one of the other above named officers.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT AND CONSENT Each of the undersigned parties to the Primary Guarantee, dated as of July 8, 2002 and as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, made by the undersigned in favor of JPMorgan Chase Bank, as Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the Lenders, hereby (a) consents to the transactions contemplated by the foregoing Agreement and (b) acknowledges and agrees that the guarantee of such party contained in the Primary Guarantee is, and shall remain, in full force and effect after giving effect to the foregoing Agreement and all prior modifications thereto. AOL TIME WARNER INC. By: /s/ Raymond G. Murphy --------------------------------- Name: Raymond G. Murphy Title: Vice President & Treasurer AMERICA ONLINE, INC. By: /s/ Raymond G. Murphy --------------------------------- Name: Raymond G. Murphy Title: Vice President & Treasurer TIME WARNER INC. By: /s/ Raymond G. Murphy --------------------------------- Name: Raymond G. Murphy Title: Vice President & Treasurer TURNER BROADCASTING SYSTEMS, INC. By: /s/ Raymond G. Murphy --------------------------------- Name: Raymond G. Murphy Title: Vice President & Treasurer TIME WARNER COMPANIES, INC. By: /s/ Raymond G. Murphy --------------------------------- Name: Raymond G. Murphy Title: Vice President & Treasurer

EXHIBIT: 10.16 FIRST AMENDMENT AOL TIME WARNER FIVE-YEAR CREDIT AGREEMENT DATED AS OF JULY 8, 2002 FIRST AMENDMENT, dated as of March 31, 2003 (this "Amendment"), to the FIVE-YEAR CREDIT AGREEMENT (the "Agreement"), dated as of July 8, 2002, among AOL TIME WARNER INC., a Delaware corporation ("AOLTW"), Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership ("TWE"), Time Warner Entertainment-Advance/Newhouse Partnership, a New York general partnership ("TWEAN"), AOL TIME WARNER FINANCE IRELAND, a corporation of the Republic of Ireland ("AOLTWFI"); together with AOLTW, TWE and TWEAN, the "Borrowers"), the several banks and other financial institutions from time to time parties to the Agreement (the "Lenders"), ABN AMRO BANK N.V. and BNP PARIBAS, as co-documentation agents, BANK OF AMERICA, N.A. and CITIBANK, N.A., as co-syndication agents, and JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, as administrative agent (in such capacity, the "Administrative Agent"). W I T N E S S E T H : WHEREAS, pursuant to the Agreement, the Lenders have agreed to make, and have made, certain loans and extensions of credit to the Borrowers; and WHEREAS, the Borrowers have requested that the Administrative Agent and the Lenders enter into this Amendment. NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and of the mutual agreements herein contained, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: I. Definitions. Unless otherwise defined herein, terms defined in the Agreement shall be used as so defined. II. Amendments to Section 1.01. Section 1.01 of the Agreement is hereby amended: (a) by deleting the definitions of "Consolidated Net Worth" and "364-Day Credit Agreement" contained therein in their respective entireties. (b) by deleting the following defined terms contained therein in their respective entireties and inserting in lieu thereof the following new definitions: "'Commitment Utilization Percentage' means on any day the percentage equivalent to a fraction (a) the numerator of which is the sum of the aggregate outstanding Revolving Credit Exposure of the Lenders under the Facilities (as modified or replaced from time to time) then in effect in the aggregate and (b) the denominator of which is the sum of the aggregate amount of the Commitments of the Lenders then in effect under the Facilities (as modified or replaced from time to time) then in effect in
the aggregate; provided that on any day subsequent to (i) the Initial Maturity Date (under and as defined in the AOLTW 364-Day Credit Agreement) if a Term Out Notice has been delivered pursuant to Section 2.09(f) of the AOLTW 364-Day Credit Agreement, the aggregate amount of the Commitments of the Lenders under the AOLTW 364-Day Credit Agreement for purposes of this definition shall be the aggregate amount of the outstanding Revolving Credit Exposure of the Lenders thereunder and (ii) the Initial Maturity Date (under and as defined in the TWC 364-Day Credit Agreement) if a Term Out Notice has been delivered pursuant to Section 2.09(f) of the TWC 364-Day Credit Agreement, the aggregate amount of the Commitments of the Lenders under the TWC 364-Day Credit Agreement for purposes of this definition shall be the aggregate amount of the outstanding Revolving Credit Exposure of the Lenders thereunder." "Facilities" means the credit facilities extended pursuant to this Agreement, the AOLTW 364-Day Credit Agreement and the TWC 364-Day Credit Agreement." (c) by deleting from the definition of "Film Financings" the words "other than to a Subsidiary of TWE or TBS" and inserting in lieu thereof the words "other than to a Subsidiary of Warner Communications Inc. or TBS". (d) by adding the following new definitions in the appropriate alphabetical order: "'AOLTW 364-Day Credit Agreement' means the Amended and Restated 364-Day Credit Agreement, dated the date hereof and amended and restated as of March 31, 2003, among AOLTW, AOLTWFI, the lenders referred to therein, Bank of America, N.A. and Citibank, N.A., as Co-Syndication Agents, ABN AMRO Bank N.V. and BNP Paribas, as Co-Documentation Agents, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as Administrative Agent, as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time." "'Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio' means, for any period for any Person, the ratio of (a) Consolidated EBITDA of such Person and its Restricted Subsidiaries for such period to (b) Consolidated Interest Expense for such Person and its Restricted Subsidiaries for such period." "'Consolidated Interest Expense' means, for any period for any Person, total cash interest expense (including that attributable to Capital Lease Obligations) of such Person and its Restricted Subsidiaries for such period with respect to all outstanding Indebtedness of such Person and its Restricted Subsidiaries (other than the amount amortized during such period in respect of all fees paid in connection with the incurrence of such Indebtedness), such expense to be determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP." "'TWC 364-Day Credit Agreement' means the Amended and Restated 364- 2
Day Credit Agreement, dated the date hereof and amended and restated as of March 31, 2003, among Time Warner Cable, Inc., TWE, the lenders referred to therein, Bank of America, N.A. and Citibank, N.A., as Co-Syndication Agents, ABN AMRO Bank N.V. and BNP Paribas, as Co-Documentation Agents, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as Administrative Agent, as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time." III. Amendment to Article II. Article II of the Agreement is hereby amended by deleting Section 2.21 in its entirety and inserting the following new Section 2.21 in lieu thereof: "Section 2.21 Termination of Certain Borrowers. AOLTW may elect by written notice to the Administrative Agent to terminate the status of TWE or TWEAN as a Borrower under any Facility; provided that at the time of such election TWE or TWEAN, as the case may be, is not obligated in respect of any outstanding Loans (including, without limitation, any Swingline Loans) or any Letters of Credit under such Facility. Upon the receipt by the Administrative Agent of such notice of termination, AOLTW may designate such terminated Borrower as an Unrestricted Subsidiary in accordance with the requirements set forth in Section 6.08. Upon the termination of TWE or TWEAN, as the case may be, as a Borrower hereunder pursuant to this Section, any Guarantees of the Obligations of such Borrower shall terminate without any further action." IV. Amendment to Section 6.01. Section 6.01 of the Agreement is hereby amended by deleting paragraph (b) thereof in its entirety and inserting the following new paragraph (b) in lieu thereof: "(b) The Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio for AOLTW and its Restricted Subsidiaries for any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters of AOLTW will not be less than 2.00 to 1.00." V. Conditions to Effectiveness. (a) This Amendment shall become effective on the date upon which the Administrative Agent shall have received this Amendment, duly executed and delivered by each Borrower, each Guarantor party to the Primary Guarantee and the Required Lenders, and (b) the Required Lenders (under and as defined in the 364-Day Credit Facility) shall have consented to the execution and delivery by the Administrative Agent of the AOLTW 364-Day Credit Agreement (as defined herein) and the TWC 364-Day Credit Agreement (as defined herein) and the same shall be in full force and effect. VI. Representations and Warranties. The Borrowers represent and warrant to each Lender that: (a) the representations and warranties made by the Borrowers and the other Credit Parties in or pursuant to the Credit Documents are true and correct in all material respects on and as of the date hereof (except to the extent that such representations and warranties are expressly made only as of an earlier date, in which case such representations and warranties shall have been true and correct in all material respects on and as of such earlier date) and all references to the Agreement therein shall be deemed to include the Agreement as amended by this Amendment, and (b) after giving effect to the 3
amendments contained herein, no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing. VII. Continuing Effect. Except as expressly amended hereby, the Agreement and the other Credit Documents shall continue to be and shall remain in full force and effect in accordance with their terms. Except as expressly set forth herein, this Amendment shall not by implication or otherwise limit, impair, constitute a waiver of, or otherwise affect the rights and remedies of the Lenders under the Agreement or any other Credit Document, and shall not alter, modify, amend or in any way affect any of the terms, conditions, obligations, covenants or agreements contained in the Agreement or any other Credit Document. VIII. GOVERNING LAW. THIS AMENDMENT SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH AND GOVERNED BY THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK. XI. Counterparts. This Amendment may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto on different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page to this Amendment by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Amendment. X. Termination of Borrowers. Upon effectiveness of this Amendment in accordance with paragraph II hereof, AOLTW hereby (a) notifies the Administrative Agent of its election to terminate the status of TWE and TWEAN as Borrowers under the Agreement and (b) confirms that neither TWE or TWEAN, as the case may be, is obligated in respect of any outstanding Loans (including, without limitation, any Swingline Loans) or any Letters of Credit under the Agreement. [Remainder of Page Intentionally Left Blank] 4
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized, as of the date first above written. AOL TIME WARNER INC. By: /s/ Raymond G. Murphy ----------------------- Name: Raymond G. Murphy Title: Vice President & Treasurer TIME WARNER ENTERTAINMENT COMPANY, L.P. By: /s/ Raymond G. Murphy ----------------------- Name: Raymond G. Murphy Title: Vice President & Treasurer TIME WARNER ENTERTAINMENT - ADVANCE/NEWHOUSE PARTNERSHIP By: /s/ Raymond G. Murphy ----------------------- Name: Raymond G. Murphy Title: Vice President & Treasurer AOL Time Warner FINANCE IRELAND By: /s/ Raymond G. Murphy ----------------------- Name: Raymond G. Murphy Title: Vice President & Treasurer
JPMORGAN CHASE BANK By: /s/ Joan Fitzgibbon ----------------------- Name: Joan M. Fitzgibbon Title: Managing Director BANK OF AMERICA, N.A. By: /s/ James T Gilland ----------------------- Name: James T. Gilland Title: Managing Director ABN AMRO BANK N.V. By: /s/ David Carrington ----------------------- Name: David Carrington Title: Group Vice President By: /s/ Shilpa Parandekar ----------------------- Name: Shilpa Parandekar Title: Assistant Vice President CITIBANK, N.A. By: /s/ Julio Ojea-Quintana ------------------------ Name: Julio Ojea-Quintana Title: Director BNP PARIBAS By: /s/ Nuala Marley ----------------------- Name: Nuala Marley Title: Director By: /s/ Todd Rodgers ----------------------- Name: Todd Rodgers Title: Vice President BANK ONE, NA By: /s/ Jennifer L. Jones ----------------------- Name: Jennifer L. Jones Title: Associate Director
BARCLAYS BANK PLC By: /s/ L. Peter Yetman ----------------------- Name: L. Peter Yetman Title: Director DEUTSCHE BANK AG, NEW YORK BRANCH By: /s/ Andreas Neumeier ----------------------- Name: Andreas Neumeier Title: Director By: /s/ Peter Eschmann ----------------------- Name: Peter Eschmann Title: Vice President THE ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND PLC By: /s/ David A. Lucas ----------------------- Name: David A. Lucas Title: Senior Vice President WESTLB AG, NEW YORK BRANCH (formerly known as Westdeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale) By: /s/ Lucie Guernsey ----------------------- Name: Lucie Guernsey Title: Director By: /s/ Richard Pearse ----------------------- Name: Richard Pearse Title: Executive Director THE BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA By: /s/ Vincent J. Fitzgerald, Jr. ------------------------------- Name: Vincent J. Fitzgerald, Jr. Title: Authorized Signatory DRESDNER BANK AG, NEW YORK & GRAND CAYMAN BRANCHES 7
By: /s/ Brian Haughney ----------------------- Name: Brian Haughney Title: Vice President By: /s/ William E. Lambert ----------------------- Name: William E. Lambert Title: Vice President FLEET NATIONAL BANK By: /s/ Patrick Bonebrake ----------------------- Name: Patrick Bonebrake Title: Director HSBC BANK USA By: /s/ Christopher J. Heusler --------------------------- Name: Christopher J. Heusler Title: Vice President MIZUHO CORPORATE BANK, LTD. By: /s/ Raymond Ventura ----------------------- Name: Raymond Venture Title: Senior Vice President MORGAN STANLEY BANK By: /s/ Jaap L. Tonckens ----------------------- Name: Jaap L. Tonkens Title: Vice President THE BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI, LTD., NY BRANCH By: /s/ Spencer Hughes ----------------------- Name: Spencer Hughes Title: Authorized Signatory BEAR STEARNS CORPORATE LENDING INC. 8
By: /s/ Victor F. Bulzacchelli --------------------------- Name: Victor F. Bulzacchelli Title: Authorized Signatory COMMERZBANK AG, NEW YORK AND GRAND CAYMAN BRANCHES By: /s/ Robert S. Taylor, Jr. -------------------------- Name: Robert S. Taylor, Jr. Title: Senior Vice President By: /s/ Andrew P. Lusk ----------------------- Name: Andrew P. Lusk Title: Assistant Vice President MERRILL LYNCH BANK USA By: /s/ Louis Alder ----------------------- Name: Louis Alder Title: Vice President LEHMAN COMMERCIAL PAPER INC. By: /s/ Suzanne Flynn ----------------------- Name: Suzanne Flynn Title: Authorized Signatory SOCIETE GENERALE By: /s/ Mark Vigil ----------------------- Name: Mark Vigil Title: Managing Director MELLON BANK, NA By: /s/ Thomas J. Tarasovich, Jr. ----------------------------- Name: Thomas J. Tarasovich, Jr. Title: Lending Officer LLYODS TSB BANK PLC By: /s/ Windsor R. Davies ----------------------- Name: Windsor R. Davies 9
Title: Director By: /s/ Richard M. Heath ----------------------- Name: Richard M. Heath Title: Vice President NATIONAL AUSTRALIA BANK A.C.N. 004044937 By: /s/ Eduardo Salazar ----------------------- Name: Eduardo Salazar Title: Head, TMT - Americas NORDDEUTSCHE LANESBANK GIROZENTRALE NEW YORK AND/OR CAYMAN ISLANDS BRANCH By: /s/ Josef Haas ----------------------- Name: Josef Haas Title: Vice President By: /s/ Stephanie Finnen ----------------------- Name: Stephanie Finnen Title: Vice President SUMITOMO MITSUI BANKING CORPORATION By: /s/ Leo E. Pagarigan ----------------------- Name: Leo E. Pagarigan Title: Senior Vice President THE BANK OF NEW YORK By: /s/ Geoffrey C. Brooks ----------------------- Name: Geoffrey C. Brooks Title: Senior Vice President BoS (USA) INC. By: /s/ Joseph Fratus ----------------------- Name: Joseph Fratus Title: First Vice President 10
UFJ BANK LIMITED By: /s/ Joseph E. Leo ----------------------- Name: Joseph E. Leo Title: Vice President CREDIT LYONNAIS NEW YORK BRANCH By: /s/ Patrick McCarthy ----------------------- Name: Patrick McCarthy Title: Vice President 11
ACKNOWLEDGMENT AND CONSENT Each of the undersigned parties to the Primary Guarantee, dated as of July 8, 2002 and as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, made by the undersigned in favor of JPMorgan Chase Bank, as Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the Lenders, hereby (a) consents to the transactions contemplated by the foregoing Amendment to the Agreement and (b) acknowledges and agrees that the guarantee of such party contained in the Primary Guarantee is, and shall remain, in full force and effect after giving effect to such Amendment and all prior modifications to the Agreement. AOL TIME WARNER INC. By: /s/ Raymond G. Murphy ----------------------- Name: Raymond G. Murphy Title: Vice President & Treasurer AMERICA ONLINE, INC. By: /s/ Raymond G. Murphy ----------------------- Name: Raymond G. Murphy Title: Vice President & Treasurer TIME WARNER INC. By: /s/ Raymond G. Murphy ----------------------- Name: Raymond G. Murphy Title: Vice President & Treasurer TURNER BROADCASTING SYSTEMS, INC. By: /s/ Raymond G. Murphy ----------------------- Name: Raymond G. Murphy Title: Vice President & Treasurer TIME WARNER COMPANIES, INC. By: /s/ Raymond G. Murphy ----------------------- Name: Raymond G. Murphy Title: Vice President & Treasurer

Exhibit 99.1 AOL TIME WARNER AND COMCAST REPORT SUCCESSFUL COMPLETION OF TIME WARNER ENTERTAINMENT RESTRUCTURING NEW YORK and PHILADELPHIA -- AOL Time Warner Inc. (NYSE: AOL) and Comcast Corporation (NASDAQ: CMCSA, CMCSK) today reported the successful completion of the previously announced restructuring of Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P. (TWE). AOL Time Warner's Chief Executive Officer Dick Parsons said: "The successful completion of the TWE restructuring is another milestone in our efforts to simplify the structure of our Company and maximize our operating flexibility, while maintaining the strength of our balance sheet. We thank Comcast President and CEO Brian Roberts and his team for working so closely with us to close this agreement to the benefit of both companies' shareholders." Brian L. Roberts, President and Chief Executive Officer of Comcast, said: "We are pleased to complete this restructuring, which provides Comcast with immediate liquidity and further strengthens our balance sheet. Today's resolution is a win for Comcast, AOL Time Warner, and both companies' shareholders. I'd like to thank Dick Parsons and the AOL Time Warner team for making this deal as productive, efficient, and cooperative as possible." As a result of the restructuring, AOL Time Warner has assumed complete ownership of TWE's content assets, including Warner Bros. and Home Box Office, as well as TWE's interests in The WB Network, Comedy Central and Court TV. All of AOL Time Warner's interests in cable, including those held through TWE, are now held through or for the benefit of a new subsidiary of AOL Time Warner called "Time Warner Cable Inc." In exchange for its previous stake in TWE, Comcast received AOL Time Warner common-equivalent preferred stock, which will be converted into $1.5 billion of AOL Time Warner common stock, and Comcast retained a 21% economic stake in the business of Time Warner Cable Inc. In addition, Comcast received $2.1 billion from Time Warner Cable Inc. in repayment of a preexisting note. AOL Time Warner now effectively owns a 79% economic stake in the business of Time Warner Cable Inc., which has approximately $5.7 billion in third-party debt and $2.4 billion of preferred equity that was issued to AOL Time Warner. As one of the world's most technologically advanced, best-clustered collection of cable operations, Time Warner Cable Inc. serves approximately 10.9 million subscribers, with 73% of them in 19 geographic clusters of more than 300,000. With a controlling voting interest in the new subsidiary, AOL Time Warner will consolidate Time Warner Cable Inc.'s financial results for accounting purposes. ABOUT AOL TIME WARNER AOL Time Warner is the world's leading media and entertainment company, whose businesses include interactive services, cable systems, filmed entertainment, television networks, music and publishing. ABOUT COMCAST CORPORATION Comcast Corporation (www.comcast.com) is principally involved in the development, management and operation of broadband cable networks, and in the provision of electronic commerce and programming content. Comcast Cable is the largest cable company in the United States serving approximately 21.3 million cable subscribers. Comcast's commerce and content businesses include majority ownership of QVC, Comcast-Spectacor, Comcast SportsNet, E! Entertainment Television, Style, The Golf Channel, Outdoor Life Network, and G4. Comcast's Class A and Class A Special Common Stock trade on The Nasdaq Stock Market under the symbols CMCSA and CMCSK, respectively. Contact Info: Edward Adler (AOL Time Warner) Edward.Adler@aoltw.com 212-484-6630 Tricia Primrose (AOL Time Warner) Tricia.Primrose@aoltw.com 212-484-7450 Tim Fitzpatrick (Comcast Corporation) tim_fitzpatrick@comcast.com 215-981-8515


