FILE:TWX/TWX-8K-20050504070506.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
     On May 4, 2005, Time Warner Inc. ("Time Warner") issued a press release setting forth its financial results for its first quarter ended March 31, 2005. A copy of Time Warner's press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report. Time Warner does not intend for this Item 2.02 or Exhibit 99.1 to be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or to be incorporated by reference into filings under the Securities Act of 1933.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
For Immediate Release:
Time Warner Inc. (NYSE:TWX) today reported financial results for its first quarter ended March 31, 2005.
NEW YORK, May 4, 2005 
In making the announcement, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Dick Parsons said: "I'm pleased that our businesses delivered such a solid performance this quarter  underscoring our broad-based strength and the success of our strategy to run our businesses as best in class. Driven by growth across our Cable, AOL and Networks segments, these results, particularly our substantial Free Cash Flow generation, give us a great start to meeting our full-year financial objectives.
"As we continue to move our businesses forward, our pending acquisition of Adelphia's assets gives us a unique opportunity to grow our company in a disciplined way. Time Warner Cable's robust growth this quarter in high-speed data and Digital Phone subscribers, as well as its strong showing in enhanced digital video services, reinforces our confidence in the cable industry's promising future. With our progress on these and other fronts, we've positioned Time Warner strategically, operationally and financially for sustained, superior growth and improved shareholder returns."
In the quarter, Revenues increased 3% over the same period in 2004 to $10.5 billion, led by growth at the Cable, Publishing and Networks segments.
Adjusted Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization rose 8% to $2.6 billion. Driving this growth were increases at the Cable, AOL and Networks segments, as well as lower corporate expenses. Operating Income climbed 10% to $1.8 billion.
For the first three months, Cash Provided by Operations totaled $1.9 billion, and Free Cash Flow grew to $1.2 billion (reflecting a 45% conversion rate of Adjusted Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization). Included in these amounts was a $300 million payment related to the previously announced settlement with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
As of March 31, Net Debt totaled $15.1 billion, down $1.1 billion from $16.2 billion at the end of 2004.
Diluted Income per Common Share before discontinued operations and cumulative effect of accounting change was $0.20 for the three months ended March 31, compared to $0.15 in last year's first quarter. The current-year amounts included certain items affecting comparability that are described in detail in the accompanying Consolidated Reported Net Income and Per Share Results section. The net impact of such items was to increase the current-year results by $0.02 per diluted common share.
 
Performance of Segments
The schedules below reflect Time Warner's performance for the three months ended March 31, by line of business (in millions):
Three Months Ended March 31:
2
 
Presented below is a discussion of Time Warner's segments for the first quarter of 2005. Unless otherwise noted, the dollar amounts in parentheses represent year-over-year changes.
AOL
(America Online)
declined 3% ($58 million) to $2.1 billion, reflecting a 45% increase ($97 million) in Advertising revenues, more than offset by an 8% decrease ($145 million) in Subscription revenues. Advertising revenues benefited from growth in both paid search ($27 million) and traditional advertising, as well as the Advertising.com acquisition ($60 million), which closed in August of 2004. The decrease in Subscription revenues was due to a decline in domestic membership. Included in Revenues was an increase of $27 million from changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
Revenues
climbed 10% ($51 million) to $540 million, due to a reduction in network expenses ($168 million) and lower marketing expenses, as well as increased Advertising revenues. This increase was offset in part by lower domestic Subscription revenues.
Adjusted Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization
rose 17% ($47 million) to $324 million, benefiting from the increase in Adjusted Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization and lower depreciation expense ($23 million), offset partly by a $24 million noncash goodwill impairment related to AOL Latin America.
Operating Income
Highlights
As of March 31, the AOL service totaled 21.7 million U.S. members, a decline of 549,000 from the prior quarter and 2.3 million from the year-ago quarter. In Europe, the AOL service had 6.3 million members, an increase of 18,000 from the previous quarter and a decline of 69,000 from last year's quarter.
CABLE
(Time Warner Cable)
climbed 10% ($203 million) to $2.2 billion, reflecting a 10% increase ($193 million) in Subscription revenues and a 9% rise in Advertising revenues. The growth in Subscription revenues was driven by a 19% increase ($79 million) in high-speed data revenues, 21% growth in enhanced digital video services revenues and higher Digital Phone revenues, as well as increased basic cable rates. Average monthly revenue per basic cable subscriber rose 10% to about $80.
Revenues
grew 10% ($72 million) to $822 million, reflecting higher revenues, offset partially by an increase of 13% ($58 million) in video programming costs and higher general operating costs, including increased start-up losses resulting from the full-scale roll-out of Digital Phone services. The current quarter included $17 million of restructuring costs, reflecting previously announced changes in Time Warner Cable's management structure. Also included were reserves related to legal matters of $9 million, compared to the prior-year quarter's $27 million.
Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization
rose 10% ($40 million) to $426 million, driven by the increase in Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization, offset partly by higher depreciation expense ($30 million).
Operating Income
3
 
Highlights
At March 31, Time Warner Cable managed 10.9 million basic video cable subscribers, which included nearly 1.6 million subscribers in unconsolidated joint ventures. Basic video cable subscribers increased 26,000 since the end of the fourth quarter of 2004. Digital video subscribers rose 103,000 over the previous quarter for a total of 4.9 million, which represented 45% of basic video cable subscribers. In the same period, Digital Video Recorder subscribers climbed 136,000 to 998,000 subscribers, and Subscription Video On Demand subscribers grew by 108,000 to more than 1.6 million subscribers, representing 20% and 34% of digital video customers, respectively.
Residential high-speed data subscribers increased by 209,000 in the quarter for a total of 4.1 million, representing 22% of service-ready homes passed. Digital Phone subscribers rose 152,000 in the quarter for a total of 372,000.
FILMED ENTERTAINMENT
(Warner Bros. Entertainment and New Line Cinema)
increased 1% ($27 million) to $3.0 billion, due to growth at Warner Bros. from such home video releases as and and higher international television revenues. Offsetting this growth were difficult comparisons to the prior-year quarter, which included revenues related to the third-cycle syndication of , as well as the theatrical results of Warner Bros.' and New Line's .
Revenues
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban
Troy
Seinfeld
The Last Samurai
The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King
was essentially flat at $410 million, reflecting higher home video contributions, offset by difficult comparisons to the year-ago quarter's contribution from television syndication fees and trilogy, in addition to a decline in consumer products this year.
Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization
The Lord of the Rings
decreased 2% ($7 million) to $328 million, reflecting essentially flat Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization and modestly higher depreciation expense.
Operating Income
Highlights
At the 77th Annual Academy Awards, Warner Bros.' earned Oscars for Best Picture, Best Director, Best Actress and Best Supporting Actor; won five Academy Awards; and New Line's Fine Line Features' took home the Oscar for Best Foreign Language Film.
Million Dollar Baby
The Aviator
The Sea Inside
NETWORKS
(Turner Broadcasting, HBO and The WB Network)
increased 4% ($90 million) to $2.3 billion, reflecting growth in Subscription and Advertising revenues. Subscription revenues rose 9% ($108 million), due mainly to higher rates and increased subscribers at both Turner and HBO. Advertising revenues grew 8% ($48 million), which included a 12% climb at the Turner networks, offset partially by a 5% decrease at The WB Network. This growth in Subscription and Advertising revenues was offset in part by declines in Content and Other revenues ($66 million), driven by the absence of revenue from Turner's winter sports teams and arena ($61 million)  which were sold in the year-ago quarter  as well as favorable home video returns experience at HBO in the prior-year quarter, offset partly by higher ancillary sales of HBO's original programming.
Revenues
rose 6% ($45 million) to $787 million, benefiting from higher revenues and the absence of $8 million in losses from the winter
Adjusted Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization
4
 
sports teams and arena, offset partially by the reversal of bad debt reserves (approximately $60 million) in the year-ago quarter related to the Adelphia bankruptcy.
climbed 7% ($45 million) to $728 million, reflecting increases in Adjusted Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization and the prior-year loss (approximately $7 million) related to the sale of Turner's winter sports teams, offset in part by modestly higher depreciation expense.
Operating Income
Highlights
Among advertising-supported cable networks, TNT finished the quarter #1 in prime-time delivery of Adults 18-49 and Adults 25-54, while TBS ranked #1 in prime-time delivery of Adults 18-34 and #2 behind TNT in prime-time delivery of Adults 18-49. In total day, TNT set records in the delivery of Adults 18-49 and Adults 25-54 for advertising-supported cable networks. In fact, TNT has delivered year-over-year growth in Adults 18-49 for the last 19 consecutive quarters. Branded "very funny," TBS accounted for the four highest-rated comedies among Adults 18-49 on advertising-supported cable  and  during the quarter.
Sex and the City, Everybody Loves Raymond, Seinfeld
Friends
Also at the Academy Awards, HBO swept the documentary categories, with Oscars for Best Documentary Feature, and Best Documentary Short Subject, HBO and Cinemax also won a combined five George Foster Peabody Awards, which recognize distinguished and meritorious service in the radio and television industry.
Born into Brothels,
Mighty Times: The Children's March.
PUBLISHING
(Time Inc.)
rose 8% ($93 million) to $1.2 billion, reflecting 10% growth ($50 million) in Advertising revenues, led by strength at and as well as recently launched magazines, offset partly by lower advertising revenues from other core magazines. Year-over-year growth also benefited from an 8% climb ($27 million) in Subscription revenues, related primarily to a decrease in subscription allowances due to timing and higher newsstand sales, as well as a 17% increase ($19 million) in Content revenues, led by Time Warner Book Group.
Revenues
People, InStyle
Real Simple,
increased 3% ($5 million) to $167 million, reflecting growth at and as well as higher contributions from Time Warner Book Group, offset in part by higher start-up losses on magazine launches ($8 million) and lower contributions from other core magazines
Adjusted Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization
People
Real Simple,
.
grew 11% ($11 million) to $113 million, due to higher Adjusted Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization and lower amortization expense ($11 million).
Operating Income
Highlights
Based on Publishers Information Bureau (PIB) data, Time Inc.'s 2005 industry-leading share of overall domestic advertising through March 31 was 23.3%.
On January 20, Time Inc.'s IPC Media successfully launched a weekly women's magazine, in the U.K.
Pick Me Up,
ranked as #1 on its "Hot List" and named its "Start-Up of the Year."
Adweek
Real Simple
Cottage Living
5
 
Last month, Time Inc. won four National Magazine awards presented by the American Society of Magazine Editors.
Time Warner Book Group added 10 titles to the bestseller list this quarter. Joel Osteen's , by James Patterson and Howard Roughan, as well as Malcolm Gladwell's all ranked #1 during the first quarter.
New York Times
Your Best Life Now
Honeymoon
Blink
Consolidated Reported Net Income and Per Share Results
For the three months ended March 31, 2005, the Company reported Net Income of $963 million, or $0.20 per diluted common share. This compares to Net Income in 2004 of $961 million, or $0.20 per diluted common share.
For the three months ended March 31, 2005, the Company reported Income before Discontinued Operations and Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change of $963 million, or $0.20 per diluted common share. This compares to Income before Discontinued Operations and Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change in 2004 of $712 million, or $0.15 per diluted common share.
Certain pre-tax items in the current-year quarter affected comparability, including an $80 million gain related to an increase in fair value of the option in Warner Music Group, $23 million in net investment gains, an $8 million gain related to the collection of a loan made in conjunction with the Company's 2003 sale of Time Life, which was previously fully reserved due to concerns about recoverability, and a $2 million gain from the resolution of a contingent gain associated with the 2004 sale of Netscape Security Solutionsoffset in part by a noncash impairment charge of $24 million in goodwill related to AOL Latin America. The current-year amount also included a $51 million tax benefit associated with the recognition of net capital loss carryforwards.
,
Certain pre-tax items in the prior-year quarter's amount similarly affected comparability, including $36 million in net investment gains and an $8 million gain on the sale of a Time Inc. building, offset partially by an approximate $7 million loss on the sale of Turner's winter sports teams.
In aggregate, these items had the net effect of increasing the current year's Income before Discontinued Operations and Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change by $99 million (net of taxes), or $0.02 per diluted common share, and raising the previous year's Income before Discontinued Operations and Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change by $22 million (net of taxes), with no impact to Diluted Income per Common Share before Discontinued Operations and Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change. Excluding such items, the growth in Income before Discontinued Operations and Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change and Diluted Income per Common Share before Discontinued Operations and Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change was driven primarily by an increase in Operating Income and lower net interest expense, offset partly by a higher provision for income taxes.
Use of Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization, Adjusted Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization and Free Cash Flow
The Company utilizes Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization, among other measures, to evaluate the performance of its businesses. The Company also evaluates the performance of its businesses using Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization excluding the impact of noncash impairments of goodwill, intangible and fixed assets, as well as gains and losses on asset sales, legal reserves related to the government investigations, and legal reserves that may be established in connection with the pending securities litigation (referred to herein as Adjusted
6
 
Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization). Both Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization and Adjusted Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization are considered important indicators of the operational strength of the Company's businesses. Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization eliminates the uneven effect across all business segments of considerable amounts of noncash depreciation of tangible assets and amortization of certain intangible assets that were recognized in business combinations. A limitation of this measure, however, is that it does not reflect the periodic costs of certain capitalized tangible and intangible assets used in generating revenues in the Company's businesses. Moreover, Adjusted Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization does not reflect the diminution in value of goodwill and intangible assets or gains and losses on asset sales. Management evaluates the costs of such tangible and intangible assets, the impact of related impairments, as well as asset sales through other financial measures, such as capital expenditures, investment spending and return on capital.
Free Cash Flow is Cash Provided by Operations (as defined by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles) less cash provided by discontinued operations, capital expenditures and product development costs, principal payments on capital leases, and partnership distributions, if any. Free Cash Flow is considered to be an important indicator of the Company's liquidity, including its ability to reduce net debt, make strategic investments, pay dividends to common shareholders and repurchase stock.
Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization, Adjusted Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization and Free Cash Flow should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, the Company's Operating Income, Net Income and various cash flow measures (e.g., Cash Provided by Operations), as well as other measures of financial performance and liquidity reported in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
About Time Warner Inc.
Time Warner Inc. is a leading media and entertainment company, whose businesses include interactive services, cable systems, filmed entertainment, television networks and publishing.
Information on Business Outlook Release and Earnings Conference Call
Time Warner Inc. issued a separate release today regarding its 2005 full-year business outlook.
The Company's earnings conference call can be heard live at 8:30 am ET on Wednesday, May 4, 2005. To listen to the call, visit www.timewarner.com/investors or AOL Keyword: IR.
7
 
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This document includes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current expectations or beliefs, and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by the statements herein due to changes in economic, business, competitive, technological and/or regulatory factors, and other factors affecting the operation of the businesses of Time Warner Inc. More detailed information about these factors may be found in filings by Time Warner with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Time Warner is under no obligation to, and expressly disclaims any such obligation to, update or alter its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Contacts:
 
9
 
10
 
11
 
Three Months Ended March 31, 2005
Three Months Ended March 31, 2004
12
 
Three Months Ended March 31, 2005
Three Months Ended March 31, 2004
13
 
14


