FILE:TWX/TWX-8K-20050803071646.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
     On August 3, 2005, Time Warner Inc. ("Time Warner") issued a press release setting forth its financial results for its second quarter ended June 30, 2005. A copy of Time Warner's press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report. Time Warner does not intend for this Item 2.02 or Exhibit 99.1 to be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or to be incorporated by reference into filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
Time Warner Inc. (NYSE:TWX) today reported financial results for its second quarter ended June 30, 2005. The Company also announced that it has reached an agreement in principle to resolve its primary securities class action litigation and established reserves of $3 billion related to this and all other related securities litigation matters. In addition, Time Warner's Board of Directors has authorized a $5 billion stock repurchase program over the next two years.
NEW YORK, August 3, 2005 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Dick Parsons said: "Reaching an agreement in principle to settle this securities litigation and reserving for it and all other related matters mark important steps toward putting these matters behind us. By working to resolve these issues now, we're aiming to avoid the costs, risks and distractions of protracted litigation. Even after considering the reserve, our balance sheet remains strong."
Commenting on the results, Mr. Parsons added: "Our performance this quarter, which faced very difficult prior-year comparisons, keeps us on track to achieve our full-year objectives. Importantly, we generated industry-leading Free Cash Flow of $2 billion through the first half of the year, demonstrating the vitality of our businesses.
"In addition, our businesses continue to make significant progress. Driving double-digit gains across its key financial metrics in the quarter, Time Warner Cable delivered impressive subscriber growth through the aggressive deployment of its high-speed data, Digital Phone and enhanced digital video services. With the beta launch of AOL.com, which is available free to all Internet users, America Online is positioning itself to capitalize on compelling online advertising and broadband trends. We continue to create and package very successful content at our studios and TV networks, including Warner Bros.' and , New Line's and and TNT originals and . In the second half of the year, we'll look to extend our competitive positions and regain operating growth momentum."
Batman Begins
Charlie and the Chocolate Factory
Monster-in-Law
Wedding Crashers
The Closer
Into the West
Commenting on the share repurchase program, Mr. Parsons concluded: "As part of our commitment to deliver value to our shareholders, we're pleased our Board of Directors has decided that the Company's strong balance sheet, robust Free Cash Flow generation and excellent growth prospects support management's recommendation for a $5 billion stock repurchase program. At the same time, we'll continue to invest in organic growth and high-return, high-growth strategic opportunities and pay our previously announced regular quarterly cash dividend. Our board and management team believe that this overall program to deliver value to our shareholders underscores Time Warner's recent progress and our confidence in its future success."
Company Results
In the quarter, Revenues decreased 1% over the same period in 2004 to $10.7 billion, with expected declines at the Filmed Entertainment and AOL segments offset almost entirely by growth at the Cable, Networks and Publishing segments.
 
Adjusted Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization declined 3% to $2.6 billion, reflecting primarily significant decreases at the Filmed Entertainment segment as a result of difficult prior-year comparisons. The Company reported an Operating Loss of $1.2 billion, due to legal reserves related to the securities litigation, which reduced Operating Income by $3 billion. This compares to Operating Income in the prior-year quarter of $1.8 billion.
For the first six months, Cash Provided by Operations was $3.5 billion, and Free Cash Flow totaled $2.0 billion (reflecting a 38% conversion rate of Adjusted Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization).
As of June 30, Net Debt totaled $13.0 billion, down $3.2 billion from $16.2 billion at the end of 2004.
Diluted Loss per Common Share before discontinued operations and cumulative effect of accounting change was $0.07 for the three months ended June 30, compared to income of $0.19 in last year's second quarter. The current-quarter amounts included the aforementioned legal reserves and other items affecting comparability that are described in detail in the accompanying Consolidated Reported Net Income and Per Share Results section. The net impact of such items was to decrease the current-year results by $0.25 per diluted common share.
Update on Securities Class Action Litigation
The Company has reached an agreement in principle for the settlement of the primary securities class action pending against it. The tentative settlement is reflected in a Memorandum of Understanding, dated as of July 29, 2005, between the lead plaintiff and the Company. Under the proposed settlement, $2.4 billion will be paid by Time Warner into a settlement fund for the members of the class represented in the action. In addition, the $150 million previously paid by Time Warner into a fund in connection with the settlement of the investigation by the Department of Justice will be made available to the class, and Time Warner will use its best efforts to have the $300 million, which it previously paid in connection with the settlement of its Securities and Exchange Commission investigation, transferred to the settlement fund for the class. The proposed settlement is subject to completion of final documentation and preliminary and final court approval, as well as other conditions. At this time, there can be no assurance that these conditions will be met and that the settlement of the securities class action litigation will receive preliminary or final court approval. Ernst & Young also has agreed to a settlement in this litigation matter and will pay $100 million.
In connection with reaching the agreement in principle on the securities class action litigation, the Company has established a reserve of $2.4 billion. Although the Company has reached an agreement in principle to settle the primary securities class action, other related litigation remains pending, including shareholder derivative actions, lawsuits alleging ERISA violations and securities actions brought by individual shareholders. The Company has established an additional reserve totaling $600 million in connection with these remaining related securities litigation matters pending against the Company. This $600 million amount represents the Company's current best estimate of its potential financial exposure in these matters. The aggregate $3 billion reserve established, however, does not consider any future insurance recoveries under existing insurance policies because the Company cannot reliably estimate the amount of recovery at this time.
$5 Billion Stock Repurchase Program
The Board of Directors has authorized a $5 billion stock repurchase program over the next two years.
Purchases for the stock repurchase program may be made from time to time on the open market and in privately negotiated transactions. Size and timing of these purchases will be based on factors including price and business and market conditions.
2
 
Performance of Segments
The schedules below reflect Time Warner's performance for the three and six months ended June 30, by line of business (in millions):
Three Months and Six Months Ended June 30:
 
3
 
Presented below is a discussion of Time Warner's segments for the second quarter of 2005. Unless otherwise noted, the dollar amounts in parentheses represent year-over-year changes.
AOL
(America Online)
declined 4% ($80 million) to $2.1 billion, reflecting a 45% increase ($99 million) in Advertising revenues, more than offset by a 9% decrease ($168 million) in Subscription revenues. Advertising revenues benefited from growth in paid search ($30 million), as well as the Advertising.com acquisition ($60 million), which closed in August of 2004. The decrease in Subscription revenues was due primarily to a decline in domestic membership. Included in Revenues was an increase of $28 million from changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
Revenues
climbed 11% ($53 million) to $550 million, as lower network ($158 million) and marketing costs and higher Advertising revenues more than offset the decline in domestic Subscription revenues.
Adjusted Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization
rose 33% ($92 million) to $368 million, benefiting from the increase in Adjusted Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization and lower depreciation expense ($27 million).
Operating Income
Subscriber Update
As of June 30, the AOL service totaled 20.8 million U.S. members, a decline of 917,000 from the prior quarter and 2.6 million from the year-ago quarter. In Europe, the AOL service had 6.2 million members, a decrease of 99,000 from the previous quarter and a decline of 80,000 from last year's quarter.
Highlights
America Online launched the beta version of AOL.com, which provides internet users worldwide with free access to AOL's world-class online content. Last month, AOL set a record for streaming video simultaneously, as millions tuned in to the webcast of the Live 8 concerts at AOL.com.
CABLE
(Time Warner Cable)
climbed 11% ($241 million) to $2.4 billion, reflecting a 12% increase ($231 million) in Subscription revenues and an 8% rise in Advertising revenues. The growth in Subscription revenues was driven by a 21% increase ($92 million) in high-speed data revenues, higher Digital Phone revenues ($54 million), 19% growth ($32 million) in enhanced digital video services revenues and increased basic cable rates. Average monthly revenue per basic cable subscriber rose 12% to $84, marking the sixth consecutive quarter of double-digit, year-over-year growth.
Revenues
grew 10% ($83 million) to $900 million, reflecting higher revenues, offset partially by video programming cost increases ($65 million) as well as higher marketing and general operating costs. Second quarter results include $13 million of restructuring costs, reflecting previously announced changes in Time Warner Cable's corporate and divisional management structure.
Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization
rose 12% ($52 million) to $495 million, driven by the increase in Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization offset by a modest increase in depreciation expense ($31 million or up 9%).
Operating Income
4
 
Subscriber Update
As of June 30, Time Warner Cable managed 10.9 million basic video cable subscribers, which included nearly 1.6 million subscribers in unconsolidated joint ventures. Total basic video cable subscribers were down slightly (5,000) from the previous quarter. Digital video subscribers rose 144,000 over the previous quarter, the largest increase since the first quarter of 2003, for a total of 5.1 million. Digital penetration of basic video cable subscribers was 46% at the end of the quarter. In the same period, Digital Video Recorder subscribers climbed 132,000 to 1.1 million subscribers, representing 22% of digital video customers.
Residential high-speed data subscribers increased by 201,000 in the quarter for a total of 4.3 million, representing 22% of service-ready homes passed. This is the second consecutive quarter residential high-speed data net subscribers have increased by over 200,000. Digital Phone subscribers rose 242,000 in the quarter for a total of 614,000, nearly 60% more net subscriber additions than the previous quarter.
FILMED ENTERTAINMENT
(Warner Bros. Entertainment and New Line Cinema)
decreased 15% ($455 million) to $2.6 billion, due to difficult comparisons to the prior-year quarter's worldwide theatrical and theatrical home video revenues, offset in part by higher international television revenues.
Revenues
declined 47% ($198 million), related to lower contributions from New Line's trilogy and reduced television contributions. Television results reflected lower contributions from domestic syndication revenues as well as from and , which ended their broadcast network runs last year. Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization also faced difficult comparisons to the prior-year's theatrical home video releases at Warner Bros., most notably and , which were offset partially by lower theatrical valuation adjustments.
Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization
The Lord of the Rings
Friends
The Drew Carey Show
The Matrix Revolutions
The Last Samurai
decreased 60% ($202 million) to $137 million, due to the decline in Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization as well as slightly higher depreciation expense.
Operating Income
Highlights
Notable theatrical releases during the quarter included Warner Bros.' and New Line's Through August 1, and have generated worldwide box office receipts of more than $350 million and $120 million, respectively.
Batman Begins
Monster-in-Law.
Batman Begins
Monster-in-Law
Warner Home Video ranked #1 in the U.S. for the year through June 18 in total home video sales, capturing a 19.4% share. Leading home video releases during the quarter included Warner Bros.' and , as well as New Line's
Ocean's Twelve, The Aviator
The Phantom of the Opera
Blade: Trinity.
Warner Bros. Television received 23 Primetime Emmy nominations, led by with six and with five, including its sixth straight nomination for Outstanding Drama Series.
Two and a Half Men
The West Wing
NETWORKS
(Turner Broadcasting, HBO and The WB Network)
increased 5% ($111 million) to $2.5 billion, reflecting growth in Subscription and Advertising revenues. Subscription revenues rose 5% ($71 million), primarily as a result of higher rates and increased subscribers at Turner Broadcasting and HBO. These subscription gains were offset in part by the lower net effect of resolving certain contractual agreements ($22 million in the current
Revenues
5
 
quarter compared to approximately $50 million last year). Advertising revenues grew 5% ($44 million), led by an 8% climb at the Turner networks.
declined 4% ($26 million) to $635 million, reflecting higher programming, marketing and general operating expenses, primarily at Turner. The increase in programming expenses ($45 million) is related mainly to an increase in original series, which include and , as well as higher sports rights at Turner. Also contributing to the quarter's results were difficult comparisons to the prior-year quarter's favorable resolution of certain contractual agreements and the reversal of bad debt reserves associated with the Adelphia bankruptcy ($14 million).
Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization
Into the West, The Real Gilligan's Island 2
The Closer
decreased 5% ($32 million) to $570 million, reflecting the decline in Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization and higher depreciation expense.
Operating Income
Highlights
Among advertising-supported cable networks, TNT finished the quarter #1 in prime-time and total day delivery of all key adult audiences (except total day for Adults 18-34 where it finished #2 behind Adult Swim). TNT has had 20 consecutive quarters of year-over-year growth in total day delivery among Adults 18-49. Cartoon Network ranked #1 in prime-time delivery of Kids 2-11.
HBO received 93 Primetime Emmy nominations  the most of any network for the fifth year in a row. and led all contenders with 16 nominations each, while and received nominations for Outstanding Drama Series. Turner received a total of 13 nominations, including eight for TNT, four for Cartoon Network and one for Turner Classic Movies. CNN programming received four News & Documentary Emmy nominations.
The Life and Death of Peter Sellers
Warm Springs
Deadwood
Six Feet Under
PUBLISHING
(Time Inc.)
rose 4% ($59 million) to $1.5 billion, reflecting 34% growth ($43 million) in Content revenues and 4% growth ($26 million) in Advertising revenues. Year-over-year growth in Content revenues was led by Time Warner Book Group. Advertising gains were related primarily to contributions from recent magazine launches, the acquisition of as well as strength at and . This was offset in part by advertising declines at , and .
Revenues
Essence,
Southern Living, Real Simple
InStyle
Time
Sports Illustrated
Fortune
decreased 3% ($9 million) to $348 million, due partially to higher start-up losses on magazine launches ($9 million). Growth at Time Warner Book Group was offset by lower contributions from certain core magazines
Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization
.
was essentially flat (increased $3 million) at $291 million, with lower depreciation and amortization expenses more than offsetting the decline in Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization.
Operating Income
Highlights
Based on Publishers Information Bureau (PIB) data, Time Inc.'s 2005 industry-leading share of overall domestic advertising through June 30 was 23.2%.
Time Warner Book Group added 15 titles to the bestseller list this quarter. Nicholas Sparks' , Malcolm Gladwell's , James Patterson's and Michael Connelly's all ranked #1 during the second quarter.
New York Times
True Believer
Blink
4
th
of July
The Closers
6
 
Consolidated Reported Net Income and Per Share Results
For the three months ended June 30, 2005, the Company reported a Net Loss of $321 million, or $0.07 per diluted common share. This compares to Net Income in 2004 of $777 million, or $0.17 per diluted common share.
For the three months ended June 30, 2005, the Company reported a Loss before Discontinued Operations and Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change of $321 million, or $0.07 per diluted common share. This compares to Income before Discontinued Operations and Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change in 2004 of $882 million, or $0.19 per diluted common share.
Certain pre-tax items in the current-year quarter affected comparability, including legal reserves of $3 billion related to the securities litigation and a $27 million loss on the Warner Music Group option. These items were offset in part by a $925 million gain on the sale of the Company's remaining stake in Google, a $36 million gain on the sale of an investment in Columbia House, a $5 million gain on the sale of a building at AOL and a $3 million gain related to the 2004 sale of Netscape Security Solutions. In addition, the income tax provision reflected tax benefits of approximately $1.2 billion, associated primarily with the impact of state tax law changes in Ohio and New York enacted in the second quarter of 2005 and the settlement accrual related to the securities litigation. Certain pre-tax items in the prior-year quarter also affected comparability, including a $10 million impairment related to the sale of a building at AOL, offset by $10 million in net investment gains.
In aggregate, these items had the net effect of reducing the current year's Income before Discontinued Operations and Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change by $1.2 billion (net of taxes), or $0.25 per diluted common share, with no net impact to the previous year's Income before Discontinued Operations and Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change. Excluding such items, the decrease in Income before Discontinued Operations and Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change and Diluted Income per Common Share before Discontinued Operations and Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change was driven primarily by lower Operating Income, offset primarily by lower net interest expense.
Use of Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization, Adjusted Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization and Free Cash Flow
The Company utilizes Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization, among other measures, to evaluate the performance of its businesses. The Company also evaluates the performance of its businesses using Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization excluding the impact of noncash impairments of goodwill, intangible and fixed assets, as well as gains and losses on asset sales, legal reserves related to the government investigations, and legal reserves related to securities litigation (referred to herein as Adjusted Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization). Both Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization and Adjusted Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization are considered important indicators of the operational strength of the Company's businesses. Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization eliminates the uneven effect across all business segments of considerable amounts of noncash depreciation of tangible assets and amortization of certain intangible assets that were recognized in business combinations. A limitation of this measure, however, is that it does not reflect the periodic costs of certain capitalized tangible and intangible assets used in generating revenues in the Company's businesses. Moreover, Adjusted Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization does not reflect the diminution in value of goodwill and intangible assets or gains and losses on asset sales. Management evaluates the costs of such tangible and intangible assets, the impact of related impairments, as well as asset sales through other financial measures, such as capital expenditures, investment spending and return on capital.
7
 
Free Cash Flow is Cash Provided by Operations (as defined by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles) plus payments related to securities litigation, less cash provided by discontinued operations, capital expenditures and product development costs, principal payments on capital leases, and partnership distributions, if any. Free Cash Flow is considered to be an important indicator of the Company's liquidity, including its ability to reduce net debt, make strategic investments, pay dividends to common shareholders and repurchase stock. A limitation of this measure, however, is that it does not reflect securities litigation payments, which reduce liquidity.
Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization, Adjusted Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization and Free Cash Flow should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, the Company's Operating Income, Net Income and various cash flow measures (e.g., Cash Provided by Operations), as well as other measures of financial performance and liquidity reported in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
About Time Warner Inc.
Time Warner Inc. is a leading media and entertainment company, whose businesses include interactive services, cable systems, filmed entertainment, television networks and publishing.
Information on Business Outlook Release and Earnings Conference Call
Time Warner Inc. issued a separate release today regarding its 2005 full-year business outlook.
The Company's earnings conference call can be heard live at 8:30 am ET on Wednesday, August 3, 2005. To listen to the call, visit www.timewarner.com/investors or AOL Keyword: IR.
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This document includes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current expectations or beliefs, and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by the statements herein due to changes in economic, business, competitive, technological and/or regulatory factors, and other factors affecting the operation of the businesses of Time Warner Inc. More detailed information about these factors may be found in filings by Time Warner with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its most recent Annual Report on
Form 10-K
and Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q
. Time Warner is under no obligation to, and expressly disclaims any such obligation to, update or alter its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Contacts:
8
 
: Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior year's financial information to conform to the June 30, 2005 presentation.
Note
9
 
: Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior year's financial information to conform to the June 30, 2005 presentation.
Note
10
 
 
: Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior year's financial information to conform to the June 30, 2005 presentation.
Note
11
 
Three Months Ended June 30, 2005
Three Months Ended June 30, 2004
 
12
 
Six Months Ended June 30, 2005
Six Months Ended June 30, 2004
 
13
 
Three Months Ended June 30, 2005
Three Months Ended June 30, 2004
 
14
 
Six Months Ended June 30, 2005
Six Months Ended June 30, 2004
 
15
 
 
16


