FILE:TWX/TWX-8K-20051102070710.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
     On November 2, 2005, Time Warner Inc. ("Time Warner") issued a press release setting forth its financial results for its third quarter ended September 30, 2005. A copy of Time Warner's press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report. Time Warner does not intend for this Item 2.02 or Exhibit 99.1 to be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or to be incorporated by reference into filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: November 2, 2005
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
Time Warner Inc. (NYSE:TWX) today reported financial results for its third quarter ended September 30, 2005. The Company also announced that its Board of Directors has authorized a $7.5 billion increase in the stock repurchase program to a total of $12.5 billion over the next 21 months.
NEW YORK, November 2, 2005 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Dick Parsons said: "Our solid third-quarter results and expanded stock repurchase program highlight the fundamental operating strength of our businesses and their growing momentum. In short, our Company is strong and getting stronger. Our Board of Directors and management are confident that we're on the right course to build sustainable long-term value, optimize our capital allocation and leverage, and deliver a highly competitive return for all of our shareholders.
"This quarter's performance, led by double-digit profit growth at our Cable and Networks businesses, with significant contributions from AOL and Time Inc., keeps us firmly on track to achieve our full-year financial objectives. Especially impressive were Time Warner Cable's results, driven by strong subscriber trends across its high-speed data, Digital Phone and digital video product lines. In the fourth quarter, we'll continue to extend the competitive advantages of our cable company and our other businesses to fuel growth in 2006 and beyond."
In announcing the expanded stock repurchase program, Mr. Parsons said: "In keeping with our commitment to deliver greater value to shareholders, our Board of Directors and management reviewed our existing stock repurchase program and decided to increase it to a total of $12.5 billion. With our strong balance sheet, industry-leading free cash flow and solid earnings, we can expand our stock buyback while still having the resources to invest meaningfully in future growth as well as to pay our regular quarterly cash dividend."
Company Results
In the quarter, Revenues rose 6% over the same period in 2004 to $10.5 billion, led by growth at the Cable, Networks, Filmed Entertainment and Publishing segments.
Adjusted Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization climbed 9% to $2.6 billion, reflecting strong double-digit increases at the Networks and Cable segments as well as gains at the AOL and Publishing segments. This growth was offset partly by a decline at the Filmed Entertainment segment due to difficult prior-year comparisons. Operating Income rose 60% to $1.8 billion, due primarily to the absence of the prior-year's charge to establish legal reserves of $500 million related to the government investigations.
For the first nine months, Cash Provided by Operations was $5.6 billion, and Free Cash Flow totaled $3.3 billion (reflecting a 42% conversion rate of Adjusted Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization).
As of September 30, Net Debt totaled $12.4 billion, down $3.8 billion from $16.2 billion at the end of 2004.
 
For the three months ended September 30, 2005, the Company reported Net Income of $897 million, or $0.19 per diluted common share. This compares to Net Income in 2004 of $499 million, or $0.11 per diluted common share.
Diluted Income per Common Share before discontinued operations and cumulative effect of accounting change was $0.19 for the three months ended September 30, compared to $0.10 in last year's third quarter. The current and prior-year amounts included certain items affecting comparability that are described in detail in the accompanying Consolidated Reported Net Income and Per Share Results section. Such items did not meaningfully affect the current-year's diluted common share results and decreased the prior-year results by $0.05 per diluted common share.
Stock Repurchase Program Increased to $12.5 Billion
The Board of Directors has authorized a $7.5 billion increase in the stock repurchase program to a total of $12.5 billion over the next 21 months, in keeping with the two-year schedule for the original stock repurchase program announced August 3, 2005.
Purchases for the stock repurchase program may be made from time to time on the open market and in privately negotiated transactions. Size and timing of these purchases will be based on factors including price as well as business and market conditions.
As of October 31, 2005, the Company has repurchased approximately 45 million shares of common stock for approximately $809 million, since announcing the program on August 3, 2005.
2
 
Performance of Segments
The schedules below reflect Time Warner's performance for the three and nine months ended September 30, by line of business (in millions):
Three and Nine Months Ended September 30:
 
3
 
Presented below is a discussion of Time Warner's segments for the third quarter of 2005. Unless otherwise noted, the dollar amounts in parentheses represent year-over-year changes.
AOL
(America Online)
declined 5% ($100 million) to $2.0 billion, reflecting a 28% increase ($71 million) in Advertising revenues, which was more than offset by a 10% decrease ($175 million) in Subscription revenues. Advertising revenues benefited from growth in paid search ($31 million) and Advertising.com ($31 million), which was acquired August 2, 2004. The decrease in Subscription revenues was due primarily to a decline in domestic AOL brand subscribers.
Revenues
climbed 7% ($31 million) to $481 million, as lower network ($93 million) and marketing costs and higher Advertising revenues more than offset the decrease in domestic Subscription revenues.
Adjusted Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization
rose 16% ($41 million) to $302 million, benefiting from the increase in Adjusted Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization and lower depreciation expense ($22 million), offset in part by the absence of the prior-year's gain related to the sale of AOL Japan.
Operating Income
Subscriber Update
As of September 30, the AOL service totaled 20.1 million U.S. members, a decline of 678,000 from the prior quarter and 2.6 million from the year-ago quarter. In Europe, the AOL service had 6.1 million members, a decrease of 98,000 from the previous quarter and a decline of 170,000 from last year's quarter.
CABLE
(Time Warner Cable)
rose 13% ($274 million) to $2.4 billion, driven by a 13% climb ($269 million) in Subscription revenues and a 4% increase in Advertising revenues. Subscription revenues benefited from a 24% increase ($106 million) in high-speed data revenues, significant growth in Digital Phone revenues ($76 million), 16% growth ($27 million) in enhanced digital video service revenues and higher basic cable rates. Average monthly revenue per basic cable subscriber rose 13% to $86, marking the seventh consecutive quarter of double-digit, year-over-year growth.
Revenues
grew 15% ($121 million) to $945 million, reflecting higher revenues, offset partially by an increase in video programming costs of 9% ($44 million) and higher general operating expenses. The quarter's results included a $10 million benefit (reflected in programming costs) related to the resolution of terms with a programming vendor, as well as an $11 million reduction in accrued expense associated with changes in estimates.
Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization
climbed 17% ($74 million) to $512 million, driven by the increase in Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization, offset partly by higher depreciation expense ($48 million).
Operating Income
Subscriber Update
As of September 30, Time Warner Cable managed 10.9 million basic video cable subscribers, which included nearly 1.6 million subscribers in unconsolidated joint ventures. Total basic video cable subscribers grew 18,000 during the quarter. Digital video subscribers rose 149,000 over the previous quarter for a total of 5.2 million. This growth represents the largest third-quarter increase since 2002. Digital penetration of basic video cable subscribers reached 48% at the end of the quarter. Digital Video Recorder subscribers climbed 134,000 in the quarter to 1.3 million subscribers, representing 24% of digital video customers.
4
 
Residential high-speed data subscribers increased by 234,000 during the quarter for a total of 4.6 million, representing 24% of service-ready homes passed. This is the largest third-quarter net increase since 2002 and marks the third consecutive quarter in which net residential high-speed data subscribers increased by over 200,000. Digital Phone subscribers grew by 240,000 in the quarter for a total of 854,000, representing 5% of eligible homes passed.
FILMED ENTERTAINMENT
(Warner Bros. Entertainment & New Line Cinema)
rose 6% ($147 million) to $2.7 billion, led by the strong domestic theatrical performance of Warner Bros.' and as well as New Line's . Also contributing to the increase were higher television revenues from home video and international sources. This growth was offset partially by the difficult comparison to the prior-year quarter's international theatrical revenues.
Revenues
Charlie and the Chocolate Factory
Batman Begins
Wedding Crashers
declined 30% ($108 million), reflecting difficult comparisons to the prior-year quarter's higher-margin international theatrical contributions from Warner Bros.' and as well as increased marketing and distribution expenses this quarterAlso driving the decrease were difficult comparisons to last year's high-margin contributions from the broadcast network run and syndication of the final season of as well as the television syndication of the final season of . This decline was offset in part by lower theatrical valuation adjustments.
Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban
Troy
.
The Drew Carey Show
Friends
decreased 39% ($111 million) to $171 million, due to the decline in Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization as well as slightly higher depreciation expense.
Operating Income
Highlights
Time Warner's studios ranked #1 in domestic theatrical box office for the year through October 2, capturing a 21.9% share, with three films each generating more than $200 million in domestic box office receipts to date  ($208 million), ($206 million) and ($205 million).
Wedding Crashers
Charlie and the Chocolate Factory
Batman Begins
For 2005 through September 24, Warner Home Video garnered an industry-leading 19.1% share of home video sales and rentals in the U.S. and ranked #1 in DVD sales. Notable domestic home video releases in the quarter included Warner Bros.' and , as well as New Line's .
Million Dollar Baby
Constantine
Monster-in-Law
NETWORKS
(Turner Broadcasting, HBO & The WB Network)
grew 10% ($210 million) to $2.4 billion, reflecting higher Content, Subscription and Advertising revenues. Content revenues climbed 38% ($83 million), driven by HBO's broadcast syndication sales of and higher international sales of HBO original programming. Subscription revenues rose 5% ($69 million), resulting mainly from higher rates at Turner and HBO and, to a lesser extent, an increase in subscribers at Turner. Advertising revenues were up 8% ($54 million), led by 12% growth at the Turner networks.
Revenues
Sex and the City
climbed 21% ($131 million) to $766 million. Growth in Subscription and Advertising revenues, as well as contributions from HBO's broadcast syndication sales of , were offset partially by an increase in original programming expenses at Turner and higher overall general operating expenses.
Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization
Sex and the City
5
 
grew 22% ($125 million) to $699 million, reflecting the increase in Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization, offset partly by higher depreciation expense.
Operating Income
Highlights
Among advertising-supported cable networks, TNT finished the quarter #1 in prime-time delivery of its key audiences  including new records for Persons 2+ and Households  and ranked #1 in total-day delivery among Adults 25-54, another new record. TNT has had 21 consecutive quarters of year-over-year growth in total-day delivery among Adults 18-49. Cartoon Network ranked #1 in prime-time delivery of Kids 2-11. Adult Swim ranked #1 in total-day delivery among Adults 18-34, setting a new record among ad-supported cable networks. CNN's September news coverage of Hurricane Katrina attracted more than 100 million viewers nationwide.
HBO won 27 Primetime Emmy Awards, the most of any network. captured nine awards  more than any other television show  while and each garnered five Emmys. Cartoon Network won seven Emmy Awards for its animated series, including , , and .
The Life and Death of Peter Sellers
Deadwood
Warm Springs
Star Wars: Clone Wars
Foster's Home for Imaginary Friends
The Powerpuff Girls
Samurai Jack
PUBLISHING
(Time Inc.)
rose 3% ($40 million) to $1.4 billion, benefiting from growth in Content revenue ($13 million), led by Time Warner Book Group, and higher Other revenue ($7 million). Additionally, the growth reflects increases in Subscription revenues ($13 million) and Advertising revenues ($7 million) which were due primarily to the acquisition of and recent magazine launches. Also contributing to Advertising revenue growth was a gain at , which was more than offset by lower Advertising revenues from core magazines, driven mostly by declines at certain titles including and .
Revenues
Essence
Real Simple
Sports Illustrated
Time
increased 9% ($24 million) to $288 million, benefiting from growth at Synapse, and Time Warner Book Group, as well as contributions from , offset partially by lower results at certain core magazines and higher start-up losses.
Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization
Real Simple
Essence
climbed 14% ($29 million) to $232 million, led by higher Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization as well as lower amortization expense, offset partly by increased depreciation expense.
Operating Income
Highlights
Based on Publishers Information Bureau (PIB) data, Time Inc.'s 2005 industry-leading share of overall domestic advertising through September 30 was 23.1%.
was recently named 's 2005 Magazine of the Year, with ranked second.
People
Advertising Age
Real Simple
Time Warner Book Group added 10 titles to the bestseller list this quarter. James Patterson's , Joel Osteen's and Elizabeth Kostova's all ranked #1 during the quarter.
New York Times
Lifeguard
Your Best Life Now
The Historian
Consolidated Reported Net Income and Per Share Results
For the three months ended September 30, 2005, the Company reported Net Income of $897 million, or $0.19 per diluted common share. This compares to Net Income in 2004 of $499 million, or $0.11 per diluted common share.
6
 
For the three months ended September 30, 2005, the Company reported Income before Discontinued Operations and Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change of $897 million, or $0.19 per diluted common share. This compares to Income before Discontinued Operations and Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change in 2004 of $494 million, or $0.10 per diluted common share.
Certain pre-tax items in the current-year quarter affected comparability, including a $13 million writedown on the investment in NTV, an $8 million gain on the sale of an investment in Columbia House and $15 million in other net investment gains. Certain items in the prior-year quarter affected comparability, including $500 million in legal reserves related to the government investigations, a pre-tax gain of $13 million related to the sale of AOL Japan and $296 million in pre-tax net investment gains, which includes $188 million and $113 million related to the sales of investments in Google and VIVA, respectively.
In aggregate, these items had the net effect of increasing the current-year's Income before Discontinued Operations and Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change by $9 million (net of taxes), or no meaningful effect on earnings per diluted common share, and decreasing the prior-year's Income before Discontinued Operations and Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change by $223 million (net of taxes), or $0.05 per diluted common share. Excluding such items, the increases in Income before Discontinued Operations and Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change and Diluted Income per Common Share before Discontinued Operations and Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change were driven primarily by higher Operating Income and lower net interest expense.
Use of Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization, Adjusted Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization and Free Cash Flow
The Company utilizes Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization, among other measures, to evaluate the performance of its businesses. The Company also evaluates the performance of its businesses using Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization excluding the impact of noncash impairments of goodwill, intangible and fixed assets, as well as gains and losses on asset sales, legal reserves related to the government investigations, and legal reserves related to securities litigation (referred to herein as Adjusted Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization). Both Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization and Adjusted Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization are considered important indicators of the operational strength of the Company's businesses. Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization eliminates the uneven effect across all business segments of considerable amounts of noncash depreciation of tangible assets and amortization of certain intangible assets that were recognized in business combinations. A limitation of this measure, however, is that it does not reflect the periodic costs of certain capitalized tangible and intangible assets used in generating revenues in the Company's businesses. Moreover, Adjusted Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization does not reflect the diminution in value of goodwill and intangible assets or gains and losses on asset sales. Management evaluates the costs of such tangible and intangible assets, the impact of related impairments, as well as asset sales through other financial measures, such as capital expenditures, investment spending and return on capital.
Free Cash Flow is Cash Provided by Operations (as defined by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles) plus payments related to securities litigation, less cash provided by discontinued operations, capital expenditures and product development costs, principal payments on capital leases, and partnership distributions, if any. Free Cash Flow is considered to be an important indicator of the Company's liquidity, including its ability to reduce net debt, make strategic investments, pay dividends to common shareholders and repurchase stock. A limitation of this measure, however, is that it does not reflect securities litigation payments, which reduce liquidity.
Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization, Adjusted Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization and Free Cash Flow should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, the
7
 
Company's Operating Income, Net Income and various cash flow measures (e.g., Cash Provided by Operations), as well as other measures of financial performance and liquidity reported in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
About Time Warner Inc.
Time Warner Inc. is a leading media and entertainment company, whose businesses include interactive services, cable systems, filmed entertainment, television networks and publishing.
Information on Business Outlook Release and Earnings Conference Call
Time Warner Inc. issued a separate release today regarding its 2005 full-year business outlook.
The Company's earnings conference call can be heard live at 8:30 am ET on Wednesday, November 2, 2005. To listen to the call, visit www.timewarner.com/investors or AOL Keyword: IR.
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This document includes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current expectations or beliefs, and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by the statements herein due to changes in economic, business, competitive, technological and/or regulatory factors, and other factors affecting the operation of the businesses of Time Warner Inc. More detailed information about these factors may be found in filings by Time Warner with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Time Warner is under no obligation to, and expressly disclaims any such obligation to, update or alter its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Contacts:
8
 
: Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior year's financial information to conform to the September 30, 2005 presentation.
Note
9
 
: Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior year's financial information to conform to the September 30, 2005 presentation.
Note
10
 
 
: Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior year's financial information to conform to the September 30, 2005 presentation.
Note
11
 
Three Months Ended September 30, 2005
Three Months Ended September 30, 2004
 
12
 
Nine Months Ended September 30, 2005
Nine Months Ended September 30, 2004
 
13
 
Three Months Ended September 30, 2005
Three Months Ended September 30, 2004
 
14
 
Nine Months Ended September 30, 2005
Nine Months Ended September 30, 2004
 
15
 
 
16


