FILE:TWX/TWX-8K-20061108082132.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
Time Warner Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Time Warner" or the "Company"), is filing condensed consolidating financial statements for Time Warner (reflecting the consolidation of TW AOL Holdings Inc. ("TW AOL"), Historic TW Inc. ("Historic TW"), Time Warner Companies, Inc. ("TWCI"), Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. ("TBS") and the non-guarantor subsidiaries) as of September 30, 2006, December 31, 2005 and 2004, for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 and 2005, and for each year in the three-year period ended December 31, 2005 (the "Condensed Consolidating Financial Statements"). TW AOL, Historic TW, TWCI and TBS are wholly owned subsidiaries of Time Warner. The Condensed Consolidating Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2006 that was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") on November 1, 2006 and the recast consolidated financial statements of Time Warner included in the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 3, 2006 that was filed with the Commission on November 3, 2006.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
          (d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
     TW AOL Holdings Inc. ("TW AOL Holdings"), Historic TW Inc. ("Historic TW"), Time Warner Companies, Inc. ("TW Companies") and Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. ("TBS" and, together with TW AOL Holdings, Historic TW and TW Companies, the "Guarantor Subsidiaries") are wholly owned subsidiaries of Time Warner Inc. ("Time Warner"). It is anticipated that the Guarantor Subsidiaries will fully and unconditionally, jointly and severally, either directly or indirectly, guarantee outstanding publicly traded indebtedness of Time Warner issued subsequent to the filing of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
     The Securities and Exchange Commission's (the "Commission") rules require that condensed consolidating financial information be provided for wholly owned subsidiaries that have guaranteed debt of a registrant issued in a public offering, where each such guarantee is full and unconditional, and joint and several. Set forth below are condensed consolidating financial statements of Time Warner, including each of the Guarantor Subsidiaries. The following condensed consolidating financial statements present the results of operations, financial position and cash flows of (i) the Guarantor Subsidiaries (in each case, reflecting investments in each Guarantor Subsidiary's consolidated subsidiaries under the equity method of accounting), (ii) the direct and indirect non-guarantor subsidiaries of Time Warner and (iii) the eliminations necessary to arrive at the information for Time Warner on a consolidated basis. There are no restrictions on the Company's ability to obtain funds from any of its wholly owned subsidiaries through dividends, loans or advances. These condensed consolidating financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements of Time Warner included in the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated November 3, 2006 and filed with the Commission on November 3, 2006, and in Time Warner's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2006, filed with the Commission on November 1, 2006.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Board of Directors and Shareholders of Time Warner Inc.
We have previously audited the consolidated balance sheets of Time Warner Inc. ("Time Warner") as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related consolidated statements of operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005 (the "Time Warner Financial Statements") included in Time Warner's Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 3, 2006 and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 3, 2006 (the "Form 8-K"). Our audits also included the Financial Statement Schedule II included in the Form 8-K listed in the index at Item 15(a) and the condensed consolidating financial statements of Time Warner as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005 (the "Time Warner Parent Financial Statements"). The Time Warner Financial Statements and Schedule are not included herein. The Time Warner Financial Statements, schedule and the Time Warner Parent Financial Statements are the responsibility of Time Warner's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Time Warner Financial Statements, schedule and Time Warner Parent Financial Statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the Time Warner Financial Statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Time Warner at December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion the related financial statement schedule and Time Warner Parent Financial Statements, when considered in relation to the Time Warner Financial Statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.
As discussed in Note 1 to the Time Warner Financial Statements, as of January 1, 2006 Time Warner adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. FAS 123R, , and changed its method of accounting for certain programming inventory, both using a retrospective application method. Additionally in 2004 and 2003, Time Warner changed its method of accounting for certain variable interest entities.
Share Based Payment
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of Time Warner's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, based on criteria established in Internal ControlIntegrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 23, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
New York, New York November 2, 2006


