FILE:TWX/TWX-8K-20060508163037.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 ---------------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of Earliest Event Reported): May 4, 2006 TIME WARNER INC. (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter) Delaware 1-15062 13-4099534 -------- ------- ---------- (State or Other Jurisdiction (Commission File Number) (IRS Employer of Incorporation) Identification No.) One Time Warner Center, New York, New York 10019 ------------------------------------------------ (Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code) 212-484-8000 ------------- (Registrant's Telephone Number, Including Area Code) Not Applicable -------------- (Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report) Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below): [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant. On May 4, 2006, Time Warner Inc. ("Time Warner" or the "Company") entered into Prepaid Share Repurchase Agreements (described in Item 8.01 below) with a number of different counterparties, providing for repurchases of the Company's common stock, $0.01 par value (the "Common Stock"), under its previously announced $20 billion stock repurchase program. In connection with the Prepaid Share Repurchase Agreements, the Company has funded the majority of the approximately $3.6 billion aggregate prepayment amount through borrowings under the Company's $5.0 billion unsecured commercial paper program supported by the Company's $7.0 billion revolving credit facility (the "TW Facility"), which are described under "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition - Financial Condition and Liquidity - Bank Credit Agreements and Commercial Paper Programs -Time Warner Credit Agreement " and " - Commercial Paper Programs" in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 (the "2005 Form 10-K"). The TW Facility is filed as an exhibit to the 2005 Form 10-K. Item 8.01 Other Events. In connection with the Company's $20 billion stock repurchase program, the Company entered into prepaid stock repurchase agreements on May 4, 2006 with a number of different counterparties (each, a "Prepaid Share Repurchase Agreement" and, collectively, the "Prepaid Share Repurchase Agreements") that provide for repurchases of Common Stock to be made pursuant to consecutive calculation periods over the next three months, or longer, depending on the share price of the Common Stock. The Company made payments of approximately $3.6 billion in the aggregate upon entry into the Prepaid Share Repurchase Agreements and will receive shares of Common Stock on the respective settlement date for each Prepaid Share Repurchase Agreement at prices based on a formula that is expected to deliver an effective average repurchase price per share below the volume weighted average price of the Common Stock over the term of the relevant contract. Each Prepaid Share Repurchase Agreement contains substantially similar terms, except for certain pricing and date-related terms. A representative form of Prepaid Share Repurchase Agreement is attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1. Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits. Exhibit Description - ------- ----------- 99.1 Form of Prepaid Share Repurchase Agreement.
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. TIME WARNER INC. By: /s/ Wayne H. Pace ---------------------------------- Name: Wayne H. Pace Title: Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Date: May 8, 2006
EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit Description - ------- ----------- 99.1 Form of Prepaid Share Repurchase Agreement.

Exhibit 99.1 [Letterhead of Investment Bank] [ ], 2006 Prepaid Share Repurchase Transaction Time Warner Inc. One Time Warner Center New York, New York 10019-8016 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Dear Sir/Madam: The purpose of this letter agreement (this "Confirmation") is to confirm the terms and conditions of the Transaction entered into between [Bank Name] ("Investment Bank") and Time Warner Inc. ("Time Warner"), on the Trade Date specified below (the "Transaction"). The definitions and provisions contained in the 2002 ISDA Equity Derivatives Definitions (as published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. ("ISDA")) (the "Equity Definitions") are incorporated into this Confirmation. In the event of any conflict between the Equity Definitions and this Confirmation, the terms of this Confirmation shall govern. Any reference to a currency shall have the meaning contained in Annex A to the 1998 FX and Currency Option Definitions, as published by ISDA, the Emerging Markets Traders Association and the Foreign Exchange Committee. For the avoidance of doubt, this Transaction shall be deemed to be a "Share Forward Transaction" for purposes of the Equity Definitions. In connection with the entry into this Confirmation, Time Warner is also entering into similar transactions with other investment banks, including a transaction with one investment bank referred to herein as the "Surplus Investment Bank." 1. ISDA Master Agreement. All provisions contained in the form of the 1992 ISDA Master Agreement (Multicurrency-Cross Border) (the "ISDA Form" or the "Agreement"), will govern this Confirmation except as expressly modified below. This Confirmation shall supplement, form a part of, and be subject to the ISDA Form as if Investment Bank and Time Warner had executed the Agreement (but without any Schedule), except as follows: 3. Special Provisions for Merger Transactions. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein or in the Equity Definitions, to the extent that an Announcement Date for a potential Merger Transaction (as defined below) occurs during the term of this Transaction and such Announcement Date does not cause this Transaction to terminate in whole under the provisions of "Extraordinary Event" in Section 2 above: (a) As soon as practicable following the public announcement of such potential Merger Transaction, Time Warner shall provide Investment Bank with written notice of such announcement. (b) Promptly after request from Investment Bank, Time Warner shall provide Investment Bank with written notice specifying (i) Time Warner's average daily Rule 10b-18 Purchases (as defined in Rule 10b-18) during the three full calendar months immediately preceding the Announcement Date that were not effected through Investment Bank or its affiliates and (ii) the number of Shares purchased pursuant to the proviso in Rule 10b-18(b)(4) under the Exchange Act for the three full calendar months preceding the Announcement Date. Such written notice shall be deemed to be a certification by Time Warner to Investment Bank that such information is true and correct. Time Warner understands that Investment Bank will use this information in calculating the trading volume for purposes of Rule 10b-18. (c) "Merger Transaction" means any merger, acquisition or similar transaction involving a recapitalization of Time Warner as contemplated by Rule 10b-18(a)(13)(iv) under the Exchange Act. 4. Investment Bank Adjustments (a) In the event that Investment Bank reasonably determines either that (i) it is required by any legal, regulatory or self-regulatory requirements (whether or not such requirements are imposed by law or have been voluntarily adopted by Investment Bank, and including, without limitation, Regulation M, Rule 10b-18 ("Rule 10b-18"), Rule 10b-5, Regulation 13D-G and Regulation 14E, in each case under the Exchange Act, the "Requirements"), to refrain from engaging in any hedging activity that it would otherwise engage in on any Trading Day in connection with this Transaction or (ii) any hedging activity that it would otherwise engage in on any Trading Day in connection with this Transaction would cause Investment Bank to breach any term of this Agreement, then such determination shall be treated as a Potential Adjustment Event subject to Calculation Agent Adjustment. The Calculation Agent shall exercise reasonable discretion in making any determinations or adjustments required under the definition of "Calculation Agent Adjustment" and any such determinations or adjustments shall be limited to the determinations and adjustments described in the second paragraph under the heading "Market Disruption Event" in Section 2 above. 8
(b) Investment Bank shall notify Time Warner, in writing, upon the exercise of Investment Bank's right pursuant to Section 4(a), and the notice shall include a reasonable description of the facts and circumstances surrounding Investment Bank's exercise of such right, and Investment Bank shall subsequently notify Time Warner before the commencement of trading on the day on which Investment Bank reasonably believes that the circumstances giving rise to such exercise have changed. 5. Covenants. (a) Time Warner covenants and agrees: (i) that during the term of this Confirmation, neither it nor any of its affiliates shall take any action that would cause the purchase by Investment Bank of any Shares pursuant to this Confirmation during the Calculation Period not to comply with Rule 10b-18 (assuming for the purposes of this paragraph that such Rule were otherwise applicable to such purchases); (ii) to comply with all laws, rules and regulations applicable to it (including, without limitation, the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and the Exchange Act) in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Confirmation; and (iii) that neither it nor any affiliates shall take any action that would cause Regulation M under the Exchange Act ("Regulation M"), to be applicable to any purchases of Shares, or any security for which Shares is a reference security (as defined in Regulation M), by Time Warner or any affiliated purchasers (as defined in Regulation M) during the Calculation Period. (b) Investment Bank covenants and agrees: (i) that, with respect to the purchase of any Shares in connection with this Confirmation, Investment Bank will use reasonable best efforts to comply with the timing, price and volume provisions of Rule 10b-18(b)(2), (3) and (4) under the Exchange Act; and (ii) to comply with all laws, rules and regulations applicable to it (including, without limitation, the Securities Act and the Exchange Act) in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Confirmation. (c) Time Warner and Investment Bank each covenant and agree that each shall report the Transaction as and to the extent required by the Exchange Act. 6. Representations, Warranties and Acknowledgments. (a) Time Warner hereby represents and warrants to Investment Bank that: (i) as of the date hereof, Time Warner (A) is not in possession of any material, nonpublic information with respect to Time Warner or any of its securities, and is entering into this Confirmation in good faith and not as part of a plan or scheme to evade the prohibitions of Rule 10b5-1 under the Exchange Act and (B) agrees not to alter or deviate from the terms of this Confirmation or enter into or alter a corresponding or hedging transaction or position with respect to the Shares (including, without limitation, with respect to any securities convertible or exchangeable into the Shares) during the Calculation Period in a manner contrary to Rule 10b5-1(c)(1)(C); (ii) the transactions contemplated by this Confirmation have been authorized under Time Warner's publicly announced program to repurchase Shares; (iii) Time Warner is not entering into this Confirmation to facilitate a distribution of the Shares (or any security convertible into or exchangeable for Shares) or in connection with a future issuance of 9
securities except pursuant to Time Warner's employee benefit plans and dividend reinvestment plan or other publicly disclosed transaction; (iv) Time Warner is not entering into this Confirmation to create actual or apparent trading activity in the Shares (or any security convertible into or exchangeable for Shares) or to raise or depress the price of the Shares (or any security convertible into or exchangeable for Shares); and (v) Time Warner is as of the date hereof, and after giving effect to the transactions contemplated hereby will be, Solvent. As used in this paragraph, the term "Solvent" means, with respect to a particular date, that on such date (A) the present fair market value (or present fair saleable value) of the assets of Time Warner is not less than the total amount required to pay the liabilities of Time Warner on its total existing debts and liabilities (including contingent liabilities) as they become absolute and matured, (B) Time Warner is able to realize upon its assets and pay its debts and other liabilities, contingent obligations and commitments as they mature and become due in the normal course of business, (C) assuming consummation of the transactions as contemplated by this Confirmation, Time Warner is not incurring debts or liabilities beyond its ability to pay as such debts and liabilities mature, (D) Time Warner is not engaged in any business or transaction, and does not propose to engage in any business or transaction, for which its property would constitute unreasonably small capital after giving due consideration to the prevailing practice in the industry in which Time Warner is engaged and (E) Time Warner is not a defendant in any civil action that could reasonably be expected to result in a judgment that Time Warner is or would become unable to satisfy. (b) Investment Bank and Time Warner each hereby acknowledges that any transactions by Investment Bank in the Shares will be undertaken by Investment Bank, as the case may be, as principal for its own account. All of the actions to be taken by Investment Bank in connection with this Confirmation shall be taken by Investment Bank independently and without any advance or subsequent consultation with Time Warner. 7. Acknowledgements of Time Warner Regarding Hedging and Market Activity. Time Warner agrees, understands and acknowledges that: (a) during the period from (and including) the Trade Date to (and including) the Settlement Date, Investment Bank and its affiliates may buy or sell Shares or other securities or buy or sell options or futures contracts or enter into swaps or other derivative securities in order to adjust its hedge position with respect to the transactions contemplated by this Transaction; (b) Investment Bank and its affiliates also may be active in the market for the Shares other than in connection with hedging activities in relation to the transactions contemplated by this Transaction; (c) Investment Bank shall make its own determination as to whether, when or in what manner any hedging or market activities in Time Warner's securities shall be conducted and shall do so in a manner that it deems appropriate to hedge its price and market risk with respect to Daily 10b-18 VWAP; and (d) any market activities of Investment Bank and its affiliates with respect to the Shares may affect the market price and volatility of the Shares, as well as the Daily 10b-18 VWAP, each in a manner that may be adverse to Time Warner. 8. Non-Confidentiality. (a) Subject to the terms of the Non-Disclosure Agreement, dated the date hereof, between Investment Bank and Time Warner (the "Non-Disclosure Agreement"), Investment Bank and Time Warner hereby agree and acknowledge that Investment Bank has authorized Time Warner to disclose this Transaction to any and all persons, and there are no express or implied agreements, arrangements or understandings to the contrary, and authorizes Time Warner to use any information that Time Warner receives or has received with respect to this Transaction in any manner. (b) Notwithstanding anything herein or in the Non-Disclosure Agreement to the contrary, Investment Bank and Time Warner agree that each (and their employees, representatives, and other agents) may disclose to any and 10
all persons, without limitation of any kind from the commencement of discussions, the U.S. Federal and state income tax treatment and tax structure of the Transaction and all materials of any kind (including opinions or other tax analyses) that are provided to it relating to the tax treatment and tax structure. For this purpose, "tax structure" is limited to facts relevant to the U.S. Federal and state income tax treatment of the Transaction and does not include information relating to the identity of the parties, their affiliates, agents or advisors. 9. Treatment in Bankruptcy; No Setoff; No Collateral. (a) In the event Time Warner becomes the subject of proceedings ("Bankruptcy Proceedings") under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code or any other applicable bankruptcy or insolvency statute from time to time in effect, any rights or claims of Investment Bank hereunder in respect of this Transaction shall rank for all purposes no higher than, but on a parity with, the rights or claims of holders of Shares, and Investment Bank hereby agrees that its rights and claims hereunder shall be subordinated to those of all parties with claims or rights against Time Warner (other than common stockholders) to the extent necessary to assure such ranking. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, after the commencement of Bankruptcy Proceedings, the claims of Investment Bank hereunder shall for all purposes have rights equivalent to the rights of a holder of a percentage of the Shares equal to the aggregate amount of such claims (the "Claim Amount") taken as a percentage of the sum of (i) the Claim Amount and (ii) the aggregate fair market value of all outstanding Shares on the record date for distributions made to the holders of such Shares in the related Bankruptcy Proceedings. Notwithstanding any right it might otherwise have to assert a higher priority claim in any such Bankruptcy Proceedings, Investment Bank shall be entitled to receive a distribution solely to the extent and only in the form that a holder of such percentage of the Shares would be entitled to receive in such Bankruptcy Proceedings, and, from and after the commencement of such Bankruptcy Proceedings, Investment Bank expressly waives (i) any other rights or distributions to which it might otherwise be entitled in such Bankruptcy Proceedings in respect of its rights and claims hereunder and (ii) any rights of setoff it might otherwise be entitled to assert in respect of such rights and claims. (b) Notwithstanding any provision of this Confirmation or any other agreement between the parties to the contrary, neither the obligations of Time Warner nor the obligations of Investment Bank hereunder are secured by any collateral, security interest, pledge or lien. (c) The parties hereto agree and acknowledge that Investment Bank is a "financial participant" within the meaning of Section 101(22) of Title 11 of the United States Code (the "Bankruptcy Code"). The parties hereto further agree and acknowledge that this Transaction is either (i) a "securities contract" as such term is defined in Section 741(7) of the Bankruptcy Code, in which case each payment and delivery made pursuant to this Transaction is a "settlement payment", as such term is defined in Section 741(8) of the Bankruptcy Code, and that Investment Bank is entitled to the protections afforded by, among other sections, Sections 362(b)(6), 546(e) and 555 of the Bankruptcy Code, or (ii) a "swap agreement", as such term is defined in Section 101(53B) of the Bankruptcy Code, in which case each party is a "swap participant", as such term is defined in Section 101(53C) of the Bankruptcy Code, and that Investment Bank is entitled to the protections afforded by, among other sections, Sections 362(b)(17), 546(g) and 560 of the Bankruptcy Code. 10. WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL. EACH PARTY HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ANY AND ALL RIGHTS TO TRIAL BY JURY WITH RESPECT TO ANY LEGAL PROCEEDINGS ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS CONFIRMATION OR ANY TRANSACTION CONTEMPLATED HEREBY. 11. Account Details. Account for Payments to Investment Bank: [ ] [ ] [ ] Account for Payments to Time Warner: [ ] [ ] [ ] - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 11
12. Notices. All notices and other communications made pursuant to the terms of this Confirmation shall be given, in writing, between the parties hereto by e-mail or facsimile, followed by overnight mail, to the following addresses: If to Time Warner: Time Warner Inc. One Time Warner Center New York, New York 10019-8016 Attention: [ ] Fax: [ ] E-mail: [ ] with a copy to: [ ] E-mail: [ ] Fax: [ ] If to Investment Bank: [Bank Name] [Address] [Address] Attention: [ ] Fax: [ ] E-mail: [ ] with a copy to: [ ] E-mail: [ ] Fax: [ ] 12
Please confirm that the foregoing correctly sets forth the terms of our agreement by executing this Confirmation and returning it to us. Confirmed as of the date first written above: Time Warner Inc. [Investment Bank] By:_______________________________ By:________________________________ Name: Name: Title: Title:


