FILE:TWX/TWX-8K-20070604162311.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 ---------------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of Earliest Event Reported): May 30, 2007 TIME WARNER INC. (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter) Delaware 1-15062 13-4099534 -------- ------- ---------- (State or Other Jurisdiction (Commission File Number) (IRS Employer of Incorporation) Identification No.) One Time Warner Center, New York, New York 10019 (Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code) 212-484-8000 (Registrant's Telephone Number, Including Area Code) Not Applicable (Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report) Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below): [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year. On May 30, 2007, Time Warner Inc. (the "Company") filed a Certificate of Amendment to the Company's Restated Certificate of Incorporation with the Secretary of State of Delaware. The Certificate of Amendment became effective upon filing. The Company included a proposal in the Company's definitive Proxy Statement dated April 9, 2007 seeking stockholder approval to amend the Restated Certificate of Incorporation to eliminate certain super-majority vote requirements. The Company's proposal was approved by the stockholders at the Company's 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on May 18, 2007. The Certificate of Amendment amended Articles VII and VIII of the Company's Restated Certificate of Incorporation. The amendment to Article VII eliminated the 80% super-majority vote requirements for stockholders to amend the Company's By-laws and replaced it with a majority vote standard that allows holders of a majority or more of the combined voting power of all classes and series of capital stock entitled generally to vote in the election of directors, voting together as a single class, to adopt, amend, alter or repeal any provision of the Company's By-laws. The amendment to Article VIII removed a similar 80% super-majority vote standard to amend, alter or repeal Article VII. A copy of the Certificate of Amendment as filed with the Secretary of State of Delaware is filed as Exhibit 3.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is hereby incorporated by reference. Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits. Exhibit Description 3.1 Certificate of Amendment, dated May 30, 2007, to Time Warner Inc.'s Restated Certificate of Incorporation, filed with the Secretary of State of Delaware on May 30, 2007.
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. TIME WARNER INC. By: /s/ Wayne H. Pace _______________________________ Name: Wayne H. Pace Title: Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Date: June 4, 2007
EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit Description 3.1 Certificate of Amendment, dated May 30, 2007, to Time Warner Inc.'s Restated Certificate of Incorporation, filed with the Secretary of State of Delaware on May 30, 2007.

Exhibit 3.1 CERTIFICATE OF AMENDMENT TO THE RESTATED CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION OF TIME WARNER INC. Time Warner Inc., a corporation duly organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "Corporation"), does hereby certify that: 1. The Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation is hereby amended by deleting Article VII thereof and inserting the following in lieu thereof: "ARTICLE VII In furtherance and not in limitation of the powers conferred upon it by law, the Board of Directors is expressly authorized to adopt, repeal, alter or amend the By-laws of the Corporation by the vote of a majority of the entire Board of Directors or such greater vote as shall be specified in the By-laws of the Corporation. In addition to any requirements of law and any other provision of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation or any resolution or resolutions of the Board of Directors adopted pursuant to Article IV of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation (and notwithstanding the fact that a lesser percentage may be specified by law, this Restated Certificate of Incorporation or any such resolution or resolutions), the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding shares of all classes and series of capital stock of the Corporation entitled generally to vote in the election of directors of the Corporation ("Voting Stock"), voting together as a single class, shall be required for stockholders to adopt, amend, alter or repeal any provision of the By-laws of the Corporation." 2. The Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation is hereby amended by deleting Article VIII thereof and inserting the following in lieu thereof: "ARTICLE VIII In addition to any requirements of law and any other provisions of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation or any resolution or resolutions of the Board of Directors adopted pursuant to Article IV of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation (and notwithstanding the fact that a lesser percentage may be specified by law, this Restated Certificate of Incorporation or any such resolution or resolutions), the affirmative vote of the holders of 80% or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding shares of Voting Stock, voting together as a single class, shall be required to amend, alter or repeal, or adopt any provision inconsistent with, this Article VIII, Article IX, or Section 5 of Article IV, of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation. Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Article VIII, the Corporation reserves the right to amend, alter or repeal any provision contained in this Restated Certificate of Incorporation, in the manner now or hereafter prescribed by statute, and all rights conferred upon stockholders herein are subject to this reservation." 3. The foregoing amendments were duly adopted in accordance with the provisions of Section 242 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Time Warner Inc. has caused this Certificate of Amendment to be executed by a duly authorized officer on this 30th day of May, 2007. TIME WARNER INC. By: /s/ Brenda C. Karickhoff __________________________ Name: Brenda C. Karickhoff Title: Senior Vice President and Deputy General Counsel


