FILE:TWX/TWX-8K-20080521082049.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On May 21, 2008, Time Warner Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Time Warner"), issued a joint press release with Time Warner Cable Inc., a Delaware corporation ("TWC"), announcing that Time Warner had approved a separation agreement (the "Separation Agreement") with TWC, Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P., TW NY Cable Holding Inc., Warner Communications Inc., Historic TW Inc. and American Television and Communications Corporation. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
On May 21, 2008, beginning at 8:30 a.m. ET, Time Warner and TWC will host a conference call for investors to discuss the Separation Agreement and the transactions contemplated in the Separation Agreement (the "Transactions"). There will be a live audio webcast of the call available via Time Warner's Web site at www.timewarner.com/investors. A copy of the presentation slides (the "Presentation"), as well as reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures (the "Reconciliations") used in the Presentation, are attached as Exhibit 99.2 and Exhibit 99.3, respectively. The information contained in the Presentation and the Reconciliations may also be used subsequently in other settings, including, but not limited to conversations or meetings with investors and media, and communications with employees, government authorities and other constituencies.
The information included in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the press release, the Presentation and the Reconciliations, attached as Exhibit 99.1, Exhibit 99.2 and Exhibit 99.3, respectively, is provided to satisfy the public disclosure requirements of Regulation FD. This information is being "furnished" to the Securities and Exchange Commission and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Securities Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Exchange Act or the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This Current Report on Form 8-K includes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about the benefits of the Transactions involving Time Warner and TWC and their subsidiaries, including future financial and operating results, the plans, objectives, expectations and intentions of Time Warner and TWC, and other statements that are not historical facts. These statements are based on the current expectations and beliefs of the management of Time Warner and TWC, and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances.
Time Warner cautions readers that any forward-looking information is not a guarantee of future performance and that actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by the statements herein, due to the conditions to the consummation of the Transactions, changes in economic, business, competitive, technological, strategic or other regulatory factors, as well as factors affecting the operation of the businesses of Time Warner and TWC. More detailed information about certain of these and other factors may be found in filings by Time Warner with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, in the sections entitled "Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements" and "Risk Factors." In particular, the following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements: the failure to obtain governmental approvals; the failure to receive required tax rulings or tax opinions; and the risk that the anticipated benefits from the Transactions may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected. Time Warner is under no obligation to, and expressly disclaims any obligation to, update or alter the forward-looking statements contained in this document, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: May 21, 2008
 

Exhibit 99.1
For Immediate Release:
Time Warner Inc. (NYSE:TWX) and Time Warner Cable Inc. (NYSE:TWC) today announced that their respective boards of directors have approved an agreement that will result in the complete legal and structural separation of the two companies.
NEW YORK, May 21, 2008 
Time Warner President and Chief Executive Officer Jeff Bewkes said: "This is the right step for Time Warner and Time Warner Cable stockholders. After the transaction, each company will have greater strategic, financial and operational flexibility and will be better positioned to compete. Separating the two companies also will help their management teams focus on realizing the full potential of the respective businesses and will provide investors with greater choice in how they own this portfolio of assets. We're bullish on Time Warner Cable's prospects, but its strategic goals and capital needs are increasingly different from those of our other businesses."
Mr. Bewkes continued: "Once the transaction is completed, Time Warner will have a streamlined portfolio of leading businesses focused on creating and distributing our branded content across traditional and digital platforms worldwide. Our company will also have increased flexibility in its capital structure. We'll continue to balance investment opportunities against the benefits of returning capital directly to our stockholders, within a disciplined financial framework intended to maintain solid investment-grade credit ratings."
Time Warner Cable President and Chief Executive Officer Glenn Britt said: "Today's announcement marks the next important step in Time Warner Cable's evolution as a stand-alone, public company. In a single transaction we increase our strategic and financial flexibility, simplify our capital structure, enhance the public float and liquidity of our stock and return substantial capital to our stockholders. Importantly, we expect to accomplish all of this while maintaining solid investment-grade credit ratings. Paying a sizeable, one-time dividend is a reflection of our continued confidence in our growth prospects. Our separation from Time Warner also enhances our ability to compete aggressively and perform well in a highly competitive environment by delivering the innovative telecommunications services that our customers need, while making prudent investments to deliver continued value for our stockholders."
The transaction will include the following steps:
1
 
Time Warner Cable expects to fund the one-time dividend through its existing revolving credit facility and $9 billion from a new, committed two-year bridge term financing from a syndicate of banks. In addition, Time Warner has agreed to provide a commitment for a supplemental two-year term loan of up to $3.5 billion to enable Time Warner Cable to repay the bridge financing at its maturity, in the unlikely event Time Warner Cable has not replaced the bridge financing with long-term financing. At the completion of the transaction, Time Warner and Time Warner Cable both expect to have solid investment-grade credit ratings.
The transaction is contingent on a favorable IRS ruling on its tax treatment as well as customary regulatory reviews and local franchise approvals. The transaction is expected to close in the fourth quarter.
The Time Warner Cable board of directors approved the transactions following a unanimous recommendation by the members of the Special Committee of Independent Directors that was formed for the purpose of reviewing, considering, evaluating and participating in the negotiations concerning the transactions.
Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Goldman, Sachs & Co. are serving as lead financial advisers to Time Warner. Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP is serving as legal adviser to Time Warner. Additionally, BNP Paribas Securities Corp., Banc of America Securities LLC, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC are providing financial advice to the management of Time Warner. Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated is serving as financial adviser to Time Warner Cable, and Evercore Group L.L.C. is serving as financial adviser to the Special Committee of Time Warner Cable's board of directors. Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP is serving as legal adviser to Time Warner Cable, and Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP is serving as legal adviser to the Special Committee.
About Time Warner Inc.
Time Warner Inc. is a leading media and entertainment company, whose businesses include interactive services, cable systems, filmed entertainment, television networks and publishing.
About Time Warner Cable Inc.
Time Warner Cable is the second-largest cable operator in the U.S., with technologically advanced, well-clustered systems located mainly in five geographic areas  New York State (including New York City), the Carolinas, Ohio, southern California (including Los Angeles) and Texas. As of
2
 
March 31, 2008, Time Warner Cable served approximately 14.7 million customers who subscribed to one or more of its video, high-speed data and voice services, representing approximately 33.0 million revenue generating units.
Information on Time Warner & Time Warner Cable Conference Call
Time Warner and Time Warner Cable will hold a joint conference call at 8:30 am ET on Wednesday, May 21, 2008.
The dialing instructions for the call are:
In the United States: 888-455-8240 Outside the U.S.: 773-799-3437 Passcode: 052108
Please dial in at least ten to fifteen minutes before the call's scheduled start to ensure you are connected in time for the beginning of the call.
A replay will be available starting approximately two hours after the call has ended and will run through midnight ET May 23, 2008, at the following numbers:
Inside the United States: 866-378-0650 Outside the U.S.: 203-369-0320 No passcode is required for either of the replay numbers.
You are also invited to listen to the call live on Time Warner's Web site at or Time Warner Cable's Web site at . There will be a replay available beginning approximately two hours after the call has ended.
www.timewarner.com/investors
www.timewarnercable.com/investors
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This document includes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about the benefits to Time Warner and Time Warner Cable of the separation. These statements are based on the current expectations or beliefs of both companies' management, and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by the statements herein depending on whether the separation transaction is consummated in the manner contemplated, or at all, as well as due to changes in economic, business, competitive, technological, strategic and/or regulatory factors, and other factors affecting the operation of the businesses of Time Warner and Time Warner Cable. More detailed information about these factors may be found in filings by Time Warner and Time Warner Cable with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including their most recent Annual Reports on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. Time Warner and Time Warner Cable are under no obligation to, and expressly disclaim any such obligation to, update or alter their forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
3
 
Contacts:
4

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.3
 
 
 
Notes:


