FILE:TWX/TWX-8K-20080806071953.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
     On August 6, 2008, Time Warner Inc. ("Time Warner") issued a press release setting forth its financial results for its second quarter ended June 30, 2008. A copy of Time Warner's press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report. Time Warner does not intend for this Item 2.02 or Exhibit 99.1 to be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or to be incorporated by reference into filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Time Warner Inc. (NYSE:TWX) today reported financial results for its second quarter ended June 30, 2008.
NEW YORK, August 6, 2008 
Chief Executive Officer Jeff Bewkes said: "I'm pleased by the overall performance of our businesses so far this year, particularly in light of the challenging economic environment, and that we're on track to achieve our business outlook. This resilience reflects the strength of our brands, our expertise and our scale, which we think give us a sustained advantage in creating, packaging and distributing the industry's most compelling content  such as and ."
The Dark Knight, Sex and the City
The Closer
Mr. Bewkes continued: "We've also made significant progress in our top structural initiatives. During the quarter, we agreed to the terms of our planned separation from Time Warner Cable. In addition, we've made the key decisions that will enable us to run AOL's access and audience businesses separately beginning in 2009. As we continue to reshape Time Warner, we'll increasingly focus on our goal to create and manage high-quality branded content, across multiple platforms around the world, at the highest returns possible for our stockholders."
Company Results
In the quarter, Revenues climbed 5% over the same period in 2007 to $11.6 billion, led by increases at the Filmed Entertainment, Cable and Networks segments.
Adjusted Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization rose 4% to $3.2 billion. Growth at the Cable, Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments more than offset declines at the AOL and Publishing segments. Operating Income was up 1% to $1.9 billion.
For the first six months, Cash Provided by Operations was $4.9 billion, and Free Cash Flow totaled $2.9 billion (representing a 46% conversion rate of Adjusted Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization). As of June 30, 2008, Net Debt was $34.6 billion, down $1.0 billion from $35.6 billion at the end of 2007, due primarily to the generation of Free Cash Flow.
Diluted Income per Common Share from Continuing Operations was $0.22 for the three months ended June 30, 2008, compared to $0.25 in last year's second quarter. The current and prior year amounts included certain items affecting comparability that are described in detail in the Consolidated Reported Net Income and Per Share Results section below. The net impact of such items was to decrease the current year quarter's results by $0.02 per diluted common share and to increase the prior year quarter's results by $0.03 per diluted common share.
 
Segment Performances
Presentation of Financial Information
The schedule below reflects Time Warner's financial performance for the three and six months ended June 30, by line of business (millions).
In the presentation of financial information in this release, Adjusted Operating Income (Loss) before Depreciation and Amortization excludes the impact of noncash impairments of goodwill, intangible and fixed assets, as well as gains and losses on asset sales and amounts related to securities litigation and government investigations. Operating Income includes these amounts in their respective periods. Refer to the reconciliations of Adjusted Operating Income (Loss) before Depreciation and Amortization to Operating Income (Loss) before Depreciation and Amortization and the reconciliations of Operating Income (Loss) before Depreciation and Amortization to Operating Income (Loss) in this release for details.
 
2
 
Presented below is a discussion of Time Warner's segments for the second quarter of 2008. Unless otherwise noted, the dollar amounts in parentheses represent year-over-year changes.
AOL
declined 16% ($196 million) to $1.1 billion, reflecting a 29% decrease ($200 million) in Subscription revenues, offset in part by a 2% increase ($8 million) in Advertising revenues. The decline in Subscription revenues was due primarily to a decrease in domestic AOL brand subscribers, resulting from AOL's strategy to offer its e-mail and other products free of charge to Internet consumers. Advertising revenues benefited from growth in sales of advertising on third-party Internet sites and paid-search advertising, offset partly by a decline in display advertising on AOL Network sites.
Revenues
decreased 28% ($135 million) to $350 million, as a result of lower Subscription revenues and higher traffic acquisition costs ($48 million), offset partially by reduced marketing, network and other expenses.
Adjusted Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization
declined 36% ($130 million) to $230 million, due largely to lower Adjusted Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization.
Operating Income
Key Operating Metrics
During the quarter, AOL had 111 million average monthly domestic unique visitors and 56 billion domestic page views, according to comScore Media Metrix, which translates into 167 average monthly domestic page views per unique visitor.
As of June 30, 2008, the AOL service had 8.1 million U.S. access subscribers, a decline of 604,000 from the prior quarter and 2.8 million from the year-ago quarter, reflecting subscriber losses due in part to AOL's strategy to prioritize its advertising business.
CABLE
(Time Warner Cable)
increased 7% ($284 million) to $4.3 billion. Subscription revenues grew 7% ($277 million) to $4.1 billion. Video revenues were up 2% ($57 million) to $2.6 billion, driven by continued growth in digital video services and video price increases, offset in part by a decrease in pay-per-view event revenues. High-speed data revenues rose 12% ($108 million) to $1.0 billion, as a result of continued year-over-year high-speed data subscriber growth. Voice revenues were up 39% ($112 million) to $397 million, reflecting a net increase in Digital Phone subscribers. Advertising revenues grew 3% ($7 million) to $233 million.
Revenues
rose 9% ($126 million) to $1.6 billion, benefiting from revenue growth, offset partially by higher video programming, employee, voice and marketing costs. Video programming expenses increased 6% ($57 million) to $939 million, due to contractual rate increases and an increase in the percentage of basic video subscribers who also subscribe to expanded tiers of video services. Employee costs increased, resulting primarily from headcount and salary increases, offset partly by lower equity-based compensation expense, due mainly to the timing of 2008 grants. Voice costs rose 21% ($23 million) reflecting primarily growth in Digital Phone subscribers, offset partially by a decline in per-subscriber connectivity costs. Marketing expenses grew as a result of intensified marketing efforts. Additionally, the prior year period included $6 million of merger-related and restructuring expenses.
Adjusted Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization
was up 4% ($27 million) to $738 million, due to higher Adjusted Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization, offset partly by increased depreciation expense ($53 million) and a noncash impairment of certain non-core cable systems held for sale ($45 million).
Operating Income
3
 
Key Operating Metrics
Revenue generating units ("RGUs") exceeded 33.6 million  reflecting net additions of 656,000, a record for any second quarter  driven by year-over-year improvement in net additions in all RGU categories. Customer relationships totaled 14.7 million, and Triple Play subscribers surpassed 2.8 million (or 19% of total customer relationships), benefiting from 214,000 net additions during the second quarter.
 
FILMED ENTERTAINMENT
(Warner Bros. Entertainment & New Line Cinema)
climbed 14% ($311 million) to $2.6 billion, led by the strong home video performances of Warner Bros.' , , and , as well as higher international television licensing fees on theatrical product. Also contributing to the increase was growth in interactive video games, including the release of .
Revenues
I Am Legend
The Bucket List
10,000 B.C.
Fool's Gold
LEGO Indiana Jones
increased 13% ($22 million) to $196 million, reflecting strong revenue growth, higher contributions from television product and lower film valuation adjustments, offset partially by higher print and advertising expenses.
Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization
grew 16% ($13 million) to $94 million, due mainly to an increase in Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization.
Operating Income
4
 
NETWORKS
(Turner Broadcasting & HBO)
rose 9% ($225 million) to $2.8 billion, with growth of 10% ($158 million) in Subscription revenues and 11% ($89 million) in Advertising revenues, offset partly by an 11% decline ($23 million) in Content revenues. Subscription revenues benefited primarily from higher rates at both Turner and HBO and, to a lesser extent, more subscribers for Turner's networks, as well as the impact of international acquisitions. Driving the increase in Advertising revenues were Turner's domestic entertainment and news networks, reflecting mainly audience growth and higher CPMs (advertising rates per thousand viewers).
Revenues
grew 15% ($114 million) to $860 million, fueled largely by increased revenues, offset in part by higher programming expenses. Programming expenses rose 8% to $1.1 billion, due primarily to an increase in sports programming costs at Turner, related particularly to NBA programming, higher original programming costs at both HBO and Turner, as well as programming costs associated with international acquisitions. Also contributing to growth was the absence of $16 million of restructuring and severance charges in the prior year quarter at HBO.
Adjusted Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization
climbed 18% ($115 million) to $749 million, resulting mainly from the increase in Adjusted Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization. The current year quarter included an $18 million noncash impairment of GameTap as a result of Turner's decision to sell its on-line video game business, and the prior year quarter included a $34 million noncash impairment of the Court TV tradename as a result of rebranding the network's name to truTV.
Operating Income
PUBLISHING
(Time Inc.)
declined 6% ($77 million) to $1.2 billion, reflecting a 9% decrease ($66 million) in Advertising revenues and a 10% decline ($14 million) in Other revenues, offset slightly by a 1% increase ($4 million) in Subscription revenues. The decrease in Advertising revenues was due primarily to reduced domestic print magazine revenues and declines in custom publishing revenues, offset partially by higher online revenues ($19 million), led by , and . Other revenues were reduced by lower sales at Synapse and Southern Living at Home.
Revenues
People.com
Time.com
CNNMoney.com
decreased 11% ($33 million) to $269 million, due largely to the decrease in Advertising revenues, offset partly by increases at international print magazines, lower overhead expenses and the impact of the 2007 closures of and magazines.
Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization
LIFE
Business 2.0
declined 15% ($38 million) to $218 million, resulting mainly from a decrease in Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization.
Operating Income
CONSOLIDATED REPORTED NET INCOME AND PER SHARE RESULTS
For the three months ended June 30, 2008, Income from Continuing Operations was $795 million, or $0.22 per diluted common share, and Net Income was $792 million, or $0.22 per diluted common share. This compares to Income from Continuing Operations in the prior year quarter of $945 million, or $0.25 per diluted common share, and Net Income in the prior year quarter of $1.1 billion, or $0.28 per diluted common share.
Certain pretax items in the current year quarter affected comparability, including $51 million of direct transaction costs (e.g., legal and professional fees) and financing costs related to the planned separation of Time Warner Cable from the Company, a $45 million noncash impairment of certain non-core cable
5
 
systems held for sale at Time Warner Cable and an $18 million noncash impairment of GameTap as a result of Turner's decision to sell its on-line video game business.
Certain pretax items in the prior year quarter similarly affected comparability, including a gain of approximately $100 million from the sale of Time Inc.'s 50% ownership of Bookspan, offset partly by a $34 million noncash impairment of the Court TV tradename as a result of rebranding the network's name to truTV. The prior year quarter also included $77 million of tax benefits, related primarily to the realization of tax attribute carryforwards and changes in certain state tax laws.
In the aggregate, these items affecting comparability had the net effect of decreasing the current year quarter's Income from Continuing Operations by $55 million (net of taxes), or $0.02 per diluted common share, and increasing the prior year quarter by $118 million (net of taxes), or $0.03 per diluted common share. Excluding such items, Income from Continuing Operations increased, reflecting growth in Adjusted Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization and lower interest expense, offset partly by higher depreciation and amortization expenses. Excluding such items, Diluted Income per Common Share from Continuing Operations increased in the current year quarter compared to the prior year quarter, driven by the increase in Income from Continuing Operations, as well as a decrease in average diluted common shares as a result of common stock repurchases made under the stock repurchase programs.
STOCK REPURCHASE PROGRAM UPDATE
From the announcement of the Company's $5 billion stock repurchase program on August 1, 2007, through August 5, 2008, the Company repurchased approximately 154 million shares of common stock for approximately $2.8 billion. These amounts are unchanged from those reported in the Company's first- quarter 2008 earnings release issued on April 30, 2008.
Use of Operating Income (Loss) before Depreciation and Amortization, Adjusted Operating Income (Loss) before Depreciation and Amortization and Free Cash Flow
The Company utilizes Operating Income (Loss) before Depreciation and Amortization, among other measures, to evaluate the performance of its businesses. The Company also evaluates the performance of its businesses using Operating Income (Loss) before Depreciation and Amortization excluding the impact of noncash impairments of goodwill, intangible and fixed assets, as well as gains and losses on asset sales, and amounts related to securities litigation and government investigations (referred to herein as Adjusted Operating Income (Loss) before Depreciation and Amortization). Both Operating Income (Loss) before Depreciation and Amortization and Adjusted Operating Income (Loss) before Depreciation and Amortization are considered important indicators of the operational strength of the Company's businesses. Operating Income (Loss) before Depreciation and Amortization eliminates the uneven effect across all business segments of considerable amounts of noncash depreciation of tangible assets and amortization of certain intangible assets that were primarily recognized in business combinations. A limitation of this measure, however, is that it does not reflect the periodic costs of certain capitalized tangible and intangible assets used in generating revenues in the Company's businesses. Moreover, Adjusted Operating Income (Loss) before Depreciation and Amortization does not reflect gains and losses on asset sales or amounts related to securities litigation and government investigations or any impairment charge related to goodwill, intangible assets and fixed assets. Management evaluates the investments in such tangible and intangible assets through other financial measures, such as capital expenditure budgets, investment spending levels and return on capital.
Free Cash Flow is Cash Provided by Operations (as defined by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles) plus payments related to securities litigation and government investigations (net of any insurance recoveries) and excess tax benefits from the exercise of stock options, less cash flow attributable to discontinued operations, capital expenditures and product development costs, principal payments on capital leases and partnership distributions, if any. The Company uses Free Cash Flow to evaluate its businesses
6
 
and this measure is considered an important indicator of the Company's liquidity, including its ability to reduce net debt, make strategic investments, pay dividends to common shareholders and repurchase stock. A limitation of this measure, however, is that it does not reflect payments made in connection with the securities litigation and government investigations, which reduce liquidity.
Operating Income (Loss) before Depreciation and Amortization, Adjusted Operating Income (Loss) before Depreciation and Amortization and Free Cash Flow should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, the Company's Operating Income, Net Income and various cash flow measures (e.g., Cash Provided by Operations), as well as other measures of financial performance and liquidity reported in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
About Time Warner Inc.
Time Warner Inc. is a leading media and entertainment company, whose businesses include interactive services, cable systems, filmed entertainment, television networks and publishing.
Information on Time Warner's Business Outlook Release and Conference Call
Time Warner Inc. issued a separate release today regarding its 2008 full-year business outlook.
The Company's conference call can be heard live at 10:30 am ET on Wednesday, August 6, 2008. To listen to the call, visit www.timewarner.com/investors or AOL Keyword: IR.
Information on Time Warner Cable's Releases and Conference Call
Time Warner Cable issued separate releases today regarding its second-quarter 2008 results as well as its updated 2008 full-year business outlook.
Time Warner Cable's conference call can be heard live at 8:30 am ET on Wednesday, August 6, 2008. To listen to the call, visit www.timewarnercable.com/investors or AOL Keyword: TWC IR.
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This document includes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current expectations or beliefs, and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by the statements herein due to changes in economic, business, competitive, technological, strategic and/or regulatory factors, the planned separation of Time Warner Cable from the Company and other factors affecting the operation of the businesses of Time Warner Inc. More detailed information about these factors may be found in filings by Time Warner with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. Time Warner is under no obligation to, and expressly disclaims any such obligation to, update or alter its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Contacts:
7
 
8
 
9
 
 
10
 
Three Months Ended June 30, 2008
Three Months Ended June 30, 2007
 
11
 
Six Months Ended June 30, 2008
Six Months Ended June 30, 2007
 
12
 
Three Months Ended June 30, 2008
Three Months Ended June 30, 2007
 
13
 
Six Months Ended June 30, 2008
Six Months Ended June 30, 2007
 
14
 
 
15


