FILE:TWX/TWX-8K-20090313164913.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
Item 2.01 Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
 
At 8:00 p.m. on March 12, 2009 (the ), Time Warner Inc. ( or the ), disposed of all 300,333,333 shares of Time Warner Cable Inc. () common stock, par value $.01 per share (), then held by it.  The disposition was made pursuant to a separation agreement entered into on May 20, 2008, (previously filed on May 27, 2008) among Time Warner, TWC and certain of their subsidiaries (the ) for the purpose of achieving the legal and structural separation of TWC from Time Warner (the ).
Distribution Record Date
Time Warner
Company
TWC
TWC Common Stock
Separation Agreement
Separation
 
Pursuant to the Separation Agreement,
Time Warner announced on
February 19, 2009
that it elected to complete the
S
eparation
 
as a pro rata dividend
of all shares of TWC Common Stock held by Time Warner
in a spin-off (the
Distribution
)
to Time Warner stockholders
.  As previously reported, Time Warner issued a press release
on
February 26, 2009
announcing that its Board of Directors approved the Distribution to its stockholders of record on
the Distribution Record Date (
the
Eligible Holders
).
 
O
n March 12, 2009
and prior to the Distribution Record Date
, TWC
, in accordance with the terms of the Separation Agreement, paid
a special cash dividend of $10.27 per share
to all holders
of TWC Class A Common
 
Stock and TWC Class B C
ommon Stock
as of the close of business on March 11, 2009
(aggregating $10.855 
billion) (the
Special Dividend
)
that resulted
in the
 
receipt by Time Warner of approximately $9.25 billion.
 
On March 12, 2009, after the receipt by Time Warner of its pro rata share of the Special Dividend and prior to the Distribution Record Date, TWC filed its second amended and restated certificate of incorporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware, pursuant to which, among other things, each outstanding share of TWC Class A Common Stock and TWC Class B Common Stock was automatically converted into one share of TWC Common Stock.  In addition, on
March 12, 2009
, after filing its second amended and restated certificate of incorporation and prior to the Distribution Record Date, TWC filed an amendment to its second amended and restat
ed certificate of incorporation
to effect a 1-for-3 reverse stock split of the outstanding and treasury shares of TWC Common Stock.  
 
Pursuant to the terms of the Separation Agreement, concurrently with the receipt of its pro rata share of the Special Dividend on March 12, 2009, Time Warner deposited the shares of TWC Class A Common Stock and TWC Class B Common Stock that it then held with Computershare Inc. to be held (i) for the benefit of Time Warner until the Distribution Record Date and (ii) thereafter, for the benefit of the Eligible Holders until March 27, 2009, at which time the shares of TWC Common Stock will be distributed to the Eligible Holders.  ractional shares of TWC Common Stock will not be distributed to the Eligible Holders.  Instead, the fractional shares of TWC Common Stock will be aggregated and sold in the open market, with the net proceeds distributed pro rata in the form of cash payments to Eligible Holders who would otherwise be entitled to fractional shares of TWC Common Stock. Time Warner has received a private letter ruling from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and an opinion of counsel stating that the Distribution generally qualifies as a tax-free distribution under U.S. Federal income tax law, except with respect to cash received in lieu of fractional shares of TWC Common Stock.
As described above, while on deposit with Computershare Inc., the TWC Class A Common Stock and TWC Class B Common Stock were automatically converted into TWC Common Stock, and, as a result of the reverse stock split, Time Warners ownership of 901 million shares of TWC Common Stock was proportionally reduced to 300,333,333 shares of TWC Common Stock.  F
 
After the Distribution Record Date, Time Warner does not beneficially own any shares of TWC Common Stock and, following such date, will not consolidate TWCs financial results for the purpose of its own financial reporting. The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information of Time Warner (reflecting the Separation, among other things) and related notes thereto are filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation Under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
 
In order to fund the Special Dividend described in Item 2.01, on March 12, 2009, TWC borrowed (i) the full committed amount of $1.932 billion under the TWC Bridge Facility (as defined below), all of which was used to pay a portion of the Special Dividend, and (ii) $3.7 billion under the TWC Revolving Facility (as defined below), of which approximately $3.3 billion was used to pay a portion of the Special Dividend and approximately $0.4 billion of which TWC intends to use for general corporate purposes.  TWC funded the remainder of the Special Dividend by using approximately $5.6 billion of cash on hand.
 
As previously reported, on June 30, 2008 in connection with its entry into the Separation Agreement, TWC entered into an unsecured credit agreement (the ) for a $9.0 billion term loan facility with an initial maturity date that is 364 days after the borrowing date (the ).  As a result of TWCs issuance of a total of $7.0 billion in aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes and debentures in two underwritten public offerings completed on June 19, 2008 and November 18, 2008, the original commitments of the TWC lenders under the TWC Bridge Facility were reduced to $2.070 billion, as described in the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the ) on November 13, 2008.  The commitments of the lenders under the TWC Bridge Facility were further reduced to $1.932 billion by an amendment to the Bridge Credit Agreement entered into on March 2, 2009 among TWC, Deutsche Bank AG New York Branch, as Administrative Agent, Lehman Brothers Commercial Bank () and various lenders that terminated the commitment of LBCB in exchange for a partial refund of fees previously paid by TWC to LBCB.
Bridge Credit Agreement
TWC Bridge Facility
SEC
LBCB
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, as previously reported, on February 15, 2006, TWC entered into a senior unsecured credit agreement (the ) for a $6.0 billion revolving credit facility with a maturity date of February 15, 2011 (the ).  The commitments of the lenders under the TWC Revolving Facility were reduced to $5.875 billion by an amendment to the Revolving Facility Credit Agreement entered into on March 3, 2009 among TWC, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Lehman Brothers Bank, FSB () and various lenders that terminated the commitment of LBB in exchange for a waiver of certain fees payable by TWC to LBB.
Revolving Facility Credit Agreement
TWC Revolving Facility
LBB
 
For a brief description of the material terms and conditions of the Bridge Credit Agreement and the Revolving Facility Credit Agreement reference is made to Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2008 included in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, which is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.  Such description is further amended by the disclosure set forth in this Item 2.03.
 
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K includes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about the plans, objectives, expectations and intentions of Time Warner, including the benefits of the Separation and other related transactions involving Time Warner and TWC and their subsidiaries, and other statements that are not historical facts. These statements are based on the current expectations and beliefs of Time Warners management, and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Time Warner cautions readers that any forward-looking information is not a guarantee of future performance and that actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by the statements herein, due to changes in economic, business, competitive, technological, strategic or other regulatory factors, as well as factors affecting the operation of the businesses of Time Warner and TWC. More detailed information about certain of these and other factors may be found in filings by Time Warner with the SEC, including its most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K in the sections entitled Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors.  Various factors could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements including, without limitation, the risk that the anticipated benefits from the transactions may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected. Time Warner is under no obligation to, and expressly disclaims any obligation to, update or alter the forward-looking statements contained in this document, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date:  March 13, 2009
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
TWC Separation.
 On May 20, 2008, Time Warner Inc. ( or the ), Time Warner Cable Inc. () and certain of their subsidiaries entered into a separation agreement (the ) for the purpose of achieving the legal and structural separation of TWC from Time Warner (the ).  Pursuant to the Separation Agreement and related documents, (a) Time Warner completed certain internal restructuring transactions, (b) and (c) subsequent to its receipt of its portion of the Special Dividend, at 8:00 p.m. on March 12, 2009 (the ), Time Warner disposed of all its shares of TWC common stock by transferring them to an account in the name of Computershare Inc., as distribution agent for the benefit of its stockholders of record on the Distribution Record Date (the ).  Computershare will hold such shares for the benefit of the Eligible Holders from the Distribution Record Date until March 27, 2009, at which time all of the shares of TWC common stock previously held by Time Warner will be distributed to the Eligible Holders as a pro rata dividend in a spin-off (the ).  will be reflected in the Companys consolidated financial statements as discontinued operations
Time Warner
Company
TWC
Separation Agreement
Separation
on March 12, 2009, TWC paid a special cash dividend of $10.27 per share of TWC Class A Common Stock and TWC Class B Common Stock (aggregating $10.855 billion) (the 
Special Dividend
) that was distributed pro rata to all holders of TWC Class A Common Stock and TWC Class B Common Stock as of the close of business on March 11, 2009, resulting in the receipt by Time Warner of approximately $9.25 billion
Distribution Record Date
Eligible Holders
Distribution
After the Distribution Record Date,
Time Warner
does
no
t
beneficially own any shares of TWC common stock and
, following such date,
will not consolidate TWC
s financial results for
 
the purpose of its own financial reporting.
  The historical financial results of TWC
.
 
After completing the
Separation
, the Company
will
effect
 a reverse stock split at
7:00 p.m.
 on
March 27, 2009
 by proportionately reducing
 
t
he number of shares of Time Warner Common Stock issued and outstanding or held in treasury based on
a
 revers
e stock split ratio of 1-for-3
.
 
The accompanying unaudited pro forma consolidated balance sheet of Time Warner as of December 31, 2008 is presented as if the Separation had occurred on December 31, 2008.  The accompanying unaudited pro forma consolidated statements of operations of Time Warner for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 are presented as if the Separation had occurred on January 1, 2006.  The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information is presented based on information available, is intended for informational purposes only, is not necessarily indicative of and does not purport to represent what Time Warners future financial condition or operating results will be after giving effect to the Separation and does not reflect actions that may be undertaken by management after the Separation.  Additionally, this information does not reflect certain financial and operating benefits Time Warner expects to realize as a result of the Separation including any income related to the receipt by Time Warner of its portion of the Special Dividend.
Pro Forma Information.  
 
In December 2008, Time Warner (as lender) and TWC (as borrower) entered into a credit agreement for a two-year $1.535 billion senior unsecured supplemental term loan facility (the ) under which TWC may borrow only to repay amounts outstanding at the final maturity of TWCs 2008 term loan bridge facility, if any.  The accompanying unaudited pro forma information does not reflect any effect of the Supplemental Credit Agreement.
Supplemental Credit Agreement
 
In connection with the Separation, and as provided for in the Companys equity plans, the number of stock options, restricted stock units (s) and target performance stock units (s) outstanding at the separation date and the exercise prices of such stock options will be adjusted to maintain the fair value of these awards.  The changes in the number of equity awards and the exercise prices will be determined by comparing the fair value of such awards immediately prior to the Separation to the fair value of such awards immediately after the Separation.  The modifications to the outstanding equity awards will be made pursuant to existing antidilution provisions in the Companys equity plans and such modifications will not result in any additional compensation expense.  In addition, all such awards will be further adjusted for the effect of the Companys 1-for-3 reverse stock split.
RSU
PSU
 
Time Warners independent registered public accounting firm has not examined, reviewed, compiled or applied agreed upon procedures to the unaudited pro forma consolidated historical financial information presented herein and, accordingly, assumes no responsibility for it.
 
 The accompanying unaudited pro forma financial statements do not give effect to the Companys adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 160, , and FASB Staff Position Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 03-6-1, , on January 1, 2009.
Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements
Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share-Based Payment Transactions Are Participating Securities
 
The following is a brief description of the amounts recorded under each of the column headings in the unaudited pro forma consolidated balance sheet and the unaudited pro forma consolidated statements of operations:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Historical Time Warner
 
    
  
This column reflects Time Warners historical audited financial position as of December 31, 2008 and historical audited operating results for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, prior to any adjustment for the Separation and the other adjustments described below.
 
TWC Separation
 
This column reflects TWCs historical financial position as of December 31, 2008 and historical operating results for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, at the amounts that have been reflected in Time Warners consolidated financial statements for such periods.
 
Other Adjustments
 
This column represents pro forma adjustments related primarily to the receipt of the Companys share of the Special Dividend and the Companys reverse stock split.  These adjustments are summarized below, and are more fully described in the notes to the unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information:
 
The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information set forth below should be read in conjunction with the notes to the unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition and the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.
 
 
 
2
 
 
(millions)
 
 
See accompanying notes to pro forma consolidated financial information.
 
 
3
 
 
(millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
See accompanying notes to pro forma consolidated financial information.
 
 
4
 
 
(millions, except per share amounts)
 
See accompanying notes to pro forma consolidated financial information.
 
 
 
5
 
 
See accompanying notes to pro forma consolidated financial information.
 
 
 
6
 
 
Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Financial Information
 
Note 1: Unaudited Pro Forma Adjustments to Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2008
 
The pro forma adjustments to Time Warners consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2008 relate to (1) the elimination of the assets, liabilities and equity of TWC and (2) other adjustments as follows:
 
 
 
 
Note 2: Unaudited Pro Forma Adjustments to Consolidated Statements of Operations  Years Ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006
 
The pro forma adjustments to Time Warners consolidated statements of operations for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 relate to (1) the elimination of the results of operations of TWC and (2) other adjustments as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7


