FILE:TWX/TWX-8K-20091211162059.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.01 Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
 
On December 10, 2009, Time Warner Inc. announced that it has completed the previously announced spin-off of AOL Inc. (the Spin-off). Effective as of 11:59 p.m., New York City time, on December 9, 2009 (the Distribution Date), Time Warner Inc. (Time Warner) distributed all of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share (AOL Common Stock), of AOL Inc. (AOL) to Time Warners stockholders of record as of 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on November 27, 2009 (the Record Date) as a pro rata dividend.  On the Distribution Date, Time Warner stockholders received one share of AOL Common Stock for every eleven shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of Time Warner held as of the Record Date and will receive cash in lieu of any fractional shares of AOL Common Stock.  The Spin-off was completed pursuant to a separation and distribution agreement entered into on November 16, 2009 by Time Warner and AOL for the purpose of legally and structurally separating AOL from Time Warner.  A copy of the press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
After the Distribution Date, Time Warner does not beneficially own any shares of AOL Common Stock and, following such date, will not consolidate AOLs financial results for the purpose of its own financial reporting.  The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information of Time Warner (reflecting the Spin-off and certain other items, as described therein) and related notes thereto are filed as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K includes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about the plans, objectives, expectations and intentions of Time Warner, including the benefits of the Spin-off and other related transactions involving Time Warner and AOL and their subsidiaries, and other statements that are not historical facts.  These statements are based on the current expectations and beliefs of Time Warners management, and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances.  Time Warner cautions readers that any forward-looking information is not a guarantee of future performance and that actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by the statements herein, due to changes in economic, business, competitive, technological, strategic or other regulatory factors, as well as factors affecting the operation of the businesses of Time Warner and AOL.  More detailed information about certain of these and other factors may be found in filings by Time Warner with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC), including its most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2009, in each case in the sections entitled Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors.  Various factors could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements including, without limitation, the risk that the anticipated benefits from the Spin-off may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected.  Time Warner is under no obligation to, and expressly disclaims any obligation to, update or alter the forward-looking statements contained in this document, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:  December 11, 2009
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
For Immediate Release:
 
 
 
 Time Warner Inc. (NYSE:TWX) today announced that it has completed the previously announced spin-off of AOL Inc. (NYSE:AOL).  Effective 11:59 p.m, 2009.  Stockholders will receive a cash payment instead of any fractional AOL shares.
NEW YORK,
December 10, 2009
. on December 9, 2009, one share of AOL common stock was distributed for every eleven shares of Time Warner common stock held as of 5:00 p.m. on the record date of November 27
 
Time Warner Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Jeff Bewkes said:  With the separation of AOL, weve returned to our roots as one of the leading content companies in the world.  Were now better positioned to focus even more closely on driving the best possible performance at our content businesses in the most efficient way.  Im confident that Time Warner is on track to generate steady, attractive financial results and improve returns to our stockholders.  At the same time, we believe that AOL will have greater operational and strategic flexibility as a standalone company.
 
No action or payment is required by Time Warner stockholders to receive the shares of AOL common stock. Stockholders who held Time Warner common stock on the record date will receive a book-entry account statement reflecting their ownership of AOL common stock or their brokerage account will be credited with the AOL shares. 
 
The AOL spin-off has been structured to qualify as a tax-free dividend to Time Warner stockholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes, except for the cash received in lieu of fractional shares.  Time Warner stockholders are urged to consult with their tax advisors with respect to the U.S. federal, state, local and foreign tax consequences of the AOL spin-off. 
 
Allen & Company LLC, BofA Merrill Lynch and Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. served as financial advisers to Time Warner.
 
Additional Information
Please see
http://www.timewarner.com/investors
 for additional information, including Frequently Asked Questions, regarding the spin-off of AOL described in this release.
 
About Time Warner Inc.
Time Warner Inc., a global leader in media and entertainment with businesses in television networks, filmed entertainment and publishing, uses its industry-leading operating scale and brands to create, package and deliver high-quality content worldwide through multiple distribution outlets.
 
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This document includes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements include, but are not limited to, statements about the plans, objectives, expectations and intentions of Time Warner, including the benefits of the separation of AOL from Time Warner, and other statements that are not historical facts.  These statements are based on managements current expectations or beliefs and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances.  Actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by the statements herein due to changes in economic, business, competitive, technological, strategic and/or regulatory factors and other factors affecting the operation of the businesses of Time Warner.  More detailed information about these and other factors may be found in filings by Time Warner with the SEC, including its most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q in the sections entitled Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors.  Time Warner is under no obligation to, and expressly disclaims any such obligation to, update or alter its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
Contacts:
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
AOL Separation
 
On November 16, 2009, Time Warner Inc., a Delaware corporation (Time Warner or the Company), and AOL Inc., a Delaware corporation (AOL), entered into a separation and distribution agreement (the Separation Agreement) for the purpose of legally and structurally separating AOL from Time Warner (the AOL Separation). Pursuant to the Separation Agreement, (i) Time Warner and AOL completed certain internal restructuring transactions and effected certain transfers of assets and assumed certain liabilities such that substantially all of the assets and liabilities relating to the AOL business were transferred to and assumed by AOL and (ii) effective as of 11:59 p.m. on December 9, 2009 (the Distribution Date), Time Warner distributed all of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of AOL to Time Warners stockholders of record as of 5:00 p.m. on November 27, 2009 as a pro rata dividend in a spin-off. 
 
After the Distribution Date, Time Warner does not beneficially own any shares of AOL common stock and, following such date, will no longer consolidate AOLs financial results, and the historical financial results of AOL will be reflected in the Companys consolidated financial statements as discontinued operations.
Pro Forma Information
The accompanying unaudited pro forma consolidated balance sheet of Time Warner as of September 30, 2009 is presented as if the AOL Separation had occurred on September 30, 2009. The accompanying unaudited pro forma consolidated statements of operations of Time Warner for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 and for the nine months ended September 30, 2009 are presented as if the AOL Separation had occurred on January 1, 2006.
On March 13, 2009, in connection with the legal and structural separation of Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) from Time Warner that was completed on March 12, 2009 (the TWC Separation), the Company filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission a Current Report on Form 8-K (the March 2009 Form 8-K) that included as an exhibit an unaudited pro forma balance sheet of Time Warner as of December 31, 2008 and unaudited pro forma consolidated statements of operations for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, which unaudited pro forma consolidated statements of operations are incorporated by reference herein. The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements included in the March 2009 Form 8-K gave effect to the TWC Separation, Time Warners receipt of its pro rata portion of a special cash dividend paid by TWC to its stockholders in connection with the TWC Separation, and the March 27, 2009 one-for-three reverse stock split of the Companys common stock (the Reverse Stock Split).
The amounts presented under the column heading Adjusted Time Warner in the accompanying unaudited pro forma consolidated statements of operations of Time Warner for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, give effect to the TWC Separation and the Reverse Stock Split as if they had occurred on January 1, 2006. Also, the amounts presented under this column heading have been recast to reflect the adoption, on January 1, 2009, of accounting guidance related to (i) the accounting for noncontrolling interests and (ii) the accounting for share-based payment awards that are considered participating securities and their impact on earnings per share.
The accompanying unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information is presented based on information available, is intended for informational purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of and does not purport to represent the financial condition or operating results that would have actually occurred had the AOL Separation occurred as described, nor is it necessarily indicative of Time Warners future financial condition or operating results. In addition, the accompanying unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information does not reflect actions that may be undertaken by management after the AOL Separation. The accompanying unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information should be read in conjunction with the notes thereto and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition and the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, and the Companys Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2009.
 
 
 
 
 
 
In connection with the AOL Separation, and as provided for in the Companys equity plans, the number of stock options, restricted stock units and target performance stock units outstanding at the effective date of the AOL Separation and the exercise prices of such stock options will be adjusted to maintain the fair value of these awards. The changes in the number of equity awards and the exercise prices will be determined by comparing the fair value of such awards immediately prior to the AOL Separation to the fair value of such awards immediately after the AOL Separation. The modifications to the outstanding equity awards will be made pursuant to existing antidilution provisions in the Companys equity plans and such modifications will not result in any additional compensation expense. 
No adjustment for such modifications has been reflected in the accompanying unaudited pro forma consolidated statements of operations.
 
Time Warners independent registered public accounting firm has not examined, reviewed, compiled or applied agreed upon procedures to the unaudited pro forma consolidated historical financial information presented herein and, accordingly, assumes no responsibility for it.
The following is a brief description of the amounts recorded under each of the column headings in the accompanying unaudited pro forma consolidated balance sheet and the unaudited pro forma consolidated statements of operations:
 
Historical Time Warner
 
This column reflects Time Warners historical financial position as of September 30, 2009 and historical operating results for the nine months ended September 30, 2009, prior to any adjustment for the AOL Separation and the pro forma adjustments described under the heading Other Adjustments below.
 
Adjusted Time Warner
 
This column reflects Time Warners pro forma operating results for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, after giving effect to the TWC Separation and Reverse Stock Split, and prior to any adjustment for the AOL Separation and the pro forma adjustments described under the heading Other Adjustments below. Also, the amounts presented under this column heading have been recast to reflect the adoption, on January 1, 2009, of accounting guidance related to (i) the accounting for noncontrolling interests and (ii) the accounting for share-based payment awards that are considered participating securities and their impact on earnings per share. For additional information regarding the amounts reflected under this column heading, see the unaudited pro forma consolidated statements of operations included as an exhibit to the March 2009 Form 8-K, which are incorporated by reference herein.
 
AOL Separation
 
This column reflects AOLs historical financial position as of September 30, 2009 and its historical operating results for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, and the nine months ended September 30, 2009.
 
Other Adjustments
This column represents pro forma adjustments for transactions between Time Warner and AOL that were previously eliminated in consolidation or that arise as a direct result of the AOL Separation, but are reflected in the Companys consolidated financial position and results of operations upon the completion of the AOL Separation. These adjustments are more fully described in the notes to the accompanying unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information.
 
 
2
 
 
 
See accompanying notes to pro forma consolidated financial information.
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
See accompanying notes to pro forma consolidated financial information.
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
 
See accompanying notes to pro forma consolidated financial information.
 
 
5
 
 
See accompanying notes to pro forma consolidated financial information.
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
 
See accompanying notes to pro forma consolidated financial information.
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Financial Information
 
Note 1: Unaudited Pro Forma Adjustments to Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2009
 
The pro forma adjustments to Time Warners unaudited consolidated balance sheet as of September 30, 2009, relate to (1) the elimination of the assets, liabilities and equity of AOL and (2) other adjustments as follows:
 
 
 
Note 2: Unaudited Pro Forma Adjustments to Consolidated Statements of Operations  Years Ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2009
 
The pro forma adjustments to Time Warners unaudited consolidated statements of operations for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, and for the nine months ended September 30, 2009, relate to (1) the elimination of the results of operations of AOL and (2) adjustments to revenues, costs of revenues and selling, general and administrative expenses related to transactions between Time Warner and AOL that were eliminated in consolidation in the preparation of Time Warners historical consolidated financial statements, but that are reflected as revenues, costs of revenues and selling, general and administrative expenses in the amounts presented under the column heading Pro Forma Time Warner upon the completion of the AOL Separation.
 
 
 8


