FILE:TWX/TWX-8K-20100527164641.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On May 21, 2010, the stockholders of Time Warner Inc. (the "Company") approved the Time Warner Inc. 2010 Stock Incentive Plan (the "2010 Plan") at the 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the "2010 Annual Meeting"). The Company's Board of Directors had approved the 2010 Plan on March 25, 2010, subject to stockholder approval. The 2010 Plan includes an authorization to issue up to 70 million shares of the Company's common stock, par value $0.01 per share ("Common Stock"), pursuant to awards under the 2010 Plan. The 2010 Plan provides for the issuance of various types of stock-based awards to the Company's directors, employees and advisors in the United States and foreign jurisdictions. As of the date hereof, there have been no awards under the 2010 Plan and, therefore, no amounts are payable under the 2010 Plan to the principal executive officer, principal financial officer or any named executive officer.
A description of the 2010 Plan is set forth in the Company's Definitive Proxy Statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 5, 2010 (the "2010 Proxy Statement") under the caption "Company Proposals  Proposal Three: Approval of the Time Warner Inc. 2010 Stock Incentive Plan  Description of the 2010 Plan." The description of the 2010 Plan is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the 2010 Plan, which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and which also was included as Annex A to the 2010 Proxy Statement.
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
At the 2010 Annual Meeting, the Company's stockholders approved an amendment to the By-laws of the Company to change the percentage of the Company's outstanding shares of Common Stock required to request that the Board of Directors call a special meeting of stockholders from 25% to 15%. The amendment to the By-laws is described in the 2010 Proxy Statement under the caption "Company Proposals  Proposal Four: Approval of an Amendment to the Company's By-laws to Provide that Holders of at Least 15% of the Combined Voting Power of the Company's Outstanding Capital Stock May Request a Special Meeting of Stockholders," which is incorporated herein by reference. The amendment to the By-laws became effective on May 21, 2010. The By-laws, as amended, are filed as Exhibit 3.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 5.07 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
The final results of voting on each of the matters submitted to a vote of security holders at the Company's 2010 Annual Meeting on May 21, 2010 are as follows.
 
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: May 27, 2010
 

EXHIBIT 3.1
          SECTION 1. . The registered office of TIME WARNER INC. (hereinafter called the "Corporation") in the State of Delaware shall be at 1209 Orange Street, City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, Delaware 19801, and the registered agent shall be The Corporation Trust Company, or such other office or agent as the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the "Board") shall from time to time select.
Registered Office
          SECTION 2. . The Corporation may also have an office or offices, and keep the books and records of the Corporation, except as may otherwise be required by law, at such other place or places, either within or without the State of Delaware, as the Board may from time to time determine or the business of the Corporation may require.
Other Offices
          SECTION 1. . All meetings of the stockholders of the Corporation (the "stockholders") shall be at a place to be determined by the Board.
Place of Meeting
          SECTION 2. . The annual meeting of the stockholders for the election of directors and for the transaction of such other business as may properly come before the meeting shall be held on such date and at such hour as shall from time to time be fixed by the Board. Any previously scheduled annual meeting of the stockholders may be postponed by action of the Board taken prior to the time previously scheduled for such annual meeting of the stockholders.
Annual Meetings
          SECTION 3. . (a) . Except as otherwise required by law or the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation (the "Certificate"), and subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock or Series Common Stock or any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up, special meetings of the stockholders for any purpose or purposes may be called by the Chief Executive Officer or a majority of the entire Board. Only such business as
Special Meetings
General
 
is specified in the Corporation's notice of any special meeting of stockholders shall come before such meeting. A special meeting shall be held at such place, on such date and at such time as shall be fixed by the Board.
          (b) . Subject to the provisions of this Section 3(b), a special meeting of stockholders shall be called by a majority of the entire Board, or a Committee delegated such authority by the Board, in accordance with this paragraph, following receipt by the Secretary of the Corporation of a written request for a special meeting (a "Special Meeting Request") from the record holders of shares representing at least fifteen percent of the combined voting power of the then outstanding shares of all classes and series of capital stock of the Corporation entitled generally to vote in the election of directors of the Corporation, voting as a single class (the "Requisite Holders"), if such Special Meeting Request complies with the requirements of this Section 3(b) and all other applicable sections of these By-laws. The Board shall determine whether all requirements set forth in these By-laws have been satisfied and such determination shall be binding on the Corporation and its stockholders. If a Special Meeting Request is made that complies with this Section 3(b) and all other applicable sections of these By-laws, the Board may (in lieu of calling the special meeting requested in such Special Meeting Request) present an identical or substantially similar item (a "Similar Item") for stockholder approval at any other meeting of stockholders that is held within 120 days after the Corporation receives such Special Meeting Request.
Stockholder Requested Special Meetings
          A Special Meeting Request must be delivered by hand or by mail by registered U.S. mail or courier service, postage prepaid, to the attention of the Secretary of the Corporation (the "Secretary") during regular business hours. A Special Meeting Request shall only be valid if it is signed and dated by each of the Requisite Holders or its duly authorized agent and include: (i) a statement of the specific purpose(s) of the special meeting, the matter(s) proposed to be acted on at the special meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the special meeting; (ii) the text of any proposed amendment to the By-laws to be considered at the special meeting; (iii) the name and address, as they appear on the Corporation's books, of each stockholder of record signing such request, the date of each such stockholder's signature and the name and address of any beneficial owner on whose behalf such request is made; (iv) the class or series and number of shares of the Corporation that are owned of record or beneficially by each such stockholder and any such beneficial owner and documentary evidence of such record or beneficial ownership; (v) any material interest of each stockholder or any such beneficial owner in the business proposed to be conducted at the special meeting; (vi) a representation
 
that the stockholders and such beneficial owners submitting the Special Meeting Request intend to appear in person or by proxy at the special meeting to present the proposal(s) or business to be brought before the special meeting; (vii) if any stockholder submitting the Special Meeting Request intends to solicit proxies with respect to the stockholders' proposal(s) or business to be presented at the special meeting, a representation to that effect; (viii) all information relating to each stockholder signing the Special Meeting Request that must be disclosed in solicitations for proxies for election of directors in an election contest (even if an election contest is not involved), or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and (ix) if the purpose of the special meeting includes the election of one or more directors, all the information such stockholder or stockholders would be required to include in a notice delivered to the Corporation pursuant to the fourth sentence of the first paragraph of Section 3 of Article III.
          In addition, a Special Meeting Request shall not be valid if (i) the Special Meeting Request relates to an item of business that is not a proper subject for stockholder action under applicable law; (ii) the Special Meeting Request is received by the Corporation during the period commencing 90 days prior to the first anniversary of the date of the immediately preceding annual meeting and ending on the date of the next annual meeting; (iii) an identical or substantially similar item (a "Similar Item") was presented at any meeting of stockholders held within 120 days prior to receipt by the Corporation of such Special Meeting Request (and, for purposes of this clause (iii), the election of directors shall be deemed a "Similar Item" with respect to all items of business involving the election or removal of directors); (iv) a Similar Item is included in the Corporation's notice as an item of business to be brought before a stockholder meeting that has been called but not yet held; or (v) such Special Meeting Request was made in a manner that involved a violation of Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or other applicable law.
          Stockholders may revoke a Special Meeting Request by written revocation delivered to the Corporation at any time prior to the special meeting; , , the Board shall have the discretion to determine whether or not to proceed with the special meeting.
provided
however
          If none of the stockholders who submitted the Special Meeting Request for a special meeting of stockholders appears or sends a qualified representative to present the proposal(s) or business submitted by the stockholders
 
for consideration at the special meeting, the Corporation need not present such proposal(s) or business for a vote at such meeting.
          SECTION 4. . Except as otherwise provided by law, notice of each meeting of the stockholders, whether annual or special, shall be given by the Corporation not less than 10 days nor more than 60 days before the date of the meeting to each stockholder of record entitled to notice of the meeting and shall be called by the Corporation. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed given when deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, directed to the stockholder at such stockholder's address as it appears on the records of the Corporation. Each such notice shall state the place, date and hour of the meeting, and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called. Notice of any meeting of the stockholders shall not be required to be given to any stockholder who shall attend such meeting in person or by proxy without protesting, prior to or at the commencement of the meeting, the lack of proper notice to such stockholder, or who shall waive notice thereof as provided in Article X of these By-laws. Notice of adjournment of a meeting of the stockholders need not be given if the time and place to which it is adjourned are announced at such meeting, unless the adjournment is for more than 30 days or, after adjournment, a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting.
Notice of Meetings
          SECTION 5. . Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Certificate, the holders of a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by the stockholders entitled to vote generally, present in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at any meeting of the stockholders; , , that in the case of any vote to be taken by classes or series, the holders of a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by the stockholders of a particular class or series, present in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum of such class or series.
Quorum
provided
however
          SECTION 6. . The chairman of the meeting or the holders of a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by the stockholders who are present in person or by proxy may adjourn the meeting from time to time whether or not a quorum is present. In the event that a quorum does not exist with respect to any vote to be taken by a particular class or series, the chairman of the meeting or the holders of a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by the stockholders of such class or series who are present in person or by proxy may adjourn the meeting with respect to the vote(s) to be taken by such class or series. At any such adjourned meeting at which a quorum may be present, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally called.
Adjournments
 
          SECTION 7. . At each meeting of the stockholders, the Chairman of the Board or, in the absence of the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, (if the position is held by an individual other than the Chairman of the Board), or in the absence of the Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer, such person as shall be selected by the Board shall act as chairman of the meeting. The order of business at each such meeting shall be as determined by the chairman of the meeting. The chairman of the meeting shall have the right and authority to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts and things as are necessary or desirable for the proper conduct of the meeting, including, without limitation, the establishment of procedures for the maintenance of order and safety, limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments on the affairs of the Corporation, restrictions on entry to such meeting after the time prescribed for the commencement thereof and the opening and closing of the voting polls.
Order of Business
          At any annual meeting of the stockholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall have been brought before the annual meeting (i) by or at the direction of the chairman of the meeting or (ii) by any stockholder who is a holder of record at the time of the giving of the notice provided for in this Section 7, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who complies with the procedures set forth in this Section 7.
          For business properly to be brought before an annual meeting of stockholders by a stockholder, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in proper written form to the Secretary). To be timely, a stockholder's notice must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than 90 days nor more than 120 days prior to the first anniversary of the date of the immediately preceding annual meeting; , , that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than 30 days earlier or more than 60 days later than such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so delivered or received not earlier than the 120th day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such annual meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made; , , that for the purpose of calculating the timeliness of stockholder notices for the 2001 annual meeting of stockholders, the date of the immediately preceding annual meeting shall be deemed to be May 18, 2000. To be in proper written form, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary shall set forth in writing as to each matter the
provided
however
provided
further
 
stockholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting: (i) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the annual meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting; (ii) the name and address, as they appear on the Corporation's books, of the stockholder proposing such business; (iii) the class or series and number of shares of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by the stockholder; (iv) any material interest of the stockholder in such business; and (v) if the stockholder intends to solicit proxies in support of such stockholder's proposal, a representation to that effect. The foregoing notice requirements shall be deemed satisfied by a stockholder if the stockholder has notified the Corporation of his or her intention to present a proposal at an annual meeting and such stockholder's proposal has been included in a proxy statement that has been prepared by management of the Corporation to solicit proxies for such annual meeting; , , that if such stockholder does not appear or send a qualified representative to present such proposal at such annual meeting, the Corporation need not present such proposal for a vote at such meeting, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such vote may have been received by the Corporation. Notwithstanding anything in these By-laws to the contrary, no business shall be conducted at any annual meeting except in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 7. The chairman of an annual meeting may refuse to permit any business to be brought before an annual meeting which fails to comply with the foregoing procedures or, in the case of a stockholder proposal, if the stockholder solicits proxies in support of such stockholder's proposal without having made the representation required by clause (v) of the third preceding sentence.
provided
however
          SECTION 8. . It shall be the duty of the Secretary or other officer who has charge of the stock ledger to prepare and make, at least 10 days before each meeting of the stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote thereat, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in such stockholder's name. Such list shall be produced and kept available at the times and places required by law.
List of Stockholders
          SECTION 9. . Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Certificate, each stockholder of record of any series of Preferred Stock or Series Common Stock shall be entitled at each meeting of the stockholders to such number of votes, if any, for each share of such stock as may be fixed in the Certificate or in the resolution or resolutions adopted by the Board providing for the issuance of such stock, and each stockholder of record of Common Stock shall be entitled at each meeting of the stockholders to one vote for each share of such stock, in each case,
Voting
 
registered in such stockholder's name on the books of the Corporation:
     (1) on the date fixed pursuant to Section 6 of Article VII of these By-laws as the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to notice of and to vote at such meeting; or
     (2) if no such record date shall have been so fixed, then at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice of such meeting is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held.
          Each stockholder entitled to vote at any meeting of the stockholders may authorize not in excess of three persons to act for such stockholder by proxy. Any such proxy shall be delivered to the secretary of such meeting at or prior to the time designated for holding such meeting, but in any event not later than the time designated in the order of business for so delivering such proxies. No such proxy shall be voted or acted upon after three years from its date, unless the proxy provides for a longer period.
          At each meeting of the stockholders, all corporate actions to be taken by vote of the stockholders (except as otherwise required by law and except as otherwise provided in the Certificate or these By-laws) shall be authorized by a majority of the votes cast by the stockholders entitled to vote thereon who are present in person or represented by proxy, and where a separate vote by class or series is required, a majority of the votes cast by the stockholders of such class or series who are present in person or represented by proxy shall be the act of such class or series.
          Unless required by law or determined by the chairman of the meeting to be advisable, the vote on any matter, including the election of directors, need not be by written ballot.
          SECTION 10. . The chairman of the meeting shall appoint two or more inspectors to act at any meeting of the stockholders. Such inspectors shall perform such duties as shall be required by law or specified by the chairman of the meeting. Inspectors need not be stockholders. No director or nominee for the office of director shall be appointed such inspector.
Inspectors
          SECTION 11. . For the purpose of Section 7 of this Article II and Section 3 of Article III, "public announcement" shall mean
Public Announcements
 
disclosure (i) in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Reuters Information Service or any similar or successor news wire service or (ii) in a communication distributed generally to stockholders and in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Sections 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or any successor provisions thereto.
          SECTION 1. . The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of the Board, which may exercise all such powers of the Corporation and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by law or by the Certificate directed or required to be exercised or done by the stockholders.
General Powers
          SECTION 2. . Except as otherwise fixed by or pursuant to the provisions of Article IV of the Certificate relating to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock or Series Common Stock or any class or series of stock having preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up, the number of directors constituting the Whole Board shall be determined from time to time by the Board. The term "Whole Board" shall mean the total number of authorized directors, whether or not there exist any vacancies or unfilled previously authorized directorships.
Number, Qualification and Election
          The directors, other than those who may be elected by the holders of shares of any series of Preferred Stock or Series Common Stock or any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock of the Corporation as to dividends or upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up pursuant to the terms of Article IV of the Certificate or any resolution or resolutions providing for the issuance of such stock adopted by the Board, shall be elected by the stockholders entitled to vote thereon at each annual meeting of the stockholders, and shall hold office until the next annual meeting of the stockholders and until each of their successors shall have been duly elected and qualified.
          Each director shall be at least 21 years of age. Directors need not be
 
stockholders of the Corporation.
          In any uncontested election of directors, each person receiving a majority of the votes cast shall be deemed elected. For purposes of this paragraph, a majority of the votes cast' shall mean that the number of votes cast for' a director must exceed the number of votes cast against' that director (with abstentions' and broker non-votes' not counted as a vote cast with respect to that director). In any contested election of directors, the persons receiving a plurality of the votes cast, up to the number of directors to be elected in such election, shall be deemed elected. Any incumbent director who fails to receive a majority of the votes cast shall submit an offer to resign from the Board no later than two weeks after the certification by the Corporation of the voting results. An uncontested election is one in which the number of individuals who have been nominated for election as a director is equal to, or less than, the number of directors constituting the Whole Board. A contested election is one in which the number of persons nominated exceeds the number of directors to be elected as of the date that is ten days prior to the date that the Corporation first mails its notice of meeting for such meeting to the stockholders.
          The Board shall consider the resignation offer and may either (i) accept the offer of resignation or (ii) reject the offer and seek to address the underlying cause(s) of the majority-withheld vote. While the Board may delegate to a committee the authority to assist the Board in its review of the matter, the Board shall decide whether to accept or reject the resignation offer within 90 days following the certification of the stockholder vote. Once the Board makes this decision, the Corporation will promptly make a public announcement of the Board's decision in the manner described in Section 11 of Article II. If the Board rejects the offer of resignation, the public announcement will include a statement regarding the reasons for its decision.
          The chairman of the nominating and governance committee described in Section 1 of Article IV will have the authority to manage the Board's review of the resignation offer. In the event it is the chairman of the nominating and governance committee who received a majority-withheld vote, the independent directors who did not receive majority-withheld votes shall select a director to manage the process, and that director shall have the authority otherwise delegated to the chairman of the nominating and governance committee by this Section 2 of Article III. Any director who tenders his or her offer of resignation as a result of a majority-withheld vote shall not participate in the committee's or the Board's deliberations or vote on whether to accept or reject the resignation offer.
 
          A majority of the members of the Board shall be persons determined by the Board to be independent directors. In order to determine that a director is independent pursuant to this Section 2, the Board shall make an affirmative determination that the director satisfies applicable regulatory requirements to be an independent director of the Corporation, that the director has no material relationship with the Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries (collectively, the "Company"), and that the director is free of any other relationship (with the Company or otherwise) that would interfere with the exercise of independent judgment by such director. In making this determination, the Board shall consider all relevant facts and circumstances, including commercial, charitable, and familial relationships that exist between the director and the Company, or between entities with which the director is affiliated and the Company. The Board may, from time to time, adopt categorical standards to guide its determination of materiality.
          SECTION 3. . Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock or Series Common Stock or any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up, nominations for the election of directors may be made by the Board or by any stockholder who is a stockholder of record at the time of giving of the notice of nomination provided for in this Section 3 and who is entitled to vote for the election of directors. Any stockholder of record entitled to vote for the election of directors at a meeting may nominate persons for election as directors only if timely written notice of such stockholder's intent to make such nomination is given, either by personal delivery or by United States mail, postage prepaid, to the Secretary. To be timely, a stockholder's notice must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation (i) with respect to an election to be held at an annual meeting of the stockholders, not less than 90 days nor more than 120 days prior to the first anniversary of the date of the immediately preceding annual meeting; , , that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than 30 days earlier or more than 60 days later than such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so delivered or received not earlier than the 120th day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such annual meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made; ,, that for the purpose of calculating the timeliness of stockholder notices for the 2001 annual meeting of stockholders, the date of the immediately preceding annual meeting shall be deemed to be May 18, 2000 and (ii) with respect to an election to be held at a special meeting of the stockholders for the election of directors, not earlier than the 90th day prior to such
Notification of Nominations
provided
however
provided
further
 
special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 60th day prior to such special meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees to be elected at such meeting. Each such notice shall set forth: (a) the name and address, as they appear on the Corporation's books, of the stockholder who intends to make the nomination and the name and address of the person or persons to be nominated; (b) the class or series and number of shares of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by the stockholder; (c) a representation that the stockholder is a holder of record of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote in the election of directors and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to nominate the person or persons specified in the notice; (d) a description of all arrangements or understandings between the stockholder and each nominee and any other person or persons (naming such person or persons) pursuant to which the nomination or nominations are to be made by the stockholder; (e) such other information regarding each nominee proposed by such stockholder as would have been required to be included in a proxy statement filed pursuant to the proxy rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission had each nominee been nominated, or intended to be nominated, by the Board; (f) the executed written consent of each nominee to serve as a director of the Corporation if so elected; and (g) if the stockholder intends to solicit proxies in support of such stockholder's nominee(s), a representation to that effect. The chairman of the meeting may refuse to acknowledge the nomination of any person not made in compliance with the foregoing procedure or if the stockholder solicits proxies in favor of such stockholder's nominee(s) without having made the representations required by the immediately preceding sentence. If such stockholder does not appear or send a qualified representative to present such proposal at such meeting, the Corporation need not present such proposal for a vote at such meeting, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such vote may have been received by the Corporation. Only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 3 shall be eligible to serve as directors of the Corporation.
          Notwithstanding anything in the immediately preceding paragraph of this Section 3 to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board at an annual meeting of the stockholders is increased and there is no public announcement naming all of the nominees for directors or specifying the size of the increased Board made by the Corporation at least 90 days prior to the first anniversary of the date of the immediately preceding annual meeting, a stockholder's notice required by this Section 3 shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such increase, if it shall be
 
delivered to or mailed to and received by the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the 10th day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the Corporation.
          SECTION 4. . Except as otherwise provided by law, the Certificate or these By-laws, a majority of the Whole Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of the Board, and, except as so provided, the vote of a majority of the directors present at any meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board. The chairman of the meeting or a majority of the directors present may adjourn the meeting to another time and place whether or not a quorum is present. At any adjourned meeting at which a quorum is present, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally called.
Quorum and Manner of Acting
          SECTION 5. . Subject to Sections 6 and 7 of this Article III, the Board may hold its meetings at such place or places within or without the State of Delaware as the Board may from time to time determine, or as shall be specified or fixed in the respective notices or waivers of notice thereof.
Place of Meeting
          SECTION 6. . No fewer than six regular meetings per year of the Board shall be held at such times as the Board shall from time to time by resolution determine, at such locations as the Board may determine. If any day fixed for a regular meeting shall be a legal holiday under the laws of the place where the meeting is to be held, the meeting which would otherwise be held on that day shall be held at the same hour on the next succeeding business day.
Regular Meetings
          SECTION 7. . Special meetings of the Board shall be held whenever called by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or by a majority of the non-employee directors, and shall be held at such place, on such date and at such time as he or they, as applicable, shall fix.
Special Meetings
          SECTION 8. . Notice of regular meetings of the Board or of any adjourned meeting thereof need not be given. Notice of each special meeting of the Board shall be given by overnight delivery service or mailed to each director, in either case addressed to such director at such director's residence or usual place of business, at least two days before the day on which the meeting is to be held or shall be sent to such director at such place by telecopy or by electronic transmission or shall be given personally or by telephone, not later than the day
Notice of Meetings
 
before the meeting is to be held, but notice need not be given to any director who shall, either before or after the meeting, submit a waiver of such notice or who shall attend such meeting without protesting, prior to or at its commencement, the lack of notice to such director. Unless otherwise required by these By-laws, every such notice shall state the time and place but need not state the purpose of the meeting.
          SECTION 9. . The Board may adopt such rules and regulations not inconsistent with the provisions of law, the Certificate or these By-laws for the conduct of its meetings and management of the affairs of the Corporation as the Board may deem proper.
Rules and Regulations
          SECTION 10. . Any one or more members of the Board or any committee thereof may participate in any meeting of the Board or of any such committee by means of conference telephone or other communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other or as otherwise permitted by law, and such participation in a meeting shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
Participation in Meeting by Means of Communications Equipment
          SECTION 11. . Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board or any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting if all of the members of the Board or of any such committee consent thereto in writing or as otherwise permitted by law and, if required by law, the writing or writings are filed with the minutes or proceedings of the Board or of such committee.
Action Without Meeting
          SECTION 12. . Any director of the Corporation may at any time resign by giving written notice to the Board, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the Secretary. Such resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein or, if the time be not specified therein, upon receipt thereof; and, unless otherwise specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
Resignations
          SECTION 13. . Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock or Series Common Stock or any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock of the Corporation as to dividends or upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up, any vacancies on the Board resulting from death, resignation, removal or other cause shall only be filled by the Board, and not by the stockholders, by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining
Vacancies
 
directors then in office, even though less than a quorum of the Board, or by a sole remaining director, and newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the number of directors, shall only be filled by the Board, or if not so filled, by the stockholders at the next annual meeting thereof or at a special meeting called for that purpose in accordance with Section 3 of Article II of these By-laws. Any director elected in accordance with the preceding sentence of this Section 13 shall hold office until the next annual meeting of the stockholders and until such director's successor shall have been elected and qualified.
          SECTION 14. . Each director, in consideration of such person serving as a director, shall be entitled to receive from the Corporation such amount per annum and such fees (payable in cash or stock-based compensation) for attendance at meetings of the Board or of committees of the Board, or both, as the Board shall from time to time determine. In addition, each director shall be entitled to receive from the Corporation reimbursement for the reasonable expenses incurred by such person in connection with the performance of such person's duties as a director. Nothing contained in this Section 14 shall preclude any director from serving the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor.
Compensation
          SECTION 1. .
Establishment of Committees of the Board of Directors; Election of Members of Committees of the Board of Directors; Functions of Committees of the Board of Directors
          (a) The Corporation shall have such committees of the Board as the Board shall determine from time to time in accordance with this Section 1 of Article IV, including the following committees of the Board with the following powers and authority: the nominating and governance committee, the audit and finance committee, and the compensation and human development committee.
          (b) The nominating and governance committee shall have the following powers and authority: (i) evaluating and recommending director candidates to the Board, (ii) overseeing the assessment of Board and committee
 
performance not less frequently than every year, (iii) recommending director compensation and benefits policies for the Board, (iv) evaluating and recommending to the Board candidates for Chief Executive Officer, (v) reviewing individual director performance as issues arise, (vi) reviewing and recommending to the Board changes to the size and composition of the Board, (vii) periodically reviewing the Corporation's corporate governance profile (viii) overseeing and monitoring the Corporation's development and articulation of its core values, its public reputation, and its involvement in the communities in which it does business and (ix) performing such other functions as the Board shall determine in accordance with this Section 1 of Article IV. The nominating and governance committee shall also have the powers and authority set forth in any nominating and governance committee charter adopted by the Board in accordance with this Section 1 of Article IV as may from time to time be required by any rule or regulation to which the Corporation is subject. Only directors who are determined by the Board, pursuant to Section 2 of Article III of these By-laws, to be independent and to satisfy applicable regulatory requirements may serve as members of the nominating and governance committee.
          (c) The audit and finance committee shall have the following powers and authority: (i) approving the appointment or removal of independent public accountants to audit the books of account, accounting procedures and financial statements of the Corporation and to perform such other duties from time to time as the audit and finance committee may prescribe, (ii) receiving the reports and comments of the Corporation's internal auditors and of the independent public accountants selected by the committee and taking such action with respect thereto as it deems appropriate, (iii) requesting the Corporation's consolidated subsidiaries and affiliated companies to employ independent public accountants to audit their respective books of account, accounting procedures and financial statements, (iv) requesting the independent public accountants to furnish to the compensation committee the certifications required under any present or future stock option, incentive compensation or employee benefit plan of the Corporation, (v) reviewing the adequacy of the Corporation's internal financial controls, (vi) reviewing the accounting principles employed in the Corporation's financial reporting, (vii) reviewing and making recommendations to the Board concerning the financial structure and financial condition of the Corporation and its subsidiaries, including annual budgets, long-term financial plans, corporate borrowings, investments, capital expenditures, long-term commitments and the issuance of stock, (viii) approving such matters that are consistent with the general financial policies and direction from time to time determined by the Board and (ix) performing such other functions as the Board shall determine in accordance with this Section 1 of Article IV. The audit and
 
finance committee shall also have the powers and authority set forth in any audit and finance committee charter adopted by the Board in accordance with this Section 1 of Article IV as may from time to time be required by any rule or regulation to which the Corporation is subject. Only directors who are determined by the Board, pursuant to Section 2 of Article III of these By-laws, to be independent and to satisfy applicable regulatory requirements may serve as members of the audit and finance committee.
          (d) The compensation and human development committee shall have the following powers and authority: (i) determining and fixing the compensation for all senior officers of the Corporation and its subsidiaries and divisions that the compensation and human development committee shall from time to time consider appropriate, as well as all employees of the Corporation compensated at a rate in excess of such amount per annum as may be fixed or determined from time to time by the Board, (ii) performing the duties of the committees of the Board provided for in any present or future stock option, restricted stock, incentive compensation or employee benefit plan of the Corporation and administering the stock option, restricted stock and stock incentive plans of the Corporation, (iii) delegating, to the extent permitted by law and to the extent it deems appropriate, any of its powers in connection with the administration of the stock option, stock incentive, restricted stock plans and other employee benefit plans of the Corporation, (iv) reviewing the operations of and policies pertaining to any present or future stock option, incentive compensation or employee benefit plan of the Corporation that the compensation and human development committee shall from time to time consider appropriate, (v) overseeing and monitoring the Corporation's human resources initiatives, including but not limited to efforts related to workforce diversity, and (vi) performing such other functions as the Board shall determine in accordance with this Section 1 of Article IV. The compensation and human development committee shall also have the powers and authority set forth in any compensation and human development committee charter adopted by the Board in accordance with this Section 1 of Article IV as may from time to time be required by any rule or regulation to which the Corporation is subject. Only directors who are determined by the Board, pursuant to Section 2 of Article III of these By-laws, to be independent and to satisfy applicable regulatory requirements may serve as members of the compensation and human development committee.
          (e) Except as otherwise provided by law or the Certificate, the Board may, from time to time, establish, eliminate and modify the power and authority of any of the Board's committee; change the size of a committee; and add, remove, or
 
replace the chairman or member of any committee.
          SECTION 2. . Regular meetings of committees of the Board, of which no notice shall be necessary, may be held at such times and places as shall be fixed by resolution adopted by a majority of the total number of authorized committee members, whether or not there exist any vacancies or unfilled previously authorized committee seats. Special meetings of any committee of the Board shall be called at the request of any member thereof. Notice of each special meeting of any committee of the Board shall be sent by overnight delivery service, or mailed to each member thereof, in either case addressed to such member at such member's residence or usual place of business, at least two days before the day on which the meeting is to be held or shall be sent to such member at such place by telecopy or by electronic transmission or be given personally or by telephone, not later than the day before the meeting is to be held, but notice need not be given to any member who shall, either before or after the meeting, submit a waiver of such notice or who shall attend such meeting without protesting, prior to or at its commencement, the lack of such notice to such member. Unless otherwise required by these By-laws, every such notice shall state the time and place but need not state the purpose of such meeting. Any special meeting of any committee of the Board shall be a legal meeting without any notice thereof having been given, if all the members thereof shall be present thereat and no member shall protest the lack of notice to such member. Notice of any adjourned meeting of any committee of the Board need not be given. Any committee of the Board may adopt such rules and regulations not inconsistent with the provisions of law, the Certificate or these By-laws for the conduct of its meetings as such committee of the Board may deem proper. A majority of the authorized members of any committee of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting, and the vote of a majority of the members thereof present at any meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of such committee. Each committee of the Board shall keep written minutes of its proceedings and shall report on such proceedings to the Board.
Procedure; Meetings; Quorum
          SECTION 1. . The officers of the Corporation shall be elected by the Board and may consist of: a Chairman of the Board, a Chief Executive Officer, a Chief Operating Officer, a Chief Financial
Number; Term of Office
 
Officer and one or more Vice Chairmen and Vice Presidents (including, without limitation, Assistant, Executive, Senior and Group Vice Presidents) and a Treasurer, Secretary and Controller and such other officers and agents with such titles and such duties as the Board may from time to time determine, each to have such authority, functions or duties as in these By-laws provided or as the Board may from time to time determine, and each to hold office for such term as may be prescribed by the Board and until such person's successor shall have been chosen and shall qualify, or until such person's death or resignation, or until such person's removal in the manner hereinafter provided. The Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer and the Vice Chairmen shall be elected from among the directors. One person may hold the offices and perform the duties of any two or more of said officers; , , that no officer shall execute, acknowledge or verify any instrument in more than one capacity if such instrument is required by law, the Certificate or these By-laws to be executed, acknowledged or verified by two or more officers. The Board may require any officer or agent to give security for the faithful performance of such person's duties.
provided
however
          SECTION 2. . Subject to Section 14 of this Article V, any officer may be removed, either with or without cause, by the Board at any meeting thereof called for the purpose or by any superior officer upon whom such power may be conferred by the Board.
Removal
          SECTION 3. . Any officer may resign at any time by giving notice to the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the Secretary. Any such resignation shall take effect at the date of receipt of such notice or at any later date specified therein; and, unless otherwise specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
Resignation
          SECTION 4. . The Chairman of the Board may be an officer of the Corporation, subject to the control of the Board, and shall report directly to the Board.
Chairman of the Board
          SECTION 5. . The Chief Executive Officer shall have general supervision and direction of the business and affairs of the Corporation, subject to the control of the Board, and shall report directly to the Board.
Chief Executive Officer
          SECTION 6. . The Chief Operating Officer shall perform such senior duties in connection with the operations of the Corporation
Chief Operating Officer
 
as the Board or the Chief Executive Officer shall from time to time determine, and shall report directly to the Chief Executive Officer. The Chief Operating Officer shall, when requested, counsel with and advise the other officers of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties as may be agreed with the Chief Executive Officer or as the Board may from time to time determine.
          SECTION 7. . Any Vice Chairman shall, when requested, counsel with and advise the other officers of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties as he may agree with the Chief Executive Officer or as the Board may from time to time determine.
Vice Chairmen
          SECTION 8. . The Chief Financial Officer shall perform all the powers and duties of the office of the chief financial officer and in general have overall supervision of the financial operations of the Corporation. The Chief Financial Officer shall, when requested, counsel with and advise the other officers of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties as he may agree with the Chief Executive Officer or as the Board may from time to time determine. The Chief Financial Officer shall report directly to the Chief Executive Officer.
Chief Financial Officer
          SECTION 9. . Any Vice President shall have such powers and duties as shall be prescribed by his superior officer or the Board. A Vice President shall, when requested, counsel with and advise the other officers of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties as he may agree with the Chief Executive Officer or as the Board may from time to time determine. A Vice President need not be an officer of the Corporation and shall not be deemed an officer of the Corporation unless elected by the Board.
Vice Presidents
          SECTION 10. . The Treasurer, if one shall have been elected, shall supervise and be responsible for all the funds and securities of the Corporation; the deposit of all moneys and other valuables to the credit of the Corporation in depositories of the Corporation; borrowings and compliance with the provisions of all indentures, agreements and instruments governing such borrowings to which the Corporation is a party; the disbursement of funds of the Corporation and the investment of its funds; and in general shall perform all of the duties incident to the office of the Treasurer. The Treasurer shall, when requested, counsel with and advise the other officers of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties as he may agree with the Chief Executive Officer or as the Board may from time to time determine.
Treasurer
 
          SECTION 11. . The Controller shall be the chief accounting officer of the Corporation. The Controller shall, when requested, counsel with and advise the other officers of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties as he may agree with the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer or as the Board may from time to time determine.
Controller
          SECTION 12. . It shall be the duty of the Secretary to act as secretary at all meetings of the Board, of the committees of the Board and of the stockholders and to record the proceedings of such meetings in a book or books to be kept for that purpose; the Secretary shall see that all notices required to be given by the Corporation are duly given and served; the Secretary shall be custodian of the seal of the Corporation and shall affix the seal or cause it to be affixed to all certificates of stock of the Corporation (unless the seal of the Corporation on such certificates shall be a facsimile, as hereinafter provided) and to all documents, the execution of which on behalf of the Corporation under its seal is duly authorized in accordance with the provisions of these By-laws; the Secretary shall have charge of the books, records and papers of the Corporation and shall see that the reports, statements and other documents required by law to be kept and filed are properly kept and filed; and in general shall perform all of the duties incident to the office of Secretary. The Secretary shall, when requested, counsel with and advise the other officers of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties as he may agree with the Chief Executive Officer or as the Board may from time to time determine.
Secretary
          SECTION 13. . Any Assistant Treasurers, Assistant Controllers and Assistant Secretaries shall perform such duties as shall be assigned to them by the Board or by the Treasurer, Controller or Secretary, respectively, or by the Chief Executive Officer. An Assistant Treasurer , Assistant Controller or Assistant Secretary need not be an officer of the Corporation and shall not be deemed an officer of the Corporation unless elected by the Board.
Assistant Treasurers, Assistant Controllers and Assistant Secretaries
          SECTION 14. . The Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Operating Officer and the Chief Financial Officer of the Corporation shall have the authority to designate employees of the Corporation to have the title of Vice President, Assistant Vice President, Assistant Treasurer, Assistant Controller or Assistant Secretary. Any employee so designated shall have the powers and duties determined by the officer making such designation. The persons upon whom such titles are conferred shall not be deemed officers of the Corporation unless elected by the Board.
Additional Matters
 
          SECTION 1. . The Corporation, to the fullest extent permitted or required by the DGCL or other applicable law, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended (but, in the case of any such amendment and unless applicable law otherwise requires, only to the extent that such amendment permits the Corporation to provide broader indemnification rights than such law permitted the Corporation to provide prior to such amendment), shall indemnify and hold harmless any person who is or was a director or officer of the Corporation and who is or was involved in any manner (including, without limitation, as a party or a witness) or is threatened to be made so involved in any threatened, pending or completed investigation, claim, action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (including, without limitation, any action, suit or proceedings by or in the right of the Corporation to procure a judgment in its favor) (a "Proceeding") by reason of the fact that such person is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise (including, without limitation, any employee benefit plan) (a "Covered Entity") against all expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection with such Proceeding; , , that the foregoing shall not apply to a director or officer of the Corporation with respect to a Proceeding that was commenced by such director or officer unless the proceeding was commenced after a Change in Control (as hereinafter defined in Section 4(e) of this Article VI). Any director or officer of the Corporation entitled to indemnification as provided in this Section 1 is hereinafter called an "Indemnitee". Any right of an Indemnitee to indemnification shall be a contract right and shall include the right to receive, prior to the conclusion of any Proceeding, payment of any expenses incurred by the Indemnitee in connection with such Proceeding, consistent with the provisions of the DGCL or other applicable law, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended (but, in the case of any such amendment and unless applicable law otherwise requires, only to the extent that such amendment permits the Corporation to provide broader rights to payment of expenses than such law permitted the Corporation to provide prior to such amendment), and the other provisions of this Article VI.
Right to Indemnification
provided
however
          SECTION 2. . The Corporation
Insurance, Contracts and Funding
 
may purchase and maintain insurance to protect itself and any director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation or of any Covered Entity against any expenses, judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement as specified in Section 1 of this Article VI or incurred by any such director, officer, employee or agent in connection with any Proceeding referred to in Section 1 of this Article VI, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify such person against such expense, liability or loss under the DGCL. The Corporation may enter into contracts with any director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation or of any Covered Entity in furtherance of the provisions of this Article VI and may create a trust fund, grant a security interest or use other means (including, without limitation, a letter of credit) to ensure the payment of such amounts as may be necessary to effect indemnification as provided or authorized in this Article VI.
          SECTION 3. The right of indemnification provided in this Article VI shall not be exclusive of any other rights to which an Indemnitee may otherwise be entitled, and the provisions of this Article VI shall inure to the benefit of the heirs and legal representatives of any Indemnitee under this Article VI and shall be applicable to Proceedings commenced or continuing after the adoption of this Article VI, whether arising from acts or omissions occurring before or after such adoption.
Indemnification Not Exclusive Right.
          SECTION 4. . In furtherance, but not in limitation of the foregoing provisions, the following procedures, presumptions and remedies shall apply with respect to advancement of expenses and the right to indemnification under this Article VI:
Advancement of Expenses; Procedures; Presumptions and Effect of Certain Proceedings; Remedies
     (a) . All reasonable expenses (including attorneys' fees) incurred by or on behalf of the Indemnitee in connection with any Proceeding shall be advanced to the Indemnitee by the Corporation within 20 days after the receipt by the Corporation of a statement or statements from the Indemnitee requesting such advance or advances from time to time, whether prior to or after final disposition of such Proceeding. Such statement or statements shall reasonably evidence the expenses incurred by the Indemnitee and, if required by law at the time of such advance, shall include or be accompanied by an undertaking by or on behalf of the Indemnitee to repay the amounts advanced if ultimately it should be determined that the Indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified against such expenses pursuant to this Article VI.
Advancement of Expenses
 
     (b) . (i) To obtain indemnification under this Article VI, an Indemnitee shall submit to the Secretary a written request, including such documentation and information as is reasonably available to the Indemnitee and reasonably necessary to determine whether and to what extent the Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification (the "Supporting Documentation"). The determination of the Indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification shall be made not later than 60 days after receipt by the Corporation of the written request for indemnification together with the Supporting Documentation. The Secretary shall, promptly upon receipt of such a request for indemnification, advise the Board in writing that the Indemnitee has requested indemnification.
Procedure for Determination of Entitlement to Indemnification
          (ii) The Indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification under this Article VI shall be determined in one of the following ways: (A) by a majority vote of the Disinterested Directors (as hereinafter defined in Section 4(e) of this Article VI), whether or not they constitute a quorum of the Board, or by a committee of Disinterested Directors designated by a majority vote of the Disinterested Directors; (B) by a written opinion of Independent Counsel (as hereinafter defined in Section 4(e) of this Article VI) if (x) a Change in Control shall have occurred and the Indemnitee so requests or (y) there are no Disinterested Directors or a majority of such Disinterested Directors so directs; (C) by the stockholders of the Corporation; or (D) as provided in Section 4(c) of this Article VI.
          (iii) In the event the determination of entitlement to indemnification is to be made by Independent Counsel pursuant to Section 4(b)(ii) of this Article VI, a majority of the Disinterested Directors shall select the Independent Counsel, but only an Independent Counsel to which the Indemnitee does not reasonably object; , , that if a Change in Control shall have occurred, the Indemnitee shall select such Independent Counsel, but only an Independent Counsel to which a majority of the Disinterested Directors does not reasonably object.
provided
however
     (c) . Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Article VI, if a Change in Control shall have occurred, the Indemnitee shall be presumed to be entitled to indemnification under this Article VI (with respect to actions or omissions occurring prior to such Change in Control) upon submission of a request for
Presumptions and Effect of Certain Proceedings
 
indemnification together with the Supporting Documentation in accordance with Section 4(b)(i) of this Article VI, and thereafter the Corporation shall have the burden of proof to overcome that presumption in reaching a contrary determination. In any event, if the person or persons empowered under Section 4(b) of this Article VI to determine entitlement to indemnification shall not have been appointed or shall not have made a determination within 60 days after receipt by the Corporation of the request therefor, together with the Supporting Documentation, the Indemnitee shall be deemed to be, and shall be, entitled to indemnification unless (A) the Indemnitee misrepresented or failed to disclose a material fact in making the request for indemnification or in the Supporting Documentation or (B) such indemnification is prohibited by law. The termination of any Proceeding described in Section 1 of this Article VI, or of any claim, issue or matter therein, by judgment, order, settlement or conviction, or upon a plea of or its equivalent, shall not, of itself, adversely affect the right of the Indemnitee to indemnification or create a presumption that the Indemnitee did not act in good faith and in a manner which the Indemnitee reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation or, with respect to any criminal proceeding, that the Indemnitee had reasonable cause to believe that such conduct was unlawful.
nolo
contendere
     (d) . (i) In the event that a determination is made pursuant to Section 4(b) of this Article VI that the Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification under this Article VI, (A) the Indemnitee shall be entitled to seek an adjudication of entitlement to such indemnification either, at the Indemnitee's sole option, in (x) an appropriate court of the State of Delaware or any other court of competent jurisdiction or (y) an arbitration to be conducted by a single arbitrator pursuant to the rules of the American Arbitration Association; (B) any such judicial proceeding or arbitration shall be de novo and the Indemnitee shall not be prejudiced by reason of such adverse determination; and (C) if a Change in Control shall have occurred, in any such judicial proceeding or arbitration, the Corporation shall have the burden of proving that the Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification under this Article VI (with respect to actions or omissions occurring prior to such Change in Control).
Remedies of Indemnitee
          (ii) If a determination shall have been made or deemed to have been made, pursuant to Section 4(b) or (c) of this Article VI, that the Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification, the Corporation shall be obligated
 
to pay the amounts constituting such indemnification within five days after such determination has been made or deemed to have been made and shall be conclusively bound by such determination unless (A) the Indemnitee misrepresented or failed to disclose a material fact in making the request for indemnification or in the Supporting Documentation or (B) such indemnification is prohibited by law. In the event that (X) advancement of expenses is not timely made pursuant to Section 4(a) of this Article VI or (Y) payment of indemnification is not made within five days after a determination of entitlement to indemnification has been made or deemed to have been made pursuant to Section 4(b) or (c) of this Article VI, the Indemnitee shall be entitled to seek judicial enforcement of the Corporation's obligation to pay to the Indemnitee such advancement of expenses or indemnification. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Corporation may bring an action, in an appropriate court in the State of Delaware or any other court of competent jurisdiction, contesting the right of the Indemnitee to receive indemnification hereunder due to the occurrence of an event described in sub-clause (A) or (B) of this clause (ii) (a "Disqualifying Event"); , , that in any such action the Corporation shall have the burden of proving the occurrence of such Disqualifying Event.
provided
however
          (iii) The Corporation shall be precluded from asserting in any judicial proceeding or arbitration commenced pursuant to this Section 4(d) that the procedures and presumptions of this Article VI are not valid, binding and enforceable and shall stipulate in any such court or before any such arbitrator that the Corporation is bound by all the provisions of this Article VI.
          (iv) In the event that the Indemnitee, pursuant to this Section 4(d), seeks a judicial adjudication of or an award in arbitration to enforce rights under, or to recover damages for breach of, this Article VI, the Indemnitee shall be entitled to recover from the Corporation, and shall be indemnified by the Corporation against, any expenses actually and reasonably incurred by the Indemnitee if the Indemnitee prevails in such judicial adjudication or arbitration. If it shall be determined in such judicial adjudication or arbitration that the Indemnitee is entitled to receive part but not all of the indemnification or advancement of expenses sought, the expenses incurred by the Indemnitee in connection with such judicial adjudication or arbitration shall be prorated accordingly.
 
          (e) . For purposes of this Article VI:
Definitions
          (i) "" means any one of the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Operating Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, any Vice President or the Secretary of the Corporation.
Authorized Officer
          (ii) "" means the occurrence of any of the following: (w) any merger or consolidation of the Corporation in which the Corporation is not the continuing or surviving corporation or pursuant to which shares of the Corporation's Common Stock would be converted into cash, securities or other property, other than a merger of the Corporation in which the holders of the Corporation's Common Stock immediately prior to the merger have the same proportionate ownership of common stock of the surviving corporation immediately after the merger, (x) any sale, lease, exchange or other transfer (in one transaction or a series of related transactions) of all, or substantially all, the assets of the Corporation, or the liquidation or dissolution of the Corporation or (y) individuals who would constitute a majority of the members of the Board elected at any meeting of stockholders or by written consent (without regard to any members of the Board elected pursuant to the terms of any series of Preferred Stock) shall be elected to the Board and the election or the nomination for election by the stockholders of such directors was not approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors in office immediately prior to such election.
Change in Control
          (iii) "" means a director of the Corporation who is not or was not a party to the Proceeding in respect of which indemnification is sought by the Indemnitee.
Disinterested Director
          (iv) "" means a law firm or a member of a law firm that neither presently is, nor in the past five years has been, retained to represent: (x) the Corporation or the Indemnitee in any matter material to either such party or (y) any other party to the Proceeding giving rise to a claim for indemnification under this Article VI. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the term "Independent Counsel" shall not include any person who, under the applicable standards of professional conduct then prevailing under the law of the State of Delaware, would have a conflict of interest in representing either the Corporation or the Indemnitee in an action to determine the Indemnitee's rights under this Article VI.
Independent Counsel
 
          SECTION 5. . If any provision or provisions of this Article VI shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever: (a) the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Article VI (including, without limitation, all portions of any paragraph of this Article VI containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, that are not themselves invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby; and (b) to the fullest extent possible, the provisions of this Article VI (including, without limitation, all portions of any paragraph of this Article VI containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, that are not themselves invalid, illegal or enforceable) shall be construed so as to give effect to the intent manifested by the provision held invalid, illegal or unenforceable.
Severability
          SECTION 6. The Corporation, to the fullest extent of the provisions of this Article VI with respect to the indemnification of directors and officers of the Corporation, shall indemnify any person who is or was an employee of the Corporation and who is or was involved in any manner (including, without limitation, as a party or a witness) or is threatened to be made so involved in any threatened, pending or completed Proceeding by reason of the fact that such employee is or was serving (a) as a director of a corporation in which the Corporation had at the time of such service, directly or indirectly, a 50% or greater equity interest (a "Subsidiary Director") or (b) at the written request of an Authorized Officer, as a director of another corporation in which the Corporation had at the time of such service, directly or indirectly, a less than 50% equity interest (or no equity interest at all) or in a capacity equivalent to that of a director for any partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise (including, without limitation, any employee benefit plan) in which the Corporation has an interest (a "Requested Employee"), against all expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by such Subsidiary Director or Requested Employee in connection with such Proceeding. The Corporation may also advance expenses incurred by any such Subsidiary Director or Requested Employee in connection with any such Proceeding, consistent with the provisions of this Article VI with respect to the advancement of expenses of directors and officers of the Corporation.
Indemnification of Employees Serving as Directors.
          SECTION 7. . Notwithstanding any other provision or provisions of this Article VI, the Corporation, to the fullest extent of the provisions of this Article VI with respect to
Indemnification of Employees and Agents
 
the indemnification of directors and officers of the Corporation, may indemnify any person other than a director or officer of the Corporation, a Subsidiary Director or a Requested Employee, who is or was an employee or agent of the Corporation and who is or was involved in any manner (including, without limitation, as a party or a witness) or is threatened to be made so involved in any threatened, pending or completed Proceeding by reason of the fact that such person is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation or of a Covered Entity against all expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection with such Proceeding. The Corporation may also advance expenses incurred by such employee or agent in connection with any such Proceeding, consistent with the provisions of this Article VI with respect to the advancement of expenses of directors and officers of the Corporation.
          SECTION 1. . The shares of stock of the Corporation shall be represented by certificates, or shall be uncertificated shares that may be evidenced by a book-entry system maintained by the registrar of such stock, or a combination of both. To the extent that shares are represented by certificates, such certificates whenever authorized by the Board, shall be in such form as shall be approved by the Board. The certificates representing shares of stock of each class shall be signed by, or in the name of, the Corporation by the Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer, or by any Vice President, and by the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary or the Treasurer or any Assistant Treasurer of the Corporation, and sealed with the seal of the Corporation, which may be a facsimile thereof. Any or all such signatures may be facsimiles if countersigned by a transfer agent or registrar. Although any officer, transfer agent or registrar whose manual or facsimile signature is affixed to such a certificate ceases to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate has been issued, it may nevertheless be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if such officer, transfer agent or registrar were still such at the date of its issue.
Certificates for Shares
          The stock ledger and blank share certificates shall be kept by the Secretary or by a transfer agent or by a registrar or by any other officer or agent designated by the Board.
 
          SECTION 2. . Transfers of shares of stock of each class of the Corporation shall be made only on the books of the Corporation upon authorization by the registered holder thereof, or by such holder's attorney thereunto authorized by a power of attorney duly executed and filed with the Secretary or a transfer agent for such stock, if any, and if such shares are represented by a certificate, upon surrender of the certificate or certificates for such shares properly endorsed or accompanied by a duly executed stock transfer power (or by proper evidence of succession, assignment or authority to transfer) and the payment of any taxes thereon; , , that the Corporation shall be entitled to recognize and enforce any lawful restriction on transfer. The person in whose name shares are registered on the books of the Corporation shall be deemed the owner thereof for all purposes as regards the Corporation; , , that whenever any transfer of shares shall be made for collateral security and not absolutely, and written notice thereof shall be given to the Secretary or to such transfer agent, such fact shall be stated in the entry of the transfer. No transfer of shares shall be valid as against the Corporation, its stockholders and creditors for any purpose, except to render the transferee liable for the debts of the Corporation to the extent provided by law, until it shall have been entered in the stock records of the Corporation by an entry showing from and to whom transferred.
Transfer of Shares
provided
however
provided
however
          SECTION 3. . The Corporation shall be entitled to recognize the exclusive right of a person registered on its records as the owner of shares of stock to receive dividends and to vote as such owner, shall be entitled to hold liable for calls and assessments a person registered on its records as the owner of shares of stock, and shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share or shares of stock on the part of any other person, whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof, except as otherwise provided by the laws of Delaware.
Registered Stockholders and Addresses of
Stockholders
          Each stockholder shall designate to the Secretary or transfer agent of the Corporation an address at which notices of meetings and all other corporate notices may be given to such person, and, if any stockholder shall fail to designate such address, corporate notices may be given to such person by mail directed to such person at such person's post office address, if any, as the same appears on the stock record books of the Corporation or at such person's last known post office address.
          SECTION 4. . The holder of any certificate representing any shares of stock of the Corporation shall
Lost, Destroyed and Mutilated Certificates
 
immediately notify the Corporation of any loss, theft, destruction or mutilation of such certificate; the Corporation may issue to such holder a new certificate or certificates for shares, upon the surrender of the mutilated certificate or, in the case of loss, theft or destruction of the certificate, upon satisfactory proof of such loss, theft or destruction; the Board, or a committee designated thereby, or the transfer agents and registrars for the stock, may, in their discretion, require the owner of the lost, stolen or destroyed certificate, or such person's legal representative, to give the Corporation a bond in such sum and with such surety or sureties as they may direct to indemnify the Corporation and said transfer agents and registrars against any claim that may be made on account of the alleged loss, theft or destruction of any such certificate or the issuance of such new certificate.
          SECTION 5. . The Board may make such additional rules and regulations as it may deem expedient concerning the issue, transfer and registration of certificated or uncertificated shares of stock of each class and series of the Corporation and may make such rules and take such action as it may deem expedient concerning the issue of certificates in lieu of certificates claimed to have been lost, destroyed, stolen or mutilated.
Regulations
          SECTION 6. . In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of the stockholders or any adjournment thereof, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board may fix, in advance, a record date, which shall not be more than 60 days nor less than 10 days before the date of such meeting, nor more than 60 days prior to any other action. A determination of stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of the stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; , that the Board may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
Fixing Date for Determination of Stockholders of
Record
provided,
however
          SECTION 7. . The Board may appoint, or authorize any officer or officers to appoint, one or more transfer agents and one or more registrars.
Transfer Agents and Registrars
 
          The Board shall approve a suitable corporate seal, which shall be in the form of a circle and shall bear the full name of the Corporation and shall be in the charge of the Secretary. The seal may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or in any other manner reproduced.
          The fiscal year of the Corporation shall end on the 31st day of December in each year.
          Whenever any notice whatsoever is required to be given by these By-laws, by the Certificate or by law, the person entitled thereto may, either before or after the meeting or other matter in respect of which such notice is to be given, waive such notice in writing or as otherwise permitted by law, which shall be filed with or entered upon the records of the meeting or the records kept with respect to such other matter, as the case may be, and in such event such notice need not be given to such person and such waiver shall be deemed equivalent to such notice.
          These By-laws may be altered, amended or repealed, in whole or in part, or new By-laws may be adopted by the stockholders or by the Board at any meeting thereof; , , that notice of such alteration, amendment, repeal or adoption of new By-laws is contained in the notice of such meeting of the stockholders or in the notice of such meeting of the Board and, in the latter case, such notice is given not less than twenty-four hours prior to the meeting. Unless a higher percentage is required by the Certificate, all such amendments must be approved by either the holders of a majority or more of the combined voting power
provided
however
 
of the outstanding shares of all classes and series of capital stock of the Corporation entitled generally to vote in the election of directors of the Corporation, voting as a single class, or by a majority of the Board.
          SECTION 1. . The Board or any committee thereof shall designate the officers, employees and agents of the Corporation who shall have power to execute and deliver deeds, contracts, mortgages, bonds, debentures, notes, checks, drafts and other orders for the payment of money and other documents for and in the name of the Corporation and may authorize (including authority to redelegate) by written instrument to other officers, employees or agents of the Corporation. Such delegation may be by resolution or otherwise and the authority granted shall be general or confined to specific matters, all as the Board or any such committee may determine. In the absence of such designation referred to in the first sentence of this Section, the officers of the Corporation shall have such power so referred to, to the extent incident to the normal performance of their duties.
Execution of Documents
          SECTION 2. . All funds of the Corporation not otherwise employed shall be deposited from time to time to the credit of the Corporation or otherwise as the Board or any committee thereof or any officer of the Corporation to whom power in respect of financial operations shall have been delegated by the Board or any such committee or in these By-laws shall select.
Deposits
          SECTION 3. . All checks, drafts and other orders for the payment of money out of the funds of the Corporation, and all notes or other evidences of indebtedness of the Corporation, shall be signed on behalf of the Corporation in such manner as shall from time to time be determined by resolution of the Board or of any committee thereof or by any officer of the Corporation to whom power in respect of financial operations shall have been delegated by the Board or any such committee thereof or as set forth in these By-laws.
Checks
          SECTION 4. . The Board or any committee thereof shall designate the officers of the Corporation who shall have authority from time to time to appoint an agent or agents of the Corporation to exercise in the name and on behalf of the Corporation the
Proxies in Respect of Stock or Other Securities of Other Corporations
 
powers and rights which the Corporation may have as the holder of stock or other securities in any other corporation or other entity, and to vote or consent in respect of such stock or securities; such designated officers may instruct the person or persons so appointed as to the manner of exercising such powers and rights; and such designated officers may execute or cause to be executed in the name and on behalf of the Corporation and under its corporate seal, or otherwise, such written proxies, powers of attorney or other instruments as they may deem necessary or proper in order that the Corporation may exercise its said powers and rights.
          SECTION 5. . All powers, duties and responsibilities provided for in these By-laws, whether or not explicitly so qualified, are qualified by the provisions of the Certificate and applicable laws.
Subject to Law and Certificate of Incorporation

EXHIBIT 10.1
1.
Purpose of the Plan
     The purpose of the Plan is to aid the Company and its Affiliates in recruiting and retaining employees, directors and advisors and to motivate such employees, directors and advisors to exert their best efforts on behalf of the Company and its Affiliates by providing incentives through the granting of Awards. The Company expects that it will benefit from the added interest which such employees, directors and advisors will have in the welfare of the Company as a result of their proprietary interest in the Company's success.
2.
Definitions
     The following capitalized terms used in the Plan have the respective meanings set forth in this Section:
     (a) means The Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or any successor thereto.
"Act"
     (b) means any entity that is consolidated with the Company for financial reporting purposes or any other entity designated by the Board in which the Company or an Affiliate has a direct or indirect equity interest of at least 20%, measured by reference to vote or value.
"Affiliate"
     (c) means an Option, SAR, award of Restricted Stock, or Other Stock-Based Award granted pursuant to the Plan.
"Award"
     (d) means the Board of Directors of the Company.
"Board"
     (e) means the occurrence of any of the following events:
"Change in Control"
     (i) any "Person" within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Act (other than the Company or any company owned, directly or indirectly, by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of the Company) becomes the "Beneficial Owner" within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Act of 30% or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors; excluding, however, any circumstance in which such beneficial ownership resulted from any acquisition by an employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or by any corporation controlling, controlled by, or under common control with, the Company;
     (ii) a change in the composition of the Board since the Effective Date, such that the individuals who, as of such date, constituted the Board (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of such Board; provided that any individual who becomes a director of the Company subsequent to the Effective Date whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders, was approved by the vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be deemed a member of the Incumbent Board; and provided further, that any individual who was initially elected as a director of the Company as a result of an actual or threatened election contest, as such terms are used in Rule 14a-12 of Regulation 14A promulgated under the Act, or any other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of any person or entity other than the Board shall not be deemed a member of the Incumbent Board;
     (iii) a reorganization, recapitalization, merger, consolidation or similar form of corporate transaction, or the sale, transfer, or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company to an entity that is not an Affiliate (each of the foregoing events, a "Corporate Transaction") involving the Company, unless securities representing 60% or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors of the Company or the corporation resulting from such Corporate Transaction, including a
 
corporation that, as a result of such transaction owns all or substantially all of the Company's assets (or the direct or indirect parent of such corporation), are held immediately subsequent to such transaction by the person or persons who were the beneficial holders of the outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors of the Company immediately prior to such Corporate Transaction, in substantially the same proportions as their ownership immediately prior to such Corporate Transaction; or
     (iv) the liquidation or dissolution of the Company, unless such liquidation or dissolution is part of a transaction or series of transactions described in clause (iii) above that does not otherwise constitute a Change in Control.
     (f) means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or any successor thereto.
"Code"
     (g) means the Compensation and Human Development Committee of the Board or its successor, or such other committee of the Board to which the Board has delegated power to act under or pursuant to the provisions of the Plan or a subcommittee of the Compensation and Human Development Committee (or such other committee) established by the Compensation and Human Development Committee (or such other committee).
"Committee"
     (h) means Time Warner Inc., a Delaware corporation.
"Company"
     (i) means the date the Board approves the Plan.
"Effective Date"
     (j) means (i) a Participant's employment if the Participant is an employee of the Company or any of its Affiliates or (ii) a Participant's services as a non-employee director, if the Participant is a non-employee member of the Board or the board of directors of an Affiliate; provided, however that unless otherwise determined by the Committee, a change in a Participant's status from employee to non-employee (other than a director of the Company or an Affiliate) shall constitute a termination of employment hereunder.
"Employment"
     (k) means, on a given date, (i) if there should be a public market for the Shares on such date, the closing sale price of the Shares on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") Composite Tape, or, if the Shares are not listed or admitted on any national securities exchange, the average of the per Share closing bid price and per Share closing asked price on such date as quoted on the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System (or such market in which such prices are regularly quoted) (the "NASDAQ"), or, if no sale of Shares shall have been reported on the NYSE Composite Tape or quoted on the NASDAQ on such date, then the immediately preceding date on which sales of the Shares have been so reported or quoted shall be used, and (ii) if there should not be a public market for the Shares on such date, the Fair Market Value shall be the value established by the Committee in good faith.
"Fair Market Value"
     (l) means an Option that is also an incentive stock option granted pursuant to Section 6(d).
"ISO"
     (m) means a stock option granted pursuant to Section 6.
"Option"
     (n) means the price for which a Share can be purchased upon exercise of an Option, as determined pursuant to Section 6(a).
"Option Price"
     (o) means awards granted pursuant to Section 9.
"Other Stock-Based Awards"
     (p) means an employee, prospective employee, director or advisor of the Company or an Affiliate who is selected by the Committee to participate in the Plan.
"Participant"
     (q) means certain Other Stock-Based Awards granted pursuant to Section 9(b).
"Performance-Based Awards"
     (r) means the Time Warner Inc. 2010 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended from time to time.
"Plan"
     (s) has the meaning set forth in Section 3.
"Plan Share Limit"
 
     (t) means any Share granted under Section 8.
"Restricted Stock"
     (u) means Section 162(m) of the Code and the Department of Treasury regulations and other interpretative guidance issued thereunder, including without limitation any such regulations or other guidance that may be issued after the Effective Date.
"Section 162(m)"
     (v) means Section 409A of the Code and the Department of Treasury regulations and other interpretative guidance issued thereunder, including without limitation any such regulations or other guidance that may be issued after the Effective Date.
"Section 409A"
     (w) means shares of common stock of the Company, $.01 par value per share.
"Shares"
     (x) means a stock appreciation right granted pursuant to Section 7.
"SAR"
     (y) means a subsidiary corporation, as defined in Section 424(f) of the Code (or any successor section thereto), of the Company.
"Subsidiary"
     (z) has the meaning set forth in Section 4(c).
"Substitute Awards"
3.
Shares Subject to the Plan
     Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 10, the total number of Shares available for issuance under the Plan (the "Plan Share Limit") shall be equal to 70,000,000, of which, no more than 40% may be issued in the form of Restricted Stock or Other Stock-Based Awards payable in Shares and no more than 70,000,000 may be issued with respect to ISOs. The maximum aggregate number of Shares with respect to which Awards may be granted during a calendar year, net of any Shares which are subject to Awards (or portions thereof) which, during such year, terminate or lapse without payment of consideration, shall be equal to 1.5% of the number of Shares outstanding on December 31 of the preceding calendar year. The maximum number of Shares with respect to which Awards may be granted during a calendar year to any Participant shall be 1,200,000; provided that the maximum number of Shares that may be awarded in the form of Restricted Stock or Other Stock-Based Awards payable in Shares during any calendar year to any Participant shall be 500,000. In the case of Awards that are settled in cash based on the Fair Market Value of a Share, the maximum aggregate amount of cash that may be paid pursuant to Awards granted in a calendar year to any Participant shall be equal to the Fair Market Value of a Share as of the relevant vesting, payment or settlement date multiplied by 500,000.
     The number of Shares available for issuance under the Plan shall be reduced by the full number of Shares covered by Awards granted under the Plan (including, without limitation, the full number of Shares covered by any SAR, regardless of whether any such SAR or other Award covering Shares under the Plan is ultimately settled in cash or by delivery of Shares); provided, however, that the number of Shares covered by Awards (or portions thereof) that are forfeited or that otherwise terminate or lapse without the payment of consideration in respect thereof shall again become available for issuance under the Plan; and provided further that any Shares that are forfeited after the actual issuance of such Shares to a Participant under the Plan shall not become available for re-issuance under the Plan.
4.
Administration
     (a) The Plan shall be administered by the Committee, which may delegate its duties and powers in whole or in part to any subcommittee thereof consisting solely of at least two individuals who are intended to qualify as "independent directors" within the meaning of the NYSE listed company rules, "non-employee directors" within the meaning of Rule 16b-3 under the Act and, to the extent required by Section 162(m), "outside directors" within the meaning thereof. In addition, to the extent permitted or not prohibited by the Delaware General Corporation Law, the Committee may delegate the authority to grant Awards under the Plan to any employee or group of employees of the Company or an Affiliate; provided that such delegated authority shall not include the authority to grant Awards to any individual who is subject to Section 16 of the Act and any grants made pursuant to such delegated authority are consistent with guidelines established by the Committee from time to time.
 
     (b) The Committee shall have the full power and authority to make, and establish the terms and conditions of, any Award to any person eligible to be a Participant, consistent with the provisions of the Plan, and to waive any such terms and conditions at any time (including, without limitation, accelerating or waiving any vesting conditions, subject to Sections 8(a) and 9(a)).
     (c) Subject to the restrictions on "repricing" of Options and SARs as set forth in Section 5(b), Awards may, in the discretion of the Committee, be granted under the Plan in assumption of, or in substitution for, outstanding awards previously granted by the Company or any of its Affiliates or a company acquired by the Company or any of its Affiliates or with which the Company or any of its Affiliates combines ("Substitute Awards"). The number of Shares underlying any Substitute Awards shall be counted against the Plan Share Limit; , , that Substitute Awards issued in connection with the assumption of, or in substitution for, outstanding awards previously granted by an entity that is acquired by the Company or any of its Affiliates or with which the Company or any of its Affiliates combines shall not be counted against the Plan Share Limit; , , that Substitute Awards issued in connection with the assumption of, or in substitution for, outstanding stock options intended to qualify for special tax treatment under Sections 421 and 422 of the Code that were previously granted by an entity that is acquired by the Company or any of its Affiliates or with which the Company or any of its Affiliates combines shall be counted against the maximum aggregate number of Shares available for ISOs under the Plan.
provided
however
provided further
however
     (d) The Committee is authorized to interpret the Plan, to establish, amend and rescind any rules and regulations relating to the Plan, and to make any other determinations that it deems necessary or desirable for the administration of the Plan, and may delegate such authority, as it deems appropriate. The Committee may correct any defect or supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan in the manner and to the extent the Committee deems necessary or desirable. Any decision of the Committee in the interpretation and administration of the Plan, as described herein, shall lie within its sole and absolute discretion and shall be final, conclusive and binding on all parties concerned (including, but not limited to, Participants and their successors).
     (e) The Committee shall require payment of any amount it may determine to be necessary to withhold for federal, state, local or other taxes as a result of the exercise, grant, vesting or payout of an Award. Unless the Committee specifies otherwise, the Participant may elect to pay a portion or all of such withholding taxes by (a) delivery of Shares or (b) having Shares withheld by the Company with a Fair Market Value equal to the minimum statutory withholding rate from any Shares that would have otherwise been received by the Participant.
5.
Limitations
     (a) No Award may be granted under the Plan after August 15, 2014, but Awards granted prior to such date may extend beyond that date.
     (b) Notwithstanding any provision herein to the contrary, the repricing of an Option or SAR, once granted hereunder, is prohibited without the prior approval of the Company's stockholders. For this purpose, a "repricing" means any of the following (or any other action that has the same effect as any of the following): (i) changing the terms of an Option or SAR to lower its exercise price other than a decrease in exercise price that occurs as a result of an adjustment made in connection with a change in capitalization or similar change in the outstanding Shares pursuant to Section 10(a) below; (ii) any other action that is treated as a "repricing" under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles; and (iii) repurchasing for cash or canceling an Option or SAR at a time when its exercise price is greater than the Fair Market Value of the underlying Shares in exchange for another Award, unless the cancellation and exchange occurs in connection with a change in capitalization or similar change in the outstanding Shares permitted under Section 10(a) below. Any such cancellation and exchange described in clause (iii) (other than in connection with a change permitted under Sections 10(a) and 10(b) below) will be considered a "repricing" regardless of whether it is treated as a "repricing" under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and regardless of whether it is voluntary on the part of the Participant.
 
     (c) With respect to any Awards granted to a Participant who is a non-employee member of the Board at the time of grant, such Awards shall be made pursuant to formulas established by the Board in advance of such grant. Any such Awards shall be made at the time such a Participant first becomes a member of the Board and, thereafter, on an annual basis at or following the annual meeting of stockholders. Such formulas may include any one or more of the following: (i) a fixed number of Options or SARs or a number of Options determined by reference to a fixed dollar amount (calculated based on the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of grant and the Black-Scholes methodology for valuing Options and SARs), (ii) a fixed number of Shares of Restricted Stock or a number of Shares of Restricted Stock determined by reference to a fixed dollar amount (calculated based on the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of grant), and (iii) Other Stock-Based Awards determined either by reference to a fixed number of Shares or to a fixed dollar amount (calculated based on the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of grant).
6.
Terms and Conditions of Options
     Options granted under the Plan shall be, as determined by the Committee, nonqualified or incentive stock options for federal income tax purposes, as evidenced by the related Award agreements, and shall be subject to the foregoing and the following terms and conditions and to such other terms and conditions, not inconsistent therewith, as the Committee shall determine, and as evidenced by the related Award agreement:
     (a) The Option Price per Share shall be determined by the Committee, but shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date an Option is granted.
Option Price.
     (b) Options granted under the Plan shall be exercisable at such time and upon such terms and conditions as may be determined by the Committee, but in no event shall an Option be exercisable more than ten years after the date it is granted, except as may be provided pursuant to Section 15.
Exercisability.
     (c) Except as otherwise provided in the Plan or in an Award agreement, an Option may be exercised for all, or from time to time any part, of the Shares for which it is then exercisable. For purposes of this Section 6, the exercise date of an Option shall be the date a notice of exercise is received by the Company, together with provision for payment of the full purchase price in accordance with this Section 6(c). The purchase price for the Shares as to which an Option is exercised shall be paid to the Company, as designated by the Committee, pursuant to one or more of the following methods: (i) in cash or its equivalent (e.g., by check); (ii) in Shares having a Fair Market Value equal to the aggregate Option Price for the Shares being purchased and satisfying such other requirements as may be imposed by the Committee; (iii) partly in cash and partly in such Shares or (iv) if there is a public market for the Shares at such time, through the delivery of irrevocable instructions to a broker to sell Shares obtained upon the exercise of the Option and to deliver promptly to the Company an amount out of the proceeds of such sale equal to the aggregate Option Price for the Shares being purchased. No Participant shall have any rights to dividends or other rights of a stockholder with respect to Shares subject to an Option until the Shares are issued to the Participant.
Exercise of Options.
     (d) The Committee may grant Options under the Plan that are intended to be ISOs. Such ISOs shall comply with the requirements of Section 422 of the Code (or any successor section thereto). No ISO may be granted to any Participant who, at the time of such grant, owns more than 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or of any Subsidiary, unless (i) the Option Price for such ISO is at least 110% of the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date the ISO is granted and (ii) the date on which such ISO terminates is a date not later than the day preceding the fifth anniversary of the date on which the ISO is granted. Any Participant who disposes of Shares acquired upon the exercise of an ISO either (i) within two years after the date of grant of such ISO or (ii) within one year after the transfer of such Shares to the Participant, shall notify the Company of such disposition and of the amount realized upon such disposition. All Options granted under the Plan are intended to be nonqualified stock options, unless the applicable Award agreement expressly states that the Option is intended to be an ISO. If an Option is intended to be an ISO, and if for any reason such Option (or portion thereof) shall not qualify as an ISO, then, to the extent of such nonqualification, such Option (or portion thereof) shall be regarded as a nonqualified stock option granted under the Plan; provided that such Option (or portion thereof) otherwise complies with the Plan's requirements relating to nonqualified stock options. In no event shall
ISOs.
 
any member of the Committee, the Company or any of its Affiliates (or their respective employees, officers or directors) have any liability to any Participant (or any other person) due to the failure of an Option to qualify for any reason as an ISO.
     (e) Wherever in the Plan or any agreement evidencing an Award a Participant is permitted to pay the exercise price of an Option or taxes relating to the exercise of an Option by delivering Shares, the Participant may, subject to procedures satisfactory to the Committee, satisfy such delivery requirement by presenting proof of beneficial ownership of such Shares, in which case the Company shall treat the Option as exercised without further payment and/or shall withhold such number of Shares from the Shares acquired by the exercise of the Option, as appropriate.
Attestation.
7.
Terms and Conditions of SARs
     (a) The Committee may grant (i) a SAR independent of an Option or (ii) a SAR in connection with an Option, or a portion thereof. A SAR granted pursuant to clause (ii) of the preceding sentence (A) may be granted at the time the related Option is granted or at any time prior to the exercise or cancellation of the related Option, (B) shall cover the same number of Shares covered by the Option (or such lesser number of Shares as the Committee may determine) and (C) shall be subject to the same terms and conditions as such Option except for such additional limitations as are contemplated by this Section 7 (or such additional limitations as may be included in an Award agreement).
Grants.
     (b) The exercise price per Share of a SAR shall be an amount determined by the Committee but in no event shall such amount be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date the SAR is granted; provided, however, that notwithstanding the foregoing in the case of a SAR granted in conjunction with an Option, or a portion thereof, the exercise price may not be less than the Option Price of the related Option. Each SAR granted independent of an Option shall entitle a Participant upon exercise to an amount equal to (i) the excess of (A) the Fair Market Value on the exercise date of one Share over (B) the exercise price per Share, times (ii) the number of Shares covered by the SAR. Each SAR granted in conjunction with an Option, or a portion thereof, shall entitle a Participant to surrender to the Company the unexercised Option, or any portion thereof, and to receive from the Company in exchange therefor an amount equal to (i) the excess of (A) the Fair Market Value on the exercise date of one Share over (B) the Option Price per Share, times (ii) the number of Shares covered by the Option, or portion thereof, which is surrendered. Payment shall be made in Shares or in cash, or partly in Shares and partly in cash (any such Shares valued at such Fair Market Value), all as shall be determined by the Committee. SARs may be exercised from time to time upon actual receipt by the Company of written notice of exercise stating the number of Shares with respect to which the SAR is being exercised. The date a notice of exercise is received by the Company shall be the exercise date. No fractional Shares will be issued in payment for SARs, but instead cash will be paid for a fraction or, if the Committee should so determine, the number of Shares will be rounded downward to the next whole Share. No Participant shall have any rights to dividends or other rights of a stockholder with respect to Shares covered by SARs until the Shares are issued to the Participant.
Terms.
     (c) The Committee may impose, in its discretion, such conditions upon the exercisability of SARs as it may deem fit, but in no event shall a SAR be exercisable more than ten years after the date it is granted, except as may be provided pursuant to Section 15.
Limitations.
8.
Restricted Stock
(a) Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall determine the number of Shares of Restricted Stock to be granted to each Participant, the duration of the period during which, and the conditions, if any, under which, the Restricted Stock may be forfeited to the Company, and the other terms and conditions of such Awards. Notwithstanding any other provision, with respect to
Grant.
(i) Shares of Restricted Stock that are subject to time-based vesting, but not performance-based vesting, not less than 95% of such Shares of Restricted Stock shall remain subject to forfeiture for at least three years after the date of grant, subject to earlier termination of such potential for forfeiture in whole or in part in the event of a Change in Control or the death, disability or other termination of the Participant's
 
Employment, and (ii) Shares of Restricted Stock that are subject to vesting upon the attainment of performance objectives, the minimum performance period shall be one year.
     (b) Shares of Restricted Stock may not be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged or otherwise encumbered, except as provided in the Plan or the applicable Award agreement. Shares of Restricted Stock may be evidenced in such manner as the Committee shall determine in its sole discretion. If certificates representing Shares of Restricted Stock are registered in the name of the applicable Participant, the Company may, at its discretion, retain physical possession of such certificates until such time as all applicable restrictions have lapsed. After the lapse of the restrictions applicable to such Shares of Restricted Stock, the Company shall deliver a certificate or other evidence of ownership of the Shares to the Participant.
Transfer Restrictions.
     (c) Dividends paid on any Shares of Restricted Stock may be paid directly to the Participant, withheld by the Company subject to vesting of the Restricted Shares pursuant to the terms of the applicable Award agreement, or may be reinvested in additional Shares of Restricted Stock, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion; provided that, for Shares of Restricted Stock that are subject to vesting upon the attainment of a performance goal, dividends may be withheld and paid only with respect to those Restricted Shares for which the restrictions ultimately lapse and the Restricted Shares vest.
Dividends.
     (d) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, certain Shares of Restricted Stock granted under this Section 8 may, at the discretion of the Committee, be granted in a manner that is intended to be deductible by the Company under Section 162(m). The restrictions applicable to such Restricted Stock shall lapse based wholly or partially on the attainment of written performance goals approved by the Committee for a performance period of not less than one year established by the Committee (i) while the outcome for that performance period is substantially uncertain and (ii) no more than 90 days after the commencement of the performance period to which the performance goal relates. The performance goals, which must be objective, shall be based on one or more of the criteria set forth in Section 9(b) below. The criteria may relate to the Company, one or more of its Affiliates or one or more of its or their divisions or units, or any combination of the foregoing, and may be applied on an absolute basis and/or be relative to one or more peer group companies or indices, or any combination thereof, all as the Committee shall determine. In addition, to the extent consistent with Section 162(m), the performance goals may be calculated without regard to extraordinary items. The Committee shall determine whether, with respect to a performance period, the applicable performance goals have been met with respect to a given Participant and, if they have, shall so certify prior to the release of the restrictions on the Shares. No such restrictions shall lapse for such performance period until such certification is made by the Committee.
Performance-Based Grants.
9.
Other Stock-Based Awards
     (a) The Committee, in its sole discretion, may grant or sell Awards of Shares and Awards that are valued in whole or in part by reference to, or are otherwise based on the Fair Market Value of, Shares ("Other Stock-Based Awards"), including, but not limited to, Shares awarded as a bonus and not subject to any restrictions or conditions, Shares in payment of the amounts due under an incentive or performance plan sponsored or maintained by the Company or an Affiliate, restricted stock units, performance stock units, dividend equivalent units, stock equivalent units, and deferred stock units. Such Other Stock-Based Awards shall be in such form, and dependent on such conditions, as the Committee shall determine, including, without limitation, the right to receive, or vest with respect to, one or more Shares (or the equivalent cash value of such Shares) upon the completion of a specified period of service, the occurrence of an event and/or the attainment of performance objectives. Other Stock-Based Awards may be granted alone or in addition to any other Awards granted under the Plan. Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall determine the number of Shares to be awarded to a Participant under (or otherwise related to) such Other Stock-Based Awards; whether such Other Stock-Based Awards shall be settled in cash, Shares or a combination of cash and Shares; and all other terms and conditions of such Awards (including, without limitation, the vesting provisions thereof and provisions ensuring that all Shares so awarded and issued shall be fully paid and non-assessable). Notwithstanding any other provision, with respect to (i) Other Stock-Based Awards settled in Shares that are subject to time-based vesting, but not performance-based vesting, not less than 95% of such Other Stock-Based Awards payable in Shares
Generally.
 
shall vest and become payable at least three years after the date of grant, subject to earlier vesting in whole or in part in the event of a Change in Control or the death, disability or other termination of the Participant's Employment, and (ii) Other Stock-Based Awards settled in Shares that are subject to vesting upon the attainment of performance objectives, the minimum performance period shall be one year and dividend equivalents may be accrued and paid only with respect to the shares for which the Other Stock-Based Award ultimately vests.
     (b) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, certain Other Stock-Based Awards granted under this Section 9 may be granted in a manner which is intended to be deductible by the Company under Section 162(m) ("Performance-Based Awards"). A Participant's Performance-Based Award shall be determined based on the attainment of written performance goals approved by the Committee for a performance period of not less than one year established by the Committee (i) while the outcome for that performance period is substantially uncertain and (ii) no more than 90 days after the commencement of the performance period to which the performance goal relates. The performance goals, which must be objective, shall be based on one or more of the following criteria: (i) operating income before depreciation and amortization ("OIBDA"), including adjusted OIBDA; (ii) operating income, including adjusted operating income; (iii) net income, including adjusted net income; (iv) earnings per share, including adjusted earnings per share; (v) return on stockholders' equity; (vi) revenues or sales; (vii) free cash flow; (viii) return on invested capital, including adjusted return on invested capital; (ix) total stockholder return; and (x) cash flow from operations. The foregoing criteria may relate to the Company, one or more of its Affiliates or one or more of its or their divisions or units, or any combination of the foregoing, and may be applied on an absolute basis and/or be relative to one or more peer group companies or indices, or any combination thereof, all as the Committee shall determine. In addition, to the extent consistent with Section 162(m), the performance goals may be calculated without regard to extraordinary items. The Committee shall determine whether, with respect to a performance period, the applicable performance goals have been met with respect to a given Participant and, if they have, shall so certify and ascertain the amount of the applicable Performance-Based Award. No Performance-Based Awards will be paid for such performance period until such certification is made by the Committee. The amount of the Performance-Based Award actually paid to a given Participant may be less than the amount determined by the applicable performance goal formula, at the discretion of the Committee. The amount of the Performance-Based Award determined by the Committee for a performance period shall be paid to the Participant at such time as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion after the end of such performance period.
Performance-Based Awards.
10.
Adjustments Upon Certain Events
     Notwithstanding any other provisions in the Plan to the contrary, the following provisions shall apply to all Awards granted under the Plan:
     (a) In the event of any change in the outstanding Shares (including, without limitation, the value thereof) after the Effective Date by reason of any Share dividend or split, reorganization, recapitalization, merger, consolidation, combination, spin-off, combination or exchange of Shares or other corporate exchange, or any distribution to holders of Shares other than regular cash dividends, or any transaction similar to the foregoing, the Committee in its sole discretion and without liability to any person shall make such substitution or adjustment, if any, as it deems to be equitable (subject to Section 19), as to (i) the number or kind of Shares or other securities issued or reserved for issuance pursuant to the Plan or pursuant to outstanding Awards, (ii) the maximum number of Shares for which Awards (including limits established for Restricted Stock or Other Stock-Based Awards) may be granted during a calendar year to any Participant, (iii) the Option Price of any Option or exercise price of any SAR and/or (iv) any other affected terms of such Awards.
Generally.
     (b) In the event of a Change in Control after the Effective Date, the Committee may (subject to Section 19), but shall not be obligated to, (A) accelerate, vest or cause the restrictions to lapse with respect to, all or any portion of an Award, (B) cancel Awards for fair value (as determined in the sole discretion of the Committee) which, in the case of Options and SARs, may equal the excess, if any, of the value of the consideration to be paid in the Change in Control transaction to holders of the same number of Shares subject to such Options or SARs (or, if no consideration is paid in any such transaction, the Fair Market Value of the Shares subject to such Options or SARs) over the aggregate Option Price of such
Change in Control.
 
Options or exercise price of such SARs, (C) provide for the issuance of substitute Awards that will substantially preserve the otherwise applicable terms of any affected Awards previously granted hereunder as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion or (D) provide that for a period of at least 30 days prior to the Change in Control, Options shall be exercisable as to all Shares subject thereto and that upon the occurrence of the Change in Control, such Options shall terminate and be of no further force and effect.
11.
No Right to Employment or Awards
     The granting of an Award under the Plan shall impose no obligation on the Company or any Affiliate to continue the Employment of a Participant and shall not lessen or affect the Company's or any Affiliate's right to terminate the Employment of such Participant. No Participant or other person shall have any claim to be granted any Award, and there is no obligation for uniformity of treatment of Participants, or holders of Awards. The terms and conditions of Awards and the Committee's determinations and interpretations with respect thereto need not be the same with respect to each Participant (whether or not such Participants are similarly situated).
12.
Successors and Assigns
     The Plan shall be binding on all successors and assigns of the Company and a Participant, including without limitation, the estate of such Participant and the executor, administrator or trustee of such estate, or any receiver or trustee in bankruptcy or representative of the Participant's creditors.
13.
Nontransferability of Awards
     Unless otherwise determined by the Committee (and subject to the limitation that in no circumstances may an Award may be transferred by the Participant for consideration or value), an Award shall not be transferable or assignable by the Participant otherwise than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. An Award exercisable after the death of a Participant may be exercised by the legatees, personal representatives or distributees of the Participant.
14.
Amendments or Termination
     The Board or the Committee may amend, alter or discontinue the Plan, but no amendment, alteration or discontinuation shall be made, (a) without the approval of the stockholders of the Company, if (i) such action would (except as is provided in Section 10(a) of the Plan) increase the total number of Shares reserved for the purposes of the Plan or increase the maximum number of Shares of Restricted Stock or Other Stock-Based Awards that may be awarded hereunder, or the maximum number of Shares for which Awards may be granted to any Participant, or (ii) stockholder approval for such action is otherwise required by (A) any applicable law or regulation, (B) the rules of the NYSE or any successor exchange or quotation system on which the Shares may be then listed or quoted or (C) Section 162(m) (taking into consideration the exception provided by Treas. Reg.  1.162-27(f)(iii)(4)), (b) without the consent of a Participant, if such action would diminish any of the rights of the Participant under any Award theretofore granted to such Participant under the Plan or (c) to Section 5(b) of the Plan, relating to repricing of Options or SARs, to permit such repricing, without the prior approval of the Company's stockholders; provided, however, that the Committee may amend the Plan in such manner as it deems necessary to permit the granting of Awards meeting the requirements of the Code or other applicable laws.
15.
International Participants
     With respect to Participants who reside or work outside the United States of America and who are not (and who are not expected to be) "covered employees" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, amend the terms of the Plan or Awards with respect to such Participants in order to conform such terms with the requirements of local law or to obtain more favorable tax or other treatment for a Participant, the Company or an Affiliate.
 
16.
Other Benefit Plans
     All Awards shall constitute a special incentive payment to the Participant and shall not be taken into account in computing the amount of salary or compensation of the Participant for the purpose of determining any benefits under any pension, retirement, profit sharing, bonus, life insurance or other benefit plan of the Company or under any agreement between the Company and the Participant, unless such plan or agreement specifically provides otherwise.
17.
Choice of Law
     The Plan shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York without regard to conflicts of laws and, except as otherwise provided in the pertinent Award agreement, any and all disputes between a Participant and the Company or any Affiliate relating to an Award shall be brought only in a state or federal court of competent jurisdiction sitting in Manhattan, New York.
18.
Effectiveness of the Plan
     The Plan shall be effective as of the Effective Date, subject to the approval of the stockholders of the Company.
19.
Section 409A
     It is intended that the provisions of the Plan comply with Section 409A, and all provisions of the Plan shall be construed and interpreted in a manner consistent with the requirements for avoiding taxes or penalties under Section 409A.
     No Participant or the creditors of a Participant shall have the right to subject any deferred compensation (within the meaning of Section 409A) payable under the Plan to any anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, attachment or garnishment. Except as permitted under Section 409A, any deferred compensation (within the meaning of Section 409A) payable to any Participant or for the benefit of any Participant under the Plan may not be reduced by, or offset against, any amount owing by any such Participant to the Company or any of its Affiliates.
     Notwithstanding any other provisions in the Plan or any Award agreement to the contrary, in the event that it is reasonably determined by the Company that, as a result of Section 409A, payments in respect of any Award under the Plan may not be made at the time contemplated by the terms of the Plan or the relevant Award agreement, as the case may be, without causing the Participant holding such Award to be subject to taxation under Section 409A, the Company will make such payment on the first day that would not result in the Participant incurring any tax liability under Section 409A. If, at the time of a Participant's separation from service (within the meaning of Section 409A), (A) such Participant shall be a specified employee (within the meaning of Section 409A and using the identification methodology selected by the Company from time to time) and (B) the Company shall make a good faith determination that an amount payable pursuant to an Award constitutes deferred compensation (within the meaning of Section 409A), the payment of which is required to be delayed pursuant to the six-month delay rule set forth in Section 409A in order to avoid taxes or penalties under Section 409A, then the Company shall not pay such amount on the otherwise scheduled payment date but shall instead pay it on the first business day after such six-month period. Such amount shall be paid without interest, unless otherwise determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion, or as otherwise provided in any applicable employment agreement between the Company and the relevant Participant. To the extent any amount made under the Plan to which Section 409A applies is payable in two or more installments, each installment payment shall be treated as a separate and distinct payment for purposes of Section 409A.
     Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, in light of the uncertainty with respect to the proper application of Section 409A, the Company reserves the right to make amendments to any Award as the Company deems necessary or desirable to avoid the imposition of taxes or penalties under Section 409A. In any case, a Participant shall be solely responsible and liable for the satisfaction of all taxes and penalties that may be imposed on such Participant or for such Participant's account in connection with an Award (including any taxes and penalties under Section 409A), and neither the Company nor any of its Affiliates shall have any obligation to indemnify or otherwise hold such Participant harmless from any or all of such taxes or penalties.


