FILE:TWX/TWX-8K-20101103073026.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
Item 2.02   Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
     On November 3, 2010, Time Warner Inc. ("Time Warner") issued a press release setting forth its financial results for its third quarter ended September 30, 2010. A copy of Time Warner's press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report. Time Warner does not intend for this Item 2.02 or Exhibit 99.1 to be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or to be incorporated by reference into filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Third-Quarter Highlights
Time Warner Inc. (NYSE:TWX) today reported financial results for its third quarter ended September 30, 2010.
NEW YORK, November 3, 2010 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Jeff Bewkes said: "Time Warner achieved strong performance yet again in the quarter and, with Adjusted EPS up more than 35% through the first three quarters, we remain on track for a very strong year. Our strategy of focusing on high-quality branded content continues to pay off. Our networks businesses delivered robust growth in advertising and subscription revenues in the quarter. And Time Inc. again increased its share in overall domestic print advertising. In television, Turner, HBO and Warner Bros. all debuted new hit shows, like , and . In film, Warner Bros. continued to benefit from the strong performance of our worldwide blockbuster and we're enthusiastic about the rest of this year's release schedule. At the same time, we're executing against our capital plan and have returned more than $2.2 billion in dividends and share repurchases to stockholders so far this year."
Rizzoli & Isles
Boardwalk Empire
Mike & Molly
Inception,
In the quarter, Revenues rose 2% from the same period in 2009 to $6.4 billion, reflecting growth at the Networks segment. Adjusted Operating Income grew 5% to $1.4 billion, due to increases at the Networks and Publishing segments. Adjusted Operating Income included a $58 million reserve reversal in connection with the resolution of litigation relating to the sale of the Atlanta Hawks and Thrashers sports franchises (the "Winter Sports Teams"). Adjusted Operating Income margins reached 21%, a modest increase from the year-ago quarter. Operating Income increased 9% to $1.3 billion, while Operating Income margins were 21% compared to 20% in last year's third quarter.
Company Results
In the third quarter, the Company posted Adjusted Diluted Income per Common Share from Continuing Operations ("Adjusted EPS") of $0.62 versus $0.53 for the year-ago quarter. Diluted Income per Common Share from Continuing Operations was $0.46 for the three months ended September 30, 2010, compared to $0.49 in last year's third quarter.
For the first nine months of 2010, Cash Provided by Operations from Continuing Operations totaled $2.3 billion, and Free Cash Flow amounted to $2.0 billion. As of September 30, 2010, Net Debt was $12.5 billion, up from $11.5 billion at the end of 2009, due mainly to share repurchases and dividends, as well as investment and acquisition spending, offset by the generation of Free Cash Flow.
Refer to "Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures" in this release for a discussion of the non-GAAP financial measures used in this release and the reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
On January 28, 2010, the Company's Board of Directors increased the amount remaining on the Company's common stock repurchase program to $3.0 billion for purchases beginning January 1, 2010.
Stock Repurchase Program Update
 
From January 1 through October 29, 2010, the Company repurchased approximately 54 million shares of common stock for approximately $1.7 billion. These amounts reflect the purchase of 16 million shares of common stock for approximately $500 million since the amounts reported in the Company's second-quarter 2010 earnings release issued on August 4, 2010.
 
Segment Performance
Presentation of Financial Information
The schedule below reflects Time Warner's financial performance for the three and nine months ended September 30, by line of business (millions).
 
 
Presented below is a discussion of the performance of Time Warner's segments for the third quarter of 2010. Unless otherwise noted, the dollar amounts in parentheses represent year-over-year changes.
grew 9% ($249 million) to $3.0 billion, with increases of 9% ($152 million) in Subscription revenues, 10% ($80 million) in Advertising revenues and 2% ($4 million) in Content revenues. Subscription revenues benefitted primarily from higher subscription rates and the consolidation of HBO Central Europe. Increased Advertising revenues were the result of international expansion and growth, as well as strong domestic scatter demand and yield management, partially offset by the impact of lower audience delivery at Turner's domestic news networks. The growth in Content revenues reflected higher sales of HBO's original programming, including and . In the prior year quarter, Content revenues included a $25 million benefit related to lower than anticipated home video returns.
NETWORKS (Turner Broadcasting and HBO)
Revenues
True Blood
The Pacific
rose 17% ($162 million) to $1.1 billion, driven by increased revenues, partly offset by higher expenses, including increased programming and marketing costs. Programming costs increased 5%, due largely to higher original programming expenses. Adjusted Operating Income in the quarter included a $58 million reserve reversal in connection with the resolution of litigation relating to the sale of the Winter Sports Teams. grew 23% ($214 million) to $1.1 billion. The prior year quarter included a $52 million noncash impairment of intangible assets related to Turner's interest in a general entertainment network in India.
Adjusted Operating Income
Operating Income
During the quarter, TNT's and wrapped up their summer seasons ranking as advertising-supported cable's top two series of all time in delivery of total viewers and households. Also during the quarter, truTV continued to rank among advertising-supported cable's top 10 networks in primetime delivery of key adult male viewers.
The Closer
Rizzoli & Isles
At the 62 Primetime Emmy Awards, HBO received 25 awards, the most of any network for the eighth consecutive year, with leading all nominees with eight Emmys and receiving seven. has averaged 12 million viewers for the first four episodes, putting it on track to become the most-watched first-year series in HBO history.
nd
The Pacific
Temple Grandin
Boardwalk Empire
were flat at $2.8 billion. The strong theatrical performance of and higher television license fees, including the off-network availabilities of and , faced difficult comparisons to the prior year quarter. The prior year quarter included revenues from the theatrical releases of and , as well as the video game release of .
FILMED ENTERTAINMENT (Warner Bros.)
Revenues
Inception
Two and a Half Men
The New Adventures of Old Christine
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince
The Hangover
Batman: Arkham Asylum
declined 28% ($82 million) to $209 million, reflecting difficult comparisons to the prior-year quarter's theatrical contribution from and higher print and advertising costs, partly offset by the increase in higher margin off-network television sales. decreased 31% ($91 million) to $200 million.
Adjusted Operating Income
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince
Operating Income
Warner Home Video continued to rank #1 in U.S. home video sales for the first nine months of 2010, garnering an industry-leading 20.4% share. In July, Warner Bros. became the first studio in history whose films surpassed $1 billion in domestic box office revenues for 10 consecutive years. Warner Bros. Television Group's is the #1 new comedy series of the fall television season among adults 18-49.
Mike & Molly
 
declined 1% ($13 million) to $901 million, mainly reflecting a 5% increase ($22 million) in Advertising revenues, which was more than offset by decreases of 5% ($15 million) in Subscription revenues and 12% ($12 million) in Other revenues. Advertising revenues benefitted from higher domestic print advertising pages sold, partially offset by lower average advertising rates per page, and increases in digital advertising revenues. Subscription revenues declined due primarily to the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates at IPC, as well as lower domestic subscription and newsstand sales. Other revenues decreased due mainly to lower revenues at Synapse and the impact of the sale of Southern Living At Home in the prior year quarter.
PUBLISHING (Time Inc.)
Revenues
improved 45% ($44 million) to $141 million due primarily to operational improvement initiatives which resulted in cost savings, including lower pension expenses.
Operating Income
During the first nine months of 2010, Time Inc. increased its leading share of overall domestic magazine advertising to 21.1%, up 1.3 percentage points from the same period last year, with share gains at 15 of Time Inc.'s 20 domestic publications measured by Publishers Information Bureau.
Adjusted EPS was $0.62 for the three months ended September 30, 2010, compared to $0.53 in the third quarter of last year. The increase in Adjusted EPS reflected primarily higher Adjusted Operating Income.
CONSOLIDATED NET INCOME AND PER SHARE RESULTS
For the three months ended September 30, 2010, the Company reported Income from Continuing Operations of $522 million, or $0.46 per diluted common share. The current year quarter included a pre-tax $295 million loss resulting from premiums paid and transaction costs incurred in connection with the redemption of some of the Company's debt securities. This compares to Income from Continuing Operations in 2009's third quarter of $581 million, or $0.49 per diluted common share.
Discontinued operations generated Net Income of $81 million for the third quarter of 2009, reflecting the operating results of AOL Inc.
For the third quarter of 2010, the Company reported Net Income of $522 million, or $0.46 per diluted common share. This compares to Net Income in the prior year quarter of $662 million, or $0.55 per diluted common share.
The Company utilizes Adjusted Operating Income (Loss) and Adjusted Operating Income margin, among other measures, to evaluate the performance of its businesses. Adjusted Operating Income (Loss) is Operating Income (Loss) excluding the impact of noncash impairments of goodwill, intangible and fixed assets, as well as gains and losses on operating assets and amounts related to securities litigation and government investigations. Adjusted Operating Income margin is defined as Adjusted Operating Income divided by Revenues. These measures are considered important indicators of the operational strength of the Company's businesses. A limitation of these measures, however, is that they do not reflect gains and losses on asset sales or amounts related to securities litigation and government investigations or any impairment charge related to goodwill, intangible assets and fixed assets.
USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
Adjusted Income from Continuing Operations attributable to Time Warner Inc. common shareholders is Income from Continuing Operations attributable to Time Warner Inc. common shareholders excluding noncash impairments of goodwill, intangible and fixed assets and investments; gains and losses on operating assets, liabilities and investments; external costs related to mergers, acquisitions, investments or dispositions, as well as contingent consideration related to such transactions, to the extent such costs are
 
expensed; amounts related to securities litigation and government investigations; and amounts attributable to businesses classified as discontinued operations, as well as the impact of taxes and noncontrolling interests on the above items. Similarly, Adjusted EPS is Diluted Income per Common Share from Continuing Operations attributable to Time Warner Inc. common shareholders excluding the above items.
Adjusted Income from Continuing Operations attributable to Time Warner Inc. common shareholders and Adjusted EPS are considered important indicators of the operational strength of the Company's businesses as these measures eliminate amounts that do not reflect the fundamental performance of the Company's businesses. The Company utilizes Adjusted EPS, among other measures, to evaluate the performance of its businesses both on an absolute basis and relative to its peers and the broader market. Many investors also use an adjusted EPS measure as a common basis for comparing the performance of different companies. Some limitations of Adjusted Income from Continuing Operations attributable to Time Warner Inc. common shareholders and Adjusted EPS, however, are that they do not reflect certain cash charges that affect the operating results of the Company's businesses and they involve judgment as to whether items affect fundamental operating performance. Also, a general limitation of these measures is that they are not prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies due to differences in methods of calculation and excluded items.
Free Cash Flow is Cash Provided by Operations from Continuing Operations plus payments related to securities litigation and government investigations (net of any insurance recoveries), external costs related to mergers, acquisitions, investments or dispositions and excess tax benefits from the exercise of stock options, less capital expenditures, principal payments on capital leases and partnership distributions, if any. The Company uses Free Cash Flow to evaluate its businesses and this measure is considered an important indicator of the Company's liquidity, including its ability to reduce net debt, make strategic investments, pay dividends to common shareholders and repurchase stock. A limitation of this measure, however, is that it does not reflect payments made in connection with securities litigation and government investigations, which reduce liquidity.
Adjusted Operating Income (Loss), Adjusted Income from Continuing Operations attributable to Time Warner Inc. common shareholders, Adjusted EPS and Free Cash Flow should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, the Company's Operating Income (Loss), Income from Continuing Operations attributable to Time Warner Inc. common shareholders, Diluted Income (Loss) per Common Share from Continuing Operations and various cash flow measures (e.g., Cash Provided by Operations from Continuing Operations), as well as other measures of financial performance and liquidity reported in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
Time Warner Inc., a global leader in media and entertainment with businesses in television networks, filmed entertainment and publishing, uses its industry-leading operating scale and brands to create, package and deliver high-quality content worldwide through multiple distribution outlets.
ABOUT TIME WARNER INC.
This document includes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current expectations or beliefs, and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by the statements herein due to changes in economic, business, competitive, technological, strategic and/or regulatory factors and other factors affecting the operation of the businesses of Time Warner Inc. More detailed information about these factors may be found in filings by Time Warner with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. Time Warner is under no obligation to, and
CAUTION CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
expressly disclaims any such obligation to, update or alter its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
INFORMATION ON BUSINESS OUTLOOK RELEASE & CONFERENCE CALL
Time Warner Inc. issued a separate release today regarding its 2010 full-year business outlook.
The Company's conference call can be heard live at 10:30 am ET on Wednesday, November 3, 2010. To listen to the call, visit www.timewarner.com/investors.
 
 
 
 
Three Months Ended September 30, 2010
Three Months Ended September 30, 2009
 
 
Nine Months Ended September 30, 2010
Nine Months Ended September 30, 2009
 
 
Amounts Related to Securities Litigation
     The Company recognized legal and other professional fees related to the defense of securities litigation matters by former employees totaling $2 million and $21 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2010, respectively, and $7 million and $21 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2009, respectively.
Asset Impairments
     During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2010, the Company recorded a $9 million noncash impairment of intangible assets related to the termination of a games licensing relationship at the Filmed Entertainment segment.
 
     During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2009, the Company recorded a $52 million noncash impairment of intangible assets at the Networks segment related to Turner's interest in a general entertainment network in India.
Gain (Loss) on Operating Assets
     For the nine months ended September 30, 2010, the Company, upon the acquisition of the controlling interest in HBO CE, recognized a $59 million gain reflecting the recognition of the excess of the fair value over the Company's carrying costs of its original investment in HBO CE.
     For the nine months ended September 30, 2009, the Company recognized a $33 million loss on the sale of Warner Bros.' Italian cinema assets.
Investment Gains (Losses), Net
     For both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2010, the Company recognized $2 million of miscellaneous investment gains, net.
     For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2009, the Company recognized $2 million and $23 million, respectively, of miscellaneous investment losses. In addition, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2009, the Company recognized a $23 million impairment of the Company's investment in Miditech Pvt. Limited, a programming production company in India, and, for the nine months ended September 30, 2009, a $28 million gain on the sale of the Company's investment in TiVo Inc. and a $17 million gain on the sale of the Company's investment in Eidos plc.
Amounts Related to the Separation of TWC
     For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2010, the Company recognized $2 million of other income and $5 million of other loss, respectively, related to the expiration, exercise and net change in the estimated fair value of Time Warner equity awards held by Time Warner Cable Inc. ("TWC") employees.
     For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2009, the Company recognized $4 million and $12 million, respectively, of other income related to the increase in the estimated fair value of Time Warner equity awards held by TWC employees. In addition, for the nine months ended September 30, 2009, the Company incurred pretax direct transaction costs, primarily legal and professional fees related to the separation of TWC, of $6 million, which have been reflected in other income (loss), net in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations.
Costs Related to the Separation of AOL
     During the nine months ended September 30, 2009, the Company incurred $15 million of costs related to the separation of AOL Inc., which have been recorded in other income (loss), net in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations. These costs were related to the solicitation of consents from debt holders to amend the indentures governing certain of the Company's debt securities.
Premiums Paid and Transaction Costs Incurred in Connection with Debt Redemptions
     For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2010, the Company recognized $295 million and $364 million, respectively, of premiums paid and transaction costs incurred in connection with debt redemptions, which were recorded in other income (loss), net in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations. During the three months ended September 30, 2010, the Company repurchased and redeemed all $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of the 5.50% Notes due 2011 of Time Warner, $1.362 billion aggregate principal amount of the outstanding 6.875% Notes due 2012 of Time Warner and $568 million aggregate principal amount of the outstanding 9.125% Debentures due 2013 of Historic TW Inc. (as successor by merger to Time Warner Companies, Inc.). In addition, during the nine months ended September 30, 2010, the Company repurchased and redeemed all $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of the 6.75% Notes due 2011 of Time Warner.
 
Income Tax Impact and Tax Items Related to TWC
     The income tax impact reflects the estimated tax provision or tax benefit associated with each item affecting comparability. Such estimated tax provisions or tax benefits vary based on certain factors, including the taxability or deductibility of the items and foreign tax on certain transactions. For the nine months ended September 30, 2009, the Company also recognized approximately $24 million of tax benefits attributable to the impact of certain state tax law changes on TWC net deferred liabilities.
Noncontrolling Interest Impact
     For the nine months ended September 30, 2009, the noncontrolling interest impact of $5 million reflects the minority owner's share of the tax provision related to changes in certain state tax laws on TWC net deferred liabilities.
 
 
Note 1.  DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS
Time Warner Inc. ("Time Warner" or the "Company") is a leading media and entertainment company, whose businesses include television networks, filmed entertainment and publishing. Time Warner classifies its operations into three reportable segments: Networks: consisting principally of cable television networks that provide programming; Filmed Entertainment: consisting principally of feature film, television and home video production and distribution; and Publishing: consisting principally of magazine publishing.
Note 2.  INTERSEGMENT TRANSACTIONS
Revenues recognized by Time Warner's segments on intersegment transactions are as follows (millions):
Note 3.  FILMED ENTERTAINMENT HOME VIDEO AND ELECTRONIC DELIVERY REVENUES
Home video and electronic delivery of theatrical and television product revenues are as follows (millions):


