FILE:TWX/TWX-8K-20100902161733.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
FORM 8-K
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On August 30, 2010, Time Warner Inc. (the Company) and Paul T. Cappuccio entered into an amended and restated employment agreement, effective as of July 1, 2010 (the Employment Agreement).  The Employment Agreement amends and supersedes the employment agreement made March 20, 2001, effective as of March 1, 2001, as amended and restated July 1, 2008 between Mr. Cappuccio and the Company (the Prior Agreement). The Employment Agreement extends the term of Mr. Cappuccios employment as Executive Vice President and General Counsel of the Company through December 31, 2013.  The terms of the Employment Agreement are substantially the same as in the Prior Agreement, except as described in this report.
The Employment Agreement provides for an increase in Mr. Cappuccios annual base salary from $1.0 million to $1.25 million effective as of July 1, 2010.  Mr. Cappuccios annual bonus target as a percentage of his base salary remains at 200% of salary. The Employment Agreement provides that his bonus will be determined based on his and the Companys performance and using his new base salary, except that for 2010, the average of his prior and new base salary will be used.   In addition, the target value of his annual long term incentive compensation will increase from $1.8 million to $2.75 million beginning in 2011.  Consistent with the most recent employment agreements the Company has entered into with executive officers, the Employment Agreement eliminates the right to receive office sp ace, secretarial services and other support facilities and services for a period following a termination of Mr. Cappuccios employment without cause.
The Compensation and Human Development Committee of the Company's Board of Directors (the "Committee") determined the increases in compensation to be appropriate based on Mr. Cappuccios leadership and performance on major corporate initiatives and transactions and the valuable legal and strategic advice he provides on behalf of the Company. The Committee reviewed competitive market data provided by its consultant and also noted the length of time since the last increase in Mr. Cappuccios salary and bonus target in 2004.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:   September 2, 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
Exhibit 99.1
 AMENDED AND RESTATED EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT (the Agreement) made August 30, 2010 effective as of July 1, 2010 (the Effective Date), between TIME WARNER INC., a Delaware corporation (the Company), and PAUL T. CAPPUCCIO (You).
You are currently employed by the Company pursuant to an Employment Agreement made March 20, 2001, effective as of March 1, 2001, as Amended and Restated as of July 1, 2008 (the Prior Agreement).  This Agreement amends and supersedes the Prior Agreement and states the terms of your employment with the Company on a full-time basis for the period from the Effective Date to and including December 31, 2013 on and subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, and you are willing to provides such services on and subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement.  You and the Company therefore agree as follows:
1.   .   Your term of employment as this phrase is used throughout this Agreement shall be for the period beginning on the Effective Date and ending on December 31, 2013 (the Term Date), subject, however, to earlier termination as set forth in this Agreement.
Term of Employment
2.   .   During the term of employment, you shall serve as Executive Vice President and General Counsel of the Company or in such other senior position as the Company may determine and you shall have the authority, functions, duties, powers and responsibilities normally associated with such position and such additional authority, functions, duties, powers and responsibilities as may be assigned to you from time to time by the Company consistent with your senior position with the Company.  During the term of employment, (i) your services shall be rendered on a substantially full-time, exclusive basis and you will apply on a full-time basis all of your skill and experience to the performance of your duties, (ii) you shall have no other employment and, without the prior written consent of your manager or other more senior officer of the Company in your reporting line, no outside business activities which require the devotion of substantial amounts of your time,  (iii) you shall report to the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, and (iv) the place for the performance of your services shall be the principal executive offices of the Company in the New York City metropolitan area, subject to such reasonable travel as may be required in the performance of your duties.  The foregoing shall be subject to the Companys written policies, as in effect from time to time, regarding vacations, holidays, illness and the like.
Employment
3.   .
Compensation
3.1       .   The Company shall pay you a base salary at the rate of not less than $1,250,000 per annum during the term of employment (Base Salary).  The Company may increase, but not decrease without your consent, your Base Salary during the term of employment.  Base Salary shall be paid in accordance with the Companys customary payroll practices.  The Company will pay you the difference between your prior base salary and the Base Salary for the period from the Effective Date to the date this Agreement is executed in a lump sum.
Base Salary
                3.2       .   In addition to Base Salary, the Company typically pays its executives an annual cash bonus (Bonus).  Although the amount of your Bonus is discretionary, your target annual Bonus as a percentage of Base Salary is 200%. The Company may increase, but not decrease without your consent, your target annual Bonus during the term of employment. Each year, your personal performance will be considered in the context of your executive duties and any individual goals set for you, and your actual Bonus will be determined by the Compensation and Human Development Committee of the Board of Directors (Compensation Committee) based on your personal performance and the Companys performance.  Your Bonus amount, if any, will be paid to you between January 1 and March 15 of the calendar year immediately following the performance year in respect of which such Bonus is earned. Notwithstanding this provision, the amount of your 2010 Bonus, if any, will be calculated using a target amount of $2,000,000 for the first six months of the year and a target amount of $2,500,000 for the remaining six months of the year.
Bonus
3.3       .   So long as the term of employment has not terminated, the Company annually shall provide you with long term incentive compensation with a target value of $2,750,000 (based on the valuation method used by the Company for its senior executives) through a combination of stock option grants, restricted stock units, performance shares or other equity-based awards, cash-based long-term plans or other components as may be determined by the Compensation Committee from time to time  in its sole discretion.The Company may increase, but not decrease without your consent, the target value of your annual long term incent ive compensation during the term of employment.
Long Term Incentive Compensation
 
3.4       .   You shall be entitled throughout the term of employment (and after the end of the term of employment, to the extent relating to service during the term of employment) to the benefit of the indemnification provisions contained on the date hereof in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws of the Company (not including any amendments or additions after the Effective Date that limit or narrow, but including any that add to or broaden, the protection afforded to you by those provisions).
Indemnification
4.   .
Termination
4.1      .   The Company may terminate the term of employment and all of the Companys obligations under this Agreement, other than its obligations set forth below in this Section 4.1, for cause.  Termination by the Company for cause shall mean termination by action of the Company because of (a) conviction (treating a nolo contendere plea as a conviction) of a felony (whether or not any right to appeal has been or may be exercised), (b) willful refusal without proper cause to perform your obligations under this Agreement, (c) fraud, embezzlement or misappropriation or (d) because of your breach of any of the covenants provided for in Section 9 hereof.  Such te rmination shall be effected by written notice thereof delivered by the Company to you and shall be effective as of the date of such notice; provided, however, that if (i) such termination is because of your willful failure or refusal without proper cause to perform any one or more of your obligations under this Agreement, (ii) such notice is the first such notice of termination for any reason delivered by the Company to you under this Section 4.1, and (iii) within 15 days following the date of such notice you shall cease your refusal and shall use your best efforts to perform such obligations, the termination shall not be effective.
Termination for Cause
In the event of termination by the Company for cause, without prejudice to any other rights or remedies that the Company may have at law or in equity, the Company shall have no further obligation to you other than (i) to pay Base Salary through the effective date of the termination of employment (the Effective Termination Date), (ii) to pay any Bonus for any year prior to the year in which such termination occurs that has been determined but not yet paid as of the Effective Termination Date, and (iii) with respect to any rights you have pursuant to any insurance or other benefit plans or arrangements of the Company.  You hereby disclaim any right to receive a pro rata portion of any Bonus with respect to the year in which such termination occurs.
4.2      .   Unless previously terminated pursuant to any other provision of this Agreement and unless a Disability Period shall be in effect, you shall have the right, exercisable by written notice to the Company, to terminate the term of employment under this Agreement with an Effective Termination Date 30 days after the giving of such notice, if, at the time of the giving of such notice, the Company is in material breach of its obligations under this Agreement; provided, however, that, with the exception of clause (i) below, this Agreement shall not so terminate if such notice is the first such notice of termination delivered by you p ursuant to this Section 4.2 and within such 30-day period the Company shall have cured all such material breaches; and provided further, that such notice is provided to the Company within 90 days after the occurrence of such material breach.  A material breach by the Company shall include, but not be limited to, (i) the Company violating Section 2 with respect to authority, reporting lines duties, or place of employment or (ii) the Company failing to cause any successor to all or substantially all of the business and assets of the Company expressly to assume the obligations of the Company under this Agreement.
Termination by You for Material Breach by the Company and Termination by the Company Without Cause
,
The Company shall have the right, exercisable by written notice to you delivered before the date which is 60 days prior to the Term Date, to terminate your employment under this Agreement without cause, which notice shall specify the Effective Termination Date.  If such notice is delivered on or after the date which is 60 days prior to the Term Date, the provisions of Section 4.3 shall apply.
4.2.1   In the event of a termination of employment pursuant to this Section 4.2 (a termination without cause), you shall receive Base Salary and a pro rata portion of your Average Annual Bonus (as defined below) through the Effective Termination Date.  Your Average Annual Bonus shall be equal to the average of the regular annual bonus amounts (excluding the amount of any special or spot bonuses) in respect of the two calendar years during the most recent three calendar years for which the annual bonus received by you from the Company was the greatest. Your pro rata Average Annual Bonus pursuant to this Section 4.2.1 shall be paid to you at the times set forth in Section 4.7.
4.2.2   In the event of a termination covered by Section 4.2 or 4.3 after the Effective Termination Date, you shall continue to be treated as an employee of the Company for a period  ending on the date which is twenty-four months after the Effective Termination Date (the Severance Term Date) and during such period you shall be entitled to receive, whether or not you become disabled during such period but subject to Section 6, (a) Base Salary (on the Companys normal payroll payment dates as in effect immediately prior to the Effective Termination Date) at an annual rate equal to your Base Salary in effect immediately prior to the notice of termination, and (b) an annual Bonus in respect of each calendar year or portion thereof (in which case a pro rata portion of such Bonus will be payable) during such period equal to your Average Annual Bonus.  Except as provide d in the next sentence, if you accept other full-time employment during such period or notify the Company in writing of your intention to terminate your status of being treated as an employee during such period, you shall cease to be treated as an employee of the Company for purposes of your rights to receive certain post-termination benefits under Section 8.2 effective upon the commencement of such other employment or the effective date specified by you in such notice, whichever is applicable (the Equity Cessation Date), and you shall receive the remaining payments of Base Salary and Bonus pursuant to this Section 4.2.2 for the balance of the twenty-four months after the Effective Termination Date at the times specified in Section 4.7 of the Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you accept employment with any not-for-profit entity or governmental entity, then you may continue to be treated as an employee of the Company for purposes of your rights to receive certain post-termination bene fits pursuant to Section 8.2 and you will continue to receive the payments as provided in the first sentence of this Section 4.2.2; and if you accept full-time employment with any affiliate of the Company, then the payments provided for in this Section 4.2.2 shall immediately cease and you shall not be entitled to any further payments.  For purposes of this Agreement, the term affiliate shall mean any entity which, directly or indirectly, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, the Company.
4.3      .   If at the Term Date, the term of employment shall not have been previously terminated pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement, no Disability Period is then in effect and the parties shall not have agreed to an extension or renewal of this Agreement or on the terms of a new employment agreement, then the term of employment shall continue on a month-to-month basis and you shall continue to be employed by the Company pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, subject to termination by either party hereto on 60 days written notice delivered to the other party (which notice may be delivered by either party at any time on or after the date which is 60 days prior to the Term Date).  If the Compan y shall terminate the term of employment on or after the Term Date for any reason (other than for cause as defined in Section 4.1, in which case Section 4.1 shall apply), which the Company shall have the right to do so long as no Disability Date (as defined in Section 5) has occurred prior to the delivery by the Company of written notice of termination, then such termination shall be deemed for all purposes of this Agreement to be a termination without cause under Section 4.2 and the provisions of Sections 4.2.1 and 4.2.2 shall apply.
After the Term Date
4.4      .   A condition precedent to the Companys obligation to make or continue the payments associated with a termination without cause shall be your execution and delivery of a release in the form attached hereto as Annex A, as such form may be updated as required by law, within 60 days following your Effective Termination Date. If you shall fail to timely execute and deliver such release, or if you revoke such release as provided therein, then in lieu of continuing to receive the payments provided for herein, you shall receive a severance payment determined in accordance with the Companys policies relating to notice and severance reduced by the aggregate amount of severance payments paid pursuant to this Agr eement, if any, prior to the date of your refusal to deliver, or revocation of, such release.  In this event, any such severance payments shall be paid in the form of Base Salary continuation payments at the annual rate equal to your Base Salary in effect immediately prior to your notice of termination, with such amounts paid until your severance benefit has been exhausted.
Release
4.5      .   Notwithstanding the provisions of this Agreement relating to a termination without cause and Disability, on the date you first become eligible for normal retirement as defined in any applicable retirement plan (i.e., age 65) of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company (the Retirement Date), then this Agreement shall terminate automatically on such date and your employment with the Company shall thereafter be governed by the policies generally applicable to employees of the Company, and you shall not thereafter be entitled to the payments provided in this Agreement to the extent not received by you on or prior to the Retirement Date.   In addition, no benefits or payments provided in this Agreeme nt relating to termination without cause and Disability shall include any period after the Retirement Date and if the provision of benefits or calculation of payments provided in this Agreement with respect thereto would include any period subsequent to the Retirement Date, such provision of benefits shall end on the Retirement Date and the calculation of payments shall cover only the period ending on the Retirement Date.
Retirement
                                  4.6      . In the event of a termination without cause under this Agreement, you shall not be required to take actions in order to mitigate your damages hereunder, unless Section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code),would apply to any payments to you by the Company and your failure to mitigate would result in the Company losing tax deductions to which it would otherwise have been entitled.  In such an event, Section 4.8.1 shall govern.  With respect to the preceding sentences, any payments or rights to which you are entitled by reason of the termination of employment without cause shall be considered as damages hereunder. Any obligation to mitigate your damages pursuant to this Section 4.6 shall not be a defense or offset to the Companys obligation to pay you in full the amounts provided in this Agreement upon the occurrence of a termination without cause, at the time provided herein, or the timely and full performance of any of the Companys other obligations under this Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mitigation
4.7      .  Payments of Base Salary and Bonus required to be made to you after any termination shall be made at the same times as such payments otherwise would have been paid to you pursuant to Sections 3.1 and 3.2 if you had not been terminated, subject to Section 12.17.
Payments
4.8      .  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement:
Limitation on Certain Payments
4.8.1.  In the event that part or all of the consideration, compensation or benefits to be paid to you under this Agreement would constitute parachute payments under Section 280G(b)(2) of the Code, then, if the aggregate present value of such parachute payments, singularly or together with the aggregate present value of any consideration, compensation or benefits to be paid to you under any other plan, arrangement or agreement which constitute parachute payments (collectively, the Parachute Amount) exceeds 2.99 times your base amount, as defined in Section 280G(b)(3) of the Code (the Base Amount), the amounts constituting parachute payments which would otherwise be payable to you or for your benef it shall be reduced to the extent necessary so that the Parachute Amount is equal to 2.99 times the Base Amount (the Reduced Amount); provided that such amounts shall not be so reduced if, without such reduction, you would be entitled to receive and retain, on a net after tax basis (including, without limitation, any excise taxes payable under Section 4999 of the Code), an amount which is greater than the amount, on a net after tax basis, that you would be entitled to retain upon receipt of the Reduced Amount.
4.8.2.  If the determination made pursuant to Section 4.8.1 results in a reduction of the payments that would otherwise be paid to you except for the application of Section 4.8.1, such reduction in payments shall be first applied to reduce any cash severance payments that you would otherwise be entitled to receive hereunder and shall thereafter be applied to reduce other payments and benefits in a manner that would not result in subjecting you to additional taxation under Section 409A of the Code, unless you elect to have the reduction in payments applied in a different order.  Within ten days following such determination, the Company shall pay or distribute to you or for your benefit such amounts as are then due to you under this Agreement and shall promptly pay or dis tribute to you or for your benefit in the future such amounts as become due to you under this Agreement.
  4.8.3.  As a result of the uncertainty in the application of Sections 280G and 4999 of the Code at the time of a determination hereunder, it is possible that payments will be made by the Company that should not have been made under Section 4.8.1 (an Overpayment). In the event that there is a final determination by the Internal Revenue Service, or a final determination by a court of competent jurisdiction, that an Overpayment has been made, the Company shall have no further liability or obligation to you for any excise taxes, interest or penalty that you are required to pay as a result of such final determination.
5.   .
Disability
                                                5.1      .   If during the term of employment and prior to the delivery of any notice of termination without cause, you become physically or mentally disabled, whether totally or partially, so that you are prevented from performing your usual duties for a period of six consecutive months, or for shorter periods aggregating six months in any twelve-month period, the Company shall, nevertheless, continue to pay your full compensation through the last day of the sixth consecutive month of disability or the date on which the shorter periods of disability shall have equaled a total of six months in any twelve-mon th period (such last day or date being referred to herein as the Disability Date), subject to Section 12.17.  If you have not resumed your usual duties on or prior to the Disability Date, the Company shall pay you a pro rata Bonus (based on your Average Annual Bonus) for the year in which the Disability Date occurs and thereafter shall pay you disability benefits for the period ending on the later of (i) the Term Date or (ii) the date which is twelve months after the Disability Date (in the case of either (i) or (ii), the Disability Period), in an annual amount equal to 75% of (a) your Base Salary at the time you become disabled and (b) the Average Annual Bonus, in each case, subject to Section 12.17.
Disability Payments
                5.2      .   If during the Disability Period you shall fully recover from your disability, the Company shall have the right (exercisable within 60 days after notice from you of such recovery), but not the obligation, to restore you to full-time service at full compensation.  If the Company elects to restore you to full-time service, then this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect in all respects and the Term Date shall not be extended by virtue of the occurrence of the Disability Period.  If the Company elects not to restore you to full-time service, you shall be entitled to obtain oth er employment, subject, however, to the following:  (i) you shall perform advisory services during any balance of the Disability Period; and (ii) you shall comply with the provisions of Sections 9 and 10 during the Disability Period.  The advisory services referred to in clause (i) of the immediately preceding sentence shall consist of rendering advice concerning the business, affairs and management of the Company as requested by the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer or a Chief Operating Officer of the Company but you shall not be required to devote more than five days (up to eight hours per day) each month to such services, which shall be performed at a time and place mutually convenient to both parties.  Any income from such other employment shall not be applied to reduce the Companys obligations under this Agreement.
Recovery from Disability
                5.3      .   The Company shall be entitled to deduct from all payments to be made to you during the Disability Period pursuant to this Section 5 an amount equal to all disability payments received by you during the Disability Period from Workers Compensation, Social Security and disability insurance policies maintained by the Company; provided, however, that for so long as, and to the extent that, proceeds paid to you from such disability insurance policies are not includible in your income for federal income tax purposes, the Companys deduction with respect to such payments shall be equal to the pro duct of (i) such payments and (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which is one and the denominator of which is one less the maximum marginal rate of federal income taxes applicable to individuals at the time of receipt of such payments.  All payments made under this Section 5 after the Disability Date are intended to be disability payments, regardless of the manner in which they are computed.  Except as otherwise provided in this Section 5, the term of employment shall continue during the Disability Period and you shall be entitled to all of the rights and benefits provided for in this Agreement, except that Sections 4.2 and 4.3 shall not apply during the Disability Period, and unless the Company has restored you to full-time service at full compensation prior to the end of the Disability Period, the term of employment shall end and you shall cease to be an employee of the Company at the end of the Disability Period and shall not be entitled to notice and severance or to receive or be paid for any accrued vacation time or unused sabbatical.
Other Disability Provisions
6.   .   If you die during the term of employment, this Agreement and all obligations of the Company to make any payments hereunder shall terminate except that your estate (or a designated beneficiary) shall be entitled to receive Base Salary to the last day of the month in which your death occurs and Bonus compensation (at the time bonuses are normally paid) based on the Average Annual Bonus, but prorated according to the number of whole or partial months you were employed by the Company in such calendar year.
Death
7.  .   During your employment with the Company, the Company shall (i) provide you with $50,000 of group life insurance and (ii) pay you annually an amount equal to two times the premium you would have to pay to obtain life insurance under a standard group universal life insurance program in an amount equal to $3,000,000.  The Company shall pay you such amount no later than March 15 of the calendar year following any calendar year in which you are entitled to this amount. You shall be under no obligation to use the payments made by the Company pursuant to the preceding sentence to purchase any additional life insurance.  The payments made to you hereunder shall not be considered as salary or com pensation or bonus in determining the amount of any payment under any retirement, profit-sharing or other benefit plan of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company.
Life Insurance
 
 
 
8.   .
Other Benefits
8.1      .   To the extent that (a) you are eligible under the general provisions thereof (including without limitation, any plan provision providing for participation to be limited to persons who were employees of the Company or certain of its subsidiaries prior to a specific point in time) and (b) the Company maintains such plan or program for the benefit of its executives, during the term of your employment with the Company, you shall be eligible to participate in any savings plan, or similar plan or program and in any group life insurance, hospitalization, medical, dental, accident, disability or similar plan or program of the Company now existing or established hereafter.
General Availability
 
   8.2   .   After the Effective Termination Date of a termination of employment pursuant to Section 4.2 and prior to the Severance Term Date or during the Disability Period, you shall continue to be treated as an employee of the Company for purposes of eligibility to participate in the Companys health and welfare benefit plans other than disability programs and to receive the health and welfare benefits (other than disability programs) required to be provided to you under this Agreement to the extent such health and welfare benefits are maintained in effect by the Company for its executives.  After the Effective Termination Date of a termination of employment pursuant to Section 4 or during a Disability Period, you shall not be entitled to any additional awards or grants under any stock option, restricted stock or other stock-based incentive plan and you shall not be entitled to continue elective deferrals in or accrue additional benefits under any qualified or nonqualified retirement programs maintained by the Company.  At the Severance Term Date your rights to benefits and payments under any health and welfare benefit plans or any insurance or other death benefit plans or arrangements of the Company shall be determined in accordance with the terms and provisions of such plans.  At the Severance Term Date or, if earlier, the Equity Cessation Date, your rights to benefits and payments under any stock option, restricted stock, stock appreciation right, bonus unit, management incentive or other long-term incentive plan of the Company shall be determined in accordance with the terms and provisions o f such plans and any agreements under which such stock options, restricted stock or other awards were granted. However, notwithstanding the foregoing or any more restrictive provisions of any such plan or agreement, if your employment with the Company is terminated as a result of a termination pursuant to Section 4.2, then, consistent with the terms of the Prior Agreement (i) all stock options to purchase shares of Time Warner Common Stock shall continue to vest, and any such vested stock options shall remain exercisable (but not beyond the term of such options) through the earlier of the Severance Term Date or the Equity Cessation Date; (ii) except if you shall then qualify for retirement under the terms of the applicable stock option agreement and would receive more favorable treatment under the terms of the stock option agreement. (x) all stock options to purchase shares of Time Warner Common Stock  granted to you by the Company that would have vested on or before the Severance Term Date (or the comparable date under any employment agreement that amends, replaces or supersedes this Agreement) shall vest and become immediately exercisable upon the earlier of the Severance Term Date or the Equity Cessation Date, and (y) all your vested stock options shall remain exercisable for a period of three years after the earlier of the Severance Term Date or the Equity Cessation Date (but not beyond the term of such stock options); and (iii) With respect to awards of restricted stock units (RSUs) held at the Effective Termination Date of a termination of employment pursuant to Section 4.2, subject to potential further delay in payment pursuant to Section 12.17, (i) if you are eligible for retirement treatmen t at the Effective Termination Date, then for all awards of RSUs that contain special accelerated vesting upon retirement, the vesting of the RSUs will accelerate upon, and the shares of Time Warner Common Stock will be paid to you promptly following, the effective date of termination of employment, (ii) if you are not eligible for retirement treatment at the Effective Termination Date, then the treatment of the RSUs  (other than the RSUs granted to you on October 25, 2006) will be determined at the earlier of the Severance Term Date or the Equity Cessation Date in accordance with the terms of the applicable award agreement(s), but the shares of Time Warner Common Stock underlying any vested RSUs will not be paid to you until promptly following the next regular vesting date(s) for such award(s) of RSUs, and (iii) the treatment of the RSUs granted to you on October 25, 2006 will be determined at the Effective Termination Date in accordance with the terms of the applicable award agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 < /font>
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Benefits After a Termination or Disability
the Company shall not be permitted to determine that your employment was terminated for unsatisfactory performance within the meaning of any stock option agreement between you and the Company.    
8.3      .   In the event the term of employment and your employment with the Company is terminated pursuant to any section of this Agreement, you shall not be entitled to notice and severance under the Company's general employee policies or to be paid for any accrued vacation time or unused sabbatical, the payments provided for in such sections being in lieu thereof.
Payments in Lieu of Other Benefits
 
  9.   .
   
   
  
Protection of Confidential Information; Non-Compete
9.1   .   You acknowledge that your employment by the Company (which, for purposes of this Section 9 shall mean Time Warner Inc. and its affiliates) will, throughout the term of employment, bring you into close contact with many confidential affairs of the Company, including information about costs, profits, markets, sales, products, key personnel, pricing policies, operational methods, technical processes and other business affairs and methods and other information not readily available to the public, and plans for future development.  You further acknowledge that the services to be performed under this Agreement are of a special, unique, unusual, extraordinary and intellectual character.  You furth er acknowledge that the business of the Company is international in scope, that its products and services are marketed throughout the world, that the Company competes in nearly all of its business activities with other entities that are or could be located in nearly any part of the world and that the nature of your services, position and expertise are such that you are capable of competing with the Company from nearly any location in the world.  In recognition of the foregoing, you covenant and agree:
Confidentiality Covenant
9.1.1   You shall keep secret all confidential matters of the Company and shall not disclose such matters to anyone outside of the Company, or to anyone inside the Company who does not have a need to know or use such information, and shall not use such information for personal benefit or the benefit of a third party, either during or after the term of employment, except with the Companys written consent, provided that (i) you shall have no such obligation to the extent such matters are or become publicly known other than as a result of your breach of your obligations hereunder and (ii) you may, after giving prior notice to the Company to the extent practicable under the circumstances, disclose such matters to the extent required by applicable laws or governmental regulations or judicial or regulatory process;
9.1.2   You shall deliver promptly to the Company on termination of your employment, or at any other time the Company may so request, all memoranda, notes, records, reports and other documents (and all copies thereof) relating to the Companys business, which you obtained while employed by, or otherwise serving or acting on behalf of, the Company and which you may then possess or have under your control; and
9.1.3   If the term of employment is terminated pursuant to Section 4, for a period of one year after the Effective Termination Date, without the prior written consent of the Company, you shall not employ, and shall not cause any entity of which you are an affiliate to employ, any person who was a full-time employee of the Company at the date of such termination or within six months prior thereto but such prohibition shall not apply to your secretary or executive assistant or to any other employee eligible to receive overtime pay.
   9.2      .   During the term of employment and for a period of twelve months after (i) the effective date of your retirement or other voluntary termination of employment or (ii) the Effective Termination Date of a termination of employment pursuant to Section 4, you shall not, directly or indirectly, without the prior written consent of the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer or any Chief Operating Officer of the Company, render any services to, or act in any capacity for, any Competitive Entity, or acquire any interest of any type in any Competitive Entity; provided, however, that the foregoing shall not be deemed to prohibit you from acquiring, (a) solely as an investment and through market purchases, securities of any Competitive Entity which are registered under Section 12(b) or 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and which are publicly traded, so long as you are not part of any control group of such Competitive Entity and such securities, including converted securities, do not constitute more than one percent (1%) of the outstanding voting power of that entity and (b) securities of any Competitive Entity that are not publicly traded, so long as you are not part of any control group of such Competitive Entity and such securities, including converted securities, do not constitute more than three percent (3%) of the outstanding voting power of that entity.  For purposes of the foregoing, the following shall be deemed to be a Competitive Entity: (x) during the period that you are actively employed with the Company, during the Disability Period, or prior to the Effective Termination Date in the event your employment is terminated pursuant to Secti on 4, any person or entity that engages in any line of business that is substantially the same as either (i) any line of business which the Company engages in, conducts or, to your knowledge, has definitive plans to engage in or conduct or (ii) any operating business that is engaged in or conducted by the Company as to which, to your knowledge, the Company covenants, in writing, not to compete with in connection with the disposition of such business, and (y) after the Disability Period, the Effective Termination Date in the event of a termination of your term of employment pursuant to Section 4 or the effective date of your retirement or other voluntary termination of employment, any of the following: CBS Corporation, The Walt Disney Company, General Electric Corporation, Google Inc., Microsoft Corporation, The News Corporation Ltd., Sony Corporation, Viacom Inc. and Yahoo! Inc., and their respective subsidiaries and affiliates and any successor to the internet service provider, media or entertainment busine sses thereof.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-Compete
10.   .   You acknowledge that during the term of employment, you may conceive of, discover, invent or create inventions, improvements, new contributions, literary property, material, ideas and discoveries, whether patentable or copyrightable or not (all of the foregoing being collectively referred to herein as Work Product), and that various business opportunities shall be presented to you by reason of your employment by the Company.  You acknowledge that all of the foregoing shall be owned by and belong exclusively to the Company and that you shall have no personal interest therein, provided that they are either related in any manner to the business (commercial or experimental) of the Company, or are, in the case of Work Product, conceived or made on the Companys time or with the use of the Companys facilities or materials, or, in the case of business opportunities, are presented to you for the possible interest or participation of the Company.  You shall (i) promptly disclose any such Work Product and business opportunities to the Company; (ii) assign to the Company, upon request and without additional compensation, the entire rights to such Work Product and business opportunities; (iii) sign all papers necessary to carry out the foregoing; and (iv) give testimony in support of your inventorship or creation in any appropriate case.  You agree that you will not assert any rights to any Work Product or business opportunity as having been made or acquired by you prior to the date of this Agreement except for Work Product or business opportunities, if any, disclosed to and acknowledged by the Company in writing prior to the date hereof.
Ownership of Work Product
11.   .   All notices, requests, consents and other communications required or permitted to be given under this Agreement shall be effective only if given in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if delivered personally or sent by a nationally recognized overnight delivery service, or mailed first-class, postage prepaid, by registered or certified mail, as follows (or to such other or additional address as either party shall designate by notice in writing to the other in accordance herewith):
Notices
 
   11.1    If to the Company:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 < /font>
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Time Warner Inc.
One Time Warner Center
New York, New York  10019
Attention:  Senior Vice President - Global
Compensation and Benefits
(with a copy, similarly addressed
but Attention:  General Counsel)
11.2    If to you, to your residence address set forth on the records of the Company.
12.   .
General
12.1    .   This Agreement shall be governed by and construed and enforced in accordance with the substantive laws of the State of New York applicable to agreements made and to be performed entirely in New York.
Governing Law
12.2    .   The section headings contained herein are for reference purposes only and shall not in any way affect the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.
Captions
12.3    .   This Agreement, including Annexes A and B, set forth the entire agreement and understanding of the parties relating to the subject matter of this Agreement and supersedes all prior agreements, arrangements and understandings, written or oral, between the parties.
Entire Agreement
12.4    .   No representation, promise or inducement has been made by either party that is not embodied in this Agreement, and neither party shall be bound by or be liable for any alleged representation, promise or inducement not so set forth.
No Other Representations
 
   12.5    .   This Agreement and your rights and obligations hereunder may not be assigned by you and except as specifically contemplated in this Agreement, neither you, your legal representative nor any beneficiary designated by you shall have any right, without the prior written consent of the Company, to assign, transfer, pledge, hypothecate, anticipate or commute to any person or entity any payment due in the future pursuant to any provision of this Agreement, and any attempt to do so shall be void and shall not be recognized by the Company. The Company shall assign its rights together with its obligations hereunder in connection with any sale, transfer or other disposition of all or substantially all of the CompanyR 17;s business and assets, whether by merger, purchase of stock or assets or otherwise, as the case may be. Upon any such assignment, the Company shall cause any such successor expressly to assume such obligations, and such rights and obligations shall inure to and be binding upon any such successor.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 < /font>
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assignability
12.6    .   This Agreement may be amended, modified, superseded, cancelled, renewed or extended and the terms or covenants hereof may be waived only by written instrument executed by both of the parties hereto, or in the case of a waiver, by the party waiving compliance.  The failure of either party at any time or times to require performance of any provision hereof shall in no manner affect such partys right at a later time to enforce the same.  No waiver by either party of the breach of any term or covenant contained in this Agreement, in any one or more instances, shall be deemed to be, or construed as, a further or continuing waiver of any such breach, or a waiver of the breach of any other ter m or covenant contained in this Agreement.
Amendments; Waivers
12.7    .   In addition to such other rights and remedies as the Company may have at equity or in law with respect to any breach of this Agreement, if you commit a material breach of any of the provisions of Sections 9.1, 9.2, or 10, the Company shall have the right and remedy to have such provisions specifically enforced by any court having equity jurisdiction, it being acknowledged and agreed that any such breach or threatened breach will cause irreparable injury to the Company.
Specific Remedy
12.8    .   Except as provided in the preceding Section 12.7, any dispute or controversy arising with respect to this Agreement and your employment hereunder (whether based on contract or tort or upon any federal, state or local statute, including but not limited to claims asserted under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, any state Fair Employment Practices Act and/or the Americans with Disability Act) shall, at the election of either you or the Company, be submitted to JAMS for resolution in arbitration in accordance with the rules and procedures of JAMS.  Either party shall make such election by delivering written notice thereof to the other party a t any time (but not later than 45 days after such party receives notice of the commencement of any administrative or regulatory proceeding or the filing of any lawsuit relating to any such dispute or controversy) and thereupon any such dispute or controversy shall be resolved only in accordance with the provisions of this Section 12.8.  Any such proceedings shall take place in New York City before a single arbitrator (rather than a panel of arbitrators), pursuant to any streamlined or expedited (rather than a comprehensive) arbitration process, before a non-judicial (rather than a judicial) arbitrator, and in accordance with an arbitration process which, in the judgment of such arbitrator, shall have the effect of reasonably limiting or reducing the cost of such arbitration.  The resolution of any such dispute or controversy by the arbitrator appointed in accordance with the procedures of JAMS shall be final and binding.  Judgment upon the award rendered by such arbitrator may b e entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof, and the parties consent to the jurisdiction of the New York courts for this purpose.  The prevailing party shall be entitled to recover the costs of arbitration (including reasonable attorneys fees and the fees of experts) from the losing party.  If at the time any dispute or controversy arises with respect to this Agreement, JAMS is not in business or is no longer providing arbitration services, then the American Arbitration Association shall be substituted for JAMS for the purposes of the foregoing provisions of this Section 12.8.  If you shall be the prevailing party in such arbitration, the Company shall promptly pay, upon your demand, all legal fees, court costs and other costs and expenses incurred by you in any legal action seeking to enforce the award in any court.
Resolution of Disputes
12.9    .   Whenever this Agreement provides for any payment to your estate, such payment may be made instead to such beneficiary or beneficiaries as you may designate by written notice to the Company.  You shall have the right to revoke any such designation and to redesignate a beneficiary or beneficiaries by written notice to the Company (and to any applicable insurance company) to such effect.
Beneficiaries
12.10   .   You represent and warrant to the Company that this Agreement is legal, valid and binding upon you and the execution of this Agreement and the performance of your obligations hereunder does not and will not constitute a breach of, or conflict with the terms or provisions of, any agreement or understanding to which you are a party (including, without limitation, any other employment agreement).  The Company represents and warrants to you that this Agreement is legal, valid and binding upon the Company and the execution of this Agreement and the performance of the Companys obligations hereunder does not and will not constitute a breach of, or conflict with the terms or provisions of, any agreement or unders tanding to which the Company is a party.
No Conflict
12.11     Attached as Annex B and made part of this Agreement is the Time Warner Corporate Standards of Business Conduct.  You confirm that you have read, understand and will comply with the terms thereof and any reasonable amendments thereto.  In addition, as a condition of your employment under this Agreement, you understand that you may be required periodically to confirm that you have read, understand and will comply with the Standards of Business Conduct as the same may be revised from time to time.
Conflict of Interest.
12.12   .   Payments made to you pursuant to this Agreement shall be subject to withholding and social security taxes and other ordinary and customary payroll deductions.
Withholding Taxes
12.13   .  Neither you nor the Company shall have any right to offset any amounts owed by one party hereunder against amounts owed or claimed to be owed to such party, whether pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise, and you and the Company shall make all the payments provided for in this Agreement in a timely manner.
No Offset
12.14   .   If any provision of this Agreement shall be held invalid, the remainder of this Agreement shall not be affected thereby; provided, however, that the parties shall negotiate in good faith with respect to equitable modification of the provision or application thereof held to be invalid.  To the extent that it may effectively do so under applicable law, each party hereby waives any provision of law which renders any provision of this Agreement invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect.
Severability
12.15   .   Sections 3.4, 8.3 and 9 through 12 shall survive any termination of the term of employment by the Company for cause pursuant to Section 4.1.  Sections 3.4, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6,4.8and 8 through 12 shall survive any termination of the term of employment pursuant to Sections 4.2, 5 or 6.
Survival
 
 
12.16   .   The following terms are defined in this Agreement in the places indicated:
Definitions
affiliate - Section 4.2.2
Average Annual Bonus  Section 4.2.1
Base Amount - Section 4.8.1
Base Salary - Section 3.1
Bonus  Section 3.2
cause - Section 4.1
Code - Section 4.6
Company - the first paragraph on page 1 and Section 8.1
Competitive Entity  Section 8.2
Disability Date - Section 5
Disability Period - Section 5
Effective Date - the first paragraph on page 1
Effective Termination Date  Section 4.1
Equity Cessation Date  Section 4.2.2
Overpayment - Section 4.8.3
Parachute Amount - Section 4.8.1
Reduced Amount - Section 4.8.1
Retirement Date  Section 4.5
Severance Term Date  Section 4.2.2
Term Date  Section 1
Term Options  Section 8.2
term of employment - Section 1
termination without cause  Section 4.2.1
Work Product - Section 10
 
   12.17  .  This Agreement is intended to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code) and will be interpreted in a manner intended to comply with Section 409A of the Code.  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, (i) if at the time of your termination of employment with the Company you are a specified employee as def ined in Section 409A of the Code (and any related regulations or other pronouncements thereunder) and the deferral of the commencement of any payments or benefits otherwise payable hereunder as a result of such termination of employment is necessary in order to prevent any accelerated or additional tax under Section 409A of the Code, then the Company will defer the commencement of the payment of any such payments or benefits hereunder (without any reduction in such payments or benefits ultimately paid or provided to you) until the date that is six months following your termination of employment with the Company (or the earliest date as is permitted under Section 409A of the Code) and (ii) if any other payments of money or other benefits due to you hereunder could cause the application of an accelerated or additional tax under Section 409A of the Code, such payments or other benefits shall be deferred if deferral will make such payment or other benefits compliant under Section 409A of the Code, or otherwise s uch payment or other benefits shall be restructured, to the extent possible, in a manner, determined by the Company, that does not cause such an accelerated or additional tax and does not reduce the value of such payments to you.  To the extent any reimbursements or in-kind benefits due to you under this Agreement constitutes deferred compensation under Section 409A of the Code, any such reimbursements or in-kind benefits shall be paid to you in a manner consistent with Treas. Reg. Section 1.409A-3(i)(1)(iv).  Each payment made under this Agreement shall be designated as a separate payment within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code. The Company shall consult with you in good faith regarding the implementation of the provisions of this Section 12.17; provided that neither the Company nor any of its employees or representatives shall have any liability to you with respect to thereto.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Compliance with IRC Section 409A
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have duly executed this Agreement as of the date first above written.
TIME WARNER INC.
 
                                
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                       ANNEX A
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
RELEASE
This Release is made by and among _________________________________ (You or Your) and TIME WARNER INC. (the Company), One Time Warner Center, New York, New York 10019  as of the date set forth below in connection with the Employment Agreement dated, and effective as of, and the letter agreement (the Letter Agreement between You and the Company dated as of (as so amended, the Employment Agreement), and in association with the termination of your employment with the Company.
In consideration of payments made to You and other benefits to be received by You by the Company and other benefits to be received by You pursuant to the Employment Agreement, as further reflected in the Letter Agreement, You, being of lawful age, do hereby release and forever discharge the Company, its successors, related companies, Affiliates, officers, directors, shareholders, subsidiaries, agents, employees, heirs, executors, administrators, assigns, benefit plans (including but not limited to the Time Warner Inc. Severance Pay Plan For Regular Employees), benefit plan sponsors and benefit plan administrators of and from any and all actions, causes of action, claims, or demands for general, special or punitive damages, attorneys fees, expenses, or other compensation or damages (collectively, Claims), whether kn own or unknown, which in any way relate to or arise out of your employment with the Company or the termination of Your employment, which You may now have under any federal, state or local law, regulation or order, including without limitation, Claims related to any stock options held by You or granted to You by the Company that are scheduled to vest subsequent to Your termination of employment and Claims underthe Age Discrimination in Employment Act (with the exception of Claims that may arise after the date You sign this Release, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended, the Family and Medical Leave Act and the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, through and including the date of this Release;  provided, however, that the execution of this Release shall not prevent You from bringing a lawsuit against the Company to enforce its obligations under   ;the Employment Agreement and this Release.
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, nothing in this Release shall prohibit or restrict You from (i) making any disclosure of information required by law;  (ii) filing a charge with, providing information to, or testifying or otherwise assisting in any investigation or proceeding brought by, any federal regulatory or law enforcement agency or legislative body, any self-regulatory organization, or the Companys legal, compliance or human resources officers; (iii) filing, testifying or participating in or otherwise assisting in a proceeding relating to an alleged violation of any federal, state or municipal law relating to fraud or any rule or regulation of the Securities and Exchange Commission or any self-regulatory organization; or (iv) challenging the validity of my release of claims under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act.Provided, however, You acknowledge that You cannot recover any monetary damages or equitable relief in connection with a charge brought by You or through any action brought by a third party with respect to the Claims released and waived in the Agreement.  Further, notwithstanding the above, You are not waiving or releasing: (i) any claims arising after the Effective Date of this Agreement; (iii) any claims for enforcement of this Agreement; (iii) any rights or claims You may have to workers compensation or unemployment benefits; (iv) claims for accrued, vested benefits under any employee benefit plan of the Company in accordance with the terms of such plans and applicable law; and/or (v) any claims or rights which cannot be waived by law.
 
You further state that You have reviewed this Release, that You know and understand its contents, and that You have executed it voluntarily.
You acknowledge that You have been given ____________ days from the date You received a copy of the Release to sign it.  You also acknowledge that by signing this Release You may be giving up valuable legal rights and that You have been advised to consult with an attorney. You understand that You have the right to revoke Your consent to the Release for seven days following Your signing of the Release.  You further understand that You will cease to receive any payments or benefits under this Agreement (except as set forth in Section 4.4 of the Agreement) if You do not sign this Release or if You revoke Your consent to the Release within seven days after signing the Release. The Release shall not become effective or enforceable with respect to claims under the Age Discrimination Act until the expiration of the seven-d ay period following Your signing of this Release. You shall not receive any payments or benefits pursuant to this Agreement until the Release becomes effective. To revoke, You send a written statement of revocation by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by hand delivery.  If You do not revoke, the Release shall become effective on the eighth day after You sign it.
Accepted and Agreed to:
__________________________
Dated:
_____________________
 
 
 
 
ANNEX B
 
 
 
 
 
 


