FILE:TWX/TWX-8K-20100422140750.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
FORM 8-K
One Time Warner Center, New York, New York 10019
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
 
On April 22, 2010, Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. (Turner), a subsidiary of Time Warner Inc. (Time Warner or the Company), together with CBS Broadcasting, Inc. (CBS), entered into a 14-year agreement with The National Collegiate Athletic Association (the NCAA), which provides Turner and CBS with exclusive television, Internet, and wireless rights to the NCAA Division I Mens Basketball Championship events (the NCAA Tournament Games) in the United States and its territories and possessions. 
Under the terms of the arrangement, Turner and CBS will work together to produce and distribute the NCAA Tournament Games and related programming commencing in 2011.  The games will be televised on Turners TNT, TBS and truTV networks and on the CBS network and advertising will be sold on a joint basis.
The aggregate programming rights fee of approximately $10.8 billion, which will be shared by Turner and CBS, will be paid by Turner to the NCAA over the 14-year term of the agreement.  Further, Turner and CBS have agreed to share advertising and sponsorship revenues and production costs.  In the event, however, that the programming rights fee and production costs exceed advertising and sponsorship revenues, CBSs share of such shortfall is limited to specified annual amounts (the Loss Cap Amounts), ranging from approximately $90 million to $30 million (totaling approximately $670 million over the term of the agreement).  Beginning in 2011, Turners share of the programming rights fee will be amortized based on the ratio of current period advertising revenue to total estimated advertising revenue over the term of the agreement.  Any costs recognized and payable by Turner due to the Loss Cap Amounts will be expensed by the Company as incurred.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 22, 2010
 
 
 
 


