FILE:TWX/TWX-8K-20110803074357.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Table of Contents
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
     On August 3, 2011, Time Warner Inc. ("Time Warner") issued a press release setting forth its financial results for its second quarter ended June 30, 2011. A copy of Time Warner's press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report. Time Warner does not intend for this Item 2.02 or Exhibit 99.1 to be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or to be incorporated by reference into filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: August 3, 2011 
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
Second-Quarter Highlights
Time Warner Inc. (NYSE:TWX) today reported financial results for its second quarter ended June 30, 2011.
NEW YORK, August 3, 2011 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Jeff Bewkes said: "We had another successful quarter and remain on track to meet our financial goals for the year. Our continued investment in our content and brands is paying off. This quarter included such hits as the premiere of TNT's , HBO's breakout series , magazine's and CNN's royal wedding coverage and Warner Bros.' . More recently, the final film has been a tremendous box office and critical success. In the 2011-2012 upfront, advertisers recognized the outstanding reach and appeal of Turner's cable networks by making significantly higher commitments across its portfolio. And HBO, which has the strongest programming lineup in its history, just received the most Primetime Emmy nominations of any network for the 11th year in a row."
Falling Skies
Game of Thrones
People
The Hangover Part II
Harry Potter
Mr. Bewkes continued: "We're also making progress shaping the business models that will benefit us as the digital transition continues. HBO GO debuted on mobile devices in May to a great response. Last month, CNN and HLN added live streaming functionality to their mobile apps, which have now been downloaded more than 10 million times. And the acquisition in May of Flixster, Inc. underscores our commitment to accelerate the digital transition of home entertainment and make it much more compelling for consumers to own digital movies. We also have bought back $2.3 billion of our shares so far this year, reflecting our confidence in our competitive position and growth prospects and our dedication to providing attractive shareholder returns."
Company Results
In the quarter, Revenues rose 10% from the same period in 2010 to $7.0 billion, reflecting growth at all the Company's segments. Adjusted Operating Income and Operating Income each grew 6% to $1.3 billion, due to increases at the Networks and Publishing segments. Adjusted Operating Income and Operating Income margins were both 18% versus 19% in the 2010 quarter.
The Company posted Adjusted Diluted Income per Common Share from Continuing Operations ("Adjusted EPS") of $0.60 versus $0.50 in last year's second quarter. Diluted Income per Common Share was $0.59 for the three months ended June 30, 2011, compared to $0.49 in the prior-year quarter.
 
For the first six months of 2011, Cash Provided by Operations from Continuing Operations reached $868 million, and Free Cash Flow totaled $555 million. As of June 30, 2011, Net Debt was $15.0 billion, up from $12.9 billion at the end of 2010, due to share repurchases and dividends, as well as investment and acquisition spending, offset by the generation of Free Cash Flow.
Refer to "Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures" in this release for a discussion of the non-GAAP financial measures used in this release and the reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Stock Repurchase Program Update
In January, the Company's Board of Directors increased the amount remaining on the Company's common stock repurchase program to $5.0 billion for purchases beginning January 1, 2011.
From January 1 through July 29, 2011, the Company repurchased 65 million shares of its common stock for $2.3 billion. These amounts reflect the purchase of 28 million shares of common stock for $1.0 billion since the amounts reported in the Company's first quarter earnings release issued on May 4, 2011.
 
Segment Performance
Presentation of Financial Information
The schedule below reflects Time Warner's financial performance for the three and six months ended June 30, by line of business (millions).
 
 
Presented below is a discussion of the performance of Time Warner's segments for the second quarter of 2011. Unless otherwise noted, the dollar amounts in parentheses represent year-over-year changes.
NETWORKS (Turner Broadcasting and HBO)
grew 9% ($281 million) to $3.5 billion, with increases of 7% ($127 million) in Subscription revenues, 11% ($112 million) in Advertising revenues and 18% ($40 million) in Content revenues. The growth in Subscription revenues resulted mainly from higher domestic rates and international growth. Advertising revenues benefited from growth at Turner's domestic entertainment networks, related mainly to sports programming (including the NCAA Division I Men's Basketball Championship events (the "NCAA Tournament")), as well as growth at Turner's international entertainment networks. The increase in Content revenues was due primarily to higher sales of HBO's original programming, including and .
Revenues
True Blood
Game of Thrones
rose 5% ($45 million) to $1.0 billion, driven by higher revenues, partly offset by increased expenses, including higher programming and marketing costs. Programming costs rose 9%, due primarily to higher expenses for originals and sports programming, primarily related to the NCAA Tournament. Marketing costs included expenses associated with an HBO GO national marketing campaign. increased 4% ($43 million) to $1.0 billion.
Adjusted Operating Income
Operating Income
In the quarter, TNT ranked #1 among advertising-supported cable networks in primetime delivery of adults 18-34, adults 18-49 and adults 25-54. The two-hour premiere of TNT's in June was advertising-supported cable's #1 new series launch of the year with more than 5.9 million viewers. CNN posted larger audience growth than any of its cable news competitors during the quarter, with double-digit increases among total viewers and adults 25-54. Adult Swim finished the quarter #1 in total-day delivery of key adult and male viewers among advertising-supported cable networks.
Falling Skies
HBO received 104 Primetime Emmy nominations in July, the most of any network for the eleventh year in a row. led all contenders with 21 nominations. received 18 nominations and received 13 nominations, with each receiving a nomination for Outstanding Drama Series. The fourth season of debuted with the show's largest premiere audience ever, and to date, the first three episodes are averaging 12.2 million total viewers. HBO's freshman series consistently grew its viewership over the course of its first season, ending with an average of 9.2 million viewers per episode. The eighth season premiere of was the show's largest audience in over seven years.
Mildred Pierce
Boardwalk Empire
Game of Thrones
True Blood
Game of Thrones
Curb Your Enthusiasm
FILMED ENTERTAINMENT (Warner Bros.)
increased 13% ($331 million) to $2.8 billion, led by growth in video game revenues, due mainly to the releases of and , as well as higher home entertainment revenues driven by the release of .
Revenues
Mortal Kombat 9
LEGO Pirates of the Caribbean: The Video Game
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1
declined 6% ($10 million) to $163 million, as higher revenues were more than offset by increased pre-release print and advertising expenses, higher theatrical film valuation adjustments and increased overhead costs related in part to recent acquisitions, as well as higher restructuring and severance costs. declined 11% ($19 million) to $154 million.
Adjusted Operating Income
Operating Income
broke multiple industry records during its opening weekend, including records for both international (grossing $314 million) and domestic (grossing $169 million) debuts, and has grossed more than $1 billion worldwide from its July 13 release date through July 31. has grossed more than $563 million worldwide from its May 27 opening through July 31 and is now the highest-grossing R-rated comedy worldwide of all time. During the recent upfronts, Warner Bros. Television Group again led all studios with orders for 16 returning series and 11 new series on the
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2
The Hangover Part II
 
U.S. broadcast networks' primetime schedules for the 2011-2012 television season, making it the largest provider of network TV programming for the 20 time in the past 25 years.
th
PUBLISHING (Time Inc.)
rose 3% ($27 million) to $946 million, resulting mainly from growth of 2% ($7 million) in Subscription revenues, 1% ($5 million) in Advertising revenues and 56% ($9 million) in Content revenues. Subscription revenues increased primarily due to higher domestic subscription revenues. The growth in Advertising revenues reflected increased digital revenues from currently managed websites, higher custom publishing revenues and the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates at IPC. The increase was partly offset by the transfer of management of and to Turner in the fourth quarter of 2010 and the sales of certain magazines at IPC.
Revenues
SI.com
Golf.com
increased 10% ($16 million) to $169 million, due primarily to growth in revenues, offset in part by higher expenses, including increased paper costs.
Operating Income
During the first half of 2011, Time Inc. maintained its leading share of overall domestic magazine advertising at 21.2% (Publishers Information Bureau data). magazine's Royal Wedding special collector's issue contained 105 ad pages, the most in a single issue of since 2007.
People
People
CONSOLIDATED NET INCOME AND PER SHARE RESULTS
Adjusted EPS was $0.60 for the three months ended June 30, 2011, compared to $0.50 in last year's second quarter. The increase in Adjusted EPS primarily reflected higher Adjusted Operating Income and fewer shares outstanding.
For the three months ended June 30, 2011, the Company reported Net Income attributable to Time Warner Inc. shareholders of $638 million, or $0.59 per diluted common share. This compares to Net Income attributable to Time Warner Inc. shareholders in 2010's second quarter of $562 million, or $0.49 per diluted common share.
For the second quarter of 2011, the Company reported Net Income of $637 million, or $0.59 per diluted common share. This compares to Net Income in the prior year quarter of $560 million, or $0.49 per diluted common share.
USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
The Company utilizes Adjusted Operating Income (Loss) and Adjusted Operating Income margin, among other measures, to evaluate the performance of its businesses. Adjusted Operating Income (Loss) is Operating Income (Loss) excluding the impact of noncash impairments of goodwill, intangible and fixed assets; gains and losses on operating assets; external costs related to mergers, acquisitions, or dispositions, as well as contingent consideration related to such transactions, to the extent such costs are expensed; and amounts related to securities litigation and government investigations. Adjusted Operating Income margin is defined as Adjusted Operating Income divided by Revenues. These measures are considered important indicators of the operational strength of the Company's businesses.
Adjusted Net Income attributable to Time Warner Inc. common shareholders is Net Income attributable to Time Warner Inc. common shareholders excluding noncash impairments of goodwill, intangible and fixed assets and investments; gains and losses on operating assets, liabilities and investments; external costs related to mergers, acquisitions, investments or dispositions, as well as contingent consideration related to such transactions, to the extent such costs are expensed; amounts related to securities litigation and government investigations; and amounts attributable to businesses classified as discontinued operations, as well as the impact of taxes and noncontrolling interests on the above items. Similarly, Adjusted EPS is
 
Diluted Net Income per Common Share attributable to Time Warner Inc. common shareholders excluding the above items.
Adjusted Net Income attributable to Time Warner Inc. common shareholders and Adjusted EPS are considered important indicators of the operational strength of the Company's businesses as these measures eliminate amounts that do not reflect the fundamental performance of the Company's businesses. The Company utilizes Adjusted EPS, among other measures, to evaluate the performance of its businesses both on an absolute basis and relative to its peers and the broader market. Many investors also use an adjusted EPS measure as a common basis for comparing the performance of different companies. Some limitations of Adjusted Operating Income (Loss), Adjusted Operating Income margin, Adjusted Net Income attributable to Time Warner Inc. common shareholders and Adjusted EPS are that they do not reflect certain charges that affect the operating results of the Company's businesses and they involve judgment as to whether items affect fundamental operating performance.
Free Cash Flow is Cash Provided by Operations from Continuing Operations plus payments related to securities litigation and government investigations (net of any insurance recoveries), external costs related to mergers, acquisitions, investments or dispositions, to the extent such costs are expensed, and excess tax benefits from the exercise of stock options, less capital expenditures, principal payments on capital leases and partnership distributions, if any. The Company uses Free Cash Flow to evaluate its businesses and this measure is considered an important indicator of the Company's liquidity, including its ability to reduce net debt, make strategic investments, pay dividends to common shareholders and repurchase stock. A limitation of this measure, however, is that it does not reflect payments made in connection with securities litigation and government investigations, which reduce liquidity.
A general limitation of these measures is that they are not prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies due to differences in methods of calculation and excluded items. Adjusted Operating Income (Loss), Adjusted Net Income attributable to Time Warner Inc. common shareholders, Adjusted EPS and Free Cash Flow should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, the Company's Operating Income (Loss), Net Income attributable to Time Warner Inc. common shareholders, Diluted Income (Loss) per Common Share and various cash flow measures (e.g., Cash Provided by Operations from Continuing Operations), as well as other measures of financial performance and liquidity reported in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
ABOUT TIME WARNER INC.
Time Warner Inc., a global leader in media and entertainment with businesses in television networks, filmed entertainment and publishing, uses its industry-leading operating scale and brands to create, package and deliver high-quality content worldwide through multiple distribution outlets.
CAUTION CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This document contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current expectations or beliefs, and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by the statements herein due to changes in economic, business, competitive, technological, strategic and/or regulatory factors and other factors affecting the operation of Time Warner's businesses. More detailed information about these factors may be found in filings by Time Warner with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. Time Warner is under no obligation to, and expressly disclaims any such obligation to, update or alter its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
INFORMATION ON BUSINESS OUTLOOK RELEASE & CONFERENCE CALL
Time Warner Inc. issued a separate release today regarding its 2011 full-year business outlook.
The Company's conference call can be heard live at 10:30 am ET on Wednesday, August 3, 2011. To listen to the call, visit www.timewarner.com/investors.
 
 
 
 
Three Months Ended June 30, 2011
Three Months Ended June 30, 2010
 
 
Six Months Ended June 30, 2011
Six Months Ended June 30, 2010
 
 
 
Asset Impairments
     For the three and six months ended June 30, 2011, the Company recorded an $11 million impairment of capitalized software costs at the Filmed Entertainment segment.
Gain on Operating Assets
     For the three and six months ended June 30, 2011, the Company recognized gains on operating assets of $2 million and $5 million, respectively.
     For the six months ended June 30, 2010, the Company recognized a $59 million gain at the Networks segment upon the acquisition of the controlling interest in HBO Central Europe ("HBO CE"), reflecting the recognition of the excess of the fair value over the Company's carrying costs of its original investment in HBO CE.
 
Other
     Other reflects legal and other professional fees related to the defense of securities litigation matters for former employees totaling $2 million and $4 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2011, respectively, and $8 million and $19 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2010, respectively. Other also reflects external costs related to mergers, acquisitions or dispositions of $2 million and $8 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2011, respectively.
Investment Gains (Losses), Net
     For the three and six months ended June 30, 2011, the Company recognized $7 million and $3 million, respectively, of net miscellaneous investment losses.
     For the three and six months ended June 30, 2010, the Company recognized $3 million and $0, respectively, of net miscellaneous investment gains.
Amounts Related to the Separation of Time Warner Cable Inc.
     For the three and six months ended June 30, 2011, the Company recognized $1 million and $5 million, respectively, of other income related to the net change in the estimated fair value and the exercise of Time Warner equity awards held by Time Warner Cable Inc. ("TWC") employees.
     For the three and six months ended June 30, 2010, the Company recognized $4 million and $7 million, respectively, of other loss related to the expiration, exercise and net change in the estimated fair value of Time Warner equity awards held by TWC employees.
Premiums Paid and Transaction Costs Incurred in Connection with Debt Redemptions
     For the three and six months ended June 30, 2010, the Company recognized $14 million and $69 million, respectively, of premiums paid and transaction costs incurred on the repurchase and redemption of the Company's 6.75% Notes due 2011, which was recorded in other loss, net in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations.
Income Tax Impact
     The income tax impact reflects the estimated tax provision or tax benefit associated with each item affecting comparability. Such estimated tax provisions or tax benefits vary based on certain factors, including the taxability or deductibility of the items and foreign tax on certain transactions.
 
 
Note 1. DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS
Time Warner Inc. ("Time Warner") is a leading media and entertainment company, whose businesses include television networks, filmed entertainment and publishing. Time Warner classifies its operations into three reportable segments: Networks: consisting principally of cable television networks and multi-channel premium pay television services that provide programming; Filmed Entertainment: consisting principally of feature film, television, home video and interactive videogame production and distribution; and Publishing: consisting principally of magazine publishing.
Note 2. INTERSEGMENT TRANSACTIONS
Revenues recognized by Time Warner's segments on intersegment transactions are as follows (millions):
Note 3. FILMED ENTERTAINMENT HOME VIDEO AND ELECTRONIC DELIVERY REVENUES
Home video and electronic delivery of theatrical and television product revenues are as follows (millions):


