FILE:TWX/TWX-8K-20111102081338.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
On November 2, 2011, Time Warner Inc. ("Time Warner") issued a press release setting forth its financial results for its third quarter ended September 30, 2011. A copy of Time Warner's press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report. Time Warner does not intend for this Item 2.02 or Exhibit 99.1 to be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or to be incorporated by reference into filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: November 2, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
For Immediate Release:
Third-Quarter Highlights
 
 
 
 
Time Warner Inc. (NYSE:TWX) today reported financial results for its third quarter ended September 30, 2011.
NEW YORK, November 2, 2011 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Jeff Bewkes said: "This was another terrific quarter for us, financially and strategically, putting us on pace to exceed our prior financial goals for the year. Our results demonstrate the success of Time Warner's focus on investing in great content that audiences love and leading the evolution of how it's delivered. Warner Bros. had a record-setting quarter, led by which grossed $1.3 billion at the box office globally, ranking as the 3rd highest grossing film ever and capping an unprecedented franchise run. Warner Bros. also has had an excellent start in the new TV season with returning series such as and, and new shows including , and . We're also pleased with the early success of on TBS, illustrating how our content can create value across the company."
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2,
The Big Bang Theory, Mike & Molly
Two and a Half Men
2 Broke Girls
Suburgatory
Person of Interest
The Big Bang Theory
Mr. Bewkes continued: "At the studio, networks and publishing, this dedication to quality content is generating results and accolades, including HBO winning more Primetime Emmy Awards than any other network for the tenth straight year. And, with our partner CBS, we recently concluded new licensing deals for The CW network with Netflix and Hulu that exemplify our value-enhancing approach to new digital platforms and reinforce the increasing demand for our high quality content. Underscoring our confidence in the value of our stock and our strategic position, during the last few months we accelerated the pace of our stock repurchases, and we have repurchased $3.7 billion of our stock so far this year."
Company Results
In the quarter, Revenues grew 11% from the same period in 2010 to $7.1 billion, reflecting higher revenues at the Filmed Entertainment and Networks segments. Adjusted Operating Income and Operating Income each grew 18% to $1.6 billion, due to increases at the Filmed Entertainment segment. Adjusted Operating Income and Operating Income margins were both 23% versus 21% in the 2010 quarter.
In the third quarter, the Company posted Adjusted Diluted Net Income per Common Share ("Adjusted EPS") of $0.79 versus $0.62 for the year-ago quarter. Diluted Income per Common Share was $0.78 for the three months ended September 30, 2011, compared to $0.46 in the prior-year quarter.
For the first nine months of 2011, Cash Provided by Operations from Continuing Operations reached $2.1 billion, and Free Cash Flow totaled $1.7 billion. As of September 30, 2011, Net Debt was $15.3 billion, up from $12.9 billion at the end of 2010, due to share repurchases and dividends, as well as investment and acquisition spending, offset by the generation of Free Cash Flow.
Refer to "Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures" in this release for a discussion of the non-GAAP financial measures used in this release and the reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Stock Repurchase Program Update
In January, the Company's Board of Directors increased the amount remaining on the Company's common stock repurchase program to $5.0 billion for purchases beginning January 1, 2011.
From January 1 through October 28, 2011, the Company repurchased 110 million shares of its common stock for $3.7 billion. These amounts reflect the purchase of 45 million shares of common stock for $1.4 billion since the amounts reported in the Company's second quarter earnings release issued on August 3, 2011.
 
Segment Performance
Presentation of Financial Information
The schedule below reflects Time Warner's financial performance for the three and nine months ended September 30, by line of business (millions).
 
 
 
 
Presented below is a discussion of the performance of Time Warner's segments for the third quarter of 2011. Unless otherwise noted, the dollar amounts in parentheses represent year-over-year changes.
NETWORKS (Turner Broadcasting and HBO)
rose 7% ($204 million) to $3.2 billion, benefitting from growth of 6% ($112 million) in Subscription revenues and 9% ($74 million) in Advertising revenues. The increase in Subscription revenues resulted mainly from higher domestic rates, international subscriber growth and the favorable effect of foreign exchange rates. Advertising revenues benefitted from growth at Turner's international networks and strong pricing at domestic networks.
Revenues
decreased 4% ($45 million) to $1.1 billion, as higher revenues were more than offset by increased expenses, including higher programming and marketing costs. Programming costs grew 11%, due primarily to higher expenses for originals and sports programming and international growth. Higher sports programming costs were due largely to the timing of sports events. Adjusted Operating Income in the prior year quarter benefited from a $58 million reserve reversal in connection with the resolution of litigation relating to the 2004 sale of the Atlanta Hawks and Thrashers sports franchises. Adjusted Operating Income would have increased 1% without the reserve reversal. decreased 4% ($46 million) to $1.1 billion.
Adjusted Operating Income
Operating Income
TNT's ranked as advertising-supported cable's highest-rated new series during the third quarter with 6.7 million total viewers. CNN viewership was up nearly 50% over the prior year quarter among adults 25-54 in prime time. For key adult and male viewers in total-day delivery, Adult Swim finished the quarter #1 among advertising-supported cable networks.
Falling Skies
At the 63
rd
Primetime Emmy Awards, HBO received 19 awards, the most of any network for the tenth consecutive year, with leading all nominees with eight awards and receiving five. HBO will continue the rollout of its HBO GO on demand broadband service in the fourth quarter of 2011 with the addition of Microsoft's Xbox 360 and Roku's streaming player.
Boardwalk Empire 
Mildred Pierce
FILMED ENTERTAINMENT (Warner Bros.)
increased 19% ($521 million) to $3.3 billion, led by the strong theatrical performance of and higher television license fees from the off-network availability of . This growth was partly offset by lower home video revenues, due to difficult comparisons to the prior year quarter's release of , and fewer television availabilities for theatrical product.
Revenues
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2
The Big Bang Theory
Clash of the Titans
rose 153% ($319 million) to $528 million, due mainly to higher revenues, lower film valuation adjustments and lower pre-release advertising expenses, offset partially by higher overhead costs related in part to acquisitions. increased 162% ($324 million) to $524 million.
Adjusted Operating Income
Operating Income
For the first nine months of 2011, Warner Bros. achieved the top spot in domestic box office share with $1.5 billion, led by the release of and . Last month, Warner Home Video released the first two movies with UltraViolet-enabled digital copies, and . Consumers can currently access these movies on multiple platforms through Flixster, and will be able to access these and other films in the future through a growing number of UltraViolet services. On October 13, 2011, Warner Bros. and CBS Corporation announced a licensing agreement with Netflix, Inc. that will allow Netflix's U.S. members to stream previous seasons of scripted series that are currently on The CW network ("The CW") or that premiere on the network through the 2014-15 season. In addition, on October 28, 2011, The CW announced a five-year licensing agreement with Hulu
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2
The Hangover Part II
Horrible Bosses
Green Lantern
 
for the rights to stream in-season episodes of The CW's programming on the Hulu Plus subscription service and the free, advertising-supported Hulu service.
PUBLISHING (Time Inc.)
declined 1% ($12 million) to $889 million, reflecting decreases of 1% ($2 million) in Subscription revenues and 3% ($16 million) in Advertising revenues, partially offset by an increase of 5% ($5 million) in Other revenues. Subscription revenues were essentially flat due primarily to lower domestic newsstand revenues offset by increases in domestic subscription revenues. Advertising revenues decreased due to lower domestic magazine advertising revenues and a decline in digital advertising revenues attributable to the transfer of management of and to Turner in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Revenues
SI.com
Golf.com
decreased 12% ($17 million) to $124 million, due primarily to lower revenues and higher expenses, including increased paper costs.
Operating Income
During the first nine months of 2011, Time Inc. maintained its leading share of overall domestic magazine advertising and is at 21.1% (Publishers Information Bureau data).
CONSOLIDATED NET INCOME AND PER SHARE RESULTS
Adjusted EPS was $0.79 for the three months ended September 30, 2011, compared to $0.62 in last year's third quarter. The increase in Adjusted EPS primarily reflected higher Adjusted Operating Income and fewer shares outstanding.
For the three months ended September 30, 2011, the Company reported Net Income attributable to Time Warner Inc. shareholders of $822 million, or $0.78 per diluted common share. This compares to Net Income attributable to Time Warner Inc. shareholders in 2010's third quarter of $522 million, or $0.46 per diluted common share.
For the third quarter of 2011 and 2010, the Company reported Net Income of $822 million and $520 million, respectively.
USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
The Company utilizes Adjusted Operating Income (Loss) and Adjusted Operating Income margin, among other measures, to evaluate the performance of its businesses. Adjusted Operating Income (Loss) is Operating Income (Loss) excluding the impact of noncash impairments of goodwill, intangible and fixed assets; gains and losses on operating assets; external costs related to mergers, acquisitions, or dispositions, as well as contingent consideration related to such transactions, to the extent such costs are expensed; and amounts related to securities litigation and government investigations. Adjusted Operating Income margin is defined as Adjusted Operating Income divided by Revenues. These measures are considered important indicators of the operational strength of the Company's businesses.
Adjusted Net Income attributable to Time Warner Inc. common shareholders is Net Income attributable to Time Warner Inc. common shareholders excluding noncash impairments of goodwill, intangible and fixed assets and investments; gains and losses on operating assets, liabilities and investments; external costs related to mergers, acquisitions, investments or dispositions, as well as contingent consideration related to such transactions, to the extent such costs are expensed; amounts related to securities litigation and government investigations; and amounts attributable to businesses classified as discontinued operations, as well as the impact of taxes and noncontrolling interests on the above items. Similarly, Adjusted EPS is Diluted Net Income per Common Share attributable to Time Warner Inc. common shareholders excluding the above items.
 
Adjusted Net Income attributable to Time Warner Inc. common shareholders and Adjusted EPS are considered important indicators of the operational strength of the Company's businesses as these measures eliminate amounts that do not reflect the fundamental performance of the Company's businesses. The Company utilizes Adjusted EPS, among other measures, to evaluate the performance of its businesses both on an absolute basis and relative to its peers and the broader market. Many investors also use an adjusted EPS measure as a common basis for comparing the performance of different companies. Some limitations of Adjusted Operating Income (Loss), Adjusted Operating Income margin, Adjusted Net Income attributable to Time Warner Inc. common shareholders and Adjusted EPS are that they do not reflect certain charges that affect the operating results of the Company's businesses and they involve judgment as to whether items affect fundamental operating performance.
Free Cash Flow is Cash Provided by Operations from Continuing Operations plus payments related to securities litigation and government investigations (net of any insurance recoveries), external costs related to mergers, acquisitions, investments or dispositions, to the extent such costs are expensed, and excess tax benefits from the exercise of stock options, less capital expenditures, principal payments on capital leases and partnership distributions, if any. The Company uses Free Cash Flow to evaluate its businesses and this measure is considered an important indicator of the Company's liquidity, including its ability to reduce net debt, make strategic investments, pay dividends to common shareholders and repurchase stock. A limitation of this measure, however, is that it does not reflect payments made in connection with securities litigation and government investigations, which reduce liquidity.
A general limitation of these measures is that they are not prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies due to differences in methods of calculation and excluded items. Adjusted Operating Income (Loss), Adjusted Net Income attributable to Time Warner Inc. common shareholders, Adjusted EPS and Free Cash Flow should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, the Company's Operating Income (Loss), Net Income attributable to Time Warner Inc. common shareholders, Diluted Net Income (Loss) per Common Share and various cash flow measures (e.g., Cash Provided by Operations from Continuing Operations), as well as other measures of financial performance and liquidity reported in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
ABOUT TIME WARNER INC.
Time Warner Inc., a global leader in media and entertainment with businesses in television networks, filmed entertainment and publishing, uses its industry-leading operating scale and brands to create, package and deliver high-quality content worldwide through multiple distribution outlets.
CAUTION CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This document contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current expectations or beliefs, and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by the statements herein due to changes in economic, business, competitive, technological, strategic and/or regulatory factors and other factors affecting the operation of Time Warner's businesses. More detailed information about these factors may be found in filings by Time Warner with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. Time Warner is under no obligation to, and expressly disclaims any such obligation to, update or alter its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
INFORMATION ON BUSINESS OUTLOOK RELEASE & CONFERENCE CALL
Time Warner Inc. issued a separate release today regarding its 2011 full-year business outlook.
The Company's conference call can be heard live at 10:30 am ET on Wednesday, November 2, 2011. To listen to the call, visit www.timewarner.com/investors.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Three Months Ended September 30, 2011
 
Three Months Ended September 30, 2010
 
Please refer to pages 13 and 14 for additional information on items affecting comparability.
 
 
 
Nine Months Ended September 30, 2011
 
Nine Months Ended September 30, 2010
Please refer to pages 13 and 14 for additional information on items affecting comparability.
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2010, pretax impact amount does not include $4 million and $15 million, respectively, of external costs related to mergers, acquisitions or dispositions.
(a)
Asset Impairments
During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2011, the Company recorded $1 million and $12 million, respectively, of noncash impairments of capitalized software costs at the Filmed Entertainment segment as well as $3 million of other miscellaneous noncash asset impairments at the Filmed Entertainment segment for both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2011.
During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2010, the Company recorded a $9 million noncash impairment of intangible assets related to the termination of a videogames licensing relationship at the Filmed Entertainment segment.
 
Gain on Operating Assets
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2011, the Company recognized Gains on operating assets of $1 million and $6 million, respectively.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2010, the Company recognized a $59 million gain at the Networks segment upon the acquisition of the controlling interest in HBO Central Europe ("HBO CE"), reflecting the recognition of the excess of the fair value over the Company's carrying costs of its original investment in HBO CE.
Other
Other reflects legal and other professional fees related to the defense of securities litigation matters for former employees totaling $2 million and $6 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2011, respectively, and $2 million and $21 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2010, respectively. Other also reflects external costs related to mergers, acquisitions or dispositions of $4 million and $12 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2011, respectively.
Investment Gains (Losses), Net
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2011, the Company recognized $2 million of net miscellaneous investment gains and $1 million of net miscellaneous investment losses, respectively.
For both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2010, the Company recognized $2 million of net miscellaneous investment gains.
Amounts Related to the Separation of Time Warner Cable Inc.
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2011, the Company recognized $10 million and $5 million, respectively, of other loss related to the expiration, exercise and net change in the estimated fair value of Time Warner equity awards held by Time Warner Cable Inc. ("TWC") employees and $5 million of other loss for both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2011 related to changes in the value of a TWC tax indemnification receivable.
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2010, the Company recognized $2 million of other income and $5 million of other loss, respectively, related to the expiration, exercise and net change in the estimated fair value of Time Warner equity awards held by TWC employees.
Premiums Paid and Transaction Costs Incurred in Connection with Debt Redemptions
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2010, the Company recognized $295 million and $364 million, respectively, of premiums paid and transaction costs incurred in connection with debt redemptions, which were recorded in other income (loss), net in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations. During the three months ended September 30, 2010, the Company repurchased and redeemed all $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of the 5.50% Notes due 2011 of Time Warner, $1.362 billion aggregate principal amount of the outstanding 6.875% Notes due 2012 of Time Warner and $568 million aggregate principal amount of the outstanding 9.125% Debentures due 2013 of Historic TW Inc. (as successor by merger to Time Warner Companies, Inc.). In addition, during the nine months ended September 30, 2010, the Company repurchased and redeemed all $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of the 6.75% Notes due 2011 of Time Warner.
Income Tax Impact
The income tax impact reflects the estimated tax provision or tax benefit associated with each item affecting comparability. Such estimated tax provisions or tax benefits vary based on certain factors, including the taxability or deductibility of the items and foreign tax on certain transactions.
 
 
 
Note 1.   DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS
Time Warner Inc. ("Time Warner") is a leading media and entertainment company, whose businesses include television networks, filmed entertainment and publishing. Time Warner classifies its operations into three reportable segments: Networks: consisting principally of cable television networks and multi-channel premium pay television services that provide programming; Filmed Entertainment: consisting principally of feature film, television, home video and interactive videogame production and distribution; and Publishing: consisting principally of magazine publishing.
Note 2.   INTERSEGMENT TRANSACTIONS
Revenues recognized by Time Warner's segments on intersegment transactions are as follows (millions):
 
Note 3.   FILMED ENTERTAINMENT HOME VIDEO AND ELECTRONIC DELIVERY REVENUES
Home video and electronic delivery of theatrical and television product revenues are as follows (millions):
 
 


