FILE:TWX/TWX-8K-20120208081238.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
On February 8, 2012, Time Warner Inc. ("Time Warner") issued a press release setting forth its financial results for its fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2011. A copy of Time Warner's press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report. Time Warner does not intend for this Item 2.02 or Exhibit 99.1 to be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or to be incorporated by reference into filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: February 8, 2012
 

Exhibit 99.1
Full-Year Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
Time Warner Inc. (NYSE:TWX) today reported financial results for the three months and full year ending December 31, 2011.
NEW YORK, February 8, 2012 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Jeff Bewkes said: "In 2011, Time Warner had an ambitious agenda and we accomplished what we set out to do and more. We increased revenues 8%, Adjusted Operating Income 9%, and Adjusted EPS by 20%, which means we more than doubled Adjusted EPS over the past three years. That performance is a testament to the quality of our content, the strength of our brands, our creative and managerial talent and our competitive position. We also continued to roll out Content Everywhere versions of our products across all our divisions, harnessing technology to give consumers more ways, places and platforms on which to enjoy our great content. While investing aggressively to drive our long-term growth, we also returned $5.6 billion to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases."
Mr. Bewkes continued: "For 2012, we will execute against the same strategic priorities that have driven our success in recent years: We're investing aggressively in programming, production and marketing. We're further accelerating our Content Everywhere initiatives. We're expanding our presence internationally in attractive territories. And we're maintaining our strict focus on operating and capital efficiency. Reflecting both our confidence and our continued commitment to strong shareholder returns, today we also announced an increase in our dividend and a new $4 billion stock repurchase authorization."
Full-Year Company Results
Full-year Revenues increased 8% from 2010 to $29.0 billion, reflecting growth at the Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments. Adjusted Operating Income rose 9% to $5.9 billion, due to strong results at all of the Company's segments. Operating Income increased 7% to $5.8 billion. Adjusted Operating Income and Operating Income margins were each 20% in 2011, the same as in 2010.
The Company posted 2011 Adjusted Diluted Net Income per Common Share ("Adjusted EPS") of $2.89 versus $2.41 for the prior year. Diluted Income per Common Share was $2.71 compared to $2.25 in 2010.
In 2011, Cash Provided by Operations from Continuing Operations reached $3.4 billion, and Free Cash Flow totaled $2.7 billion. As of December 31, 2011, Net Debt was $16.0 billion, up from $12.9 billion at the end of 2010, due to share repurchases and dividends, as well as investment and acquisition spending, offset by the generation of Free Cash Flow.
Fourth-Quarter Company Results
Revenues increased 5% from the year-ago quarter to $8.2 billion, reflecting higher revenues at the Filmed Entertainment and Networks segments. Adjusted Operating Income rose 20% to $1.7 billion, driven by strong results across the Company's segments. Adjusted Operating Income margins were 21% versus 18% in the 2010 quarter. Operating Income increased 17% to $1.7 billion in the quarter, while Operating Income margins were 20% compared to 18% in the 2010 quarter.
The Company posted Adjusted EPS of $0.94 for the three months ended December 31, 2011, compared to $0.67 for the same period in 2010. Diluted Income per Common Share was $0.76 versus $0.68 in the prior-year quarter.
Refer to "Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures" in this release for a discussion of the non-GAAP financial measures used in this release and the reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Stock Repurchase Program Update
From January 1, 2011 through February 3, 2012, the Company repurchased approximately 144 million shares of common stock for approximately $4.9 billion. These amounts reflect the purchase of 34 million shares of common stock for approximately $1.2 billion since the amounts reported in the Company's third-quarter 2011 earnings release issued on November 2, 2011.
As of December 31, 2011, the Company had approximately $384 million remaining on its repurchase authorization. In January 2012, the Company's Board of Directors authorized an additional $4.0 billion for stock repurchases.
Regular Quarterly Dividend
On February 7, 2012, the Company's Board of Directors increased the Company's regular quarterly dividend by 11% to $0.26 per share.
 
Segment Performance
Presentation of Financial Information
The schedule below reflects Time Warner's financial performance for the three months and year ended December 31, by line of business (millions).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Presented below is a discussion of the performance of Time Warner's segments for the 2011 fourth quarter and full year. Unless otherwise noted, the dollar amounts in parentheses represent year-over-year changes.
NETWORKS (Turner Broadcasting and HBO)
Full-Year Results
grew 9% ($1.2 billion) to $13.7 billion, with increases of 6% ($495 million) in Subscription revenues, 12% ($453 million) in Advertising revenues and 21% ($202 million) in Content revenues. The increase in Subscription revenues resulted mainly from higher domestic rates and international subscriber growth. The growth in Advertising revenues was driven by strong pricing domestically, sports programming, including the NCAA Division I Men's Basketball Championship events (the "NCAA Tournament"), and growth at Turner's international networks, including acquisitions. Content revenues benefited from higher sales of HBO original programming and higher licensing revenues at Turner.
Revenues
increased 6% ($266 million) to $4.4 billion, reflecting higher revenues partly offset by increased expenses, including higher programming and marketing costs, as well as increased costs related to international growth. Programming costs grew 12%, due primarily to higher expenses for sports and original programming and international growth. The increase in sports programming costs related primarily to the NCAA Tournament. Adjusted Operating Income in the prior year benefited from a $58 million reserve reversal in connection with the resolution of litigation relating to the 2004 sale of the Atlanta Hawks and Thrashers sports franchises. increased 5% ($192 million) to $4.4 billion. The prior year period included a gain of $59 million that was recognized upon the consolidation of HBO Central Europe, reflecting the excess of the fair value over the Company's carrying costs of its original investment in HBO Central Europe.
Adjusted Operating Income
Operating Income
After setting viewership records during the 2010-2011 season, the NBA on TNT has returned even stronger in the 2011-2012 season with strong double digit gains in total viewers and households over the same time period as last year through the first 15 games of the season. In January, on TBS ranked as ad-supported cable's #1 comedy series, and TBS was ad-supported cable's #1 entertainment network with adults 18-49 in primetime. Adult Swim had its most-watched year ever and finished the year ranked #1 among all ad-supported cable networks for key adult and male viewers in total day delivery. For 2011, CNN U.S. primetime viewership was up nearly 30% compared to 2010 among adults 25-54.
The Big Bang Theory
In December 2011, HBO announced distribution deals for HBO GO and MAX GO, its authenticated online video services, with both Time Warner Cable Inc. and Cablevision Systems Corp. With the addition of these two affiliates, the services will be available to essentially all of HBO's and Cinemax's domestic subscribers.
At the 69
th
Annual Golden Globe Awards, HBO won three awards, including Best Actress  Mini-Series or TV Movie for and Best Actress  Comedy for For the 84
Mildred Pierce
Enlightened.
th
Academy Awards, HBO received three nominations, including Best Documentary Feature for .
Paradise Lost 3: Purgatory
Fourth-Quarter Results
increased 5% ($151 million) to $3.5 billion, including increases of 5% ($89 million) in Subscription revenues, 2% ($25 million) in Advertising revenues and 16% ($42 million) in Content revenues. Advertising revenues benefited from international growth. Content revenues increased due to higher licensing revenues at Turner. rose 27% ($240 million) to $1.1 billion, driven by revenue growth and the timing of programming and marketing expenses. rose 26% ($234 million) to $1.1 billion.
Revenues
Adjusted Operating Income
Operating Income
 
FILMED ENTERTAINMENT (Warner Bros.)
Full-Year Results
rose 9% ($1.0 billion) to $12.6 billion, led by the strong theatrical and home entertainment performance of and the home entertainment performance of . Revenues also benefited from a stronger videogames release slate, higher television license fees, new subscription video-on-demand agreements and the favorable effect of foreign exchange rates. Key 2011 videogame releases included , and several titles. Television license fees increased due mainly to improved worldwide syndication, which included the off-network availability of . This growth was offset in part by fewer home video releases and difficult theatrical comparisons to the prior year.
Revenues
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1
Batman: Arkham City
Mortal Kombat 9
LEGO
The Big Bang Theory
increased 16% ($174 million) to $1.3 billion, as a result of higher Revenues. increased 14% ($156 million) to $1.3 billion.
Adjusted Operating Income
Operating Income
In 2011, Warner Bros. grossed $4.7 billion at the worldwide box office, led by the top grossing film, . Warner Bros. also became the first studio to exceed $4.0 billion in global box office for three consecutive years. In 2011, Warner Bros. remained #1 domestically in each of DVD sales, Blu-ray Disc sales, VOD and EST. and ranked among the top three selling DVDs domestically in 2011. For the 2011-2012 broadcast television season, Warner Bros. has produced more than 30 scripted primetime series, making it the leading supplier of primetime programming to the broadcast networks. Season-to-date through January 29, 2012, Warner Bros.' is the #1 new comedy series among households, adults 18-49 and total viewers. In 2011, shipped more than 6 million units worldwide and was one of the top 10 best-selling games in North America. For the 84
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2
2 Broke Girls
Batman: Arkham City
th
Academy Awards, Warner Bros.' films received five nominations, with two nominations for (including Best Picture and Best Actor in a Supporting Role) and three for .
Extremely Loud & Incredibly Close
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2
Fourth-Quarter Results
rose 7% ($254 million) to $3.9 billion, due mainly to stronger home entertainment and videogame slates and new subscription video-on-demand agreements. This growth was offset partly by lower theatrical film revenues and lower television license fees. increased 4% ($17 million) to $433 million, due primarily to higher revenues offset partly by increased advertising expenses and higher overhead costs related in part to acquisitions. of $427 million was flat compared to the prior year quarter.
Revenues
Adjusted Operating Income
Operating Income
PUBLISHING (Time Inc.)
Full-Year Results
were flat at $3.7 billion, reflecting decreases of 2% ($20 million) in Subscription revenues and 1% ($12 million) in Advertising revenues, offset by increases of 24% ($16 million) in Content revenues and 5% ($18 million) in Other revenues. Subscription revenues declined due primarily to lower domestic newsstand revenues and lower international subscription revenues resulting from the sales of certain magazines at IPC, offset partly by higher domestic subscription sales. Advertising revenues decreased due mainly to a decline in website advertising revenues attributable to the transfer of management of the and websites to Turner in the fourth quarter of 2010, the sale of certain magazines at IPC and lower domestic magazine advertising revenues. These decreases were offset in part by higher custom publishing revenues. The increase in Other revenues was due primarily to license fees received from Turner related to the website management transfer
Revenues
SI.com
Golf.com
.
 
increased 10% ($54 million) to $580 million, due primarily to lower restructuring and severance costs ($43 million). increased 9% ($48 million) to $563 million.
Adjusted Operating Income
Operating Income
Time Inc.'s 2011 share of overall domestic advertising was 21.0%, again leading the industry (Publishers Information Bureau data). As of December 31, 2011, all of Time Inc.'s 21 domestic magazines were available as tablet editions.
Fourth-Quarter Results
declined 1% ($12 million) to $1.0 billion, including decreases of 2% ($8 million) in Subscription revenues, 4% ($6 million) in Other revenues, offset in part by an increase of 17% ($4 million) in Content revenues. Advertising revenues were essentially flat compared to the fourth quarter of 2010. increased 23% ($42 million) to $224 million, due primarily to lower restructuring and severance costs ($36 million). grew 21% ($36 million) to $207 million.
Revenues
Adjusted Operating Income
Operating Income
CONSOLIDATED NET INCOME AND PER SHARE RESULTS
Full-Year Results
For the year ended December 31, 2011, Adjusted EPS was $2.89 compared to $2.41 in 2010. The increase in Adjusted EPS primarily reflected higher Adjusted Operating Income and fewer shares outstanding.
The Company reported Net Income attributable to Time Warner Inc. shareholders of $2.9 billion, or $2.71 per diluted common share in 2011. This compares to Net Income attributable to Time Warner Inc. shareholders in 2010 of $2.6 billion, or $2.25 per diluted common share.
For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company reported Net Income of $2.9 billion and $2.6 billion, respectively.
Fourth-Quarter Results
Adjusted EPS was $0.94 for the three months ended December 31, 2011, compared to $0.67 in last year's fourth quarter. The increase in Adjusted EPS primarily reflected higher Adjusted Operating Income and fewer shares outstanding.
For the three months ended December 31, 2011, the Company reported Net Income attributable to Time Warner Inc. shareholders of $773 million, or $0.76 per diluted common share. This compares to Net Income attributable to Time Warner Inc. shareholders in 2010's fourth quarter of $769 million, or $0.68 per diluted common share.
For the fourth quarter of 2011 and 2010, the Company reported Net Income of $772 million and $766 million, respectively.
USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
The Company utilizes Adjusted Operating Income (Loss) and Adjusted Operating Income margin, among other measures, to evaluate the performance of its businesses. Adjusted Operating Income (Loss) is Operating Income (Loss) excluding the impact of noncash impairments of goodwill, intangible and fixed assets; gains and losses on operating assets; external costs related to mergers, acquisitions, or dispositions, as well as contingent consideration related to such transactions, to the extent such costs are expensed; and amounts related to securities litigation and government investigations. Adjusted Operating Income margin is defined as Adjusted Operating Income divided by Revenues. These measures are considered important indicators of the operational strength of the Company's businesses.
 
Adjusted Net Income attributable to Time Warner Inc. common shareholders is Net Income attributable to Time Warner Inc. common shareholders excluding noncash impairments of goodwill, intangible and fixed assets and investments; gains and losses on operating assets, liabilities and investments; external costs related to mergers, acquisitions, investments or dispositions, as well as contingent consideration related to such transactions, to the extent such costs are expensed; amounts related to securities litigation and government investigations; and amounts attributable to businesses classified as discontinued operations, as well as the impact of taxes and noncontrolling interests on the above items. Similarly, Adjusted EPS is Diluted Net Income per Common Share attributable to Time Warner Inc. common shareholders excluding the above items.
Adjusted Net Income attributable to Time Warner Inc. common shareholders and Adjusted EPS are considered important indicators of the operational strength of the Company's businesses as these measures eliminate amounts that do not reflect the fundamental performance of the Company's businesses. The Company utilizes Adjusted EPS, among other measures, to evaluate the performance of its businesses both on an absolute basis and relative to its peers and the broader market. Many investors also use an adjusted EPS measure as a common basis for comparing the performance of different companies. Some limitations of Adjusted Operating Income (Loss), Adjusted Operating Income margin, Adjusted Net Income attributable to Time Warner Inc. common shareholders and Adjusted EPS are that they do not reflect certain charges that affect the operating results of the Company's businesses and they involve judgment as to whether items affect fundamental operating performance.
Free Cash Flow is Cash Provided by Operations from Continuing Operations plus payments related to securities litigation and government investigations (net of any insurance recoveries), external costs related to mergers, acquisitions, investments or dispositions, to the extent such costs are expensed, and excess tax benefits from the exercise of stock options, less capital expenditures, principal payments on capital leases and partnership distributions, if any. The Company uses Free Cash Flow to evaluate its businesses and this measure is considered an important indicator of the Company's liquidity, including its ability to reduce net debt, make strategic investments, pay dividends to common shareholders and repurchase stock. A limitation of this measure, however, is that it does not reflect payments made in connection with securities litigation and government investigations, which reduce liquidity.
A general limitation of these measures is that they are not prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies due to differences in methods of calculation and excluded items. Adjusted Operating Income (Loss), Adjusted Net Income attributable to Time Warner Inc. common shareholders, Adjusted EPS and Free Cash Flow should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, the Company's Operating Income (Loss), Net Income attributable to Time Warner Inc. common shareholders, Diluted Net Income (Loss) per Common Share and various cash flow measures (e.g., Cash Provided by Operations from Continuing Operations), as well as other measures of financial performance and liquidity reported in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
ABOUT TIME WARNER INC.
Time Warner Inc., a global leader in media and entertainment with businesses in television networks, filmed entertainment and publishing, uses its industry-leading operating scale and brands to create, package and deliver high-quality content worldwide through multiple distribution outlets.
CAUTION CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This document contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current expectations or beliefs, and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by the statements herein due to changes in economic, business, competitive,
 
technological, strategic and/or regulatory factors and other factors affecting the operation of Time Warner's businesses. More detailed information about these factors may be found in filings by Time Warner with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. Time Warner is under no obligation to, and expressly disclaims any such obligation to, update or alter its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
INFORMATION ON BUSINESS OUTLOOK RELEASE & CONFERENCE CALL
Time Warner Inc. issued a separate release today regarding its 2012 full-year business outlook.
The Company's conference call can be heard live at 10:30 am ET on Wednesday, February 8, 2012. To listen to the call, visit www.timewarner.com/investors.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Please refer to pages 14 and 15 for additional information on items affecting comparability.
 
 
 
 
Please refer to pages 14 and 15 for additional information on items affecting comparability.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Asset Impairments
During the three months ended December 31, 2011, the Company recorded $29 million of noncash impairments. This reflected $6 million at the Networks segment primarily related to a trade name impairment, $6 million at the Filmed Entertainment segment related to various miscellaneous assets, and $17 million at the Publishing segment, $11 million of which related to a trade name impairment with the remainder relating to other miscellaneous assets. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company recorded $12 million of noncash impairments of capitalized software costs at the Filmed Entertainment segment and $3 million of other miscellaneous noncash impairments at the Filmed Entertainment segment.
 
During the three months ended December 31, 2010, the Company recorded an $11 million noncash impairment at the Publishing segment related to certain intangible assets. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company recorded a $9 million noncash impairment of intangible assets at the Filmed Entertainment segment related to the termination of a videogames licensing relationship.
Gain on Operating Assets
For the three months ended December 31, 2011, the Company recognized a Gain on operating assets of $1 million. For the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company recognized a Gain on operating assets of $7 million, primarily related to $9 million of noncash income at the Filmed Entertainment segment related to a fair value adjustment on certain contingent consideration arrangements relating to acquisitions.
For the three months ended December 31, 2010, the Company recorded noncash income of $11 million at the Filmed Entertainment segment related to a fair value adjustment on certain contingent consideration arrangements relating to acquisitions. In addition, for the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company recognized a $59 million gain at the Networks segment upon the acquisition of the controlling interest in HBO Central Europe ("HBO CE"), reflecting the recognition of the excess of the fair value over the Company's carrying costs of its original investment in HBO CE.
Other
Other reflects legal and other professional fees related to the defense of securities litigation matters for former employees totaling $2 million and $8 million for the three months and year ended December 31, 2011, respectively, and $1 million and $22 million for the three months and year ended December 31, 2010, respectively. Other also reflects external costs related to mergers, acquisitions or dispositions of $2 million and $14 million for the three months and year ended December 31, 2011, respectively.
Investment Gains (Losses), Net
For the three months and year ended December 31, 2011, the Company recognized $165 million and $166 million, respectively, of miscellaneous investment losses, net including a $163 million impairment related to Central European Media Enterprises Ltd. In addition, for both the three months and year ended December 31, 2011, the Company recognized a noncash loss of $2 million related to fair value adjustments on certain options to redeem securities.
For the three months and year ended December 31, 2010, the Company recognized $11 million and $13 million, respectively, of miscellaneous investment gains, net. In addition, for both the three months and year ended December 31, 2010, the Company recognized noncash income of $19 million related to fair value adjustments on certain options to redeem securities.
Amounts Related to the Separation of Time Warner Cable Inc.
For the three months and year ended December 31, 2011, the Company recognized $9 million and $4 million, respectively, of other income related to the expiration, exercise and net change in the estimated fair value of Time Warner equity awards held by Time Warner Cable Inc. ("TWC") employees and $4 million and $9 million, respectively, of other loss for the three months and year ended December 31, 2011 related to changes in the value of a TWC tax indemnification receivable.
For the three months and year ended December 31, 2010, the Company recognized $1 million and $6 million of other loss, respectively, related to the expiration, exercise and net change in the estimated fair value of Time Warner equity awards held by TWC employees.
 
Premiums Paid and Transaction Costs Incurred in Connection with Debt Redemptions
For the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company recognized $364 million of premiums paid and transaction costs incurred in connection with debt redemptions, which were recorded in other income (loss), net in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company repurchased and redeemed all $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of the 5.50% Notes due 2011 of Time Warner, $1.362 billion aggregate principal amount of the outstanding 6.875% Notes due 2012 of Time Warner, $568 million aggregate principal amount of the outstanding 9.125% Debentures due 2013 of Historic TW Inc. (as successor by merger to Time Warner Companies, Inc.) and all $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of the 6.75% Notes due 2011 of Time Warner.
Income Tax Impact
The income tax impact reflects the estimated tax provision or tax benefit associated with each item affecting comparability. Such estimated tax provisions or tax benefits vary based on certain factors, including the taxability or deductibility of the items and foreign tax on certain transactions.
 
 
 
Note 1.   DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS
Time Warner Inc. ("Time Warner") is a leading media and entertainment company, whose businesses include television networks, filmed entertainment and publishing. Time Warner classifies its operations into three reportable segments: Networks: consisting principally of cable television networks and premium pay television services that provide programming; Filmed Entertainment: consisting principally of feature film, television, home video and videogame production and distribution; and Publishing: consisting principally of magazine publishing.
Note 2.   INTERSEGMENT TRANSACTIONS
Revenues recognized by Time Warner's segments on intersegment transactions are as follows (millions):
 
Note 3.   FILMED ENTERTAINMENT HOME VIDEO AND ELECTRONIC DELIVERY REVENUES
Home video and electronic delivery of theatrical and television product revenues are as follows (millions):
 
 


