FILE:TWX/TWX-8K-20121107080834.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
On November 7, 2012, Time Warner Inc. ("Time Warner") issued a press release setting forth its financial results for its third quarter ended September 30, 2012. A copy of Time Warner's press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report. Time Warner does not intend for this Item 2.02 or Exhibit 99.1 to be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or to be incorporated by reference into filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: November 7, 2012
 

Exhibit 99.1
Third-Quarter Highlights
 
 
 
Time Warner Inc. (NYSE:TWX) today reported financial results for its third quarter ended September 30, 2012.
NEW YORK, November 7, 2012 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Jeff Bewkes said: "With one quarter left to go in 2012, we're on track for another very strong year. The highlight this quarter was the strength of our Networks businesses, which delivered double digit Adjusted Operating Income growth. This performance illustrates that our investments in content and technology are continuing to pay off. We're experiencing good momentum across most of Turner's networks. TBS, for instance, was up 35% in primetime for adults 18-49 this quarter and is now the #1 network on cable this year for adults 18-34. At HBO, the unmatched volume of its quality original programming was underscored by the 23 Primetime Emmy awards HBO received this yearmore than any other network for the eleventh consecutive year. With compelling content, technological innovations like HBO GO and support from our affiliates, the subscriber trends at HBO today are the best they've been in years."
Mr. Bewkes continued: "Our studio faced difficult comparisons in the third quarter, but Warner Bros. Television is having a terrific broadcast season with a successful mix of new and returning shows. For Warner Bros.' theatrical business, the story this quarter was , which has brought in over $1 billion at the global box office, surpassing . And the studio is off to a great start to the fourth quarter with the critical and audience acclaim for , which we'll follow with the highly-anticipated release next month of the first installment of . Overall, I'm very confident about how we're positioned heading into next year and beyond. Reflecting that confidence and our continued commitment to improving shareholder returns, through November 2 we've purchased approximately $2.3 billion of our stock this year."
The Dark Knight Rises
The Dark Knight
Argo
The Hobbit
Company Results
In the third quarter of 2012, Revenues decreased 3% to $6.8 billion as growth at the Networks segment was more than offset by declines at the Film and TV Entertainment and Publishing segments. Adjusted Operating Income declined 1% to $1.6 billion in the quarter as growth at the Networks and Publishing segments was more than offset by a decline at the Film and TV Entertainment segment. Operating Income also fell 1% to $1.6 billion. Adjusted Operating Income and Operating Income margins were both 23% in the third quarter of 2012, unchanged from the prior year quarter.
In the third quarter, the Company posted Adjusted Diluted Net Income per Common Share ("Adjusted EPS") of $0.86 versus $0.79 for the year-ago quarter. Diluted Income per Common Share was $0.86 for the three months ended September 30, 2012 compared to $0.78 in the prior year quarter.
For the first nine months of 2012, Cash Provided by Operations from Continuing Operations reached $2.3 billion, and Free Cash Flow totaled $2.0 billion. As of September 30, 2012, Net Debt was $16.7 billion, up from $16.0 billion at the end of 2011, due to share repurchases and dividends, partially offset by the generation of Free Cash Flow.
Refer to "Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures" in this release for a discussion of the non-GAAP financial measures used in this release and the reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Stock Repurchase Program Update
From January 1, 2012 through November 2, 2012, the Company repurchased approximately 59 million shares of common stock for approximately $2.3 billion. These amounts reflect the purchase of approximately 20 million shares of common stock for approximately $869 million since the amounts reported in the Company's second quarter earnings release issued on August 1, 2012. As of November 2, 2012, approximately $2.1 billion remained under the Company's stock repurchase authorization.
 
Segment Performance
Presentation of Financial Information
The schedule below reflects Time Warner's financial performance for the three and nine months ended September 30 by line of business (millions).
 
 
 
 
 
 
Presented below is a discussion of the performance of Time Warner's segments for the third quarter of 2012. Unless otherwise noted, the dollar amounts in parentheses represent year-over-year changes.
NETWORKS (Turner Broadcasting and HBO)
rose 4% ($131 million) to $3.3 billion, benefitting from growth of 7% ($137 million) in Subscription revenues, which was partially offset by a decline of 1% ($9 million) in Advertising revenues. The increase in Subscription revenues resulted mainly from higher domestic rates and, to a lesser extent, an increase in domestic subscribers at HBO and international growth. Advertising revenues benefitted from growth at Turner's domestic entertainment networks, due principally to higher pricing, offset in part by the timing of certain sports events. Domestic growth was more than offset by decreases at Turner's international networks, which were due primarily to the negative effect of foreign currency exchange rates and the shutdown of Turner's general entertainment network, Imagine, in India and TNT television operations in Turkey, which occurred in the first half of 2012.
Revenues
increased 12% ($130 million) to $1.2 billion due to higher revenues. Programming expenses were essentially flat compared to the prior year's quarter as the benefits from the shutdown of Imagine and TNT television operations in Turkey and the timing of sports events were offset by higher costs at HBO due to the timing of original programming. also increased 12% ($132 million) to $1.2 billion.
Adjusted Operating Income
Operating Income
TNT series and ranked as cable's top three original primetime series in the third quarter among total viewers. At TBS, total primetime viewers were up 45% over last year's quarter. Cartoon Network and Adult Swim were the #1 ad-supported cable networks in total day delivery among boys 6-11 and adults 18-34, respectively. In October, Turner entered into an agreement to extend its relationship with Major League Baseball through 2021, providing Turner with television rights and expanded digital rights to both postseason and regular season games.
The Closer, Rizzoli & Isles,
Major Crimes
In September, HBO received 23 Primetime Emmy Awards, the most of any network for the eleventh consecutive year, with receiving six awards, receiving five awards and receiving four awards. During the quarter, HBO announced that, together with Parsifal International, it plans to launch HBO Nordic, a multi-platform premium television service, in Sweden, Norway, Finland and Denmark.
Game of Thrones
Game Change
Boardwalk Empire
FILM AND TV ENTERTAINMENT (Warner Bros.)
decreased 12% ($400 million) to $2.9 billion, due mainly to difficult comparisons to the year ago period. The prior year's quarter included revenues from the theatrical release of and television license fees from the off-network availabilities of and . This decline was offset in part by the global theatrical performance of and an increase in subscription video-on-demand revenue.
Revenues
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2
The Big Bang Theory
Friends
The Dark Knight Rises
declined 38% ($198 million) to $330 million, due mainly to lower revenues, offset partially by lower print and advertising costs due to fewer theatrical releases in the quarter. decreased 37% ($196 million) to $328 million.
Adjusted Operating Income
Operating Income
For the first ten months of 2012, Warner Bros. achieved the number two spot in domestic box office share with $1.4 billion, led by the releases of and. has surpassed $1 billion at the global box office during its theatrical run, exceeding its predecessor . Warner Bros. is the leading supplier of programming to the broadcast networks, with 25 primetime series announced for the 20122013 season. Including cable, animated and first-run syndicated series, Warner Bros. is producing nearly 60 programs.
The Dark Knight Rises, Magic Mike
Journey 2: The Mysterious Island
The Dark Knight Rises
The Dark Knight
 
PUBLISHING (Time Inc.)
declined 6% ($51 million) to $838 million, reflecting decreases of 6% ($19 million) in Subscription revenues, 5% ($25 million) in Advertising revenues and 18% ($17 million) in Other revenues. The decrease in Subscription revenues was due primarily to lower domestic and international newsstand sales. Advertising revenues decreased due to lower magazine advertising demand, partly offset by revenues from and the management of which was transferred from Turner to Time Inc. during the second quarter of 2012. The transfer of and benefitted Advertising revenues and negatively impacted Other revenues by similar amounts.
Revenues
SI.com
Golf.com,
SI.com
Golf.com
increased 2% ($2 million) to $126 million as a decrease in expenses due to lower production costs and cost savings initiatives offset the decline in revenues. also increased 2% ($3 million) to $127 million.
Adjusted Operating Income
Operating Income
During the first nine months of 2012, Time Inc. maintained its leading share of overall domestic magazine advertising with 21.5% (Publishers Information Bureau data). In October, named and to its A-List, which recognizes magazine brands that have demonstrated excellence within the industry over the past year.
Advertising Age
In Style
FORTUNE
CONSOLIDATED NET INCOME AND PER SHARE RESULTS
Adjusted EPS was $0.86 for the three months ended September 30, 2012, compared to $0.79 in last year's third quarter. The increase in Adjusted EPS reflects fewer shares outstanding.
For the three months ended September 30, 2012, the Company reported Net Income attributable to Time Warner Inc. shareholders of $838 million, or $0.86 per diluted common share. This compares to Net Income attributable to Time Warner Inc. shareholders in 2011's third quarter of $822 million, or $0.78 per diluted common share.
For the third quarter of 2012 and 2011, the Company reported Net Income of $838 million and $822 million, respectively.
USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
The Company utilizes Adjusted Operating Income (Loss) and Adjusted Operating Income margin, among other measures, to evaluate the performance of its businesses. Adjusted Operating Income (Loss) is Operating Income (Loss) excluding the impact of noncash impairments of goodwill, intangible and fixed assets; gains and losses on operating assets; gains and losses recognized in connection with pension plan curtailments, settlements or termination benefits; external costs related to mergers, acquisitions or dispositions, as well as contingent consideration related to such transactions, to the extent such costs are expensed; and amounts related to securities litigation and government investigations. Adjusted Operating Income margin is defined as Adjusted Operating Income divided by Revenues. These measures are considered important indicators of the operational strength of the Company's businesses.
Adjusted Net Income attributable to Time Warner Inc. common shareholders is Net Income attributable to Time Warner Inc. common shareholders excluding noncash impairments of goodwill, intangible and fixed assets and investments; gains and losses on operating assets, liabilities and investments; gains and losses recognized in connection with pension plan curtailments, settlements or termination benefits; external costs related to mergers, acquisitions, investments or dispositions, as well as contingent consideration related to such transactions, to the extent such costs are expensed; amounts related to securities litigation and government investigations; and amounts attributable to businesses classified as discontinued operations, as well as the impact of taxes and noncontrolling interests on the above items. Similarly, Adjusted EPS is Diluted Net Income per Common Share attributable to Time Warner Inc. common shareholders excluding the above items.
 
Adjusted Net Income attributable to Time Warner Inc. common shareholders and Adjusted EPS are considered important indicators of the operational strength of the Company's businesses as these measures eliminate amounts that do not reflect the fundamental performance of the Company's businesses. The Company utilizes Adjusted EPS, among other measures, to evaluate the performance of its businesses both on an absolute basis and relative to its peers and the broader market. Many investors also use an adjusted EPS measure as a common basis for comparing the performance of different companies. Some limitations of Adjusted Operating Income (Loss), Adjusted Operating Income margin, Adjusted Net Income attributable to Time Warner Inc. common shareholders and Adjusted EPS are that they do not reflect certain charges that affect the operating results of the Company's businesses and they involve judgment as to whether items affect fundamental operating performance.
For periods ending on or after July 1, 2012, Free Cash Flow is defined as Cash Provided by Operations from Continuing Operations plus payments related to securities litigation and government investigations (net of any insurance recoveries), external costs related to mergers, acquisitions, investments or dispositions, to the extent such costs are expensed, contingent consideration payments made in connection with acquisitions, and excess tax benefits from the exercise of stock options, less capital expenditures, principal payments on capital leases and partnership distributions, if any. For periods ending prior to that date, Free Cash Flow is defined as Cash Provided by Operations from Continuing Operations plus payments related to securities litigation and government investigations (net of any insurance recoveries), external costs related to mergers, acquisitions, investments or dispositions, to the extent such costs are expensed, and excess tax benefits from the exercise of stock options, less capital expenditures, principal payments on capital leases and partnership distributions, if any. A change to the definition of Free Cash Flow for periods prior to July 1, 2012 to adjust for contingent consideration payments made in connection with acquisitions would have had no impact on the reported Free Cash Flow for such periods. The Company uses Free Cash Flow to evaluate its businesses and this measure is considered an important indicator of the Company's liquidity, including its ability to reduce net debt, make strategic investments, pay dividends to common shareholders and repurchase stock. A limitation of this measure, however, is that it does not reflect payments made in connection with securities litigation and government investigations, which reduce liquidity.
A general limitation of these measures is that they are not prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies due to differences in methods of calculation and excluded items. Adjusted Operating Income (Loss), Adjusted Net Income attributable to Time Warner Inc. common shareholders, Adjusted EPS and Free Cash Flow should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, the Company's Operating Income (Loss), Net Income attributable to Time Warner Inc. common shareholders, Diluted Net Income (Loss) per Common Share and various cash flow measures (e.g., Cash Provided by Operations from Continuing Operations), as well as other measures of financial performance and liquidity reported in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
ABOUT TIME WARNER INC.
Time Warner Inc., a global leader in media and entertainment with businesses in television networks, film and TV entertainment and publishing, uses its industry-leading operating scale and brands to create, package and deliver high-quality content worldwide through multiple distribution outlets.
CAUTION CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This document contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current expectations or beliefs, and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by the statements herein due to changes in economic, business, competitive,
 
technological, strategic and/or regulatory factors and other factors affecting the operation of Time Warner's businesses. More detailed information about these factors may be found in filings by Time Warner with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. Time Warner is under no obligation to, and expressly disclaims any such obligation to, update or alter its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
INFORMATION ON BUSINESS OUTLOOK RELEASE & CONFERENCE CALL
Time Warner Inc. issued a separate release today regarding its 2012 full-year business outlook.
The Company's conference call can be heard live at 10:30 am ET on Wednesday, November 7, 2012. To listen to the call, visit www.timewarner.com/investors.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Three Months Ended September 30, 2012
 
Please refer to pages 13 to 15 for additional information on items affecting comparability.
 
 
 
 
Nine Months Ended September 30, 2012
 
Please refer to pages 13 to 15 for additional information on items affecting comparability.
 
 
 
 
 
Asset Impairments
During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2012, the Company recognized a $1 million reversal and $178 million of charges, respectively, at the Networks segment in connection with the shutdown of Turner's general entertainment network, Imagine, in India and TNT television operations in Turkey (the "Imagine and TNT Turkey Shutdowns") primarily related to certain receivables, including value added tax receivables, inventories and long-lived assets, including Goodwill. For both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2012, the Company also recognized $4 million of other miscellaneous noncash asset impairments consisting of $2 million at the Networks segment and $2 million at the Film and TV Entertainment segment.
During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2011, the Company recorded $1 million and $12 million, respectively, of noncash impairments of capitalized software costs at the Film and TV Entertainment segment as well as $3 million of other miscellaneous noncash asset impairments at the Film and TV Entertainment segment for both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2011.
 
Gain (Loss) on Operating Assets
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2012, the Company recognized $1 million of income and a $41 million loss, respectively, at the Publishing segment in connection with the sale in the first quarter of 2012 of Time Inc.'s school fundraising business, QSP. For both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2012, the Company also recorded noncash income of $1 million at the Film and TV Entertainment segment related to a fair value adjustment on certain contingent consideration arrangements.
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2011, the Company recognized miscellaneous gains on operating assets of $1 million and $6 million, respectively.
Other
Other reflects legal and other professional fees related to the defense of securities litigation matters for former employees totaling $1 million and $3 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2012, respectively, and $2 million and $6 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2011, respectively.
Other also reflects external costs related to mergers, acquisitions or dispositions, which included income of $1 million and charges of $30 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2012, respectively, as compared to charges of $4 million and $12 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2011, respectively. The external costs related to mergers, acquisitions or dispositions for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2012 included a reversal of $5 million and charges of $21 million, respectively, related to the Imagine and TNT Turkey Shutdowns.
Amounts related to securities litigation and government investigations and external costs related to mergers, acquisitions or dispositions are included in Selling, general and administrative expenses in the accompanying Consolidated Statement of Operations.
Investment Gains (Losses), Net
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2012, the Company recognized $5 million and $29 million, respectively, of net miscellaneous investment losses, including, for the nine months ended September 30, 2012, a $16 million loss on an investment in a network in Turkey recognized as part of the Imagine and TNT Turkey Shutdowns.
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2011, the Company recognized $2 million of net miscellaneous investment gains and $1 million of net miscellaneous investment losses, respectively. Investment losses, net are included in Other loss, net in the accompanying Consolidated Statement of Operations.
Amounts Related to the Separation of Time Warner Cable Inc.
For both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2012, the Company recognized other income of $6 million, and for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2011, recognized other loss of $10 million and $5 million, respectively, related to the expiration, exercise and net change in the estimated fair value of Time Warner equity awards held by Time Warner Cable Inc. ("TWC") employees, which has been reflected in Other loss, net in the accompanying Consolidated Statement of Operations. For both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2011, the Company also recognized $5 million of other loss related to changes in the value of a TWC tax indemnification receivable, which has also been reflected in Other loss, net in the accompanying Consolidated Statement of Operations.
Amounts Related to the Disposition of the Warner Music Group
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2012, the Company recognized $1 million of income and $5 million of losses, respectively, related to the disposition of the Warner Music Group in 2004, which for the nine months ended September 30, 2012 related primarily to a tax indemnification obligation. These amounts have been reflected in Other loss, net in the accompanying Consolidated Statement of Operations.
 
Income Tax Impact
The income tax impact reflects the estimated tax provision or tax benefit associated with each item affecting comparability. Such estimated tax provision or tax benefit can vary based on certain factors, including the taxability or deductibility of the items and foreign tax on certain items.
 
 
 
Note 1. DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS
Time Warner Inc. ("Time Warner") is a leading media and entertainment company, whose businesses include television networks, film and TV entertainment and publishing. Time Warner classifies its operations into three reportable segments: : consisting principally of cable television networks, premium pay and basic tier television services and digital media properties; : consisting principally of feature film, television, home video and videogame production and distribution; and : consisting principally of magazine publishing and related websites as well as book publishing, marketing services and other marketing businesses.
Networks
Film and TV Entertainment
Publishing
Note 2. INTERSEGMENT TRANSACTIONS
Revenues recognized by Time Warner's segments on intersegment transactions are as follows (millions):
 
Note 3. FILM AND TV ENTERTAINMENT HOME VIDEO AND ELECTRONIC DELIVERY REVENUES
Home video and electronic delivery of theatrical and television product revenues are as follows (millions):
 
 


