FILE:CINF/CINF-8K-20041101120827.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) October 27, 2004 -------------------------------- CINCINNATI FINANCIAL CORPORATION - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Ohio 0-4604 31-0746871 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (State or other (Commission (I.R.S. Employer jurisdiction File Number) Identification No.) of incorporation) 6200 S. Gilmore Road, Fairfield, Ohio 45014-5141 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code (513) 870-2000 ----------------------------- - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Former name or former address, if changed since last report.) Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions: / / Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) / / Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) / / Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) / / Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13a-4(c)) ITEM 1.01 ENTRY INTO A MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT On October 27, 2004, Cincinnati Financial Corporation entered into a Purchase Agreement (Purchase Agreement) with J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and UBS Securities LLC, as representatives of the several initial purchasers (Initial Purchasers), to issue and sell $375,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 6.125% Senior Notes due 2034 (Notes). The Notes will be sold to the Initial Purchasers at a price of 98.930% of the principal amount, plus accrued interest, if any, from November 1, 2004 to the date of delivery of the Notes, which is expected to be on or about November 1, 2004. The Notes are being sold to qualified institutional investors in a transaction complying with Rule 144A of the Securities Act of 1933 (Securities Act), as amended. The above description of the Purchase Agreement does not purport to be a complete statement of the parties' rights and obligations under the Purchase Agreement and the transactions contemplated by the Purchase Agreement. The above description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Purchase Agreement, a copy of which is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. ITEM 7.01 REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE. On October 27, 2004, Cincinnati Financial Corporation issued the attached news release "Cincinnati Financial Corporation Announces Pricing of Debt Offering." The news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference. This report should not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information contained in the news release. The information furnished in Item 7.01 of this report shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act, as amended.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS. (c) Exhibits Exhibit 10.1 - Purchase Agreement, dated October 27, 2004, between Cincinnati Financial Corporation and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and UBS Securities LLC, as representatives of the several initial purchasers. Exhibit 99.1 - News release dated October 27, 2004, titled "Cincinnati Financial Corporation Announces Pricing of Debt Offering." SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. CINCINNATI FINANCIAL CORPORATION Date November 1, 2004 ---------------- /s/ Kenneth W. Stecher ------------------------ Kenneth W. Stecher Chief Financial Officer, Senior Vice President, Secretary and Treasurer (Principal Accounting Officer)

Exhibit 10.1 $375,000,000 CINCINNATI FINANCIAL CORPORATION 6.125% Senior Notes due 2034 Purchase Agreement October 27, 2004 J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. UBS Securities LLC As Representatives of the several Initial Purchasers listed in Schedule 1 hereto c/o UBS Securities LLC 677 Washington Boulevard Stamford, CT 06901 Ladies and Gentlemen: Cincinnati Financial Corporation, an Ohio corporation (the "COMPANY"), proposes to issue and sell to the several Initial Purchasers listed in Schedule 1 hereto (the "INITIAL PURCHASERS"), for whom you are acting as representatives (the "REPRESENTATIVES"), $375,000,000 principal amount of its 6.125% Senior Notes due 2034 (the "SECURITIES"). The Securities will be issued pursuant to a Supplemental Indenture to be dated the Closing Date (as defined below) to the Indenture to be dated as of the Closing Date (together, the "INDENTURE") between the Company and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the "TRUSTEE"). The Securities will be sold to the Initial Purchasers without being registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "SECURITIES ACT"), in reliance upon an exemption therefrom. The Company has prepared a preliminary offering memorandum dated October 27, 2004 (the "PRELIMINARY OFFERING MEMORANDUM") and will prepare an offering memorandum dated the date hereof (the "OFFERING MEMORANDUM") setting forth information concerning the Company and the Securities. Copies of the Preliminary Offering Memorandum have been, and copies of the Offering Memorandum will be, delivered by the Company to the Initial Purchasers pursuant to the terms of this Agreement. The Company hereby confirms that they have authorized the use of the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Offering Memorandum in connection with the offering and resale of the Securities by the Initial Purchasers in the manner contemplated by this Agreement. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to such terms in the Offering Memorandum. References herein to the
Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Offering Memorandum shall be deemed to refer to and include any document incorporated by reference therein. Holders of the Securities (including the Initial Purchasers and their direct and indirect transferees) will be entitled to the benefits of a Registration Rights Agreement, to be dated the Closing Date (as defined below) and substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A (the "REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT"), pursuant to which the Company will agree to file one or more registration statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "COMMISSION") providing for the registration under the Securities Act of the Securities or the Exchange Securities referred to (and as defined) in the Registration Rights Agreement. The Company hereby confirms its agreement with the several Initial Purchasers concerning the purchase and resale of the Securities, as follows: 1. Purchase and Resale of the Securities. (a) The Company agrees to issue and sell the Securities to the several Initial Purchasers as provided in this Agreement, and each Initial Purchaser, on the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements set forth herein and subject to the conditions set forth herein, agrees, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company the respective principal amount of Securities set forth opposite such Initial Purchaser's name in Schedule 1 hereto at a price equal to 98.055% of the principal amount thereof plus accrued interest, if any, from November 1, 2004 to the Closing Date. The Company will not be obligated to deliver any of the Securities except upon payment for all the Securities to be purchased as provided herein. (b) The Company confirms that it has authorized the Initial Purchasers, subject to the restrictions set forth below, to distribute copies of the Offering Memorandum in connection with the offering of the Securities. Each Initial Purchaser hereby severally makes to the Company the following representations and agreements: (i) it is a qualified institutional buyer within the meaning of Rule 144A under the Securities Act (a "QIB") and an accredited investor within the meaning of Rule 501(a) under the Securities Act; and (ii) (A) it has not solicited offers for, or offered or sold, and will not solicit offers for, or offer to sell, the Securities by means of any form of general solicitation or general advertising (as those terms are used in Regulation D under the Securities Act ("REGULATION D")) or in any manner involving a public offering within the meaning of Section 4(2) of the Securities Act and (B) it has solicited and will solicit offers for the Securities only from, and has offered or sold and will offer, sell or deliver the Securities only to persons who it reasonably believes to be "qualified institutional buyers" within the meaning of Rule 144A under the Securities Act and (C) that in selling the Securities it has taken or will take reasonable steps to ensure that the purchaser of the Securities is aware that such sale is being made in reliance on Rule 144A. (c) Each Initial Purchaser acknowledges and agrees that the Company, for purposes of the opinions to be delivered to the Initial Purchasers pursuant to Sections 5(f) and 5(g), counsel for the 2
Company and counsel for the Initial Purchasers, respectively, may rely upon the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Initial Purchasers, and compliance by the Initial Purchasers with their agreements, contained in paragraph (b) above, and each Initial Purchaser hereby consents to such reliance. (d) The Company acknowledges and agrees that the Initial Purchasers may offer and sell Securities to or through any affiliate of an Initial Purchaser and that any such affiliate may offer and sell Securities purchased by it to or through any Initial Purchaser. 2. Payment and Delivery. (a) Payment for and delivery of the Securities will be made at the offices of Davis Polk & Wardwell, 450 Lexington Ave., New York, New York at 10:00 A.M., New York City time, on November 1, 2004, or at such other time or place on the same or such other date, not later than the fifth business day thereafter, as the Representatives and the Company may agree upon in writing. The time and date of such payment and delivery is referred to herein as the "Closing Date". (b) Payment for the Securities shall be made by wire transfer in immediately available funds to the account(s) specified by the Company to the Representatives against delivery to the nominee of The Depository Trust Company, for the account of the Initial Purchasers, of one or more global notes representing the Securities (collectively, the "GLOBAL NOTES"), with any transfer taxes payable in connection with the sale of the Securities duly paid by the Company. The Global Notes will be made available for inspection by the Representative not later than 1:00 P.M., New York City time, on the business day prior to the Closing Date. 3. Representations and Warranties of the Company. The Company represents and warrants to each Initial Purchaser that: (a) Offering Memorandum. The Preliminary Offering Memorandum, as of its date, did not, and the Offering Memorandum, in the form first used by the Initial Purchasers to confirm sales of the Securities and as of the Closing Date, will not, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; provided that the Company makes no representation or warranty with respect to any statements or omissions made in reliance upon and in conformity with information relating to any Initial Purchaser furnished to the Company in writing by such Initial Purchaser through the Representatives expressly for use in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Offering Memorandum. (b) Incorporated Documents. The documents incorporated by reference in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Offering Memorandum, when filed with the Commission, conformed or will conform, as the case may be, in all material respects with the requirements of the Exchange Act and did not and will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. 3
(c) Financial Statements. The financial statements and the related notes thereto included or incorporated by reference in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Offering Memorandum comply as to form in all material respects with the applicable requirements of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act, as applicable, and present fairly in all material respects the financial position of the Company and its subsidiaries as of the dates indicated and the results of their operations and the changes in their cash flows for the periods specified; such financial statements have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods covered thereby; and the other financial information included or incorporated by reference in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Offering Memorandum has been derived from the accounting records of the Company and presents fairly in all material respects the information shown thereby. (d) No Material Adverse Change. Since June 30, 2004, except as set forth in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum or the Offering Memorandum, (i) there has not been any change in the capital stock or long-term debt of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, or any dividend or distribution of any kind declared, set aside for payment, paid or made by the Company on any class of capital stock (other than quarterly cash dividends in the ordinary course of business declared on August 13, 2004), or any material adverse change, or any development involving a prospective material adverse change, in or affecting the business, properties, management, financial position, results of operations or prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole; (ii) none of the Company or any of its subsidiaries has entered into any transaction or agreement that is material to the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole or incurred any liability or obligation, direct or contingent, that is material to the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole; and (iii) none of the Company or any of its subsidiaries has sustained any material loss or interference with its business from fire, explosion, flood or other calamity, whether or not covered by insurance, or from any labor disturbance or dispute or any action, order or decree of any court or arbitrator or governmental or regulatory authority, except in each case as otherwise disclosed in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Offering Memorandum. (e) Organization and Good Standing. The Company and each of its subsidiaries have been duly organized and are validly existing and in good standing under the laws of their respective jurisdictions of organization, are duly qualified to do business and are in good standing in each jurisdiction in which their respective ownership or lease of property or the conduct of their respective businesses requires such qualification, and have all power and authority necessary to own or hold their respective properties and to conduct the businesses in which they are engaged, except where the failure to be so qualified or have such power or authority would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the business, properties, management, financial position, results of operations or prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole or on the performance by the Company of its obligations under the Securities (a "MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT"). The subsidiaries of the Company listed in "Part I -- Item 1. Business" of the Company's 2003 Annual Report on Form 10-K are the only significant subsidiaries (the "SIGNIFICANT SUBSIDIARIES") of the Company. 4
(f) Capitalization. All the outstanding shares of capital stock or other equity interests of the Company and its subsidiaries have been duly and validly authorized and issued, are fully paid and non-assessable (except as otherwise described in the Offering Memorandum) and are owned directly or indirectly by the Company, free and clear of any lien, charge, encumbrance, security interest, restriction on voting or transfer or any other claim of any third party. (g) Due Incorporation and Compliance with Regulations. Each of the Company and each insurance subsidiary of the Company is in compliance with the requirements of the insurance laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation or domicile and any applicable regulations thereunder and has filed all reports, registrations, documents or other information required to be filed thereunder, except where the failure to comply or file would not have a Material Adverse Effect; and each of the insurance subsidiaries is in compliance with the insurance laws and regulations of each other jurisdiction that is applicable to such insurance subsidiary, except where a failure to comply would not have a Material Adverse Effect. (h) Due Authorization. The Company has full right, power and authority to execute and deliver this Agreement, the Securities, the Indenture, the Exchange Securities and the Registration Rights Agreement (collectively, the "TRANSACTION DOCUMENTS") and to perform its obligations hereunder and thereunder; and all action required to be taken for the due and proper authorization, execution and delivery of each of the Transaction Documents and the consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby has been duly and validly taken. (i) The Indenture. The Indenture has been duly authorized by the Company and, when duly executed and delivered in accordance with its terms by each of the parties thereto, will constitute the valid and legally binding agreement of the Company enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as the enforceability thereof may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, rehabilitation or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally or by equitable principles relating to enforceability (collectively, the "ENFORCEABILITY EXCEPTIONS"); and, on the Closing Date, the Indenture will conform in all material respects to the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (the "TRUST INDENTURE ACT"), and the rules and regulations of the Commission applicable to an indenture that is qualified thereunder. (j) The Registration Rights Agreement. This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company; and the Registration Rights Agreement has been duly authorized by the Company and, when duly executed and delivered in accordance with its terms by each of the parties thereto, will constitute a valid and legally binding agreement of the Company enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, subject to the Enforceability Exceptions, and except that rights to indemnity and contribution thereunder may be limited by applicable law and public policy. (k) The Securities. The Securities have been duly authorized by the Company and, when duly executed, authenticated, issued and delivered as provided in the Indenture and paid for as provided herein, will be duly and validly issued and outstanding and will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company enforceable against the Company in accordance 5
with their terms, subject to the Enforceability Exceptions, and will be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture. (l) The Exchange Securities. On the Closing Date, the Exchange Securities will have been duly authorized by the Company and, when duly executed, authenticated, issued and delivered as contemplated by the Registration Rights Agreement, will be duly and validly issued and outstanding and will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company, as issuer, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, subject to the Enforceability Exceptions, and will be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture. (m) No Violation or Default. None of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is (i) in violation of its charter, by-laws or similar organizational documents; (ii) in default, and no event has occurred that, with notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute such a default, in the due performance or observance of any term, covenant or condition contained in any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement or other agreement or instrument to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or by which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is bound or to which any of the property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is subject; or (iii) in violation of any law or statute or any judgment, order, rule or regulation of any court or arbitrator or governmental or regulatory authority, except, in the case of clauses (ii) and (iii) above, for any such default or violation that would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect. (n) No Conflicts. The execution, delivery and performance by the Company of each of the Transaction Documents to which each is a party, the issuance and sale of the Securities and compliance by the Company with the terms thereof and the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Transaction Documents will not (i) conflict with or result in a breach or violation of any of the terms or provisions of, or constitute a default under, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries pursuant to, any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement or other agreement or instrument to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or by which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is bound or to which any of the property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is subject, (ii) result in any violation of the provisions of the charter, by-laws or similar organizational documents of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or (iii) result in the violation of any law or statute or any judgment, order, rule or regulation of any court or arbitrator or governmental or regulatory authority, except, in the case of clauses (i) and (iii) above, for any such conflict, breach or violation that would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect. (o) No Consents Required. No consent, approval, authorization, order, registration or qualification of or with any court or arbitrator or governmental or regulatory authority is required for the execution, delivery and performance by the Company of each of the Transaction Documents, the issuance and sale of the Securities and compliance by the Company with the terms thereof and the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Transaction Documents, except for such consents, approvals, authorizations, orders and registrations or qualifications as may be required (i) under applicable state securities and insurance securities laws in connection with the purchase and resale of the Securities by the Initial Purchasers and (ii) with respect to the 6
Indenture and Exchange Securities under the Securities Act and Trust Indenture Act and applicable state securities and insurance securities laws as contemplated by the Registration Rights Agreement. (p) Legal Proceedings. Except as described in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Offering Memorandum, there are no local, state or federal governmental or regulatory investigations, actions, suits or proceedings pending to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or to which any property of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is the subject that, individually or in the aggregate, if determined adversely to the Company or any of its subsidiaries, could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and to the best knowledge of the Company, no such investigations, actions, suits or proceedings are threatened or contemplated by any state or federal governmental or regulatory authority or threatened by others. (q) Independent Accountants. Deloitte & Touche LLP, who have certified certain financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries, are independent registered public accountants with respect to the Company and its subsidiaries within the meaning of Rule 101 of the Code of Professional Conduct of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and its interpretations and rulings thereunder. (r) Investment Company Act. None of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is, and after giving effect to the offering and sale of the Securities and the application of the proceeds thereof as described in the Offering Memorandum none of them will be, an "investment company" or an entity "controlled" by an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder (collectively, "INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT"). (s) Bank Holding Company Act. All of the Company's investments in entities subject to regulation under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the "BHCA"), comply in all material respects with the requirements of the BHCA, and no consents, approvals or filings are required for such investments under the BHCA, except for such consents, approvals or filings (i) which have been granted or made and are in full force and effect or (ii) which, if not granted, made or obtained, or which are not in full force and effect, would not have a Material Adverse Effect. (t) No Broker's Fees. None of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party to any contract, agreement or understanding with any person (other than this Agreement) that would give rise to a valid claim against any of them or any Initial Purchaser for a brokerage commission, finder's fee or like payment in connection with the offering and sale of the Securities. (u) Rule 144A Eligibility. On the Closing Date, the Securities will not be of the same class as securities listed on a national securities exchange registered under Section 6 of the Exchange Act or quoted in an automated inter-dealer quotation system; and each of the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Offering Memorandum, as of its respective date, contains or will contain (or incorporates or will incorporate by reference) all the information that, 7
if requested by a prospective purchaser of the Securities, would be required to be provided to such prospective purchaser pursuant to Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Securities Act. (v) No Integration. None of the Company or any of its affiliates (as defined in Rule 501(b) of Regulation D) has, directly or through any agent, sold, offered for sale, solicited offers to buy or otherwise negotiated in respect of, any security (as defined in the Securities Act), that is or will be integrated with the sale of the Securities in a manner that would require registration of the Securities under the Securities Act. (w) No General Solicitation or Directed Selling Efforts. None of the Company or any of its affiliates or any other person acting on its or their behalf (other than the Initial Purchasers, as to which no representation is made) has solicited offers for, or offered or sold, the Securities by means of any form of general solicitation or general advertising within the meaning of Rule 502(c) of Regulation D or in any manner involving a public offering within the meaning of Section 4(2) of the Securities Act. (x) Securities Law Exemptions. Assuming the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Initial Purchasers contained in Section 1(b) and their compliance with their agreements set forth therein, it is not necessary, in connection with the issuance and sale of the Securities to the Initial Purchasers and the offer, resale and delivery of the Securities by the Initial Purchasers in the manner contemplated by this Agreement and the Offering Memorandum, to register the Securities under the Securities Act or to qualify the Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act. (y) No Stabilization. The Company has not taken, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or that could reasonably be expected to cause or result in any stabilization or manipulation of the price of the Securities. (z) Forward-Looking Statements. No forward-looking statement (within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act) contained or incorporated by reference in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Offering Memorandum has been made or reaffirmed without a reasonable basis or has been disclosed other than in good faith. (aa) Taxes. The Company and its subsidiaries have paid all federal, state, local and foreign taxes and filed all tax returns required to be paid or filed through the date hereof, except for any such failure to pay or file which, individually or in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and except as otherwise disclosed in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Offering Memorandum, there is no material tax deficiency that has been, or could reasonably be expected to be, asserted against the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any of their respective properties or assets. (bb) Licenses and Permits. The Company and its subsidiaries possess all licenses, certificates, permits and other authorizations issued by, and have made all declarations and filings with, the appropriate federal, state, local or foreign governmental or regulatory authorities that are necessary for the ownership or lease of their respective properties or the conduct of their respective 8
businesses as described in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Offering Memorandum, except where the failure to possess or make the same would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect; and except as described in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Offering Memorandum, none of the Company or any of its subsidiaries has received notice of any revocation or modification of any such license, certificate, permit or authorization or has any reason to believe that any such license, certificate, permit or authorization will not be renewed in the ordinary course. (cc) No Labor Disputes. No labor disturbance by or dispute with employees of the Company or any of their subsidiaries exists or, to the best knowledge of the Company, is contemplated or threatened. (dd) Statistical and Market Data. Nothing has come to the attention of the Company that has caused the Company to believe that the statistical and market-related data included or incorporated by reference in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Offering Memorandum is not based on or derived from sources that are reliable and accurate in all material respects. (ee) Controls. The Company and each of its subsidiaries referenced in Section 3(e) hereof (i) maintains a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that (A) transactions are executed in accordance with management's general or specific authorization; (B) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and to maintain accountability for assets; (C) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with management's general or specific authorization; and (D) the recorded accountability for assets is compared with existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences, and (ii) the Company maintains a system of "disclosure controls and procedures" (as such term is defined in Rule 13a-14(c) under the Exchange Act). (ff) Sarbanes-Oxley. The Company is in compliance in all material respects with the applicable provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 that are effective. 4. Further Agreements of the Company. The Company covenants and agrees with each Initial Purchaser that: (a) Delivery of Copies. The Company will deliver to the Initial Purchasers without charge as many copies of the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Offering Memorandum (including all amendments and supplements thereto and documents incorporated by reference therein) as the Initial Purchasers may reasonably request. (b) Amendments or Supplements. Before making or distributing any amendment or supplement to the Preliminary Offering Memorandum or the Offering Memorandum or filing with the Commission any document that will be incorporated by reference therein, the Company will furnish to the Representatives and counsel for the Initial Purchasers a copy of the proposed amendment or supplement or document to be incorporated by reference therein for review, and 9
will not distribute any such proposed amendment or supplement or file any such document with the Commission to which the Representatives reasonably object. (c) Notice to the Representatives. The Company will advise the Representatives promptly, and confirm such advice in writing, (i) of the issuance by any governmental or regulatory authority of any order preventing or suspending the use of the Preliminary Offering Memorandum or the Offering Memorandum or the initiation or threatening of any proceeding for that purpose; (ii) of the occurrence of any event at any time prior to the completion of the initial offering of the Securities as a result of which the Offering Memorandum as then amended or supplemented would include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances existing when the Offering Memorandum is delivered to a purchaser, not misleading; and (iii) of the receipt by the Company of any notice with respect to any suspension of the qualification of the Securities for offer and sale in any jurisdiction or the initiation or threatening of any proceeding for such purpose; and the Company will use its reasonable best efforts to prevent the issuance of any such order preventing or suspending the use of the Preliminary Offering Memorandum or the Offering Memorandum or suspending any such qualification of the Securities and, if any such order is issued, will use its reasonable best efforts to obtain as soon as possible the withdrawal thereof. (d) Ongoing Use of the Offering Memorandum. If at any time prior to the completion of the initial offering of the Securities (i) any event shall occur or condition shall exist as a result of which the Offering Memorandum as then amended or supplemented would include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances existing when the Offering Memorandum is delivered to a purchaser, not misleading or (ii) it is necessary to amend or supplement the Offering Memorandum to allow its ongoing use, the Company will immediately notify the Initial Purchasers thereof and forthwith prepare and, subject to paragraph (b) above, file with the Commission any document to be incorporated by reference therein and furnish to the Initial Purchasers such amendments or supplements to the Offering Memorandum as may be necessary so that the statements in the Offering Memorandum as so amended or supplemented (or including such document to be incorporated by reference therein) will not include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances existing when the Offering Memorandum is delivered to a purchaser, not misleading or so that the Offering Memorandum will comply in all material respects with law. (e) Blue Sky Compliance. The Company will cooperate with the Initial Purchasers to qualify the Securities for offer and sale under the securities or Blue Sky laws (including any applicable insurance laws relating to the issuance, offer or sale of the Securities) of such jurisdictions as the Representatives shall reasonably request and will continue such qualifications in effect so long as required for the offering and resale of the Securities; provided that the Company shall not be required to (i) qualify as a foreign corporation or other entity or as a dealer in securities in any such jurisdiction where it would not otherwise be required to so qualify, (ii) 10
file any general consent to service of process in any such jurisdiction or (iii) subject itself to taxation in any such jurisdiction if it is not otherwise so subject. (f) Debt Securities. During the period from the date hereof through and including the date that is 30 days after the date hereof, the Company will not, without the prior written consent of the Representatives, offer, sell, contract to sell or otherwise dispose of any debt securities issued or guaranteed by the Company and having a maturity of more than one year. (g) Use of Proceeds. The Company shall apply the net proceeds from the sale of the Securities as described in the Offering Memorandum under the heading "Use of Proceeds". (h) Supplying Information. While the Securities remain outstanding and are "restricted securities" within the meaning of Rule 144(a)(3) under the Securities Act, the Company will, during any period in which the Company is not subject to and in compliance with Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, furnish to holders of the Securities and prospective purchasers of the Securities designated by such holders, upon the request of such holders or such prospective purchasers, the information required to be delivered pursuant to Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Securities Act. (i) DTC. The Company will assist the Initial Purchasers in arranging for the Securities to be eligible for clearance and settlement through The Depository Trust Company ("DTC"). (j) No Resales by the Company. Until the issuance of the Exchange Securities, the Company will not, and will not permit any of their affiliates (as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act) to, resell any of the Securities that have been acquired by any of them, except for Securities purchased by the Company or any of their affiliates and resold in a transaction registered under the Securities Act. (k) No Integration. None of the Company or any of its affiliates (as defined in Rule 501(b) of Regulation D) will, directly or through any agent (other than the Initial Purchasers, as to which no covenant is given), sell, offer for sale, solicit offers to buy or otherwise negotiate in respect of, any security (as defined in the Securities Act), that is or will be integrated with the sale of the Securities in a manner that would require registration of the Securities under the Securities Act. (l) No General Solicitation or Directed Selling Efforts. None of the Company or any of its affiliates or any other person acting on their behalf (other than the Initial Purchasers, as to which no covenant is given) will solicit offers for, or offer or sell, the Securities by means of any form of general solicitation or general advertising within the meaning of Rule 502(c) of Regulation D or in any manner involving a public offering within the meaning of Section 4(2) of the Securities Act. 11
(m) No Stabilization. The Company shall not take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or that could reasonably be expected to cause or result in any stabilization or manipulation of the price of the Securities. (n) Filing of Exchange Act Documents. The Company will file all reports and any definitive proxy or information statements required to be filed by the Company with the Commission pursuant to Section 13(a), 13(c), 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act within the time periods required by the Exchange Act. 5. Conditions of Initial Purchasers' Obligations. The obligation of each Initial Purchaser to purchase Securities on the Closing Date as provided herein is subject to the performance by the Company of its covenants and other obligations hereunder and to the following additional conditions: (a) Representations and Warranties. The representations and warranties of the Company contained herein shall be true and correct on the date hereof and on and as of the Closing Date; and the statements of the Company and its respective officers made in any certificates delivered pursuant to this Agreement shall be true and correct on and as of the Closing Date. (b) No Downgrade. Subsequent to the execution and delivery of this Agreement and prior to the Closing Date, there shall not have occurred any downgrading, nor shall any notice have been given of (i) any intended or potential downgrading or (ii) any review or possible change that does not indicate an improvement in the rating accorded any securities of or guaranteed by the Company or in the "financial strength" rating of any of the Company's insurance subsidiaries by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization", as such term is defined for purposes of Rule 436(g)(2) under the Securities Act (including, without limitation, A.M. Best Co. and Fitch Ratings). (c) No Material Adverse Change. Subsequent to the execution and delivery of this Agreement, no event or condition of a type described in Section 3(d) hereof shall have occurred or shall exist, which event or condition is not described in the Offering Memorandum (excluding any amendment or supplement thereto or any document filed with the Commission after the date hereof and incorporated by reference therein) and the effect of which in the judgment of the Representative makes it impracticable or inadvisable to proceed with the offering, sale or delivery of the Securities on the terms and in the manner contemplated by this Agreement and the Offering Memorandum. (d) Officer's Certificate. The Representatives shall have received on and as of the Closing Date a certificate of an executive officer of the Company who shall execute such certificate on behalf of the Company, and not in his or her individual capacity, who has specific knowledge of the Company's financial matters and is reasonably satisfactory to the Representatives (i) confirming that such officer has carefully reviewed the Offering Memorandum and, to the best knowledge of such officer, the representation set forth in Section 3(a) hereof is true and correct, (ii) confirming that the other representations and warranties of the 12
Company in this Agreement are true and correct in all material respects and that the Company has complied in all material respects with all agreements and satisfied all conditions on their part to be performed or satisfied hereunder at or prior to the Closing Date and (iii) to the effect set forth in paragraphs (b) and (c) above. (e) Comfort Letters. On the date of this Agreement and on the Closing Date, Deloitte & Touche LLP shall have furnished to the Representatives, at the request of the Company, letters dated the date hereof and the Closing Date and addressed to the Initial Purchasers, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Representatives, containing statements and information of the type customarily included in accountants' "comfort letters" to underwriters with respect to the financial statements and certain financial information contained or incorporated by reference in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Offering Memorandum; provided that the letter delivered on the Closing Date shall use a "cut-off" date no more than three business days prior to the Closing Date. (f) Opinions of Counsel for the Company. The Initial Purchasers shall have received, at the request of the Company, written opinions of (i) Dewey Ballantine LLP, New York counsel for the Company, (ii) Dinsmore & Shohl LLP, Ohio counsel for the Company, and (iii) Bell, Boyd & Lloyd LLC, special counsel for the Company, each dated the Closing Date and addressed to the Initial Purchasers and in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Representatives, to the effect set forth in Annex A, Annex B and Annex C, respectively. (g) Opinion of Counsel for the Initial Purchasers. The Initial Purchasers shall have received on and as of the Closing Date an opinion of Davis Polk & Wardwell, counsel for the Initial Purchasers, with respect to such matters as the Initial Purchasers may reasonably request, and such counsel shall have received such documents and information as they may reasonably request to enable them to pass upon such matters. (h) Registration Rights Agreement. The Initial Purchasers shall have received a counterpart of the Registration Rights Agreement that shall have been executed and delivered by a duly authorized officer of the Company. (i) Good Standing. The Representative shall have received on and as of the Closing Date reasonably satisfactory evidence of the good standing of the Company and its Significant Subsidiaries in their respective jurisdictions of organization and their good standing in such other jurisdictions as the Representative may reasonably request, in each case in writing or any standard form of telecommunication, from the appropriate governmental authorities of such jurisdictions. (j) DTC. The Securities shall be eligible for clearance and settlement through DTC. (k) Additional Documents. On or prior to the Closing Date, the Company shall have furnished to the Representatives such further certificates and documents as the Representatives may reasonably request. 13
All opinions, letters, certificates and evidence mentioned above or elsewhere in this Agreement shall be deemed to be in compliance with the provisions hereof only if they are in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to counsel for the Initial Purchasers. 6. Indemnification and Contribution. (a) Indemnification of the Initial Purchasers. The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Initial Purchaser, its affiliates, directors and officers and each person, if any, who controls such Initial Purchaser within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act, from and against any and all losses, claims, damages and liabilities (including, without limitation, reasonable legal fees and other expenses incurred in connection with any suit, action or proceeding or any claim asserted, as such fees and expenses are incurred), joint or several, that arise out of, or are based upon, any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum or the Offering Memorandum (or any amendment or supplement thereto), or any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, except insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities arise out of, or are based upon, any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with any information relating to any Initial Purchaser furnished to the Company in writing by such Initial Purchaser through the Representatives expressly for use therein; provided, that with respect to any such untrue statement in or omission from the Preliminary Offering Memorandum, the indemnity agreement contained in this paragraph (a) shall not inure to the benefit of any Initial Purchaser to the extent that the sale to the person asserting any such loss, claim, damage or liability was an initial resale by such Initial Purchaser and any such loss, claim, damage or liability of or with respect to such Initial Purchaser results from the fact that both (i) a copy of the Offering Memorandum (excluding any documents incorporated by reference therein) was not sent or given to such person at or prior to the written confirmation of the sale of such Securities to such person and (ii) the untrue statement in or omission from such Preliminary Offering Memorandum was corrected in the Offering Memorandum unless, in either case, such failure to deliver the Offering Memorandum was a result of non-compliance by the Company with the provisions of Section 4 hereof. (b) Indemnification of the Company. Each Initial Purchaser agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Company and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act to the same extent as the indemnity set forth in paragraph (a) above, but only with respect to any losses, claims, damages or liabilities that arise out of, or are based upon, any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with any information relating to such Initial Purchaser furnished to the Company in writing by such Initial Purchaser through the Representative expressly for use in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Offering Memorandum (or any amendment or supplement thereto), it being understood and agreed that the only such information consists of the following: On the front cover of the Offering Memorandum: the "Issue Price"; In "Plan of Distribution": the last sentence of the second full paragraph; the first full paragraph under " -- Commissions and 14
Discounts"; the third sentence of the first full paragraph under " -- New Issue"; the second full paragraph under " -- New Issue"; the first full paragraph under " -- Price Stabilization and Short Positions". (c) Notice and Procedures. If any suit, action, proceeding (including any governmental or regulatory investigation), claim or demand shall be brought or asserted against any person in respect of which indemnification may be sought pursuant to either paragraph (a) or (b) above, such person (the "Indemnified Person") shall promptly notify the person against whom such indemnification may be sought (the "Indemnifying Person") in writing; provided that the failure to notify the Indemnifying Person shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have under this Section 6 except to the extent that it has been materially prejudiced (through the forfeiture of substantive rights or defenses) by such failure; and provided, further, that the failure to notify the Indemnifying Person shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have to an Indemnified Person otherwise than under this Section 6. If any such proceeding shall be brought or asserted against an Indemnified Person and it shall have notified the Indemnifying Person thereof, the Indemnifying Person shall retain counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Person to represent the Indemnified Person and any others entitled to indemnification pursuant to this Section 6 that the Indemnifying Person may designate in such proceeding and shall pay the reasonable fees and expenses of such counsel related to such proceeding, as incurred. In any such proceeding, any Indemnified Person shall have the right to retain its own counsel, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such Indemnified Person unless (i) the Indemnifying Person and the Indemnified Person shall have mutually agreed to the contrary; (ii) the Indemnifying Person has failed within a reasonable time to retain counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Person; (iii) the Indemnified Person shall have reasonably concluded that there may be legal defenses available to it that are different from or in addition to those available to the Indemnifying Person; or (iv) the named parties in any such proceeding (including any impleaded parties) include both the Indemnifying Person and the Indemnified Person and representation of both parties by the same counsel would be inappropriate due to actual or potential differing interests between them. It is understood and agreed that the Indemnifying Person shall not, in connection with any proceeding or related proceeding in the same jurisdiction, be liable for the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm (in addition to any local counsel) for all Indemnified Persons, and that all such reasonable fees and expenses shall be reimbursed as they are incurred. Any such separate firm for any Initial Purchaser, its affiliates, directors and officers and any control persons of such Initial Purchaser shall be designated in writing by the Representatives and any such separate firm for the Company and any control persons of the Company shall be designated in writing by the Company. The Indemnifying Person shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent, but if settled with such consent or if there be a final judgment for the plaintiff, the Indemnifying Person agrees to indemnify each Indemnified Person from and against any loss or liability by reason of such settlement or judgment. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, if at any time an Indemnified Person shall have requested that an Indemnifying Person reimburse the Indemnified Person for fees and expenses of counsel as contemplated by this paragraph, then the Indemnifying Person agrees that it shall be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 60 business days after receipt by such Indemnifying Party of the aforesaid request, (ii) such Indemnifying 15
Person shall not have fully reimbursed the Indemnified Person in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement and (iii) such Indemnified Person shall have given the Indemnifying Person at least 30 days' prior written notice of its intention to settle. No Indemnifying Person shall, without the written consent of the Indemnified Person, effect any settlement of any pending or threatened proceeding in respect of which any Indemnified Person is or could have been a party and indemnification could have been sought hereunder by such Indemnified Person, unless such settlement (x) includes an unconditional release of such Indemnified Person, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to such Indemnified Person, from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such proceeding and (y) does not include any statement as to or any admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any Indemnified Person. (d) Contribution. If the indemnification provided for in paragraphs (a) and (b) above is unavailable to an Indemnified Person or insufficient in respect of any losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to therein, then each Indemnifying Person under such paragraph, in lieu of indemnifying such Indemnified Person thereunder, shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such Indemnified Person as a result of such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company, on the one hand, and the Initial Purchasers, on the other, from the offering of the Securities or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) but also the relative fault of the Company, on the one hand, and the Initial Purchasers, on the other, in connection with the statements or omissions that resulted in such losses, claims, damages or liabilities, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative benefits received by the Company, on the one hand, and the Initial Purchasers, on the other, shall be deemed to be in the same respective proportions as the net proceeds (before deducting expenses) received by the Company from the sale of the Securities and the total discounts and commissions received by the Initial Purchasers in connection therewith, as provided in this Agreement, bear to the aggregate offering price of the Securities. The relative fault of the Company, on the one hand, and the Initial Purchasers, on the other shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company or by the Initial Purchasers and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission. (e) Limitation on Liability. The Company and the Initial Purchasers agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 6 were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Initial Purchasers were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation that does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in paragraph (d) above. The amount paid or payable by an Indemnified Person as a result of the losses, claims, damages and liabilities referred to in paragraph (d) above shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth above, any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such Indemnified Person in connection with any such action or claim. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 6, in no event shall an Initial Purchaser be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total discounts and 16
commissions received by such Initial Purchaser with respect to the offering of the Securities exceeds the amount of any damages that such Initial Purchaser has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. The Initial Purchasers' obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 6 are several in proportion to their respective purchase obligations hereunder and not joint. (f) Non-Exclusive Remedies. The remedies provided for in this Section 6 are not exclusive and shall not limit any rights or remedies that may otherwise be available to any Indemnified Person at law or in equity. 7. Termination. This Agreement may be terminated in the absolute discretion of the Representatives, by notice to the Company, if after the execution and delivery of this Agreement and prior to the Closing Date (i) trading generally shall have been suspended or materially limited on the New York Stock Exchange or the over-the-counter market; (ii) trading of any securities issued or guaranteed by the Company shall have been suspended on any exchange or in any over-the-counter market; (iii) a general moratorium on commercial banking activities shall have been declared by federal or New York State authorities or material disruption in clearance or settlement systems; or (iv) there shall have occurred any outbreak or escalation of hostilities or any change in financial markets or any calamity or crisis, either within or outside the United States, that, in the judgment of the Representatives, is material and adverse and makes it impracticable or inadvisable to proceed with the offering, sale or delivery of the Securities on the terms and in the manner contemplated by this Agreement and the Offering Memorandum or to enforce contracts for the sale of the Securities. 8. Defaulting Initial Purchaser. (a) If, on the Closing Date, any Initial Purchaser defaults on its obligation to purchase the Securities that it has agreed to purchase hereunder, the non-defaulting Initial Purchasers may in their discretion arrange for the purchase of such Securities by other persons satisfactory to the Company on the terms contained in this Agreement. If, within 36 hours after any such default by any Initial Purchaser, the non-defaulting Initial Purchasers do not arrange for the purchase of such Securities, then the Company shall be entitled to a further period of 36 hours within which to procure other persons satisfactory to the non-defaulting Initial Purchasers to purchase such Securities on such terms. If other persons become obligated or agree to purchase the Securities of a defaulting Initial Purchaser, either the non defaulting Initial Purchasers or the Company may postpone the Closing Date for up to five full business days in order to effect any changes that in the opinion of counsel for the Company or counsel for the Initial Purchasers may be necessary in the Offering Memorandum or in any other document or arrangement, and the Company agrees to promptly prepare any amendment or supplement to the Offering Memorandum that effects any such changes. As used in this Agreement, the term "Initial Purchaser" includes, for all purposes of this Agreement unless the context otherwise requires, any person not listed in Schedule 1 hereto that, pursuant to this Section 8, purchases Securities that a defaulting Initial Purchaser agreed but failed to purchase. 17
(b) If, after giving effect to any arrangements for the purchase of the Securities of a defaulting Initial Purchaser or Initial Purchasers by the non-defaulting Initial Purchasers and the Company as provided in paragraph (a) above, the aggregate principal amount of such Securities that remains unpurchased does not exceed one-eleventh of the aggregate principal amount of all the Securities, then the Company shall have the right to require each non-defaulting Initial Purchaser to purchase the principal amount of Securities that such Initial Purchaser agreed to purchase hereunder plus such Initial Purchaser's pro rata share (based on the principal amount of Securities that such Initial Purchaser agreed to purchase hereunder) of the Securities of such defaulting Initial Purchaser or Initial Purchasers for which such arrangements have not been made. (c) If, after giving effect to any arrangements for the purchase of the Securities of a defaulting Initial Purchaser or Initial Purchasers by the non-defaulting Initial Purchasers and the Company as provided in paragraph (a) above, the aggregate principal amount of such Securities that remains unpurchased exceeds one-eleventh of the aggregate principal amount of all the Securities, or if the Company shall not exercise the right described in paragraph (b) above, then this Agreement shall terminate without liability on the part of the non-defaulting Initial Purchasers. Any termination of this Agreement pursuant to this Section 8 shall be without liability on the part of the Company, except that the Company will continue to be liable for the payment of expenses as set forth in Section 9 hereof and except that the provisions of Section 6 hereof shall not terminate and shall remain in effect. (d) Nothing contained herein shall relieve a defaulting Initial Purchaser of any liability it may have to the Company or any non-defaulting Initial Purchaser for damages caused by its default. 9. Payment of Expenses. (a) Whether or not the transactions contemplated by this Agreement are consummated or this Agreement is terminated, the Company agrees to pay or cause to be paid all costs and expenses incident to the performance of its obligations hereunder, including without limitation, (i) the costs incident to the authorization, issuance, sale, preparation and delivery of the Securities and any taxes payable in that connection; (ii) the costs incident to the preparation and printing of the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Offering Memorandum (including any amendment or supplement thereto) and the distribution thereof; (iii) the costs of reproducing and distributing each of the Transaction Documents; (iv) the fees and expenses of the Company's counsel and independent accountants; (v) the fees and expenses (not to exceed $7,500) incurred in connection with the registration or qualification and determination of eligibility for investment of the Securities under the laws of such jurisdictions as the Representatives may designate and the preparation, printing and distribution of a Blue Sky Memorandum (including the related fees and expenses of counsel for the Initial Purchasers); (vi) any fees charged by rating agencies for rating the Securities; (vii) the fees and expenses of the Trustee and any paying agent (including related fees and expenses of any counsel to such parties); (viii) all expenses and application fees incurred in connection with the approval of the Securities for book-entry transfer by DTC; and (ix) all expenses incurred by the Company in connection with any "road show" presentation to potential investors. 18
(b) If (i) this Agreement is terminated pursuant to Section 7, (ii) the Company for any reason fails to tender the Securities for delivery to the Initial Purchasers or (iii) the Initial Purchasers decline to purchase the Securities for any reason permitted under this Agreement, the Company agrees to reimburse the Initial Purchasers for all out-of-pocket costs and expenses (including the fees and expenses of their counsel) reasonably incurred by the Initial Purchasers in connection with this Agreement and the offering contemplated hereby. 10. Persons Entitled to Benefit of Agreement. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective successors and any controlling persons referred to herein, and the affiliates, officers and directors of each Initial Purchaser referred to in Section 6 hereof. Nothing in this Agreement is intended or shall be construed to give any other person any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or in respect of this Agreement or any provision contained herein. No purchaser of Securities from any Initial Purchaser shall be deemed to be a successor merely by reason of such purchase. 11. Survival. The respective indemnities, rights of contribution, representations, warranties and agreements of the Company and the Initial Purchasers contained in this Agreement or made by or on behalf of the Company or the Initial Purchasers pursuant to this Agreement or any certificate delivered pursuant hereto shall survive the delivery of and payment for the Securities and shall remain in full force and effect, regardless of any termination of this Agreement or any investigation made by or on behalf of the Company or the Initial Purchasers. 12. Miscellaneous. (a) Authority of the Representative. Any action by the Initial Purchasers hereunder may be taken by UBS Securities LLC, acting as one of the Representatives on behalf of the Initial Purchasers, and any such action taken by such Representative shall be binding upon the Initial Purchasers. (b) Notices. All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if mailed or transmitted and confirmed by any standard form of telecommunication. Notices to the Initial Purchasers shall be given to the Representative: c/o UBS Securities LLC 677 Washington Boulevard Stamford, CT 06901 Fax: (203) 719-0495; Attention: Fixed Income Syndicate with a copy to: Davis Polk & Wardwell 450 Lexington Avenue New York, New York 10017 Fax: 212.450.3800; Attn: Ethan T. James Notices to the Company shall be given to them at: 19
Cincinnati Financial Corporation 6200 South Gilmore Road Fairfield, OH 45014 Fax: 513.870.0609; Attention: Chief Financial Officer with a copy to: Dewey Ballantine LLP 1301 Avenue of the Americas New York, New York 10019 Fax: 212.259.6381; Attn: Jonathan Freedman (c) Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York without regard to the conflicts of laws rules of such state. (d) Counterparts. This Agreement may be signed in counterparts (which may include counterparts delivered by any standard form of telecommunication), each of which shall be an original and all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument. (e) Amendments or Waivers. No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement, nor any consent or approval to any departure therefrom, shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be in writing and signed by the parties hereto. (f) Headings. The headings herein are included for convenience of reference only and are not intended to be part of, or to affect the meaning or interpretation of, this Agreement. 20
If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding, please indicate your acceptance of this Agreement by signing below. Very truly yours, CINCINNATI FINANCIAL CORPORATION By: /s/ Kenneth W. Stecher ---------------------------------- Title: Chief Financial Officer Accepted as of the date hereof J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. UBS Securities LLC Acting severally on behalf of themselves and the several Initial Purchasers named in Schedule 1 hereto. By: UBS Securities LLC By: /s/ William J. Woolfrey --------------------------------- Name: William J. Woolfrey Title: Executive Director Debt. Capital Markets By: /s/ Joseph Moore --------------------------------- Name: Joseph Moore Title: Director Debt Capital Markets 21
Schedule 1
ANNEX A [Form of Opinion of Dewey Ballantine LLP] (a) The Indenture constitutes a valid and legally binding agreement of the Company enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, subject to the Enforceability Provisions; and the Indenture conforms in all material respects with the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission applicable to an indenture that is qualified thereunder. (b) The Securities constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, subject to the Enforceability Exceptions, and will be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture. (c) The Exchange Securities, when duly executed, authenticated, issued and delivered as contemplated by the Registration Rights Agreement, will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, subject to the Enforceability Exceptions, and will be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture. (d) The Registration Rights Agreement constitutes a valid and legally binding agreement of the Company enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, subject to the Enforceability Exceptions, and except that rights to indemnity and contribution thereunder may be limited by applicable law and public policy. (e) Each of the Indenture, the Securities and the Registration Rights Agreement conforms in all material respects to the description thereof contained in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Offering Memorandum. (f) No consent, approval, authorization, order, registration or qualification of or with any New York or federal court or arbitrator or governmental or regulatory authority is required for the execution, delivery and performance by the Company of each of the Transaction Documents, the issuance and sale of the Securities and compliance by the Company with the terms thereof and the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Transaction Documents, except for such consents, approvals, authorizations, orders and registrations or qualifications as may be required (i) under applicable state and insurance securities laws in connection with the purchase and resale of the Securities by the Initial Purchasers and (ii) with respect to the Indenture and the Exchange Securities under the Securities Act, Trust Indenture Act and applicable state securities laws as contemplated by the Registration Rights Agreement. (g) Assuming the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Company contained in Sections 3(v) and (w) and the assuming the accuracy of the representations and agreements of the Initial Purchasers in Section 1(b) of the Purchase Agreement and compliance by the Company with the covenants in Sections 4(k) and 4(l), it is not necessary, in connection
with the issuance and sale of the Securities to the Initial Purchasers and the offer, resale and delivery of the Securities by the Initial Purchasers in the manner contemplated by this Agreement and the Offering Memorandum, to register the Securities under the Securities Act or to qualify the Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act; provided that such counsel need express no opinion on any subsequent offers or sales, or deliveries of the Securities. Such counsel shall also state that they have participated in conferences with representatives of the Company and with representatives of their independent accountants at which conferences the contents of the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Offering Memorandum and any amendment and supplement thereto and related matters were discussed and, although such counsel assume no responsibility for the accuracy, completeness or fairness of the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Offering Memorandum and any amendment or supplement thereto (except as expressly provided above), nothing has come to the attention of such counsel to cause such counsel to believe that the Offering Memorandum or any amendment or supplement thereto, as of its date and the Closing Date, contained or contains any untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading (other than, in each case, the financial statements and other financial information contained or incorporated by reference therein, as to which such counsel need express no belief). In rendering such opinion, such counsel may rely (i) as to matters of fact, on certificates of responsible officers of the Company and public officials that are furnished to the Initial Purchasers and (ii) as to matters of Ohio law, on the opinion of Dinsmore & Shohl LLP. The opinion of Dewey Ballantine LLP described above shall be rendered to the Initial Purchasers at the request of the Company and shall so state therein.
ANNEX B [Form of Opinion of Dinsmore & Shohl LLP] (a) The Indenture has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company. (b) The Securities have been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and, when duly authenticated as provided in the Indenture and paid for as provided in this Agreement, will be duly and validly issued and outstanding. (c) The Exchange Securities have been duly authorized by the Company and, when duly executed, authenticated, issued and delivered as contemplated by the Registration Rights Agreement, will be duly and validly issued and outstanding. (d) This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company; and the Registration Rights Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company. (e) The Company and each of its significant subsidiaries have been duly organized and are validly existing and in good standing under the laws of their respective jurisdictions of organization, are duly qualified to do business (based solely upon a review of certificates furnished by public officials) and are in good standing in each jurisdiction in which their respective ownership or lease of property or the conduct of their respective businesses requires such qualification, and have all power and authority necessary to own or hold their respective properties and to conduct the businesses in which they are engaged, except where the failure to be so qualified or have such power or authority would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect. (f) The Company has an authorized capitalization as set forth in the Offering Memorandum under the heading "Capitalization". (g) The Company has full right, power and authority to execute and deliver each of the Transaction Documents to which each is a party and to perform its obligations thereunder; and all corporate action required to be taken for the due and proper authorization, execution and delivery of each of the Transaction Documents and the consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby has been duly and validly taken. (h) Each document incorporated by reference in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Offering Memorandum (other than the financial statements and other financial information contained therein, as to which such counsel need express no opinion), when filed with the Commission, conformed in all material respects to the requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder.
(i) The execution, delivery and performance by the Company of each of the Transaction Documents, the issuance and sale of the Securities and compliance by the Company with the terms thereof and the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Transaction Documents will not (i) conflict with or result in a breach or violation of any of the terms or provisions of, or constitute a default under, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries pursuant to, any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement or other agreement or instrument to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or by which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is bound or to which any of the property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is subject and which in any such case are known to such counsel after due investigation, (ii) result in any violation of the provisions of the charter, by-laws or similar organizational documents of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or (iii) result in the violation of any Ohio law or statute or any judgment, order, rule or regulation of any Ohio court or arbitrator or governmental or regulatory authority and which in any such case are known to such counsel after due investigation, except, in the case of clauses (i) and (iii) above, for any such conflict, breach or violation that would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect. (j) To the best knowledge of such counsel, except as described in the Offering Memorandum, there are no legal, governmental or regulatory investigations, actions, suits or proceedings pending or threatened to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or to which any property of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is subject that, individually or in the aggregate, if determined adversely to the Company or any of its subsidiaries, could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. (k) The descriptions in the Offering Memorandum of Ohio and federal statutes, legal, governmental and regulatory proceedings and contracts and other documents are accurate in all material respects. In rendering such opinion, such counsel may rely as to matters of fact on certificates of responsible officers of the Company and public officials that are furnished to the Initial Purchasers. The opinion of Dinsmore & Shohl LLP described above shall be rendered to the Initial Purchasers at the request of the Company and shall so state therein.
ANNEX C [Form of Opinion of Bell, Boyd & Lloyd LLC] The Company is not, and after giving effect to the offering and sale of the Securities and the application of the proceeds thereof as described in the Offering Memorandum will not be, an "investment company" or an entity "controlled" by an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act and the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Exhibit A [Form of Registration Rights Agreement]

(THE CINCINNATI INSURANCE COMPANY LOGO} CINCINNATI FINANCIAL CORPORATION Mailing Address: P.O. BOX 145496 CINCINNATI, OHIO 45250-5496 (513) 870-2000 Investor Contact: Heather J. Wietzel (513) 603-5950 Media Contact: Joan O. Shevchik (513) 603-5323 CINCINNATI FINANCIAL CORPORATION ANNOUNCES PRICING OF DEBT OFFERING CINCINNATI, OCTOBER 27, 2004 -- CINCINNATI FINANCIAL CORPORATION (NASDAQ: CINF) today announced the pricing of its offering of $375 million aggregate principal amount of 6.125% senior notes due November 2034. Cincinnati Financial Corporation intends to use the net proceeds as follows: (i) approximately $58 million will be used to pay the entire outstanding balance under its line of credit; (ii) approximately $128 million will be paid to The Cincinnati Insurance Company to satisfy an outstanding intercompany debt; (iii) approximately $100 million will be used beginning in 2005 to finance the construction of a parking garage and office building to be situated at its headquarters located in Fairfield, Ohio; and (iv) remaining net proceeds will be used for general corporate purposes. The company increased the size of the offering to $375 million from the previously announced $350 million. The notes were offered only to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (Securities Act). Cincinnati Financial Corporation offers property and casualty insurance, its main business, through The Cincinnati Insurance Company, The Cincinnati Indemnity Company and The Cincinnati Casualty Company. The Cincinnati Life Insurance Company markets life and disability income insurance and annuities. CFC Investment Company supports the insurance subsidiaries and their independent agent representatives through commercial leasing and financing activities. CinFin Capital Management Company provides asset management services to institutions, corporations and individuals. This news release does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy nor shall there be any sale of the notes referred to herein in any state in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state. The notes will not be registered under the Securities Act or applicable state securities laws, and the initial purchasers are offering them only to qualified institutional buyers in reliance on Rule 144A under the Securities Act. Unless so registered, the notes may not be offered or sold in the United States except pursuant to an exemption from, or in a transaction not subject to, the registration requirements of the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws. This is a "Safe Harbor" statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain forward-looking statements contained herein involve potential risks and uncertainties. Our future results could differ materially from those discussed. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to: - unusually high levels of catastrophe losses due to changes in weather patterns, environmental events, terrorism incidents or other causes - ability to obtain adequate reinsurance on acceptable terms, amount of reinsurance purchased and financial strength of reinsurers - increased frequency and/or severity of claims - events or conditions that could weaken or harm our relationships with our independent agencies and hamper opportunities to add new agencies, resulting in limitations on our opportunities for growth, such as: o downgrade of our financial strength ratings o concerns that doing business with us is too difficult or o perceptions that our level of service, particularly claims service, is no longer a distinguishing characteristic in the marketplace - insurance regulatory actions, legislation or court decisions or legal actions that increase expenses or place us at a disadvantage in the marketplace
- delays in the development, implementation, performance and benefits of technology projects and enhancements - inaccurate estimates or assumptions used for critical accounting estimates, including loss reserves - results and timely completion of assessment and remediation of internal controls for financial reporting under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 - recession or other economic conditions or regulatory, accounting or tax changes resulting in lower demand for insurance products - sustained decline in overall stock market values negatively affecting our equity portfolio, in particular a sustained decline in the market value of Fifth Third Bancorp shares, a significant equity holding - events that lead to a significant decline in the market value of a particular security and impairment of the asset - prolonged low interest rate environment or other factors that limit our ability to generate growth in investment income - adverse outcomes from litigation or administrative proceedings - effect on the insurance industry as a whole, and thus on our business, of the suit brought by the Attorney General of the State of New York against participants in the insurance industry, as well as any increased regulatory oversight that might result from the suit - limited flexibility in conducting investment activities if the restrictions imposed by the Investment Company Act of 1940 become applicable to us. Further, our insurance businesses are subject to the effects of changing social, economic and regulatory environments. Public and regulatory initiatives have included efforts to adversely influence and restrict premium rates, restrict the ability to cancel policies, impose underwriting standards and expand overall regulation. We also are subject to public and regulatory initiatives that can affect the market value for our common stock, such as recent measures affecting corporate financial reporting and governance. The ultimate changes and eventual effects, if any, of these initiatives are uncertain. Readers are cautioned that we undertake no obligation to review or update the forward-looking statements included in this material. ***


