FILE:CINF/CINF-8K-20041102111732.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) November 1, 2004 CINCINNATI FINANCIAL CORPORATION - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Ohio 0-4604 31-0746871 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (State or other jurisdiction (Commission (I.R.S. Employer of incorporation) File Number) Identification No.) 6200 S. Gilmore Road, Fairfield, Ohio 45014-5141 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code (513) 870-2000 ________________________________________________________________________________ (Former name or former address, if changed last report.) Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions: [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13a-4(c)) ITEM 1.01 ENTRY INTO A MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT. ITEM 2.03 CREATION OF A DIRECT FINANCIAL OBLIGATION OR AN OBLIGATION UNDER AN OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENT OF REGISTRANT. On November 1, 2004, Cincinnati Financial Corporation entered into (i) an indenture, dated as of November 1, 2004, with The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. and (ii) a supplemental indenture, dated as of November 1, 2004, with The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. (together, the Indenture). The Indenture provides for the issuance of $375,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 6.125% Senior Notes due November 1, 2034 (Notes). Interest is payable on the Notes on each May 1 and November 1 commencing on May 1, 2005. The Notes were issued in a transaction exempt from the registration requirements under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (Securities Act). The notes were sold to qualified institutional buyers in reliance on Rule 144A of the Securities Act. Cincinnati Financial Corporation may redeem the Notes, at its option, at any time in whole, or from time to time in part, prior to maturity. The redemption price will be equal to the greater of: (i) 100 percent of the principal amount of the Notes and (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest, discounted to the redemption date on a semiannual basis at a comparable treasury rate plus 15 basis points, plus in each case, interest accrued but not paid to the date of redemption. Under the Indenture, an event of default is defined as (i) default for 30 days in payment of any interest on the Notes; (ii) failure to pay principal and premium, if any, when due; (iii) failure to observe or perform any other covenant in the Indenture or Notes (except a covenant or warranty whose breach or default in performance is specifically dealt with in the events in default section), if such failure continues for 30 days after written notice by the trustee or the holders of at least 25 percent in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding; (iv) uncured or unwaived failure to pay principal of or interest on any other obligation for borrowed money beyond any period of grace if (a) the aggregate principal amount of any such obligation is in excess of $50 million and (b) Cincinnati Financial Corporation is not contesting the default in such payment in good faith by appropriate proceedings; or (v) certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or reorganization.
Under a registration rights agreement to be executed in connection with the offering (Registration Rights Agreement), Cincinnati Financial Corporation will (i) file a registration statement within 90 days after the issue date of the Notes enabling holders to exchange the Notes for publicly registered notes; (ii) use its reasonable best efforts to cause the registration statement to become or be declared effective within 150 days after the issue date of the Notes; (iii) use its reasonable best efforts to commence the exchange offer within 30 days after the effective date of the registration statement and keep the exchange offer open for a period of not less than 20 days after notice is mailed to holders; (iv) complete the exchange offer no later than the 180th day after the Notes are first issued; and (v) file a shelf registration statement for the resale of the Notes if, under the circumstances specified in the registration rights agreement, Cincinnati Financial Corporation is unable to effect the exchange offer discussed above. The interest rate of the Notes will increase if Cincinnati Financial Corporation does not comply with certain obligations under the registration rights agreement. The above descriptions of the Indenture and Registration Rights Agreement do not purport to be a complete statement of the parties' rights and obligations under the Indenture and Registration Rights Agreement and the transactions contemplated by the Indenture and Registration Rights Agreement. The above description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Indenture and Registration Rights Agreement, copies of which are attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 4.1, Exhibit 4.2 and Exhibit 4.3, and are incorporated herein by reference. ITEM 7.01 REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE. On November 1, 2004, Cincinnati Financial Corporation issued the attached news release "Cincinnati Financial Corporation Completes Sale of $375 Million of Senior Notes in Rule 144A Offering." The news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference. This report should not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information contained in the news release. The information furnished in Item 7.01 of this report shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act, as amended. ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS. (c) Exhibits Exhibit 4.1 - Indenture dated as of November 1, 2004 between Cincinnati Financial Corporation and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. Exhibit 4.2 - Supplemental Indenture dated as of November 1, 2004, between Cincinnati Financial Corporation and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. Exhibit 4.3 - Registration Rights Agreement dated November 1, 2004, between Cincinnati Financial Corporation and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and UBS Securities LLC, as representative of the several initial purchasers. Exhibit 99.1 - News release dated November 1, 2004, titled "Cincinnati Financial Corporation Completes Sale of $375 Million of Senior Notes in Rule 144A Offering." SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. CINCINNATI FINANCIAL CORPORATION Date: November 2, 2004 /s/ Kenneth W. Stecher ------------------------------------ Kenneth W. Stecher Chief Financial Officer, Senior Vice President, Secretary and Treasurer (Principal Accounting Officer)

EXHIBIT 4.1 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- CINCINNATI FINANCIAL CORPORATION to The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., Trustee -------------------------- INDENTURE Dated as of November 1, 2004 -------------------------- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
TABLE OF CONTENTS* i
ARTICLE 5 HOLDERS' LISTS AND REPORTS BY THE COMPANY AND THE TRUSTEE Section 5.01. Holders' Lists............................................................. 24 Section 5.02. Preservation And Disclosure Of Lists....................................... 24 Section 5.03. Reports By The Company..................................................... 25 Section 5.04. Reports By The Trustee..................................................... 25 ARTICLE 6 REMEDIES OF THE TRUSTEE AND HOLDERS ON EVENT OF DEFAULT Section 6.01. Events Of Default.......................................................... 25 Section 6.02. Payment Of Securities Upon Default; Suit Therefor.......................... 28 Section 6.03. Application Of Moneys Collected By Trustee................................. 30 Section 6.04. Proceedings By Holders..................................................... 31 Section 6.05. Proceedings By Trustee..................................................... 31 Section 6.06. Remedies Cumulative And Continuing......................................... 32 Section 6.07. Direction Of Proceedings And Waiver Of Defaults By Majority Of Holders..... 32 Section 6.08. Notice Of Defaults......................................................... 33 Section 6.09. Undertaking To Pay Costs................................................... 33 Section 6.10. Unconditional Right Of Holders To Receive Principal, Premium And Interest.. 33 ARTICLE 7 CONCERNING THE TRUSTEE Section 7.01. Duties And Responsibilities Of Trustee..................................... 34 Section 7.02. Reliance on Documents, Opinions, etc....................................... 34 Section 7.03. No Responsibility For Recitals, Etc........................................ 35 Section 7.04. Trustee And Agents May Own Securities...................................... 36 Section 7.05. Moneys To Be Held In Trust................................................. 36 Section 7.06. Compensation And Expenses Of Trustee....................................... 36 Section 7.07. Officers' Certificate As Evidence.......................................... 37 Section 7.08. Conflicting Interest Of Trustee............................................ 37 Section 7.09. Eligibility Of Trustee..................................................... 37 Section 7.10. Resignation Or Removal Of Trustee.......................................... 38 Section 7.11. Acceptance By Successor Trustee............................................ 39 Section 7.12. Succession By Merger, Etc.................................................. 40 Section 7.13. Limitation On Rights Of Trustee As A Creditor.............................. 40 Section 7.14. Authenticating Agents...................................................... 40 ARTICLE 8 CONCERNING THE HOLDERS Section 8.01. Action By Holders.......................................................... 43
ii
Section 8.02. Proof Of Execution By Holders................................................... 44 Section 8.03. Who Are Deemed Absolute Owners.................................................. 44 Section 8.04. Company-Owned Securities Disregarded............................................ 44 Section 8.05. Revocation Of Consents; Future Holders Bound.................................... 45 ARTICLE 9 SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURES Section 9.01. Supplemental Indentures Without Consent Of Holders.............................. 45 Section 9.02. Supplemental Indentures With Consent Of Holders................................. 47 Section 9.03. Effect Of Supplemental Indentures............................................... 47 Section 9.04. Notation On Securities.......................................................... 48 Section 9.05. Evidence Of Compliance Of Supplemental Indenture To Be Furnished Trustee........ 48 ARTICLE 10 CONSOLIDATION, MERGER, SALE AND CONVEYANCE Section 10.01. Company May Consolidate, Etc., On Certain Terms................................ 48 Section 10.02. Successor Corporation To Be Substituted........................................ 49 Section 10.03. Opinion Of Counsel To Be Given Trustee......................................... 49 ARTICLE 11 SATISFACTION AND DISCHARGE OF INDENTURE Section 11.01. Satisfaction, Discharge And Defeasance Of The Securities....................... 50 Section 11.02. Defeasance Of The Securities................................................... 51 Section 11.03. Application Of Trust Funds; Indemnification.................................... 52 Section 11.04. Return Of Unclaimed Moneys..................................................... 53 ARTICLE 12 IMMUNITY OF INCORPORATORS, STOCKHOLDERS, OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS Section 12.01. Indenture And Securities Solely Corporate Obligations.......................... 53 ARTICLE 13 MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS Section 13.01. Provisions Binding On Successors Of The Company................................ 54 Section 13.02. Indenture For Sole Benefit Of Parties And Holders Of The Securities............ 54 Section 13.03. Addresses For Notices, Etc..................................................... 54 Section 13.04. New York Contract.............................................................. 55 Section 13.05. Evidence Of Compliance With Conditions Precedent............................... 55 Section 13.06. Legal Holidays................................................................. 55 Section 13.07. Trust Indenture Act To Control................................................. 56 Section 13.08. Table Of Contents, Headings, Etc............................................... 56
iii
Section 13.09. Execution In Counterparts...................................................... 56 Section 13.10. Waiver of Jury Trial........................................................... 56 Section 13.11. Force Majeure.................................................................. 56 Signatures & Acknowledgments.......................................................... 57
* This table of contents shall not, for any purpose, be deemed to be a part of this Indenture. iv
CROSS REFERENCE SHEET** Provisions of Sections 310 through 318(a) inclusive of Trust Indenture Act and the Indenture dated as of November 1, 2004 between Cincinnati Financial Corporation and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee. - ------------------ * Not applicable. ** This cross reference sheet shall not, for any purpose, be deemed to be part of the Indenture. THIS INDENTURE, dated as of November 1, 2004, between Cincinnati Financial Corporation, an Ohio corporation (the "COMPANY"), and The Bank of
New York Trust Company, N.A., a national banking association, as trustee (the "TRUSTEE"). RECITALS OF THE COMPANY WHEREAS, the Company has duly authorized the issue from time to time of its unsecured senior debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness to be issued in one or more series (the "SECURITIES") up to such principal amount or amounts as may from time to time be authorized in accordance with the terms of this Indenture and to provide, among other things, for the authentication, delivery and administration thereof, the Company has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Indenture; and WHEREAS, all things necessary to make this Indenture a valid indenture and agreement of the Company, in accordance with its terms, have been done; NOW, THEREFORE, THIS INDENTURE WITNESSETH: For and in consideration of the premises and the purchase or acceptance of the Securities by the Holders thereof, it is mutually covenanted and agreed, for the equal and proportionate benefit of the respective Holders, as follows: ARTICLE 1 DEFINITIONS Section 1.01. Definitions. The terms defined in this Section 1.01 (except as herein otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires) for all purposes of this Indenture and of any indenture supplemental hereto shall have the respective meanings specified in this Section 1.01. All other terms used in this Indenture which are defined in the Trust Indenture Act or which are by reference therein defined in the Securities Act shall have (except as herein otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires) the meanings assigned to such terms in said Trust Indenture Act and in said Securities Act as in force at the date of the execution of this Indenture. All accounting terms not otherwise defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and, except as otherwise herein expressly provided, the term "generally accepted accounting principles" ("GAAP") with respect to any computation required or permitted hereunder shall mean such accounting principles as are generally accepted at the date of such computation. All references to such terms herein shall be both to the singular or the plural, as the context so requires. "AFFILIATE", when used with respect to any specified Person, means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For the purposes of this 2
definition, "control" when used with respect to any specified Person means the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing. "AUTHENTICATING AGENT" means the agent of the Trustee, if any, which at the time shall be appointed and acting pursuant to Section 7.14. "BOARD OF DIRECTORS" means the Board of Directors of the Company or any authorized committee of such Board designated by the Board of Directors or the by-laws or the articles of incorporation of the Company to act for such Board for purposes of this Indenture. "BOARD RESOLUTION" means a copy of a resolution certified by a Vice President, the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company to have been duly adopted by the Board of Directors and to be in full force and effect on the date of such certification, and delivered to the Trustee. "BUSINESS DAY", when used with respect to any Place of Payment, means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday which is not a day on which banking institutions in that Place of Payment are authorized or obligated by law to close. "COMPANY" means Cincinnati Financial Corporation, an Ohio corporation, and, subject to Article 10, shall include its successors and assigns. "COMPANY REQUEST" and "COMPANY ORDER" mean, respectively, a written request or order signed in the name of the Company by its Chairman of the Board, Vice Chairman of the Board, President or a Vice President, and by its Treasurer, Secretary, Assistant Secretary or Assistant Treasurer, and delivered to the Trustee. "CONSOLIDATED NET WORTH" means the Company's assets minus liabilities, determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP, as of the end of the most recent fiscal quarter of the Company ending prior to the taking of any action for the purpose of which the determination is being made. "DEPOSITORY" means The Depository Trust Company, New York, New York, or any successor thereto registered as a clearing agency pursuant to the provisions of Section 17A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or other applicable statute or regulation. "DESIGNATED SUBSIDIARY" means any present or future consolidated subsidiary of the Company, the Consolidated Net Worth of which constitutes at least 10% of the Consolidated Net Worth of the Company. 3
"DOLLAR" means the coin or currency of the United States of America which as of the time of payment is legal tender for the payment of public and private debts. "EVENT OF DEFAULT" means any event specified in Section 6.01, continued for the period of time, if any, and after the giving of the notice, if any, therein designated. "GLOBAL SECURITY" means a Security issued to evidence all or part of a series of Securities. "GOVERNMENT OBLIGATIONS" means securities which are (i) direct obligations of the United States of America or (ii) obligations of a person controlled or supervised by and acting as an agency or instrumentality of the United States of America, the payment of which obligations is unconditionally guaranteed by such government, and which, in either case, are full faith and credit obligations of the United States of America, are denominated in United States dollars and which are not callable or redeemable at the option of the issuer thereof, and shall also include a depository receipt issued by a bank (as defined in Section 3(a)(2) of the Securities Act) as custodian with respect to any such Government Obligation or a specific payment of principal of or interest on any such Government Obligation held by such custodian for the account of the holder of such depository receipt; provided that (except as required by law) such custodian is not authorized to make any deduction from the amount payable to the holder of such depository receipt from any amount received by the custodian in respect of the Government Obligation or the specific payment of principal of or interest on the Government Obligation evidenced by such depository receipt. "HOLDER" means any Person in whose name a Security is registered in the applicable Security Register. "INDEBTEDNESS" of any Person means the principal of and premium, if any, and interest due on indebtedness of such Person, whether outstanding on the date of this Indenture or thereafter created, incurred or assumed, which is (a) indebtedness for money borrowed, and (b) any amendments, renewals, extensions, modifications and refundings of any such indebtedness. For the purposes of this definition, "indebtedness for money borrowed" means (i) any obligation of, or any obligation guaranteed by, such Person for the repayment of borrowed money, whether or not evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or other written instruments, (ii) any obligation of, or any such obligation guaranteed by, such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or similar written instruments, including obligations assumed or incurred in connection with the acquisition of property, assets or businesses (provided, however, that the deferred purchase price of any other business or property or assets shall not be considered Indebtedness if the purchase price thereof is payable in full within 90 days from the date on which such indebtedness was created), and (iii) any obligations of such Person as lessee 4
under leases required to be capitalized on the balance sheet of the lessee under generally accepted accounting principles and leases of property or assets made as part of any sale and lease-back transaction to which such Person is a party. "INDENTURE" means this instrument as originally executed or, if amended or supplemented as herein provided, as so amended or supplemented, pursuant to the applicable provisions hereof, and shall include the forms and terms of particular series of Securities established as contemplated hereunder. "INTEREST PAYMENT DATE", when used with respect to Securities, means the Stated Maturity of an installment of interest on such Securities. "ISSUE DATE", for each series of Securities, means the issue date as specified in the Supplemental Indenture or Board Resolutions related to such series of Securities. "OFFICERS' CERTIFICATE", when used with respect to the Company, means a certificate signed by its Chairman of the Board, Vice Chairman of the Board, President, or a Vice President and by its Treasurer, Secretary, Assistant Secretary or Assistant Treasurer and delivered to the Trustee. Each such certificate shall include the statements provided for in Section 13.05 to the extent required by the provisions of such Section. "OPINION OF COUNSEL" means an opinion in writing signed by legal counsel who may be an employee of or counsel to the Company, and who shall be reasonably acceptable to the Trustee. Each such opinion shall include the statements provided for in Section 3.01 and Section 13.05 to the extent required by the provisions of such Sections. "OUTSTANDING", when used with respect to any series of Securities, means, as of the date of determination, all such Securities of such series theretofore authenticated and delivered under this Indenture, except: (i) such Securities theretofore canceled by the Trustee or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation; (ii) such Securities for whose payment money in the necessary amount has been theretofore deposited with the Trustee or any paying agent (other than the Company) in trust or set aside and segregated in trust by the Company (if the Company shall act as its own paying agent) for the Holders of such Securities; (iii) such Securities in exchange for or in lieu of which other such Securities have been authenticated and delivered pursuant to this Indenture, or such Securities which have been paid, pursuant to this Indenture, unless proof satisfactory to the Trustee is presented that any 5
such Securities are held by Persons in whose hands any of such Securities are a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Company; and (iv) such Securities the indebtedness in respect to which has been discharged in accordance with Section 11.01; provided, however, that in determining whether the Holders of the requisite principal amount of such Outstanding Securities have given any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver hereunder, such Securities owned by the Company or such other obligor upon such Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or such other obligor shall be disregarded and deemed not to be Outstanding, except that, in determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver, only such Securities which a Responsible Officer of the Trustee actually knows to be so owned shall be so disregarded. Such Securities so owned which have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as Outstanding if the pledgee establishes to the satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgee's right so to act with respect to such Securities and that the pledgee is not the Company or any other such obligor upon such Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or such other obligor. In case of a dispute as to such right, the decision of the Trustee upon the advice of counsel shall be full protection to the Trustee. Upon request of the Trustee, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee promptly an Officers' Certificate listing and identifying all such Securities, if any, known by the Company to be owned or held by or for the account of any of the above described Persons; and, subject to the provisions of Section 7.01, the Trustee shall be entitled to accept such Officers' Certificate as conclusive evidence of the facts therein set forth and of the fact that all such Securities not listed therein are Outstanding for the purpose of any such determination. "PAYING AGENT" means any Person (which may include the Company) authorized by the Company to pay the principal of or interest, if any, on any Security on behalf of the Company. "PERSON" means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof. "PLACE OF PAYMENT", when used with respect to any series of Securities, means the place or places where the principal of (premium, if any) and interest on those Securities are payable as specified in Section 4.02 or as otherwise provided in the Board Resolution or related Officers' Certificate or Supplemental Indenture relating to such Securities. "PREDECESSOR SECURITY" of any particular Security means every previous Security evidencing all or a portion of the same debt as that evidenced by such particular Security, and for the purposes of this definition, any Security 6
authenticated and delivered under Section 3.04 in lieu of a mutilated, lost, destroyed or stolen Security shall be deemed to evidence the same debt as the mutilated, lost, destroyed or stolen Security. "PRINCIPAL OFFICE OF THE TRUSTEE", or other similar terms, means the designated office of the Trustee in Cincinnati, Ohio, at which at any particular time its corporate trust business shall be administered, which office on the date hereof is located at 525 Vine Street, Suite 900, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202. "PUBLIC NOTICE" shall, without limitation, include any filing or report made in accordance with the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission or any press release or public announcement made by the Company. "REGULAR RECORD DATE" for the interest payable on any Security on any Interest Payment Date means the date specified in such Security as the "Regular Record Date". "RESPONSIBLE OFFICER", when used with respect to the Trustee, means any officer of the Trustee assigned to administer corporate trust matters. "SECURITY" or "SECURITIES" has the meaning stated in the first recital of this Indenture, or, as the case may be, Securities that have been authenticated and delivered under this Indenture. "SECURITIES ACT" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. "SECURITY CUSTODIAN" means the Trustee, as custodian with respect to the Global Securities, or any successor entity thereto. "SECURITY REGISTER" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.03. "SPECIAL RECORD DATE" for the payment of any Defaulted Interest (as defined in Section 3.05) means a date fixed by the Trustee pursuant to Section 3.05. "STATED MATURITY" when used with respect to any Security or any installment of principal thereof or of interest thereon, means the date specified in such Security as the fixed date on which the principal of such Security, or such installment of interest, is due and payable. "SUBSIDIARY" means any corporation of which the Company, or the Company and one or more Subsidiaries, or any one or more Subsidiaries, directly or indirectly own more than 50% of the Voting Stock. "SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.01. 7
"TRUST INDENTURE ACT" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, as in force at the date as of which this Indenture was executed; provided, however, that in the event the Trust Indenture Act is amended after such date, "Trust Indenture Act" shall mean, to the extent required by any such amendment, the Trust Indenture Act as so amended. "TRUSTEE" means The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., and, subject to the provisions of Article Seven hereof, shall also include its successors and assigns as Trustee hereunder. "VOTING STOCK" means outstanding shares of capital stock having under ordinary circumstances voting power for the election of directors whether at all times or only so long as no senior class of stock has such voting power by reason of the happening of any contingency. ARTICLE 2 SECURITY FORMS Section 2.01. Forms Generally. (a) The Securities of each series shall be substantially in such form (not inconsistent with this Indenture) as shall be established by or pursuant to one or more resolutions of the Board of Directors (as set forth in Board Resolutions or, to the extent set forth in an Officers' Certificate pursuant to a Board Resolution, an Officers' Certificate detailing such establishment) or in one or more Supplemental Indentures, in each case, with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as are required or permitted by this Indenture and may have imprinted or otherwise reproduced hereon such legend or legends, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Indenture, as may be required to comply with any law or with any rules or regulations pursuant thereto, or with any rules of any securities exchange or to conform to general usage, all as may be determined by the officers executing such Securities, as evidenced by their execution of the Securities. Global Securities shall be substantially in the form set forth in this Article, including the text referred to in Section 2.04. Each Global Security shall represent such of the Outstanding Securities as shall be specified therein and each shall provide that it shall represent the aggregate amount of such series of Outstanding Securities from time to time endorsed thereon and that the aggregate amount of such series of Outstanding Securities represented thereby may from time to time be reduced or increased, as appropriate, to reflect exchanges and redemptions. Any endorsement of a Global Security to reflect the amount of any increase or decrease in the amount of a series of Outstanding Securities represented thereby shall be made by the Trustee or the Security Custodian, at the direction of the Trustee, in accordance with instructions given by the Holder thereof as required by Section 3.03 hereof. 8
The terms and provisions contained in any series of Securities shall constitute, and are hereby expressly made, a part of this Indenture and the Company and the Trustee, by their execution and delivery of this Indenture, expressly agree to such terms and provisions and to be bound thereby. Section 2.02. Amount Unlimited; Issuable in Series. The aggregate principal amount of Securities which may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture is unlimited. The Securities may be issued in one or more series. There shall be established by or pursuant to one or more resolutions of the Board of Directors and set forth in a Board Resolution or to the extent established pursuant to (rather than set forth in) such Board Resolutions by an Officers' Certificate detailing such establishment, or established by one or more Supplemental Indentures, prior to the initial issuance of Securities of any series; (i) the title of the Securities of the series (which shall distinguish the Securities of the series from all other series of Securities); (ii) any limit upon the aggregate principal amount of the Securities of the series that may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture (except for Securities authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Securities of the series pursuant to Section 3.02, 3.03 or 3.04); (iii) the date or dates on which the principal of the Securities of the series is payable; (iv) the rate or rates at which the Securities of the series shall bear interest, if any, or the method by which such rate shall be determined, the date or dates from which such interest shall accrue, the interest payment dates on which such interest shall be payable and the record dates for the determination of Holders to whom interest is payable; (v) the place or places where the principal of and any interest on Securities of the series shall be payable (if other than as provided in Section 4.02); (vi) the price or prices at which, the period or periods within which and the terms and conditions upon which Securities of the series may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at the option of the Issuer, pursuant to any sinking fund or otherwise; (vii) the obligation, if any, of the Issuer to redeem, purchase or repay Securities of the series pursuant to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund or analogous provisions or at the option of a Holder thereof and the price or prices at which and the period or periods within which and 9
the terms and conditions upon which Securities of the series shall be redeemed, purchased or repaid, in whole or in part, pursuant to such obligation; (viii) if other than denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof, the denominations in which Securities of the series shall be issuable; (ix) if other than the principal amount thereof, the portion of the principal amount of Securities of the series which shall be payable upon declaration of acceleration of the maturity thereof pursuant to Section 6.02 or provable in bankruptcy pursuant to Section 6.02; (x) any Event of Default with respect to the Securities of a particular series if not set forth herein; (xi) any other terms of the series (which terms shall not be inconsistent with the provisions of this Indenture); (xii) any trustees, authenticating or paying agents, transfer agents or registrars or any other agents with respect to the Securities of such series; (xiii) if other than the coin or currency in which the Securities of that series are denominated, the coin or currency in which payment of the principal of or interest on the Securities of such series shall be payable; (xiv) if the principal of or interest on the Securities of such series are to be payable, at the election of the Issuer or a Holder thereof, in a coin or currency other than that in which the Securities are denominated, the period or periods within which, and the terms and conditions upon which, such election may be made; (xv) if the amount of payments of principal of and interest on the Securities of the series may be determined with reference to an index, the manner in which such amounts shall be determined; (xvi) if and under what circumstances the Issuer will pay additional amounts on the Securities of the series held by a person who is not a U.S. person in respect of any tax, assessment or governmental charge withheld or deducted and, if so, whether the Issuer will have the option to redeem such Securities rather than pay such additional amounts; (xvii) if the Securities of such series are to be issuable in definitive form (whether upon original issue or upon exchange of a temporary Security of such series) only upon receipt of certain certificates 10
or other documents or satisfaction of other conditions, the form and terms of such certificates, documents or conditions; and (xviii) any other affirmative or negative covenants with respect to the Securities of such series. All Securities of any one series shall be substantially identical except as to denomination and except as may otherwise be provided in or pursuant to such Board Resolutions or Officers' Certificate referred to above or as set forth in any such Supplemental Indenture. All Securities of any one series need not be issued at the same time and may be issued from time to time, consistent with the terms of the Indenture, if so provided by or pursuant to such Board Resolutions, such Officers' Certificate or in any such Supplemental Indenture. Section 2.03. Form of Trustee's Certificate of Authentication. (a) The following is the form of the Certificate of Authentication of the Trustee to be endorsed on the face of all Securities substantially as follows: This is one of the Securities of the series designated herein and referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture. The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee By: ________________________________ Authorized Signatory Section 2.04 . Securities In Global Form. (a) Except as set forth in paragraph (c) below or in a Supplemental Indenture, Board Resolution or Officers' Certificate pursuant thereto relating to a series of Securities, the Global Securities (i) shall represent, and shall be denominated in an amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of, the Outstanding Securities of such series of Securities, (ii) shall be registered in the name of the Depository or its nominee, (iii) shall be delivered by the Trustee or its agent to the Depository or pursuant to the Depository's instruction and (iv) shall bear a legend substantially to the following effect: THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF THE DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF. UNLESS AND UNTIL IT IS EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR SECURITIES IN DEFINITIVE FORM, THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITORY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY TO THE 11
DEPOSITORY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY OR BY THE DEPOSITORY OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITORY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR DEPOSITORY. In addition, the reverse of each Global Security shall have attached to it a Schedule in the following form: SCHEDULE OF EXCHANGES OF DEFINITIVE SECURITIES The following exchanges of a part of this Global Security for definitive Securities have been made: - ------------------ (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section 2.04 or of Section 3.03, and subject to the provisions of paragraph (c) below, the Global Security may be transferred, in whole but not in part and in the manner provided in Section 3.03, only to a nominee of the Depository, to the Depository, or a successor Depository selected or approved by the Company, or to a nominee of such successor Depository. (c) (i) If at any time the Depository notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depository or if at any time the Depository shall no longer be eligible or in good standing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or other applicable statute or regulation, the Company shall appoint a successor Depository. If a successor Depository is not appointed by the Company within 90 days after the Company receives notice or becomes aware of such ineligibility, the Company will execute, and the Trustee or its agent, upon receipt of a Company Request for the authentication and delivery of certificates representing Securities in exchange for the Global Securities, will authenticate and deliver, certificates representing the Securities in exchange for the Global Securities. (ii) Securities represented by Global Securities will be exchangeable for Securities in definitive form with the same terms in authorized denominations only if (1) DTC notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary or if DTC ceases to be a clearing agency registered under applicable law and a successor Depositary is not appointed by the Company within 90 days; (2) the Company determines not to require all of such Securities to be represented 12
by Global Securities and notifies the Trustee of such decision; or (3) an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing with respect to the Securities and has not been cured. In any such event the Company will execute, and the Trustee, upon receipt of a Company Request for the authentication and delivery of definitive certificates representing Securities in exchange in whole or in part for such Global Securities, will authenticate and deliver certificates representing Securities of like tenor and terms in definitive form in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of such Global Security or Global Securities or portion thereof in exchange for such Global Security or Global Securities. (iii) In any exchange provided for in any of the preceding two paragraphs, the Company will execute and the Trustee or its agent will authenticate and deliver certificates representing Securities in definitive registered form in authorized denominations for Securities of any integral multiple thereof. Upon the exchange of the entire principal amount of a Global Security for certificates representing Securities, such Global Security shall be canceled by the Trustee or its agent. Except as provided in the preceding paragraph, certificates representing Securities issued in exchange for a Global Security pursuant to this Section shall be registered in such names and in such authorized denominations for Securities of any integral multiple thereof, as the Security Registrar or Depository shall instruct the Trustee or its agent. The Trustee or the Security Registrar shall deliver at its Corporate Trust Office such certificates representing Securities to the Holders in whose names such Securities are so registered. ARTICLE 3 THE SECURITIES Section 3.01. Execution Of Securities. The Securities shall be executed manually or by facsimile in the name and on behalf of the Company by its Chairman of the Board of Directors, its President, one of its Vice Presidents or its Treasurer and by its Secretary or one of its Assistant Secretaries. Only such Securities as shall bear thereon a certificate of authentication substantially in the form hereinbefore recited, manually executed by the Trustee, shall be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture or be valid or become obligatory for any purpose. Such certificate by the Trustee upon any Security executed by the Company shall be conclusive evidence that the Security so authenticated has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder and that the Holder is entitled to the benefits of this Indenture. In case any officer of the Company who shall have executed any of the Securities shall cease to be such officer before the Securities so executed shall have been authenticated and delivered by the Trustee, or disposed of by the Company, such Securities nevertheless shall be valid and binding and may be 13
authenticated and delivered or disposed of as though the Person who executed such Securities had not ceased to be such officer of the Company; and any Securities may be executed on behalf of the Company by such Persons as, at the actual date of the execution of such Security, shall be the proper officers of the Company, although at the date of such Security or of the execution of this Indenture any such Person was not such an officer. In the event that any other Person performs the Trustee's duties as Authenticating Agent pursuant to a duly executed agreement, the Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of the issuance of any Securities hereunder, such notice to be delivered in accordance with the provisions of Section 13.03 on the date such Securities are delivered by the Company for authentication to such other Person. Prior to the authentication and delivery of any Securities, the Trustee shall receive, and shall be fully protected in conclusively relying upon, in addition to a Company Order, the Opinion of Counsel to be furnished to the Trustee pursuant to Section 13.05 and the Officers' Certificate relating to the issuance of Securities pursuant to Section 13.05, Opinions of Counsel stating that: (1) all instruments furnished to the Trustee conform to the requirements of this Indenture and constitute sufficient authority hereunder for the Trustee to authenticate and deliver such Securities; (2) all laws and requirements with respect to the form and execution by the Company of the Supplemental Indenture, if any, have been complied with, the execution and delivery of the Supplemental Indenture, if any, will not violate the terms of this Indenture, the Supplemental Indenture has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act (or that such qualification is not required), the Company has corporate power to execute and deliver any such Supplemental Indenture and has taken all necessary corporate action for those purposes and any such Supplemental Indenture has been executed and delivered and constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Company enforceable in accordance with its terms (subject, as to enforcement of remedies, to applicable bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally from time to time in effect); (3) the form and terms of such Securities comply with the provisions of this Indenture; (4) all laws and requirements with respect to the execution and delivery by the Company of such Securities have been complied with, the authentication and delivery of the Securities by the Trustee will not violate the terms of this Indenture, the Company has the corporate power to issue such Securities and such Securities, assuming due authentication and 14
delivery by the Trustee, constitute legal, valid and binding obligations of the Company in accordance with their terms (subject, as to enforcement of remedies, to applicable bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally from time to time in effect) and are entitled to the benefits of this Indenture; and (5) such other matters as the Trustee may reasonably request. The Trustee shall not be required to authenticate such Securities if the issue thereof will adversely affect the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under the Securities and this Indenture or otherwise in a manner which is not reasonably acceptable to the Trustee or such action would expose the Trustee to personal liability to existing Holders. Unless otherwise provided in the form of Security, all Securities shall be dated the date of their authentication. No Security shall be entitled to any benefit under this Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose, unless there appears on such Security a certificate of authentication substantially in the form provided for herein executed by the Trustee by manual signature, and such certificate upon any Security shall be conclusive evidence, and the only evidence, that such Security has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder. The Company shall initially execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver one or more Global Securities that (i) shall represent an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of any series of Securities, (ii) shall be registered in the name of the Depositary or the nominee of the Depositary, (iii) shall be delivered by the Trustee to the Depositary or pursuant to the Depositary's instructions and (iv) shall bear a legend substantially in the form required in Section 2.04 or in the Supplemental Indenture or Board Resolutions related to such Global Securities. The Depositary must, at all times while it serves as such Depositary, be a clearing agency registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any other applicable statute or regulation. Section 3.02. Temporary Securities. Pending the preparation of definitive Securities, the Company may execute, and upon receipt of the documents required by Sections 2.02 and 3.01, together with a Company Order, the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, such temporary Securities which may be printed, lithographed, typewritten, mimeographed or otherwise produced, in any authorized denominations, substantially of the tenor of such definitive Securities in lieu of which they are issued and with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as the officers executing such temporary 15
Securities may determine, as evidenced by their execution of such temporary Securities. If temporary Securities are issued, the Company will cause definitive Securities to be prepared without unreasonable delay. After the preparation of definitive Securities, the temporary Securities shall be exchangeable for definitive Securities, upon surrender of the temporary Securities at any office or agency maintained by the Company for such purposes as provided in Section 4.02, without charge to the Holder. Upon surrender for cancellation of any one or more temporary Securities, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefore a like principal amount of definitive Securities having the same interest rate and Stated Maturity and bearing interest from the same date of any authorized denominations. Until so exchanged the temporary Securities shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive Securities. Section 3.03. Exchange And Registration Of Transfer Of Securities. Securities may be exchanged for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities that are of other authorized denominations. Securities to be exchanged shall be surrendered at any office or agency to be maintained for such purpose by the Company, as provided in Section 4.02, and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor the Security or Securities of authorized denominations which the Securityholder making the exchange shall be entitled to receive. Each agent of the Company appointed pursuant to Section 4.02 as a person authorized to register and register transfer of Securities is sometimes herein referred to as a "Security registrar." The Company shall keep, at each such office or agency of the Company maintained for such purpose, as provided in Section 4.02, a register hereunder (the registers of all Security registrars being herein sometimes collectively referred to as the "SECURITY REGISTER") in which, subject to such reasonable regulations as it may prescribe, the Company shall provide for the registration of Securities and shall register the transfer of Securities as in this Article 3 provided. At all reasonable times, such Security Register shall be open for inspection by the Trustee and any Security registrar other than the Trustee. Upon due presentment for registration of transfer of any Security at any such office or agency, the Company shall execute and register and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in the name of the transferee or transferees a new Security or Securities of authorized denominations for an equal aggregate principal amount. Registration or registration of transfer of any Security by any Security registrar in the registry books maintained by such Security registrar, and delivery of such Security, duly authenticated, shall be deemed to complete the registration or registration of transfer of such Security. The Company will at all times designate one Person (who may be the Company and who need not be a Security registrar) to act as repository of a 16
master list of names and addresses of Holders of the Securities. The Trustee shall act as such repository unless and until some other Person is, by written notice from the Company to the Trustee and each Security registrar, designated by the Company to act as such. The Company shall cause each Security registrar to furnish to such repository, on a current basis, such information as such repository may reasonably request as to registrations, transfers, exchanges and other transactions effected by such registrar, as may be necessary or advisable to enable such repository to maintain such master list on as current a basis as is reasonably practicable. No Person shall at any time be appointed as or act as a Security registrar unless such Person is at such time empowered under applicable law to act as such and duly registered to act as such under and to the extent required by applicable law and regulations. All Securities presented to a Security registrar for registration of transfer shall be duly endorsed by, or be accompanied by a written instrument or instruments of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and such Security registrar duly executed by the registered Holder or his attorney duly authorized in writing. No service charge shall be made for any exchange or registration of transfer of Securities, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection therewith. All Securities issued in exchange for or upon registration of transfer of Securities shall be valid obligations of the Company, evidencing the same debt, and entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture, as the Securities surrendered for such exchange or registration of transfer. None of the Trustee, any agent of the Trustee, any Paying Agent or the Company will have any responsibility or liability for any aspect of the records relating to or payments made on account of beneficial ownership interests of a Global Security or for maintaining, supervising or reviewing any records relating to such beneficial ownership interests. Section 3.04. Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost Or Stolen Securities. In case any temporary or definitive Security shall become mutilated or be destroyed, lost or stolen, the Company in its discretion may execute, and upon its request the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, a new Security, bearing a number, letter or other distinguishing mark not contemporaneously Outstanding, in exchange and substitution for the mutilated Security, or in lieu of and in substitution for the Security so destroyed, lost or stolen. In every case the applicant for a substituted Security shall furnish to the Company and to the Trustee such security or indemnity as may be required by them to save each of them harmless, and, in 17
every case of destruction, loss or theft, the applicant shall also furnish to the Company and to the Trustee evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft, of such Security and of the ownership thereof. In the absence of notice to the Trustee or the Company that such Security has been acquired by a bona fide purchaser, the Trustee shall authenticate any such substituted Security and deliver the same upon any Company Request. Upon the issuance of any substituted Security, the Company may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses connected therewith. In case any Security which has matured or is about to mature shall become mutilated or be destroyed, lost or stolen, the Company may, instead of issuing a substituted Security, pay or authorize the payment of the same (without surrender thereof except in the case of a mutilated Security) if the applicant for such payment shall furnish to the Company and to the Trustee such security or indemnity as may be required by them to save each of them harmless and, in case of destruction, loss or theft, evidence satisfactory to the Company and to the Trustee of the destruction, loss or theft of such Security and of the ownership thereof. Every substituted Security issued pursuant to the provisions of this Section 3.04 by virtue of the fact that any Security is destroyed, lost or stolen shall constitute an additional contractual obligation of the Company, whether or not the destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be found at any time, and shall be entitled to all the benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Securities duly issued hereunder. All Securities shall be held and owned upon the express condition that the foregoing provisions are exclusive with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities and shall preclude (to the extent permitted by law) any and all other rights or remedies with respect to the replacement or payment of negotiable instruments or other securities without their surrender. Section 3.05. Payment Of Interest; Interest Rights Preserved. Interest which is payable, and is punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date, on any Security, shall unless otherwise provided in such Security be paid to the Person in whose name the Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest. Any interest on any Security which is payable, but is not punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date (herein called "DEFAULTED INTEREST") shall forthwith cease to be payable to the registered Holder on the relevant Regular Record Date by virtue of having been such Holder, and such Defaulted Interest may be paid by the Company, at its election in each case, as provided in Clause (1) or (2) below: 18
(1) The Company may elect to make payment of any Defaulted Interest to the Persons in whose names any such Securities (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest, which shall be fixed in the following manner. The Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of the amount of Defaulted Interest proposed to be paid on each Security and the date of the proposed payment, and at the same time the Company shall deposit with the Trustee an amount of money equal to the aggregate amount proposed to be paid in respect of such Defaulted Interest or shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for such deposit prior to the date of the proposed payment, such money when deposited to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such Defaulted Interest as in this clause provided. Thereupon the Trustee shall fix a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest which shall be not more than 15 days and not less than 10 days prior to the date of the proposed payment and not less than 10 days after the receipt by the Trustee of the notice of the proposed payment. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company of such Special Record Date and, in the name and at the expense of the Company, shall cause notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefore to be mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to each Holder of such Securities, at his address as it appears in the Security Register, not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date. Notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefore having been mailed as aforesaid, such Defaulted Interest shall be paid to the Persons in whose names such Securities (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered on such Special Record Date and shall no longer be payable pursuant to the following Clause (2). (2) The Company may make payment of any Defaulted Interest in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, if, after notice given by the Company to the Trustee of the proposed payment pursuant to this Clause, such payment shall be deemed practicable by the Trustee. Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Section, each Security delivered under this Indenture upon transfer of or in exchange for or in lieu of any other Security shall carry the rights to interest accrued and unpaid, and to accrue, which were carried by such other Security. Section 3.06. Persons Deemed Owners. The Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name any Security is registered as the owner of such Security for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of, premium, if any, and (subject to Section 3.05) interest on, such Security and for all other purposes whatsoever whether or not any payments 19
due in respect of such Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee, nor any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the contrary. Section 3.07. Cancellation Of Securities Paid, Etc.. All Securities surrendered for the purpose of payment, exchange or registration of transfer shall, if surrendered to the Company or any agent of the Trustee or the Company under this Indenture, be delivered to the Trustee and promptly canceled by it, or, if surrendered to the Trustee, shall be promptly cancelled by it, and no Securities shall be issued in lieu thereof except as expressly permitted by any of the provisions of this Indenture. The Trustee shall dispose of cancelled Securities in accordance with its customary procedures Section 3.08. CUSIP Numbers. The Company in issuing Securities may use "CUSIP" numbers (if then generally in use), and, if so, the Trustee shall use "CUSIP" numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders; provided that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Securities or as contained in any notice of a redemption and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Securities, and any such redemption shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers. The Company will promptly notify the Trustee in writing of any change in the "CUSIP" numbers. ARTICLE 4 PARTICULAR COVENANTS OF THE COMPANY Section 4.01. Payment of Principal, Premium and Interest. The Company will duly and punctually pay or cause to be paid the principal of and premium, if any, and interest on each of the Securities at the place, at the respective times and in the manner provided in the Securities and in this Indenture. Section 4.02. Offices For Notices And Payments, Etc. (a) So long as any Securities remain Outstanding, the Company will maintain at the Place of Payment, an office or agency where the Securities may be presented for payment, an office or agency where the Securities may be presented for registration of transfer and for exchange as in this Indenture provided, and an office or agency where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities or of this Indenture may be served and shall give the Trustee written notice thereof and any changes in the location thereof. Such office or agency shall initially be the designated office of the Trustee. In case the Company shall at any time fail to maintain any such office or agency, or shall fail to give notice to the Trustee of any change in the location thereof, presentation and demand may be made and 20
notice may be served in respect of the Securities or of this Indenture at said office of the Trustee. (b) In addition to the office or agency maintained by the Company pursuant to Section 4.02(a), the Company may from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where the Securities may be presented for payment and presented for registration of transfer and for exchange in the manner provided in this Indenture, and the Company may from time to time rescind such designations, as the Company may deem desirable or expedient; provided, however, that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Company of its obligation to maintain such office and agency at the Place of Payment, for the purposes above mentioned. The Company will give to the Trustee prompt written notice of (i) any such designation or rescission thereof, and (ii) the location of any such office or agency outside the Place of Payment and of any change of location thereof. Section 4.03. Appointments To Fill Vacancies In Trustee's Office. The Company, whenever necessary to avoid or fill a vacancy in the office of Trustee, will appoint, in the manner provided in Section 7.10, a Trustee, so that there shall at all times be a Trustee hereunder. Section 4.04. Provisions As To Paying Agent. (a) (i) Whenever the Company shall have one or more Paying Agents for the Securities other than the Trustee, it will, on or before each due date of the principal of (and premium, if any) or interest on any Securities, deposit with a Paying Agent a sum sufficient to pay such amount becoming due, such sum to be held as provided by the Trust Indenture Act, and (unless such Paying Agent is the Trustee) the Company will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so to act. (ii) The Company will cause each Paying Agent other than the Trustee to execute and deliver to the Trustee an instrument in which such Paying Agent shall agree with the Trustee, subject to the provisions of this Section, that such Paying Agent will: (A) comply with any provisions of the Trust Indenture Act applicable to it as a Paying Agent and (B) during the continuance of any default by the Company (or any other obligor upon the Securities) in the making of any payment in respect of the Securities, upon the written request of the Trustee, forthwith pay to the Trustee all sums held in trust by such Paying Agent as such. (b) If the Company shall act as its own paying agent, it will, on or prior to each due date of the principal of and premium, if any, or interest on the Securities, set aside, segregate and hold in trust for the benefit of the Holders of such Securities a sum sufficient to pay such principal and premium, if any, or interest so becoming due and will notify the Trustee of any failure to take such action and of any failure by the Company (or by any other obligor on the 21
Securities) to make any payment of the principal of and premium, if any, or interest on the Securities when the same shall become due and payable. (c) Anything in this Section 4.04 to the contrary notwithstanding, the Company may, at any time, for the purpose of obtaining a satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture with respect to the Securities then Outstanding, or for any other reason, pay or cause to be paid to the Trustee all sums held in trust by the Company, or any paying agent hereunder, as required by this Section 4.04, such sums to be held by the Trustee upon the trusts herein contained. (d) Anything in this Section 4.04 to the contrary notwithstanding, the agreement to hold sums in trust provided in this Section 4.04 is subject to Section 11.04. Section 4.05. Limitation On Liens On Stock Of Subsidiaries. The Company will not, and it will not permit any Subsidiary of the Company to, at any time directly or indirectly create, assume, incur or permit to exist any Indebtedness secured by a pledge, lien or other encumbrance (any pledge, lien or other encumbrance being hereinafter in this Section referred to as a "lien") on the capital stock of any Designated Subsidiary without making effective provision whereby the Securities then Outstanding (and, if the Company so elects, any other Indebtedness of the Company that is not subordinate to the Securities and with respect to which the governing instruments require, or pursuant to which the Company is otherwise obligated or required, to provide such security) shall be equally and ratably secured with such secured Indebtedness so long as such other Indebtedness shall be secured. For purposes of this Section 4.05 only, "INDEBTEDNESS", in addition to those items specified in Section 1.01 hereof, shall include any obligation of, or any such obligation guaranteed by, any Person for the payment of amounts due under a swap agreement or other similar instrument or agreement or foreign currency hedge exchange or similar instrument or agreement. If the Company shall hereafter be required to secure the Securities equally and ratably with any other Indebtedness pursuant to this Section, (i) the Company will promptly deliver to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that the foregoing covenant has been complied with, and an Opinion of Counsel stating that in the opinion of such counsel the foregoing covenant has been complied with and that any instruments executed by the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company in the performance of the foregoing covenant comply with the requirements of the foregoing covenant and (ii) the Trustee is hereby authorized to enter into an indenture or agreement supplemental hereto and to take such action, if any, as it may deem advisable to enable it to enforce the rights of the holders of the Securities so secured. Section 4.06. Limitations On Disposition Of Stock Of Designated Subsidiaries. Except in a transaction governed by Article Ten hereof, so long as 22
Securities are Outstanding, the Company will not issue, sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of any shares of, securities convertible into or warrants, rights or options to subscribe for or purchase shares of, capital stock (other than preferred stock having no voting rights of any kind) of any Designated Subsidiary, nor will it permit any Designated Subsidiary to issue (other than to the Company) any shares (other than directors' qualifying shares) of, or securities convertible into, or warrants, rights or options to subscribe for or purchase shares of, capital stock of (other than preferred stock having no voting rights of any kind) any Designated Subsidiary if, after giving effect to any such transaction and the issuances of the maximum number of shares issuable upon the conversion or exercise of all such convertible securities, warrants, rights or options, the Company would own, directly or indirectly, less than 80% of the shares of such Designated Subsidiary (other than preferred stock having no voting rights of any kind); provided, however, that (i) any issuance, sale, transfer or other disposition permitted by the foregoing may only be made for at least a fair market value consideration, as determined by the Board of Directors pursuant to a Board Resolution adopted in good faith, and (ii) the foregoing shall not prohibit any such issuance or disposition of securities if required by any law or any regulation or order of any governmental or insurance regulatory authority. Notwithstanding the foregoing, (i) the Company may merge or consolidate any Designated Subsidiary into or with another direct wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Company and (ii) the Company may, subject to the provisions of Article 10, sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of the entire capital stock of any Designated Subsidiary at one time for at least a fair market value consideration, as determined by the Board of Directors pursuant to a Board Resolution adopted in good faith. Section 4.07. Certificate To Trustee. So long as the Securities remain Outstanding, the Company will deliver to the Trustee on or before 120 days after the end of each fiscal year an Officers' Certificate (one of the signatories to which shall be the principal executive officer, principal financial officer or principal accounting officer of the Company) stating that in the course of the performance by the signers of their duties as officers of the Company, they would normally have knowledge of any default by the Company in the performance or fulfillment or observance of any covenants or agreements contained herein without regard to notice requirements or grace periods during the preceding fiscal year, stating whether or not they have knowledge of any such default and, if so, specifying each such default of which the signers have knowledge and the nature thereof. The Officers' Certificate need not comply with Section 13.05. The Company shall deliver to the Trustee, as soon as possible and in any event within five days after the Company becomes aware of the occurrence of any Event of Default or an event which, with notice or the lapse of time or both, would constitute an Event of Default, and Officers' Certificate setting forth the details of such Event of Default or default and the action which the Company proposes to take with respect thereto. 23
Section 4.08. Waivers Of Covenants. Anything in this Indenture to the contrary notwithstanding, the Company may fail or omit, in respect of any Securities, and in any particular instance, to comply with a covenant, agreement or condition contained in Sections 4.02 and 4.04 (other than in 4.04(a)(i) and (ii)) to 4.07, inclusive, if the Company shall have obtained and filed with the Trustee before or after the time for such compliance the consent in writing of the Holders of more than 50% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities affected by such waiver at the time Outstanding, either waiving such compliance in such instance or generally waiving compliance with such covenant or condition, but no such waiver shall extend to or affect any obligation not expressly waived nor impair any right consequent thereon and, until such waiver shall become effective, the obligations of the Company and the duties of the Trustee in respect of any such covenant or condition shall remain in full force and effect. ARTICLE 5 HOLDERS' LISTS AND REPORTS BY THE COMPANY AND THE TRUSTEE Section 5.01. Holders' Lists. The Company covenants and agrees that it will furnish or cause to be furnished to the Trustee, not more than 15 days after each Regular Record Date with respect to any series of Securities, and at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing, within 30 days after receipt by the Company of any such request, a list in such form as the Trustee may reasonably require of the names and addresses of the Holders of Securities as of a date not more than 15 days prior to the time such information is furnished; provided, however, that no such list with respect to the Securities need be furnished at any such time if the Trustee is in possession thereof by reason of its acting as the Security registrar designated under Section 3.03 or otherwise. Section 5.02. Preservation And Disclosure Of Lists. (a) The Trustee shall preserve, in as current a form as is reasonably practicable, all information as to the names and addresses of the Holders of any series of Securities contained in the most recent list furnished to it as provided in Section 5.01 or received by the Trustee in the capacity of the Security registrar (if so acting) under Section 3.03. The Trustee may destroy any list furnished to it as provided in Section 5.01 upon receipt of a new list so furnished. (b) The rights of Holders to communicate with other Holders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or under the Securities, and the corresponding rights and duties of the Trustee, shall be as provided by the Trust Indenture Act. (c) Every Holder of Securities, by receiving and holding the same, agrees with the Company and the Trustee that neither the Company nor the Trustee nor any agent of either of them shall be held accountable by reason of any 24
disclosure of information as to names and addresses of Holders made pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act. Section 5.03. Reports By The Company. The Company agrees to file with the Trustee and the Commission, and transmit to Holders, such information, documents and other reports, and such summaries thereof, as may be required pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act at the times and in the manner provided pursuant to such Act; provided that any such information, documents or reports required to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, shall be filed with the Trustee within 15 days after the same is so required to be filed with the Commission. Delivery of such reports, information and documents to the Trustee is for informational purposes only and the Trustee's receipt of such shall not constitute constructive notice of any information contained therein or determinable from information contained therein, including the Company's compliance with any of its covenants hereunder (as to which the Trustee is entitled to rely exclusively on Officers' Certificates). Section 5.04. Reports By The Trustee. (a) The Trustee shall transmit to Holders such reports, if any, concerning the Trustee and its actions under this Indenture as may be required pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act at the times and in the manner provided pursuant thereto. The interval between transmissions of reports to be transmitted at intervals shall be twelve months or such shorter time required by the Trust Indenture Act, whether or not the Trust Indenture Act is applicable to any particular Securities. If the Trust Indenture Act does not specify the date on which a report is due, or if the Trust Indenture Act is not applicable to any Securities, such report shall be due on May 15 of each year following the first issuance of the Securities. (b) A copy of each such report shall, at the time of such transmission to Holders, be filed by the Trustee with each stock exchange upon which the Securities are listed, with the Commission and with the Company. The Company will promptly notify the Trustee in writing when the Securities are listed on any stock exchange, and of any delisting thereof. ARTICLE 6 REMEDIES OF THE TRUSTEE AND HOLDERS ON EVENT OF DEFAULT Section 6.01. Events Of Default. "Event of Default", with respect to any series of Securities, wherever used herein, means any one of the following events (whatever the reason for such Event of Default and whether it shall be voluntary or involuntary or be effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental body): 25
(a) default in the payment of any installment of interest upon any Security of such series as and when the same shall become due and payable, and continuance of such default for a period of 30 days; or (b) default in the payment of the principal of and premium, if any, on any Security of such series as and when the same shall become due and payable either at maturity, by declaration of acceleration or otherwise; or (c) default in the payment or satisfaction of any sinking fund payment or analogous obligation, if any, with respect to the Securities of such series as and when the same shall become due and payable by the terms of the Securities of such series; or (d) failure on the part of the Company duly to observe or perform any of the covenants, warrants or agreements on the part of the Company in respect of the Securities of any such series under this Indenture (other than a covenant, warranty or agreement a default in whose performance or whose breach is elsewhere in this Section specifically dealt with or which has been expressly included in this Indenture or any Supplemental Indenture solely for the benefit of a series of Securities other than such series) continued for a period of 30 days after the date on which written notice of such failure, specifying such failure and requiring the same to be remedied, shall have been given to the Company by the Trustee, by registered mail, or to the Company and the Trustee by the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities; or (e) default shall be made (and shall not have been cured or waived) in the payment of principal of or interest on any other obligation for borrowed money of the Company beyond any period of grace with respect thereto if (i) the aggregate principal amount of any such obligation in respect of which principal or interest is and remains in default is in excess of $50,000,000 and (ii) the default in such payment is not being contested by the Company in good faith and by appropriate proceedings; provided, however, that subject to the provisions of Section 6.08 and Section 7.01 the Trustee shall not be charged with knowledge of any such default unless written notice thereof shall have been given to the Trustee by the Company, by the Holders or an agent of the Holders of any such indebtedness, or by the trustee then acting under any indenture or other instrument under which such default shall have occurred; or (f) a decree or order by a court having jurisdiction in the premises shall have been entered adjudging the Company a bankrupt or insolvent, or approving as properly filed a petition seeking reorganization of the Company under the Federal bankruptcy laws or any other similar applicable Federal or state law, and such decree or order shall have continued undischarged and unstayed for a period of 60 days; or a decree or order of a court having jurisdiction in the premises for the appointment of a receiver or liquidator or trustee or assignee or other similar official in bankruptcy or insolvency of the Company or of all or substantially all 26
of its property, or for the winding up or liquidation of its affairs, shall have been entered, and such decree or order shall have continued undischarged and unstayed for a period of 60 days; (g) the Company shall institute proceedings to be adjudicated a voluntary bankrupt, or shall consent to the filing of a bankruptcy proceeding against it, or shall file a petition or answer or consent seeking an arrangement or a reorganization under the Federal bankruptcy laws or any other similar applicable Federal or state law, or shall consent to the filing of any such petition, or shall consent to the appointment of a receiver or liquidator or trustee or assignee or other similar official in bankruptcy or insolvency of it or of all or substantially all of its property, or shall make an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or shall admit in writing its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due; or (h) any other Event of Default provided in any Supplemental Indenture or Board Resolution or related Officers' Certificate under which any series of Securities is issued or in the form of Security for such series; then and in each and every such case, so long as such Event of Default with respect to such Securities Outstanding occurs and is continuing and shall not have been remedied or waived to the extent permitted by the terms of this Indenture, unless the principal of all of such Securities shall have already become due and payable, either the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of such Outstanding Securities, by notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by Holders), may declare the principal of all such Securities and the interest accrued thereon to be due and payable immediately, and upon any such declaration the same shall become and shall be immediately due and payable, anything in this Indenture or in such Securities contained to the contrary notwithstanding. This provision, however, is subject to the condition that if, at any time after the principal of such Securities shall have been so declared due and payable, and before any judgment or decree for the payment of the moneys due shall have been obtained or entered as hereinafter provided, the Company shall pay or shall deposit with the Trustee a sum sufficient to pay in the currency in which such Securities are payable all matured installments of interest upon all of such Securities and the principal of and premium, if any, on any and all such Securities which shall have become due otherwise than by such declaration (with interest on overdue installments of interest to the extent that payment of such interest is enforceable under applicable law and on such principal and premium, if any, at the rate borne by such Securities or as otherwise provided in the form of Security, to the date of such payment or deposit) and the expenses of the Trustee (subject to Section 7.06), and any and all defaults under this Indenture, other than the nonpayment of principal of and accrued interest on such Securities which shall have become due by such declaration, shall have been cured or shall have been waived in accordance with Section 6.07 or provision deemed by the Trustee to be adequate shall have been made therefor -- then and in every such case the Holders of at least a majority in 27
aggregate principal amount of such Securities then Outstanding, by written notice to the Company and to the Trustee, may rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences; but no such rescission and annulment shall extend to or shall affect any subsequent default, or shall impair any right consequent thereon. In case the Trustee or any Holders shall have proceeded to enforce any right under this Indenture and such proceedings shall have been discontinued or abandoned because of such rescission and annulment or for any other reason or shall have been determined adversely to the Trustee, then and in every such case the Company, the Trustee and the Holders shall be restored respectively to their several positions and rights hereunder, and all rights, remedies and powers of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders shall continue as though no such proceeding had been taken. Section 6.02. Payment Of Securities Upon Default; Suit Therefor. The Company covenants that (a) in case default shall be made in the payment of any installment of interest upon any series of Security as and when the same shall become due and payable, and such default shall have continued for a period of 30 days, or (b) in case default shall be made in the payment of the principal of and premium, if any, on any series of Security as and when the same shall have become due and payable, whether at maturity of the Security or by declaration or otherwise or (c) in case default shall be made in the making or satisfaction of any sinking fund payment or analogous obligation with respect to any series of Securities when the same becomes due by the terms of such Securities, then, upon demand of the Trustee, the Company will pay to the Trustee, for the benefit of the Holders, the whole amount (or such lesser amount as may be provided for in the Board Resolutions (or Officers' Certificate related thereto) or Supplemental Indenture relating to such Securities) that then shall have become due and payable on any such Security for principal and premium, if any, or interest, or both, as the case may be, with interest upon the overdue principal and premium, if any, and (to the extent that payment of such interest is enforceable under applicable law) upon the overdue installments of interest at the rate borne by such Securities or as otherwise provided in the form of such Security; and, in addition thereto, such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of collection, including a reasonable compensation to the Trustee, its agents, attorneys and counsel, and any expenses or liabilities incurred and advances made by the Trustee, except compensation or advances arising, or expenses or liabilities incurred, as a result of the Trustee's negligence or bad faith. Until such demand is made by the Trustee, the Company may pay the principal of and premium, if any, and interest on such Securities to the Persons entitled thereto, whether or not the principal of and premium, if any, and interest on such Securities are overdue. In case the Company shall fail forthwith to pay such amounts upon such demand, the Trustee, in its own name and as trustee of an express trust, shall be 28
entitled and empowered to institute any actions or proceedings at law or in equity for the collection of the sums so due and unpaid, and may prosecute any such action or proceeding to judgment or final decree, and may enforce any such judgment or final decree against the Company or any other obligor on such Securities and collect, in the manner provided by law out of the property of the Company or any other obligor on such Securities wherever situated, the moneys adjudged or decreed to be payable. If any Event of Default with respect to such Securities occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may in its discretion proceed to protect and enforce its rights and the rights of the Holders of such Securities by such appropriate judicial proceedings as the Trustee shall deem most effectual to protect and enforce any such rights, whether for the specific enforcement of any covenant or agreement in this Indenture or in aid of the exercise of any power granted herein, or to enforce any other proper remedy. In case there shall be pending proceedings for the bankruptcy or for the reorganization of the Company or any other obligor on any series of Securities under the Federal bankruptcy laws or any other applicable law, or in case a receiver or trustee shall have been appointed for the property of the Company or such other obligor, or in the case of any other similar judicial proceedings relative to the Company or other obligor upon any series of Securities, or to the creditors or property of the Company or such other obligor, the Trustee, irrespective of whether the principal of such Securities shall then be due and payable as therein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Trustee shall have made any demand pursuant to the provisions of this Section 6.02, shall be entitled and empowered by intervention in such proceedings or otherwise, (a) to file and prove a claim or claims for the whole amount (or such lesser amount as may be provided for in the Board Resolutions (or Officers' Certificate related thereto) or Supplemental Indenture relating to such Securities) of principal and interest owing and unpaid in respect of such Securities, and, in case of any judicial proceedings, to file such proofs of claim and other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee and of the Holders of such Securities allowed in such judicial proceedings relative to the Company or any other obligor on such Securities, its or their creditors, or its or their property, (b) unless prohibited by applicable law and regulations, to vote on behalf of the Holders of any such Securities in any election of a trustee or a standby trustee in arrangement, reorganization, liquidation or other bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings or person performing similar functions in comparable proceedings, and (c) to collect and receive any moneys or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims, and to distribute the same after the deduction of its charges and expenses; and any receiver, assignee or trustee in bankruptcy or reorganization is hereby authorized by each of the Holders of such Securities to make such payments to the Trustee, and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to such Holders, to pay to the Trustee such amount as shall be sufficient to cover reasonable compensation to the Trustee, its agents, attorneys and counsel, and all other expenses and liabilities incurred and advances made by the Trustee except compensation or advances 29
arising, or expenses or liabilities incurred, as a result of the Trustee's negligence or bad faith. Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept, or adopt on behalf of any Holder any plan or reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting such Securities or the rights of any Holder thereof, or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder (except, as aforesaid, for the election of a trustee in bankruptcy or other Person performing similar functions) in any such proceeding. All rights of action and of asserting claims under this Indenture, or under such Securities, may be enforced by the Trustee without the possession of any of such Securities, or the production thereof on any trial or other proceeding relative thereto, and any such suit or proceeding instituted by the Trustee shall be brought in its own name as trustee of an express trust, and any recovery of judgment shall be for the ratable benefit of the Holders of the Securities in respect of which such judgment has been recovered. In any proceedings brought by the Trustee (and also any proceedings involving the interpretation of any provision of this Indenture to which the Trustee shall be a party), the Trustee shall be held to represent all the Holders of the series of Securities in respect to which such action was taken, and it shall not be necessary to make any Holders of such Securities parties to any such proceedings. Section 6.03. Application Of Moneys Collected By Trustee. Any moneys collected by the Trustee pursuant to Section 6.02 shall be applied in the order following, at the date or dates fixed by the Trustee for the distribution of such moneys, upon presentation of the Securities of any such series, and stamping thereon the payment, if only partially paid, and upon surrender thereof, if fully paid: FIRST: To the payment of costs and expenses of collection and reasonable compensation to the Trustee, its agents, attorneys and counsel, and of all other expenses and liabilities incurred, and all advances made, by the Trustee except compensation or advances arising, or expenses or liabilities incurred, as a result of its negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct, and any other amounts owing the Trustee under Section 7.06; SECOND: In case the principal of such Securities shall not have become due and be unpaid, to the payment of interest on such Securities, in the order of the maturity of the installments of such interest, with interest (to the extent that such interest has been collected by the Trustee) upon the overdue installments of interest (to the extent that payment of such interest is allowed under applicable law) at the rate borne by such Securities, such payments to be made ratable to the Persons entitled thereto; 30
THIRD: In case the principal of such Securities shall have become due, by declaration or otherwise, to the payment of the whole amount then owing and unpaid upon such Securities for principal and premium, if any, and interest, with interest on the overdue principal and premium, if any, and (to the extent that such interest has been collected by the Trustee) upon overdue installments of interest (to the extent that payment of such interest is allowed under applicable law) at the rate borne by such Securities; and in case such moneys shall be insufficient to pay in full the whole amounts so due and unpaid upon such Securities, then, to the payment of such principal and premium, if any, and interest without preference or priority of principal and premium, if any, over interest, or of interest over principal and premium, if any, or of any installment of interest over any other installment of interest, or of such Security over any other Security, ratably to the aggregate of such principal and premium, if any, and accrued and unpaid interest; FOURTH: To the payment of any surplus then remaining to the Company, its successors or assigns, or to whomsoever may be lawfully entitled to receive the same. Section 6.04. Proceedings By Holders. No Holder of any Security shall have any right by virtue of or by availing of any provision of this Indenture to institute any suit, action or proceeding in equity or at law or in bankruptcy or otherwise upon or under or with respect to this Indenture or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any other remedy hereunder, unless such Holder previously shall have given to the Trustee written notice of default and of the continuance thereof, as hereinbefore provided, and unless also the Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities then Outstanding shall have made written request upon the Trustee to institute such action, suit or proceeding in its own name as Trustee hereunder and shall have offered to the Trustee such indemnity as it may require against the costs, expenses and liabilities to be incurred therein or thereby, and the Trustee for 60 days after its receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity, shall have neglected or refused to institute any such action, suit or proceeding (and no direction inconsistent with such written request shall have been given to the Trustee pursuant to Section 6.07), it being understood and intended, and being expressly covenanted by the taker and Holder of every Security with every other taker and Holder and the Trustee, that no one or more Holders of Securities shall have any right in any manner whatever by virtue of or by availing of any provision of this Indenture to affect, disturb or prejudice the rights of any other Holder of Securities (it being understood that the Trustee does not have an affirmative duty to ascertain whether or not such actions or forbearance are unduly prejudicial to such Holders), or to obtain or seek to obtain priority over or preference to any other such Holder, or to enforce any right under this Indenture, except in the manner herein provided and for the equal, ratable and common benefit of all Holders of Securities. Section 6.05. Proceedings By Trustee. In case of an Event of Default hereunder the Trustee may in its discretion proceed to protect and enforce the 31
rights vested in it by this Indenture by such appropriate judicial proceedings as the Trustee shall deem most effectual to protect and enforce any of such rights, either by suit in equity or by action at law or by proceeding in bankruptcy or otherwise, whether for the specific enforcement of any covenant or agreement contained in this Indenture or in aid of the exercise of any power granted in this Indenture, or to enforce any other legal or equitable right vested in the Trustee by this Indenture or by law. Section 6.06. Remedies Cumulative And Continuing. All powers and remedies given by this Article 6 to the Trustee or to the Holders shall, to the extent permitted by law, be deemed cumulative and not exclusive of any thereof or of any other powers and remedies available to the Trustee or the Holders, by judicial proceedings or otherwise, to enforce the performance or observance of the covenants and agreements contained in this Indenture, and no delay or omission of the Trustee or of any Holder to exercise any right or power accruing upon any default occurring and continuing as aforesaid shall impair any such right or power, or shall be construed to be a waiver of any such default or an acquiescence therein; and, subject to the provisions of Section 6.04, every power and remedy given by this Article 6 or by law to the Trustee or to the Holders may be exercised from time to time, and as often as shall be deemed expedient, by the Trustee or by the Holders. Section 6.07. Direction Of Proceedings And Waiver Of Defaults By Majority Of Holders. The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series shall have the right to direct the time, method, and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee with respect to such Securities by this Indenture; provided, however, that (subject to the provisions of Section 7.01) the Trustee shall have the right to decline to follow any such direction if the Trustee shall determine upon advice of counsel that the action or proceeding so directed may not lawfully be taken or would be materially and unjustly prejudicial to the rights of Holders not joining in such direction or if the Trustee in good faith by its board of directors or trustees, executive committee, or a trust committee of directors or trustees and/or Responsible Officers shall determine that the action or proceeding so directed would involve the Trustee in personal liability or if the Trustee in good faith shall so determine that the actions or forebearances specified in or pursuant to such direction would be unduly prejudicial to the interests of Holders of such Securities not joining in the giving of said direction, it being understood that (subject to Section 7.01) the Trustee shall have no duty to ascertain whether or not such actions or forebearances are duly prejudicial to such Holders. The Trustee may take any other action deemed proper by the Trustee not inconsistent with such direction. The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series may on behalf of the Holders of all such Securities waive any past default or Event of Default hereunder and its consequences except (1) a default in the payment of principal of or premium, if any, or interest on such 32
Securities, or a default in the making of any sinking fund payment with respect to such Securities or (2) in respect of a covenant or provision hereof which under Article Nine cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected. Upon any such waiver the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of such Securities shall be restored to their former positions and rights hereunder, respectively; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other default or Event of Default or impair any right consequent thereon. Whenever any default or Event of Default shall have been waived as permitted by this Section 6.07, said default or Event of Default shall for all purposes of such Securities and this Indenture be deemed to have been cured and to be not continuing. This Section 6.07 shall be in lieu of Sections 316(a)(1)(A) and 316(a)(1)(B) of the Trust Indenture Act and such Sections 316(a)(1)(A) and Section 316(a)(1)(B) are hereby expressly excluded from this Indenture, as permitted by the Trust Indenture Act. Section 6.08. Notice Of Defaults. The Trustee shall give the Holders notice of any default hereunder as and to the extent provided by the Trust Indenture Act; provided, however, that in the case of any default of the character specified in Section 6.01(d), no such notice to Holders shall be given until at least 60 days after the occurrence thereof. For the purpose of this Section, the term "default" means any event which is, or after notice or lapse of time or both would become, an Event of Default. Section 6.09. Undertaking To Pay Costs. In any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture, or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken, suffered or omitted by it as Trustee, a court may require any party litigant in such suit to file an undertaking to pay the costs of such suit, and may assess costs, including attorneys' fees and expenses, against any such party litigant, in the manner and to the extent provided in the Trust Indenture Act; provided that neither this Section nor the Trust Indenture Act shall be deemed to authorize any court to require such an undertaking or to make such an assessment in any suit instituted by the Trustee or the Company, and any provision of the Trust Indenture Act to such effect is hereby expressly excluded from this Indenture, as permitted by the Trust Indenture Act. Section 6.10. Unconditional Right Of Holders To Receive Principal, Premium And Interest. Notwithstanding any other provision in this Indenture, the Holder of any Security shall have the rights, which are absolute and unconditional, to receive payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and (subject to Section 3.05) interest on such Security on the respective Stated Maturities expressed in such Security (or in the case of repayment, on the date for repayment) and to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment, and such rights shall not be impaired without the consent of such Holder. 33
ARTICLE 7 CONCERNING THE TRUSTEE Section 7.01. Duties And Responsibilities Of Trustee. The duties and responsibilities of the Trustee shall be as provided by the Trust Indenture Act. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no implied covenants or obligations, except as provided by the Trust Indenture Act, shall be read into this Indenture against the Trustee, and no provision of this Indenture shall require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder, or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers, if it shall have reasonable grounds for believing that repayment of such funds or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it. Whether or not therein expressly so provided, every provision of this Indenture relating to the conduct or affecting the liability of or affording protection to the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of this Section. Section 7.02. Reliance on Documents, Opinions, etc. (a) the Trustee may conclusively rely and shall be protected in acting or refraining from acting upon any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, consent, order, bond, debenture, note or other paper document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties; (b) any request, direction, order or demand of the Company mentioned herein shall be sufficiently evidenced by an Officers' Certificate (unless otherwise evidence in respect thereof be herein specifically prescribed); and any resolution of the Board of Directors may be evidenced to the Trustee by a copy thereof certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company; (c) the Trustee may consult with counsel of its selection and the advice of such counsel or any Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken or omitted by it hereunder in good faith and in accordance with such advice or Opinion of Counsel; (d) the Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request, order or direction of any of the Holders, pursuant to the provisions of this Indenture, unless such Holders shall have offered to the Trustee security or indemnity satisfactory to it against the costs, expenses and liabilities which may be incurred therein or thereby; (e) the Trustee shall not be liable for any action taken or omitted by it in good faith and believed by it to be authorized or within the discretion or rights or powers conferred upon it by this Indenture; 34
(f) prior to the occurrence of an Event of Default with respect to any series of Securities and after the curing or waiving of all Events of Default with respect to such Securities, the Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, consent, order, approval, bond, debenture, note, or other paper or document, unless requested in writing to do so by the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of such Securities then Outstanding; provided, however, that the reasonable expenses of every such investigation shall be paid by the Company or, if paid by the Trustee, shall be repaid by the Company upon demand; and provided, further, that if the payment within a reasonable time to the Trustee of the costs, expenses or liabilities likely to be incurred by it in the making of such investigation is, in the opinion of the Trustee, not reasonably assured to the Trustee by the security afforded to it by the terms of this Indenture, the Trustee may require indemnity satisfactory to it against such expenses or liabilities as a condition to so proceeding; (g) the Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers hereunder or perform any duties hereunder either directly or by or through agents or attorneys, and the Trustee shall not be liable or responsible for any misconduct, bad faith or negligence on the part of any agent or attorney appointed with due care by it hereunder; (h) the Trustee shall not be deemed to have knowledge of any default or Event of Default unless a Responsible Officer of the Trustee has actual knowledge thereof or Holders of greater than 50% of the outstanding principal amount of the Securities of any series shall have notified the Trustee thereof; (i) in no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for special, indirect, or consequential loss or damage of any kind whatsoever (including, but not limited to, loss of profit) irrespective of whether the Trustee has been advised of the likelihood of such loss or damage and regardless of the form of action; (j) the rights, privileges, protections, immunities and benefits given to the Trustee, including, without limitation, its right to be indemnified, are extended to, and shall be enforced by, the Trustee in each of its capacities hereunder, and each agent, custodian and other Person employed to act hereunder; and (k) the Trustee may request that the Company deliver a certificate setting forth the names of individuals and/or titles of officers authorized at such time to take specified actions pursuant to this Indenture. Section 7.03. No Responsibility For Recitals, Etc. The recitals contained herein and in the Securities (except in the Trustee's certificate of authentication) shall be taken as the statements of the Company, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for the correctness of the same. The Trustee makes no 35
representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Indenture or of the Securities. The Trustee represents that it is duly authorized to execute and deliver this Indenture and perform its obligations hereunder. Neither the Trustee nor the Authenticating Agent shall be accountable for the use or application by the Company of any Securities or the proceeds of any Securities authenticated and delivered by the Trustee in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture. Section 7.04. Trustee And Agents May Own Securities. The Trustee, any paying agent, or any agent of the Trustee or the Company under this Indenture, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee or such agent and, subject to Sections 7.08 and 7.13, if operative, may otherwise deal with the Company and receive, collect, hold, and retain collections from the Company with the same rights it would have if it were not the Trustee or such agent. Section 7.05. Moneys To Be Held In Trust. Subject to the provisions of Section 11.04, all moneys received by the Trustee shall, until used or applied as herein provided, be held in trust for the purposes for which they were received, but need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. Neither the Trustee nor any paying agent shall be under any liability for interest on any moneys received by it hereunder except such as it may agree in writing with the Company to pay thereon. So long as no Event of Default with respect to any series of Securities shall have occurred and be continuing, all interest allowed on any such moneys shall be paid from time to time upon the written order of the Company, signed by its President, its Chief Financial Officer, any Vice President, its Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer. Section 7.06. Compensation And Expenses Of Trustee. The Company covenants and agrees to pay to the Trustee from time to time, and the Trustee shall be entitled to, such compensation as shall be agreed in writing between the Company and the Trustee (which shall not be limited by any provision of law in regard to the compensation of a trustee of an express trust), and the Company will pay or reimburse the Trustee upon its request for all reasonable expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the Trustee in accordance with any of the provisions of this Indenture (including the reasonable compensation and the expenses and disbursements of its counsel and all persons not regularly in its employ and any amounts paid by the Trustee to any Authenticating Agent pursuant to Section 7.14) except any such expense, disbursement or advance as may arise from its negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct. The Company also covenants to indemnify the Trustee for, and to hold it harmless against, any and all loss, liability, damage, claim or expense incurred without negligence or bad faith on the part of the Trustee and arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of this trust, or the performance of its duties hereunder, including the current payment of all costs and expenses of defending itself against any claim (whether asserted by the Company, or any Holder of any other Person) of liability in the premises. The obligations of the Company under 36
this Section 7.06 to compensate and indemnify the Trustee and to pay or reimburse the Trustee for expenses, disbursements and advances shall constitute additional indebtedness hereunder. Such additional indebtedness shall be secured by a lien prior to that of the Securities upon all property and funds held or collected by the Trustee as such, except funds held in trust for the benefit of the Holders of particular Securities. When the Trustee incurs expenses or renders services in connection with an Event of Default specified in Section 6.01(f) or Section 6.01(g) the expenses (including the reasonable charges and expenses of its counsel) and the compensation for these services are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any applicable Federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency or similar law. The provisions of this Section 7.06 shall survive the termination of this Indenture. Section 7.07. Officers' Certificate As Evidence. Subject to the provisions of Section 7.01, whenever in the administration of the provisions of this Indenture the Trustee shall deem it necessary or desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking or omitting any action hereunder, such matter (unless other evidence in respect thereof be herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct on the part of the Trustee, be deemed to be conclusively proved and established by an Officers' Certificate delivered to the Trustee, and such Certificate, in the absence of negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct on the part of the Trustee, shall be full warrant to the Trustee for any action taken or omitted by it under the provisions of this Indenture upon the faith thereof. Section 7.08. Conflicting Interest Of Trustee. If the Trustee has or shall acquire any conflicting interest within the meaning of the Trust Indenture Act, whether or not any series of Securities is exempt from the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act, the Trustee shall either eliminate such conflicting interest or resign in the manner provided by, and subject to the provisions of, the Trust Indenture Act and this Indenture. Section 7.09. Eligibility Of Trustee. There shall at all times be a Trustee with respect to each series of Securities hereunder which shall be a corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the United States or any state or territory thereof or of the District of Columbia authorized under such laws to exercise corporate trust power's, having a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000, subject to supervision or examination by Federal, state, territorial, or District of Columbia authority. If such corporation publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of the aforesaid supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section 7.09, the combined capital and surplus of such corporation shall be deemed to be its 37
combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. In case at any time the Trustee with respect to the Securities shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section 7.09, such Trustee shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect specified in Section 7.10. Section 7.10. Resignation Or Removal Of Trustee. (a) The Trustee may at any time resign with respect to any or all series of Securities by giving written notice by first class mail of such resignation to the Company and to Holders of such Securities at their addresses as they shall appear on the Security Register. Upon receiving such notice of resignation, the Company shall promptly appoint a successor trustee by written instrument, in duplicate, executed by order of the Board of Directors, one copy of which instrument shall be delivered to the resigning Trustee and one copy to the successor trustee. If no successor trustee shall have been so appointed and have accepted appointment within 60 days after the mailing of such notice of resignation to the Holders, the resigning Trustee may petition, at the expense of the Company, any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor trustee, or any Holder of Securities who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security or Securities for at least six months may, subject to the provisions of Section 6.09, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any such court for the appointment of a successor trustee. Such court may thereupon, after such notice, if any, as it may deem proper and prescribe, appoint such successor trustee. (b) In case at any time any of the following shall occur - (i) the Trustee shall fail to comply with the provisions of Section 7.08 after written request therefor by the Company or by any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security or Securities for at least six months, unless the Trustee's duty to resign is stayed in accordance with the provisions of Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act, or (ii) the Trustee shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of Section 7.09 and shall fail to resign after written request therefor by the Company or by any such Holder, or (iii) the Trustee shall become incapable of acting with respect to the Securities, or shall be adjudged a bankrupt or insolvent, or a receiver of the Trustee or of its property shall be appointed, or any public officer shall take charge or control of the Trustee or of its property or affairs for the purpose of rehabilitation, conservation or liquidation, then, in any such case, the Company may remove the Trustee and appoint a successor trustee by written instrument, in duplicate, executed on instruction of the President, the Chief Financial Officer or the Treasurer of the Company, one 38
copy of which instrument shall be delivered to the Trustee so removed and one copy to the successor trustee, or, subject to the provisions of Section 6.09, any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security or Securities for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee and the appointment of a successor trustee. Such court may thereupon, after such notice, if any, as it may deem proper and prescribe, remove such Trustee and appoint such successor trustee. (c) The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series may at any time remove the Trustee with respect to such series by delivering to the Trustee so removed, to the successor trustee so appointed and to the Company the evidence provided for in Section 8.01 of the action in that regard taken by the Holders, and nominate a successor Trustee which shall be deemed appointed as successor Trustee unless within ten days after such nomination the Company objects thereto, in which case the Trustee so removed or any Holder of a Security or Securities, upon the terms and conditions and otherwise as in subsection (a) of this Section 7.10 provided, may petition, at the expense of the Company, any court of competent jurisdiction for an appointment of a successor Trustee. (d) Any resignation or removal of the Trustee with respect to any Security or Securities and any appointment of a successor Trustee pursuant to any of the provisions of this Section 7.10 shall become effective upon acceptance of appointment by the successor Trustee as provided in Section 7.11. Section 7.11. Acceptance By Successor Trustee. Any successor Trustee appointed as provided in Section 7.10 shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to the Company and to its predecessor Trustee an instrument accepting such appointment hereunder, and thereupon the resignation or removal of the predecessor Trustee shall become effective, and such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, duties and obligations of its predecessor hereunder, with like effect as if originally named as Trustee herein; nevertheless, on the written request of the Company or of the successor Trustee, the Trustee ceasing to act shall, upon payment of any amounts then due it pursuant to the provisions of Section 7.06, execute and deliver an instrument transferring to such successor Trustee all the rights and powers of the Trustee. Upon request of any such successor Trustee, the Company shall execute any and all instruments in writing for more fully and certainly vesting in and confirming to such successor Trustee all such rights and powers. Any Trustee ceasing to act shall, nevertheless, retain a lien upon all property or funds held or collected by such Trustee, to secure any amounts and shall be entitled to any indemnities then due it pursuant to the provisions of Section 7.06. 39
No successor Trustee shall accept appointment as provided in this Section 7.11 unless at the time of such acceptance such successor Trustee shall be qualified under the provisions of Section 7.08 and eligible under the provisions of Section 7.09. Upon acceptance of appointment by a successor Trustee with respect to any series of Security or Securities as provided in this Section 7.11, the Company shall mail notice of the succession of such Trustee hereunder to the Holders of such Securities at their addresses as they shall appear on the Security Register. If the Company fails to mail such notice within ten days after acceptance of appointment by the successor Trustee, the successor Trustee shall cause such notice to be mailed at the expense of the Company. Section 7.12. Succession By Merger, Etc. Subject to Sections 7.08 and 7.09, any corporation into which the Trustee may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which the Trustee shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to all or substantially all the corporate trust business of the Trustee, shall be the successor of the Trustee hereunder without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto. In case at the time any successor to the Trustee shall succeed to the trusts created by this Indenture any of the Securities shall have been authenticated but not delivered, any such successor to the Trustee may adopt the certificate of authentication of any predecessor Trustee, and deliver such Securities so authenticated; and in case at that time any of the Securities shall not have been authenticated, any successor to the Trustee may authenticate such Securities either in the name of such successor Trustee or, if such successor Trustee is a successor by merger, conversion or consolidation, the name of any predecessor hereunder; and in all such cases such certificate shall have the full force which it is anywhere in the Securities or in this Indenture provided that the certificate of the Trustee shall have. Section 7.13. Limitation On Rights Of Trustee As A Creditor. If and when the Trustee shall be or become a creditor of the Company (or any other obligor upon any Securities), the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act regarding the collection of claims against the Company (or any such other obligor). Section 7.14. Authenticating Agents. There may be an Authenticating Agent or Authenticating Agents appointed by the Trustee from time to time with power to act on its behalf and subject to its direction in the authentication and delivery of any Securities issued upon original issuance, exchange, or transfer thereof as fully to all intents and purposes as though such Authenticating Agent (or Authenticating Agents) had been expressly authorized to authenticate and deliver such Securities, and Securities so authenticated shall be entitled to the 40
benefits of this Indenture and shall be valid and obligatory for all purposes as though authenticated by the Trustee hereunder. For all purposes of this Indenture, the authentication and delivery of Securities by any Authenticating Agent pursuant to this Section 7.14 shall be deemed to be the authentication and delivery of such Securities "by the Trustee", and whenever this Indenture provides that "the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver" Securities or that Securities "shall have been authenticated and delivered by the Trustee", such authentication and delivery by any Authenticating Agent shall be deemed to be authentication and delivery by the Trustee. Any such Authenticating Agent shall at all times be a corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the United States of America or of any State or Territory or the District of Columbia, with a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000 and authorized under such laws to act as an authenticating agent, duly registered to act as such, if and to the extent required by applicable law and subject to supervision or examination by Federal or State authority. If such corporation publishes reports of its condition at least annually pursuant to law or the requirements of such authority, then for the purposes of this Section 7.14 the combined capital and surplus of such corporation shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time an Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section 7.14, or to be duly registered if and to the extent required by applicable law and regulations, it shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect herein specified in this Section 7.14. Whenever reference is made in this Indenture to the authentication and delivery of Securities by the Trustee or the Trustee's certificate of authentication, such reference shall be deemed to include authentication and delivery on behalf of the Trustee by its Authenticating Agent appointed with respect to the Securities and a certificate of authentication executed on behalf of the Trustee by its Authenticating Agent appointed with respect to the Securities. Any corporation into which any Authenticating Agent may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, consolidation or conversion to which any Authenticating Agent shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to all or substantially all the authenticating agency business of any Authenticating Agent, shall be the successor of such Authenticating Agent hereunder, if such successor corporation is otherwise eligible under this Section 7.14, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of the parties hereto or such Authenticating Agent or such successor corporation. In case at the time such successor to any such agency shall succeed to such agency any of the Securities shall have been authenticated but not delivered, any such successor to such Authenticating Agent may adopt the certificate of authentication of any predecessor Authenticating Agent and deliver such Securities so authenticated; and in case at that time any of the Securities shall not 41
have been authenticated, any successor to any Authenticating Agent may authenticate such Securities either in the name of any predecessor hereunder or in the name of the successor Authenticating Agent; and in all cases such certificate shall have the full force which it has anywhere in the Securities or in this Indenture provided that the certificate of the predecessor Authenticating Agent shall have had such force; provided, however, that the right to adopt the certificate of authentication of any predecessor Authenticating Agent or to authenticate Securities in the name of any predecessor Authenticating Agent shall apply only to its successor or successors by merger, conversion or consolidation. Any Authenticating Agent may at any time resign as Authenticating Agent with respect to the Securities by giving written notice of resignation to the Trustee and to the Company. The Trustee may at any time terminate the agency of any Authenticating Agent with respect to the Securities by giving written notice of termination to such Authenticating Agent and to the Company. Upon receiving such a notice of resignation or upon such a termination, or in case at any time such Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible under this Section 7.14, the Trustee may, and shall, upon request of the Company, promptly use its best efforts to appoint a successor Authenticating Agent. Upon the appointment, at any time after the original issuance of the Securities, of any successor, additional or new Authenticating Agent, the Trustee shall give written notice of such appointment to the Company and shall at the expense of the Company mail notice of such appointment to all Holders of Securities as the names and addresses of such Holders appear on the Security Register. Any successor Authenticating Agent with respect to the Securities upon acceptance of its appointment hereunder shall become vested with all the rights, powers and duties of its predecessor hereunder, with like effect as though originally named as an Authenticating Agent herein. No successor Authenticating Agent shall be appointed unless eligible under the provisions of this Section 7.14 and duly registered if and to the extent required under applicable law and regulations. Any Authenticating Agent by the acceptance of its appointment with respect to the Securities shall be deemed to have agreed with the Trustee that: it will perform and carry out the duties of an Authenticating Agent as herein set forth, including among other things the duties to authenticate and deliver Securities when presented to it in connection with exchanges or registrations of transfer thereof; it will keep and maintain, and furnish to the Trustee from time to time as requested by the Trustee appropriate records of all transactions carried out by it as Authenticating Agent and will furnish the Trustee such other information and reports as the Trustee may reasonably require; it is eligible for appointment as Authenticating Agent under this Section 7.14 and will notify the Trustee promptly if it shall cease to be so qualified; and it will indemnify the Trustee against any 42
loss, liability or expense incurred by the Trustee and will defend any claim asserted against the Trustee by reason of any acts or failures to act of the Authenticating Agent but it shall have no liability for any action taken by it at the specific written direction of the Trustee. The Company agrees to pay to each Authenticating Agent from time to time reasonable compensation and expenses for its services, and the Trustee shall have no liability for such payments. The provisions of Sections 7.02(a), (b), (c), (e) and (f), 7.03, 7.04, 7.06 (insofar as it pertains to indemnification), 8.01, 8.02 and 8.03 shall bind and inure to the benefit of each Authenticating Agent to the same extent that they bind and inure to the benefit of the Trustee. If an appointment is made pursuant to this Section 7.14, the Securities may have endorsed thereon, in addition to the Trustee's certificate of authentication, an alternate certificate of authentication in the following form: This is one of the Securities of the series designated herein and referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture. The Bank of New York Trust Company, The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee N.A., as Trustee - OR - By: ____________________________ By: ___________, As Authenticating Agent Authorized Signatory By: _____________________________________ Authorized Signatory ARTICLE 8 CONCERNING THE HOLDERS Section 8.01. Action By Holders. Whenever in this Indenture it is provided that the Holders of a specified percentage in aggregate principal amount of any series of Securities may take any action (including the making of any demand or request, the giving of any notice, consent or waiver or the taking of any other action) the fact that at the time of taking any such action the Holders of such specified percentage of such Securities have joined therein may be evidenced by any instrument or any number of instruments of similar tenor executed by Holders of such Securities in person or by agent or proxy appointed in writing. 43
Section 8.02. Proof Of Execution By Holders. Subject to the provisions of Sections 7.01 and 7.02, proof of the execution of any instrument by a Holder or his agent or proxy shall be sufficient if made in accordance with such reasonable rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the Trustee or in such manner as shall be satisfactory to the Trustee. The ownership of Securities shall be provided by the Security Register or by a certificate of the Security registrar with respect to the Securities. Section 8.03. Who Are Deemed Absolute Owners. The Company, the Trustee with respect to the Securities, and any agent of the Trustee or the Company under this Indenture may deem the Person in whose name the Security shall be registered upon the Security Register to be, and may treat him as, the absolute owner of the Security (whether or not the Security shall be overdue and notwithstanding any notation of ownership or other writing thereon made by anyone other than the Company, the Trustee or any such agent) for the purpose of receiving payment of or on account of the principal of and premium, if any, and interest on the Security and for all other purposes; and neither the Company nor the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary. All such payments so made to any Holder for the time being or upon his order shall, to the extent of the sum or sums so paid, be effectual to satisfy and discharge the liability for moneys payable upon the Security. Section 8.04. Company-Owned Securities Disregarded. In determining whether the Holders of the requisite aggregate principal amount of Securities (or of any series of Securities) have concurred in any direction or consent under this Indenture, Securities which are owned by the Company or any other obligor on the Securities or by any Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with the Company or any other obligor on the Securities shall be disregarded and deemed not to be Outstanding for the propose of any such determinations; provided, however, that for the purposes of determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying on any such direction or consent only the Securities which a Responsible Officer of the Trustee actually knows are so owned shall be so disregarded. Securities so owned which have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as Outstanding notwithstanding this Section 8.04 if the pledgee shall establish to the satisfaction of the Trustee the right of the pledgee to vote such Securities and that the pledgee is not a Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with the Company or any such other obligor. Upon request of the Trustee, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee promptly an Officers' Certificate listing and identifying all Securities, if any, known by the Company to be owned or held by or for the account of the Company or any other obligor on such Securities or by any Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with the Company or any other obligor on such Securities; and, subject to the provisions of Section 7.01, the Trustee shall be entitled to accept such Officers' Certificates as conclusive evidence of the facts therein set forth and of the fact that all such 44
Securities not listed therein are Outstanding for the purpose of any such determination. Section 8.05. Revocation Of Consents; Future Holders Bound. At any time prior to (but not after) the evidencing to the Trustee, as provided in Section 8.01, of the taking of any action by the Holders of the percentage in aggregate principal amount of any series of Securities specified in this Indenture in connection with such action, any Holder of a Security which is shown by the evidence to be included in the Securities the Holders of which have consented to or are bound by consents to such action, may, by filing written notice with the Trustee at its principal office and upon proof of holding as provided in Section 8.02, revoke such action so far as concerns such Security. Except as aforesaid any such action taken by the Holder of any Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders and owners of such Security and of any Security issued on transfer thereof or in exchange or substitution therefor, irrespective of whether or not any notation in regard thereto is made upon any such Security. Any action taken by the Holders of the percentage in aggregate principal amount of the Securities specified in this Indenture in connection with such action shall be conclusively binding upon the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of all of the Securities affected by such action. ARTICLE 9 SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURES Section 9.01. Supplemental Indentures Without Consent Of Holders. The Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee may from time to time and at any time enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto (which shall conform to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act as in force at the date of the execution thereof if applicable to any Securities affected by such Supplemental Indenture) (each, a "SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE") for one or more of the following purposes: (a) to evidence the succession of another corporation to the Company, or successive successions, and the assumption by the successor corporation of the covenants, agreements and obligations of the Company pursuant to Articles 4 and 10 hereof; (b) to add to the covenants of the Company such further covenants, restrictions, conditions or provisions as the Board of Directors and the Trustee shall consider to be for the protection of the Holders any or all series of Securities (as shall be specified in such Supplemental Indenture), and to make the occurrence, or the occurrence and continuance, of a default in any of such additional covenants, restrictions, conditions or provisions a default or an Event of Default permitting the enforcement of all or any of the several remedies provided in this Indenture as herein set forth; provided, however, that in respect of 45
any such additional covenant, restriction or condition, such supplemental indenture may provide for a particular period of grace after default (which period may be shorter or longer than that allowed in the case of other defaults) or may provide for an immediate enforcement upon such default or may limit the remedies available to the Trustee upon such default; (c) to cure any ambiguity or to correct or supplement any provision contained herein or in any supplemental indenture which may be defective or inconsistent with any other provision contained herein or in any Supplemental Indenture; to convey, transfer, assign, mortgage or pledge any property to or with the Trustee; or to make such other provisions in regard to matters or questions arising under this Indenture as shall not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of Securities of any series; (d) to secure any or all series of Securities (as shall be specified in such Supplemental Indenture) in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.05; (e) to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment by another corporation as a successor Trustee hereunder with respect to any series of Securities and to add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, pursuant to Section 7.11; (f) to modify, amend or supplement this Indenture in such a manner as to permit the qualification of any indenture supplemental hereto under the Trust Indenture Act as then in effect, except that nothing herein contained shall permit or authorize the inclusion in any indenture supplemental hereto of the provisions referred to in Section 316(a)(2) of the Trust Indenture Act; or (g) to establish the form or terms of Securities of any series as permitted by Sections 2.01 and 2.02 of this Indenture. The Trustee is hereby required to join with the Company in the execution of any such Supplemental Indenture, to make any further appropriate agreements and stipulations which may be therein contained and to accept the conveyance, transfer, assignment, mortgage or pledge of any property thereunder, but the Trustee shall not be obligated to enter into any such Supplemental Indenture which affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise. Any Supplemental Indenture authorized by the provisions of this Section 9.01 may be executed by the Company and the Trustee without the consent of the Holders of any of the Securities at the time Outstanding, notwithstanding any of the provisions of Section 9.02. 46
Section 9.02. Supplemental Indentures With Consent Of Holders. With the consent (evidenced as provided in Section 8.01) of the Holders of greater than 50% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of each series affected by such Supplemental Indenture, by act of said Holders delivered to the Company and the Trustee, the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee may from time to time and at any time enter into a Supplemental Indenture for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this Indenture or of any Supplemental Indenture or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of such series of Securities under this Indenture; provided, however, that no such Supplemental Indenture shall (i) without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby, extend the fixed maturity of any Security, or reduce the rate or extend the time of payment of interest thereon, or reduce the principal amount thereof or any premium thereon, or make the principal thereof or interest or premium thereon payable in any coin or currency other than that provided in the Securities or (ii) without the consent of the Holders of all of the Outstanding Securities affected reduce the aforesaid percentage of Securities, the Holders of which are required to consent (a) to any such Supplemental Indenture, (b) to rescind and annul a declaration that any Securities are due and payable as a result of the occurrence of an Event of Default, (c) to waive any past default under the Indenture and its consequences and (d) to waive compliance with Sections 4.02 and 4.04 (other than 4.04(a)(i) and (ii)) to 4.07, inclusive. Upon the request of the Company, accompanied by a copy of a Board Resolution certified by its Secretary or Assistant Secretary authorizing the execution of any such Supplemental Indenture, and upon the filing with the Trustee of evidence of the consent of Holders of Securities as aforesaid, the Trustee shall join with the Company in the execution of such Supplemental Indenture unless such Supplemental Indenture affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise, in which case the Trustee may in its discretion, but shall not be obligated to, enter into such Supplemental Indenture. It shall not be necessary for the consent of the Holders of Securities under this Section 9.02 to approve the particular form of any proposed Supplemental Indenture, but it shall be sufficient if such consent shall approve the substance thereof. Section 9.03. Effect Of Supplemental Indentures. Upon the execution of any Supplemental Indenture pursuant to the provisions of this Article Nine, this Indenture shall be and be deemed to be modified and amended in accordance therewith and the respective rights, limitation of rights, obligations, duties and immunities under this Indenture of the Trustee, the Company and the Holders of Securities to which such Supplemental Indenture relates shall thereafter be determined, exercised and enforced hereunder subject in all respects to such modifications and amendments and all the terms and conditions of any such 47
Supplemental Indenture shall be and be deemed to be part of the terms and conditions of this Indenture as it relates to such affected series of Securities. Section 9.04. Notation On Securities. Securities authenticated and delivered after the execution of any Supplemental Indenture pursuant to the provisions of this Article Nine may bear a notation in form approved by the Trustee as to any matter provided for in such Supplemental Indenture. If the Company or the Trustee shall so determine, new Securities so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Trustee and the Board of Directors to any modification of this Indenture contained in any such Supplemental Indenture may be prepared and executed by the Company, authenticated by the Trustee and delivered in exchange for any Outstanding Securities. Section 9.05. Evidence Of Compliance Of Supplemental Indenture To Be Furnished Trustee. The Trustee, subject to the provisions of Sections 7.01 and 6.02, shall receive, and shall be fully protected in conclusively relying upon, an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel as conclusive evidence that any Supplemental Indenture executed pursuant hereto complies with the requirements of this Article 9 and is authorized and permitted by this Indenture. ARTICLE 10 CONSOLIDATION, MERGER, SALE AND CONVEYANCE Section 10.01. Company May Consolidate, Etc., On Certain Terms. Nothing contained in this Indenture or in any of the Securities shall prevent any consolidation, amalgamation or merger of the Company with or into any other corporation or corporations (whether or not affiliated with the Company), or successive consolidations, amalgamations or mergers in which the Company or its successor or successors shall be a party or parties, or shall prevent any sale, conveyance or lease of all or substantially all of the property of the Company to any other corporation (whether or not affiliated with the Company) authorized to acquire and operate the same; provided, however, and the Company hereby covenants and agrees, that any such consolidation, amalgamation, merger, sale, conveyance or lease shall be upon the condition that (a) immediately after such consolidation, amalgamation, merger, sale, conveyance or lease the corporation (whether the Company or such other corporation) formed by or surviving any such consolidation, amalgamation or merger, or to which such sale, conveyance or lease shall have been made, shall not be in default in the performance or observance of any of the terms, covenants and conditions of this Indenture to be kept or performed by the Company; (b) the corporation (if other than the Company) formed by or surviving any such consolidation, amalgamation or merger or to which such sale, conveyance or lease shall have been made, shall be a corporation organized under the laws of the United States of America or any state thereof; and (c) the due and punctual payment of the principal of and premium, if any, and interest on all of the Securities, according to their tenor, and 48
the due and punctual performance and observance of all of the covenants and conditions of this Indenture to be performed or observed by the Company, shall be expressly assumed, by Supplemental Indenture satisfactory in form to the Trustee, executed and delivered to the Trustee by the Corporation (if other than the Company) formed by such consolidation or amalgamation, or into which the Company shall have been merged, or by the corporation which shall have acquired or leased such property. Section 10.02. Successor Corporation To Be Substituted. In case of any such consolidation, merger, sale, conveyance or lease and upon the assumption by the successor corporation, by Supplemental Indenture, executed and delivered to the Trustee and satisfactory in form to the Trustee, of the due and punctual payment of the principal of and premium, if any, and interest on all of the Securities and the due and punctual performance and observance of all of the covenants and conditions of this Indenture to be performed or observed by the Company, such successor corporation shall succeed to and be substituted for the Company, with the same effect as if it had been named herein as the party of the first part, and (except in the event of a conveyance by way of lease) the predecessor corporation shall be relieved of any further obligation under this Indenture and the Securities. Such successor corporation thereupon may cause to be signed, and may issue either in its own name or in the name of Cincinnati Financial Corporation any or all of the Securities issuable hereunder which theretofore shall not have been signed by the Company and delivered to the Trustee; and, upon the order of such successor corporation instead of the Company and subject to all the terms, conditions and limitations in this Indenture prescribed, the Trustee shall authenticate and shall deliver any Securities which previously shall have been signed and delivered by the officers of the Company to the Trustee for authentication, and any Securities which such successor corporation thereafter shall cause to be signed and delivered to the Trustee for that purpose. All the Securities so issued shall in all respects have the same legal rank and benefit under this Indenture as the Securities theretofore or thereafter issued in accordance with the terms of this Indenture as though all of such Securities had been issued at the date of the execution hereof. In case of any such consolidation, merger, sale, conveyance or lease such changes in phraseology and form (but not in substance) may be made in the Securities thereafter to be issued as may be appropriate. Section 10.03. Opinion Of Counsel To Be Given Trustee. The Trustee, subject to Sections 7.01 and 7.02, shall receive an Opinion of Counsel as conclusive evidence that any such consolidation, merger, sale or conveyance and any such assumption complies with the provisions of this Article 10 and that all conditions precedent herein provided relating to such transactions have been complied with. 49
ARTICLE 11 SATISFACTION AND DISCHARGE OF INDENTURE Section 11.01. Satisfaction, Discharge And Defeasance Of The Securities. The Company shall be deemed to have paid and discharged the entire indebtedness on all the Securities of any series, the provisions of this Indenture (except as to (x) the rights of Holders of Securities of such series to receive, from the money, in the currency required, and Government Obligations deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 11.03 or the interest and principal received by the Trustee in respect of such Government Obligations, payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and any installment of principal of (and premium, if any) or interest on such Securities on the Stated Maturities thereof, (y) the Company's rights and obligations with respect to such Securities under Sections 3.03, 3.04, 11.03 and 11.04, 4.02, 4.04, 5.01, 7.06, 7.10 and 7.11, so long as the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on such Securities remain unpaid and, thereafter, only the Company's rights and obligations under Sections 4.04, 7.06, 11.03 and 11.04, and (z) the rights, powers, trusts, duties and immunities of the Trustee with respect to such Securities) as it relates to such Securities shall no longer be in effect, and the Trustee, at the expense of the Company, shall, upon Company Request, execute proper instruments acknowledging the same if: (a) (i) all Securities of such series therefore authenticated and delivered (other than (A) Securities which have been destroyed, lost or stolen and which have been replaced or paid as provided in Section 3.04 and (B) Securities for whose payment money has theretofore been deposited in trust or segregated and held in trust by the Company and thereafter repaid to the Company or discharged from such trust, as provided in Sections 11.03 and 11.04) have been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation; (ii) the Company has paid or caused to be paid in the currency required all other sums payable under this Indenture in respect of the Securities of such series; and (iii) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate, an Opinion of Counsel and a written opinion of independent public accountants, each stating that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to the satisfaction of the entire indebtedness of all Securities of such series and the discharge of the Indenture as it relates to such Securities have been complied with; or (b) (i) all Securities of such series not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation (A) have become due and payable, or (B) will become due and payable at their Stated Maturity within one year; (ii) the condition described in paragraph (1) of Section 11.02 has been satisfied; and 50
(iii) the conditions described in paragraphs (a)(ii) and (a)(iii) of this Section 11.01 have been satisfied; or (c) (i) the conditions referred to in paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of this Section 11.01 have been satisfied; (ii) no Event of Default with respect to such series of Securities or event which with notice or lapse of time would become an Event of Default with respect to such series of Securities shall have occurred and be continuing on the date of the deposit referred to in paragraph (1) of Section 11.02 or on the ninety-first day after the date of such deposit; provided, however, that should that condition fail to be satisfied on or before such ninety-first day, the Trustee shall promptly, upon satisfactory receipt of evidence of such failure, return such deposit to the Company; (iii) the Company has either (i) delivered to the Trustee an opinion of counsel of a nationally-recognized independent tax counsel to the effect that Holders of the Securities of such series will not recognize income, gain or loss for Federal income tax purposes as a result of such deposit and the satisfaction, discharge and defeasance contemplated by this paragraph (c) of this Section 11.01 and will be subject to Federal income tax on the same amounts and in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such deposit and defeasance had not occurred or (ii) the Company shall have received from, or there shall have been published by, the United States Internal Revenue Service a ruling to the effect stated in (i) of this Section 11.01(c)(iii); and (iv) the Company has received an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that the satisfaction, discharge and defeasance contemplated by this Section 11.01 will not result in the delisting of the Securities of such series from any nationally-recognized securities exchange on which they are listed. Section 11.02. Defeasance Of The Securities. The provisions of this Indenture (except as to (x) the rights of Holders of Securities of any series to receive, from the money, in the currency required, and Government Obligations deposited with the Trustee pursuant to paragraph (1) below or the interest and principal received by the Trustee in respect of such Government Obligations, payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and any installment of principal of (and premium, if any) or interest on such Securities on the Stated Maturities thereof, (y) the Company's rights and obligations with respect to such Securities under Sections 3.03, 3.04, 11.03 and 11.04, Article 6 (other than subsections (d) and (e) of Section 6.01), Sections 4.01, 4.02, 4.04, 5.01, 7.06, 7.10 and 7.11, so long as the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on such Securities remain unpaid and, thereafter, only the Company's rights and obligations under Sections 4.04, 7.06, 11.03 and 11.04, and (z) the rights, powers, trusts, duties and 51
immunities of the Trustee with respect to such Securities) as it relates to such Securities shall no longer be in effect, and the Trustee, at the expense of the Company shall, upon Company Request, execute proper instruments acknowledging the same if: (a) the Company has deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee as trust funds in trust for the purpose (i) Dollars in an amount, or (ii) Government Obligations which through the payment of interest and principal in respect thereof in accordance with their terms will provide on or before the due date of any payment in respect of the Securities of such series in an amount, or (iii) a combination thereof, sufficient, after payment of all Federal, state and local taxes in respect thereof payable by the Trustee, in the opinion of a nationally-recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, to pay and discharge the principal of (and premium, if any) and each installment of principal (and premium, if any) and interest on the Outstanding Securities of such series on the Stated Maturity of such principal or installment of principal or interest; (b) no Event of Default with respect to such series of Securities or event which with notice or lapse of time would become an Event of Default with respect to such series of Securities shall have occurred and be continuing on the date of such deposit; (c) the interest of the Holders in such deposit shall have been duly perfected under the applicable provisions of the Uniform Commercial Code; and (d) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to the defeasance contemplated by this Section have been complied with. Section 11.03. Application Of Trust Funds; Indemnification. (a) Subject to the provisions of Section 11.04, all money and Government Obligations deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 11.01 or 11.02 and all money received by the Trustee in respect of Government Obligations deposited with the Trustee, shall be held in trust and applied by it, in accordance with the provisions of the Securities of any series and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any paying agent (including the Company acting as its own paying agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Persons entitled thereto, of the principal (and premium, if any) and interest for whose payment such money and Government Obligations have been deposited with or received by the Trustee as contemplated by Section 11.01 or 11.02. (b) The Company shall pay and shall indemnify the Trustee against any tax, fee or other charge imposed on or assessed against Government Obligations deposited pursuant to Section 11.01 or 11.02 or the interest and principal received 52
in respect of such obligations, other than any such tax, fee or other charge payable by or on behalf of Holders. The Company shall be entitled to prompt notice of an assessment or the commencement of any proceeding for which indemnification may be sought hereunder and, at its election, to contest such assessment or to participate in, assume the defense of, or settle such proceeding. (c) The Trustee shall deliver or pay to the Company from time to time upon Company Request any Government Obligations or money held by it as provided in Section 11.01 or 11.02 which, in the opinion of a nationally-recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, are then in excess of the amount thereof which then would have been required to be deposited for the purpose for which such obligations or money were deposited or received. (d) If the Trustee is unable to apply any money or Government Obligations in accordance with Section 11.02 by reason of any legal proceeding or by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, the Company's obligations under this Indenture and the Securities of such series, if any, shall be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to Section 11.02 until such time as the Trustee is permitted to apply all such money or Government Obligations in accordance with Section 11.02; provided, however, that if the Company has made any payment of interest on or principal of (and premium, if any) on any Securities of such series, if any, because of the reinstatement of its obligations, the Company shall be subrogated to the rights of the Holders of the Securities of such series, if any, to receive such payment from the money or Government Obligations held by the Trustee. Section 11.04. Return Of Unclaimed Moneys. Any moneys deposited with or paid to the Trustee or any paying agent for payment of the principal of and premium, if any, or interest on Securities of such series and not applied but remaining unclaimed by the Holders of Securities of such series for two years after the date upon which the principal of and premium, if any, or interest on such Securities, as the case may be, shall have become due and payable, shall be repaid to the Company by the Trustee or such paying agent on demand; and the Holder of any of the Securities of such series entitled to receive such payment shall thereafter look only to the Company for any payment thereof. ARTICLE 12 IMMUNITY OF INCORPORATORS, STOCKHOLDERS, OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS Section 12.01. Indenture And Securities Solely Corporate Obligations. No recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement of this Indenture, any supplemental indenture, or of any Security, or for any claim based thereon or otherwise in respect thereof, shall be had against any incorporator, 53
stockholder, officer, director or employee, as such, past, present or future, of the Company or any Subsidiary or of any predecessor or successor corporation, either directly or through the Company, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise; it being expressly understood that this Indenture and the obligations issued hereunder are solely corporate obligations, and that no such personal liability whatever shall attach to, or is or shall be incurred by, the incorporators, stockholders, officers, directors or employees, as such, of the Company or of any predecessor or successor corporation, or any of them, because of the creation of the indebtedness hereby authorized, or under or by reason of the obligations, covenants or agreements contained in this Indenture, or in any of the Securities or implied thereby; and that any and all such personal liability, either at common law or in equity or by constitution or statute of, and any and all such rights and claims against, every such incorporator, stockholder, officer, director or employee, as such, because of the creation of the indebtedness hereby authorized, or under or by reason of the obligations, covenants or agreements contained in this Indenture or in any of the Securities or implied thereby, are hereby expressly waived and released as a condition of, and as a consideration for, the execution of this Indenture and the issue of such Securities. ARTICLE 13 MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS Section 13.01. Provisions Binding On Successors Of The Company. All of the covenants, stipulations, promises and agreements in this Indenture contained by the Company shall bind its successors and assigns whether so expressed or not. Section 13.02. Indenture For Sole Benefit Of Parties And Holders Of The Securities. Nothing in this Indenture or in the Securities, expressed or implied, shall give or be construed to give to any Person, firm or corporation, other than the parties hereto, any agent of the Trustee or the Company under this Indenture and the Holders of the Securities, any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or in respect of this Indenture, or under any covenant, condition or provision herein contained; all such covenants, conditions and provisions being for the sole benefit of the parties hereto, any agent of the Trustee or the Company under this Indenture and the Holders of the Securities. Section 13.03. Addresses For Notices, Etc. Any notice or demand which by any provision of this Indenture is required or permitted to be given or served by the Trustee or by the Holders of Securities on the Company may be given or served by (i) being deposited, registered or certified mail postage prepaid, in a post office letter box in the United States addressed (until another address is filed by the Company with the Trustee) to the Company, Cincinnati Financial Center, 6200 South Gilmore Road, Fairfield, Ohio 45014 or (ii) initially by fax to the 54
Company at (513) 870-2066, attention : Secretary, to be followed by notice pursuant to clause (i) hereof. Any notice, direction, request or demand by any Holder of a Security or the Company to or upon the Trustee shall be deemed to have been sufficiently given or made, for all purposes, if given or made in writing at the principal office of the Trustee, addressed to the attention of its Corporate Trust Administration. Any notice, report or other instrument required by any of the provisions of this Indenture to be given by the Trustee to the Holders of Securities shall be deemed to have been sufficiently given, for all purposes, when mailed by first class mail. Section 13.04. New York Contract. This Indenture and the Securities shall for all purposes be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of New York, as applied to contracts made and performed within the State of New York, without regard to principles of conflicts of laws. Section 13.05. Evidence Of Compliance With Conditions Precedent. Upon any Company request to the Trustee to take any action under any of the provisions of this Indenture, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that all conditions precedent, if any (including any covenant, compliance with which constitutes a condition precedent) provided for in this Indenture relating to the proposed action have been complied with and an Opinion of Counsel stating that, in the opinion of such counsel, all such conditions precedent have been complied with, except that in the case of any such application or demand as to which the furnishing of such document is specifically required by any provision of this Indenture relating to such particular application or demand, no additional certificate or opinion need be furnished. Each certificate or opinion provided for in this Indenture and delivered to the Trustee with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Indenture shall include (1) a statement that the Person making such certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition; (2) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based; (3) a statement that, in the opinion of such Person, he has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable him to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and (4) a statement as to whether or not, in the opinion of such Person, such condition or covenant has been complied with. Section 13.06. Legal Holidays. In any case where the date of maturity of interest on or principal of or premium, if any, on the Securities or the date fixed for redemption of any Security or Securities will be a legal holiday or a day on which banking institutions are legally authorized or obligated to close in New York or Ohio or any other location where a paying agent appointed pursuant to Section 4.02 is located, then payment of such interest on or principal of and premium, if any, on such Securities need not be made by such paying agent on 55
such date but may be made by such paying agent on the next succeeding business day that is not a day in such location that is either a legal holiday or a day on which banking institutions are legally authorized or obligated to close, with the same force and effect as if made on such date of maturity or the date fixed for redemption and no interest shall accrue for the period from and after such prior date. Section 13.07. Trust Indenture Act To Control. If any provision hereof limits, qualifies or conflicts with the duties imposed by any of Sections 310 through 317 of the Trust Indenture Act, by the operation of Section 318(c) thereof, such imposed duties shall control, except as, and to the extent, expressly excluded from this Indenture, as permitted by the Trust Indenture Act. If any provision of this Indenture modifies or excludes any provision of the Trust Indenture Act that may be so modified or excluded, the latter provision shall be deemed to apply to this Indenture as so modified or to be excluded, as the case may be. Section 13.08. Table Of Contents, Headings, Etc. The table of contents and the titles and headings of the articles and sections of this Indenture have been inserted for convenience of reference only, are not to be considered a part hereof, and shall in no way modify or restrict any of the terms or provisions hereof. Section 13.09. Execution In Counterparts. This Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original and such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument. The Trustee hereby accepts the trusts in this Indenture declared and provided, upon the terms and conditions hereinabove set forth. Section 13.10. Waiver of Jury Trial. EACH OF THE COMPANY AND THE TRUSTEE HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS INDENTURE, ANY SECURITIES OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY. Section 13.11. Force Majeure. In no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for any failure or delay in the performance of its obligations hereunder arising out of or caused by, directly or indirectly, forces beyond its control, including, without limitation strikes, work stoppages, accidents, acts of war or terrorism, civil or military disturbances, nuclear or natural catastrophes or acts of God, and interruptions, loss or malfunctions of utilities, communications or computer (software or hardware) services affecting the banking industry generally; it being understood that the Trustee shall use reasonable efforts which are consistent with accepted practices in the banking industry to resume performance as soon as practicable under the circumstances. 56
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CINCINNATI FINANCIAL CORPORATION has caused this Indenture to be signed and acknowledged by its President and either its Chief Financial Officer or its Treasurer, and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., has caused this Indenture to be signed and acknowledged by one of its duly authorized officers, as of the day and year first written above. CINCINNATI FINANCIAL CORPORATION By: /s/ John J. Schiff, Jr. ---------------------------------------- Title: President and Chief Executive Officer By: /s/ Kenneth W. Stecher ---------------------------------------- Title: Treasurer THE BANK OF NEW YORK TRUST COMPANY, N.A., as Trustee By: /s/ Geoffrey D. Anderson ---------------------------------------

EXHIBIT 4.2 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 6.125% SENIOR NOTES DUE 2034 SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE between CINCINNATI FINANCIAL CORPORATION and THE BANK OF NEW YORK TRUST COMPANY, N.A. as Trustee Dated as of November 1, 2004 - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
TABLE OF CONTENTS i
SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE dated as of November 1, 2004 (the "SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE") between Cincinnati Financial Corporation, an Ohio corporation (the "COMPANY"), and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., a national banking association, as trustee (the "TRUSTEE") under the Indenture dated as of November 1, 2004 (the "INDENTURE") between the Company and the Trustee. WHEREAS, the Company executed and delivered the Indenture to the Trustee to provide, among other things, for unsecured debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness to be issued by the Company from time to time in one or more series under the Indenture; WHEREAS, Section 9.01(g) of the Indenture provides that the Company and the Trustee may enter into an indenture supplemental to the Indenture to establish the form or terms of Securities (as defined in the Indenture) of any series as provided by Sections 2.01 and 2.02 of the Indenture; WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Company has duly adopted resolutions authorizing the Company to execute and deliver this Supplemental Indenture; WHEREAS, pursuant to the terms of the Indenture, the Company desires to enter into this Supplemental Indenture to provide for the establishment of a new series of its Securities to be known as its 6.125% Senior Notes due 2034 (the "NOTES"); WHEREAS, the Company has requested that the Trustee execute and deliver this Supplemental Indenture and all things necessary to make (i) this Supplemental Indenture a valid instrument in accordance with its terms, and (ii) the Notes, when executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee, the valid obligations of the Company, have been done; NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the purchase and acceptance of the Notes by the Holders thereof, and for the purpose of setting forth, as provided in the Indenture, the form and terms of the Notes, the Company covenants and agrees with the Trustee as follows:
ARTICLE 1 DEFINITIONS Section 1.01. Definition of Terms. Unless the context otherwise requires: (a) a term defined in the Indenture has the same meaning when used in this Supplemental Indenture unless the definition of such term is amended and supplemented pursuant to this Supplemental Indenture; (b) a term defined anywhere in this Supplemental Indenture has the same meaning throughout; (c) the singular includes the plural and vice versa; (d) a reference to a Section or Article is to a Section or Article of this Supplemental Indenture; (e) headings are for convenience of reference only and do not affect interpretation; (f) the following terms have the meanings given to them in this Section 1.01(f): "ADDITIONAL INTEREST" shall have the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement. "COMPARABLE TREASURY ISSUE" means the United States Treasury security or securities selected by an Independent Investment Banker as having an actual or interpolated maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Notes. "COMPARABLE TREASURY PRICE" means, with respect to any Redemption Date for the Notes, (a) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest of such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (b) if the Trustee obtains fewer than four such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations. "EXCHANGE OFFER" means the exchange offer by the Company of Exchange Notes for Initial Notes pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement. 2
"EXCHANGE OFFER REGISTRATION STATEMENT" means a registration statement relating to an Exchange Offer on an appropriate form and all amendments and supplements to such registration statement, in each case including the prospectus contained therein, all exhibits thereto and all material incorporated by reference therein. "EXCHANGE NOTES" means the debt securities of the Company to be offered to Holders in exchange for the Initial Notes pursuant to the Exchange Offer or otherwise pursuant to a Registration of the Exchange Notes containing terms identical to the Notes for which they are exchanged (except that (i) interest thereon shall accrue from the last date on which interest was paid on the corresponding series of Notes (unless the Exchange Note is issued after an interest record date and prior to the corresponding interest payment date, in which case interest shall accrue from such interest payment date) or, if no such interest has been paid, from the first date that the corresponding series of Notes was originally issued under the Indenture as supplemented by this Supplemental Indenture and (ii) the provisions relating to Additional Interest (other than any Additional Interest accrued through the date of issuance of such Exchange Notes) will be eliminated). "GLOBAL NOTE" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.03(b). "INDEPENDENT INVESTMENT BANKER" means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers appointed by the Trustee after consultation with the Company. "INITIAL NOTES" means (i) all Notes issued on the first date that Notes were originally issued under this Supplemental Indenture, (ii) any additional Notes of this series issued under Section 2.02 in any offering not registered under the Securities Act and (iii) any Notes issued in replacement therefor, but not including any Exchange Notes issued in exchange therefor. "INTEREST" means with respect to the Notes any interest payable on the Notes including Additional Interest, if any. "NOTES" shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals above. "REDEMPTION DATE" shall have the meaning assigned in Section 3.01. "REFERENCE TREASURY DEALER" means (x) each of J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and UBS Securities LLC or their respective affiliates; provided, however, that if either of the foregoing shall cease to be a primary U.S. government securities dealer in the United States (a "PRIMARY TREASURY DEALER"), the Company will substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer, and (y) three other Primary Treasury Dealers selected by the Company. "REFERENCE TREASURY DEALER QUOTATIONS" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined 3
by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer as of 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date. "REGISTRATION" means a registered exchange offer for the Securities by the Company or other registration of the Notes under the Securities Act pursuant to and in accordance with the terms of the Registration Rights Agreement. "REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT" means the Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of November 1, 2004, among the Company and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and UBS Securities LLC, as Representatives of the several Initial Purchasers. "REGISTRATION STATEMENT" means the Registration Statement pursuant to and as defined in the Registration Rights Agreement. "RESTRICTED LEGEND" means the legend set forth in Section 2.04(a) hereof. "RULE 144A" means Rule 144A under the Securities Act. "TREASURY RATE" means, with respect to any Redemption Date for the Notes, the rate per year equal to the semiannual equivalent or interpolated (on a day count basis) yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption Date. "SECURITIES ACT" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. ARTICLE 2 THE SECURITIES SECTION 2.01. Designation. (a) The Company hereby establishes a series of Securities designated the "6.125% Senior Notes due 2034" for issuance under the Indenture. Their Stated Maturity shall be November 1, 2034 and they shall bear interest at the rate of 6.125% per annum from the Issue Date or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, as the case may be, payable semi-annually in arrears on each November 1 and May 1 (each, an Interest Payment Date), commencing May 1, 2005, until the principal thereof is paid or made available for payment. The Notes are not subject to any sinking fund. 4
Interest on the Notes (including Additional Interest) shall be computed on the basis of a 360 day year comprised of twelve 30 day months. (b) The Notes shall be issuable in registered form without coupons in denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof. (c) The principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Notes shall be payable at the office or agency of the Company designated for that purpose as the Place of Payment, as provided in Section 4.02 of the Indenture; provided, however, that interest may be payable at the option of the Company by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear on the Security Register on the record date for such interest payment. SECTION 2.02. Principal Amount; Series Treatment for Additional Securities. (a) The Notes shall be initially limited to an aggregate principal amount of $375,000,000, except for Notes authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Securities of this same series pursuant to Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04 or 10.02 of the Indenture. The Company may, without notice to or the consent of the Holders of the outstanding Notes, issue additional notes of the same tenor as the Notes by Company Order, so that such additional notes and the outstanding Notes shall form a single series of Securities under the Indenture as supplemented by this Supplemental Indenture. (b) Any additional Notes issued under Section 2.02(a) shall have the same terms in all respects as the corresponding series of outstanding Notes, except that interest will accrue on the additional Notes from the most recent date to which interest has been paid on the corresponding series of Notes (other than the additional Notes) or, if no interest has been paid on the corresponding series of Notes, from the first date that the corresponding series of Notes was originally issued under the Indenture as supplemented by this Supplemental Indenture. (c) For all purposes of the Indenture and this Supplemental Indenture, all Notes, whether Initial Notes, Exchange Notes or additional Notes issued under Section 2.02(a) shall constitute one series of Notes and shall vote together as one series of Notes. Section 2.03. Form of Securities; Global Form. (a) The Notes shall be substantially in the forms of Exhibit A hereto. The terms and provisions contained in the form of Notes set forth in Exhibit A shall constitute, and are hereby expressly made, a part of the Indenture as supplemented by this Supplemental Indenture. 5
Any of the Notes may have such letters, numbers or other marks of identification and such notations, legends, endorsements or changes as the officers executing the same may approve (execution thereof to be conclusive evidence of such approval) and as are not inconsistent with the provisions of the Indenture as supplemented by this Supplemental Indenture, or as may be required by the Depository or as may be required for the Initial Notes to be tradeable on any market developed for trading of securities pursuant to Rule 144A or as may be required to comply with any applicable law or with any rule or regulation made pursuant thereto or with any rule or regulation of any securities exchange or automated quotation system on which the Notes may be listed, or to conform to usage, or to indicate any special limitations or restrictions to which any particular Notes are subject. (b) So long as any Notes of this series are eligible for book-entry settlement with the Depository, or unless otherwise required by law, or otherwise contemplated by Section 2.05(b), all of the Notes of this series shall be represented by one or more Notes in global form registered in the name of the Depository or the nominee of the Depository (each and collectively, the "GLOBAL NOTE"). The transfer and exchange of beneficial interests in any such Global Note shall be effected through the Depository in accordance with the Indenture and the applicable procedures of the Depository. Except as provided in Section 2.05(b), beneficial owners of a Global Note shall not be entitled to have certificates registered in their names, will not receive or be entitled to receive physical delivery of certificates in definitive form and will not be considered holders of such Global Note. Any Global Note shall represent such of the outstanding Notes of a series as shall be specified therein and shall provide that it shall represent the aggregate amount of outstanding Notes of that series from time to time endorsed thereon and that the aggregate amount of outstanding Notes represented thereby may from time to time be increased or reduced to reflect redemptions, transfers or exchanges permitted hereby. Any endorsement of a Global Note to reflect the amount of any increase or decrease in the amount of outstanding Notes represented thereby shall be made by the Trustee in such manner and upon instructions given by the holder of such Notes in accordance with the Indenture. Payment of principal of and interest and premium, if any, on any Global Note shall be made to the holder of such Note. SECTION 2.04. Restrictive Legends. (a) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (c), each Initial Note shall bear the following legend on the face thereof: THIS NOTE HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), OR ANY STATE OR OTHER SECURITIES LAWS. NEITHER THIS NOTE NOR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN MAY BE REOFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, 6
TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO, THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT. BY ITS ACQUISITION HEREOF, THE HOLDER (1) REPRESENTS THAT IT IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" (AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT ("RULE 144A")), (2) AGREES NOT TO OFFER, SELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER SUCH NOTE PRIOR TO THE DATE WHICH IS THE LATER OF (X) TWO YEARS (OR SUCH SHORTER PERIOD OF TIME AS PERMITTED BY RULE 144(k) OF THE SECURITIES ACT) AFTER THE LATER OF THE LAST DATE OF ISSUANCE OF ANY NOTE OF THIS SERIES (OR ANY PREDECESSOR OF THIS NOTE) AND THE LAST DATE ON WHICH CINCINNATI FINANCIAL CORPORATION OR ANY AFFILIATE OF CINCINNATI FINANCIAL CORPORATION WAS THE OWNER OF THIS NOTE (OR ANY PREDECESSOR OF THIS NOTE) AND (Y) SUCH LATER DATE, IF ANY, AS MAY BE REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW (THE "RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE") EXCEPT (A) TO CINCINNATI FINANCIAL CORPORATION OR ANY SUBSIDIARY THEREOF, (B) PURSUANT TO A REGISTRATION STATEMENT WHICH HAS BEEN DECLARED EFFECTIVE UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (C) FOR SO LONG AS THE NOTES ARE ELIGIBLE FOR RESALE PURSUANT TO RULE 144A, TO A PERSON IT REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A THAT PURCHASES FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER TO WHOM NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT THE TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A, OR (D) PURSUANT TO ANOTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT AND (3) AGREES THAT IT WILL GIVE TO EACH PERSON TO WHOM THIS NOTE IS TRANSFERRED A NOTICE SUBSTANTIALLY TO THE EFFECT OF THIS LEGEND; PROVIDED THAT CINCINNATI FINANCIAL CORPORATION, THE TRUSTEE, THE TRANSFER AGENT AND THE REGISTRAR WILL HAVE THE RIGHT PRIOR TO ANY SUCH OFFER, SALE OR TRANSFER (I) PURSUANT TO CLAUSE (D)TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL, CERTIFICATION AND/OR OTHER INFORMATION REASONABLY SATISFACTORY TO EACH OF THEM, AND (II) IN EACH OF THE FOREGOING CASES, TO REQUIRE THAT A CERTIFICATE OF TRANSFER IN THE FORM APPEARING ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THIS NOTE IS COMPLETED AND DELIVERED BY THE TRANSFEROR TO CINCINNATI FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND THE TRUSTEE. THIS LEGEND WILL BE REMOVED UPON THE REQUEST OF THE HOLDER AFTER THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE. (b) Each Global Note shall also bear the following legend on the face thereof: 7
THIS NOTE IS A GLOBAL NOTE WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF THE DEPOSITORY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF. UNLESS AND UNTIL IT IS EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR NOTES IN DEFINITIVE FORM, THIS NOTE MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITORY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY TO THE DEPOSITORY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY OR BY THE DEPOSITORY OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITORY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR DEPOSITORY. Each Global Note for which the Depository Trust Company is the Depository shall also bear the following legend on the face thereof: UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC") TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUIRED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL SINCE THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN. (c) (i) If the Company determines (upon the advice of counsel and such other certifications and evidence as the Company may reasonably require) that any Note is eligible for resale pursuant to Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act (or a successor provision) and that the Restricted Legend is no longer necessary or appropriate in order to ensure that subsequent transfers of such Note (or a beneficial interest therein) are effected in compliance with the Securities Act, or (ii) after an Initial Note is (x) sold pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement or otherwise, or (y) exchanged for an Exchange Note, the Company may instruct the Trustee to cancel such Note and issue to the Holder thereof (or to its transferee) a new Note of like tenor and amount, registered in the name of the Holder thereof (or its transferee), that does not bear the Restricted Legend, and the Trustee will comply with such instruction. If a Note to be reissued under this Section 2.04(c) without a Restricted Legend is represented by a Global Note bearing the Restricted Legend, the principal amount of the legended Global Note shall be reduced by the principal amount of the Note to be 8
reissued without the Restricted Legend and the principal amount of a Global Note without the Restricted Legend of the appropriate series of Notes shall be increased by an equal principal amount. If a Global Note without the Restricted Legend of the appropriate series of Notes is not then outstanding, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver a Global Note of the appropriate series of Notes without the Restricted Legend to the Depository. SECTION 2.05. Transfer Restrictions. (a) By its acceptance of any Note bearing the Restricted Legend, each Holder of such a Note acknowledges the restrictions on transfer of such Note set forth in this Supplemental Indenture and in the Restricted Legend and agrees that it will transfer such Note only as provided in this Supplemental Indenture and the Restricted Legend. The Company and the Trustee as Securities registrar shall not register a transfer of any Note unless such transfer complies with the restrictions on transfer of such Note set forth in this Supplemental Indenture and the Restricted Legend. In connection with any transfer of Notes, each Holder agrees by its acceptance of the Notes to furnish the Trustee as Security registrar or the Company such certifications, legal opinions or other information as either of them may reasonably require to confirm that such transfer is being made pursuant to an exemption from, or a transaction not subject to, the registration requirements of the Securities Act; provided that the Trustee shall not be required to determine (but may rely on a determination made by the Company with respect to) the sufficiency of any such certifications, legal opinions or other information. The Trustee shall retain copies of all letters, notices and other written communications received pursuant to the Indenture or this Section 2.05(a). The Company shall have the right to inspect and make copies of all such letters, notices or other written communications at any reasonable time upon the giving of reasonable written notice to the Trustee. The Trustee shall have no obligation or duty to monitor, determine or inquire as to compliance with any restrictions on transfer imposed under this Supplemental Indenture or under applicable law with respect to any transfer of any interest in any Security (including any transfers between or among members of, or participants in, the Depository or beneficial owners of interests in any Global Note) other than to require delivery of such certificates and other documentation or evidence as are expressly required by, and to do so if and when expressly required by the terms of, this Supplemental Indenture, and to examine the same to determine substantial compliance as to form with the express requirements hereof. (b) The following provisions shall apply only to Global Notes: (i) Each Global Note authenticated under this Supplemental Indenture shall be registered in the name of the Depository or a nominee thereof and delivered to such Depository or a nominee thereof or the 9
Trustee if the Trustee is acting as custodian for the Depository or its nominee with respect to such Global Note, and each such Global Note shall constitute a single Security for all purposes of the Indenture and this Supplemental Indenture. (ii) Notwithstanding any other provision in the Indenture, as supplemented by this Supplemental Indenture, no Global Note may be exchanged in whole or in part for Notes registered, and no transfer of a Global Note in whole or in part may be registered, in the name of any Person other than the Depository or a nominee thereof unless (A) the Depository (x) has notified the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depository for such Global Note or (y) has ceased to be a clearing agency registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, (B) an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing with respect to the Notes or (C) the Company, in its sole discretion, notifies the Trustee in writing that it no longer wishes to have the Notes represented by a Global Note. Any Global Note exchanged pursuant to clause (A) or (B) above shall be so exchanged in whole and not in part and any Global Note exchanged pursuant to clause (C) above may be exchanged in whole or from time to time in part as directed by the Company. Any Note issued in exchange for a Global Note or any portion thereof shall be a Global Note; provided that any such Note so issued that is registered in the name of a Person other than the Depository or a nominee thereof shall not be a Global Note. (iii) Notes issued in exchange for a Global Note or any portion thereof pursuant to clause (ii) above shall be issued in definitive, fully registered form, without interest coupons, shall have an aggregate principal amount equal to that of such Global Note or portion thereof to be so exchanged, shall be registered in such names and be in such authorized denominations as the Depository shall designate and shall bear any legends required hereunder. Any Global Note to be exchanged in whole shall be surrendered by the Depository to the Trustee, as Securities registrar. With regard to any Global Note to be exchanged in part, either such Global Note shall be so surrendered for exchange or, if the Trustee is acting as custodian for the Depository or its nominee with respect to such Global Note, the principal amount thereof shall be reduced, by an amount equal to the portion thereof to be so exchanged, by means of an appropriate adjustment made on the records of the Trustee. Upon any such surrender or adjustment, the Trustee shall authenticate and make available for delivery the Note issuable on such exchange to or upon the written order of the Depository or an authorized representative thereof. (iv) In the event of the occurrence of any of the events specified in clause (ii) above, the Company will promptly make available to the 10
Trustee a reasonable supply of certificated Notes in definitive, fully registered form, without interest coupons. (v) Neither any members of, or participants in, the Depository ("AGENT MEMBERS") nor any other Persons on whose behalf Agent Members may act shall have any rights under the Indenture as supplemented by this Supplemental Indenture with respect to any Global Notes registered in the name of the Depository or any nominee thereof, and the Depository or such nominee, as the case may be, may be treated by the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee as the absolute owner and holder of such Global Notes for all purposes whatsoever. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall prevent the Company, the Trustee or any agent of the Company or the Trustee from giving effect to any written certification, proxy or other authorization furnished by the Depository or such nominee, as the case may be, or impair, as between the Depository, its Agent Members and any other Person on whose behalf an Agent Member may act, the operation of customary practices of such Persons governing the exercise of the rights of a holder of any Note. (vi) At such time as all interests in a Global Note have been redeemed, repurchased, converted, canceled or exchanged for Notes in certificated form, such Global Note shall, upon receipt thereof, be canceled by the Trustee in accordance with standing procedures and instructions existing between the Depository and the Trustee. At any time prior to such cancellation, if any interest in a Global Note is redeemed, repurchased, converted, canceled or exchanged for Notes in certificated form, the principal amount of such Global Note shall, in accordance with the standing procedures and instructions existing between the Depository and the Trustee, be appropriately reduced, and an endorsement shall be made on such Global Note, by the Trustee, at the direction of the Trustee, to reflect such reduction. Section 2.06. Additional Interest. If a Registration Default (as defined in the Registration Rights Agreement) occurs with respect to any Notes of this series, the interest rate borne by such Notes shall be increased as provided in the Registration Rights Agreement. Additional Interest (as defined in the Registration Rights Agreement) shall, for the purposes of the Notes, constitute "INTEREST" used in Article Four of the Indenture and interest for purposes of this Supplemental Indenture and Global Note. 11
ARTICLE 3 REDEMPTION OF THE NOTES Section 3.01 . Optional Redemption by Company. The Company may redeem the Notes, at any time in whole and from time to time in part, at the option of the Company, prior to the Stated Maturity at a redemption price (the "REDEMPTION PRICE") equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of such Notes and (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest thereon (exclusive of interest accrued but not paid to the Redemption Date (as defined below)) discounted to the redemption date on a semiannual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate plus 15 basis points, plus in each case accrued interest thereon but not paid to the Redemption Date. Except as set forth above, the Securities will not be redeemable by the Company prior to maturity. The Company shall give notice to the Trustee of any redemption specifying the date of such redemption by Company Order at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the date such Notes are to be redeemed (each, a "REDEMPTION DATE"). Unless the Company defaults in payment of the Redemption Price, on and after any Redemption Date interest will cease to accrue on the Notes or portions thereof called for redemption. The Company shall pay interest to a Person other than the Holder of record on the Regular Record Date if the Company elects to redeem the Notes on a date that is after a Regular Record Date but on or prior to the corresponding Interest Payment Date. In this instance, the Company shall pay accrued interest on the Notes being redeemed to, but not including, the Redemption Date to the same Person to whom the Company shall pay the Redemption Price of those Notes. The Notes are not subject to any sinking fund. Section 3.02. Selection of Notes to Be Redeemed. If less than all of the Notes are to be redeemed, unless the procedures of the Depositary provide otherwise, the Trustee shall select the Notes to be redeemed by lot, on a pro rata basis or by another method the Trustee considers fair and appropriate (so long as such method is not prohibited by the rules of any stock exchange or quotation association on which the Notes are then traded or quoted). Subject to the previous sentence, the Trustee shall make the selection within five Business Days after it receives the notice provided for in Section 3.01 from outstanding Notes not previously called for redemption. The Trustee may select for redemption portions of the principal amount of Notes that have denominations larger than $1,000. 12
Notes and portions of Notes that the Trustee selects shall be in principal amounts of $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000. Provisions of this Supplemental Indenture that apply to Notes called for redemption also apply to portions of Notes called for redemption. The Trustee shall notify the Company promptly of the Notes or portions of the Notes to be redeemed. Section 3.03. Redemption Notice. At least 30 days but not more than 60 days before a Redemption Date, the Company shall mail a notice of redemption (a "REDEMPTION NOTICE") by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to each Holder of Notes to be redeemed. The notice shall identify the Notes to be redeemed and shall state: (1) the Redemption Date; (2) the Redemption Price; (3) the name and address of the Paying Agent; (4) that Notes called for redemption will be redeemed on the Redemption Date; (5) that Notes called for redemption must be surrendered to the Paying Agent to collect the Redemption Price; (6) if fewer than all of the outstanding Notes are to be redeemed, the certificate numbers, if any, and principal amounts of the particular Notes to be redeemed; (7) that, unless the Company defaults in making payment of such Redemption Price, interest and Additional Interest, if any, on Notes called for redemption will cease to accrue on and after the Redemption Date; and (8) the CUSIP number(s) of the Notes. At the Company's request, the Trustee shall give the Redemption Notice in the Company's name and at the Company's expense; provided that the Company makes such request at least seven Business Days prior to the date by which such Redemption Notice must be given to Holders in accordance with this Section 3.03 and the text of such notice is completed by the Company. Section 3.04. Effect of Redemption Notice. Once the Redemption Notice is given, Notes called for redemption become due and payable on the Redemption Date and at the Redemption Price stated in the notice. Upon surrender to the Paying Agent, such Notes shall be paid at the Redemption Price stated in the notice. 13
Section 3.05. Deposit of Redemption Price. Prior to 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the Redemption Date, the Company shall deposit with the Paying Agent money sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of all Notes to be redeemed on that date other than Notes or portions of Notes called for redemption which on or prior thereto have been delivered by the Company to the Trustee for cancellation. If such money is then held by the Company in trust and is not required for such purpose it shall be discharged from such trust. Section 3.06. Securities Redeemed in Part. Upon surrender of a Note that is redeemed in part, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder a new Note in an authorized denomination equal in principal amount to the unredeemed portion of the Security surrendered. ARTICLE 4 DEFEASANCE Section 4.01. Defeasance By The Company. The Notes shall be subject to defeasance at the option of the Company in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in Article 11 of the Indenture. ARTICLE 5 MISCELLANEOUS Section 5.01. Rule 144A Information; No Resales By Affiliates. (a) Within the period prior to the expiration of the holding period applicable to sales thereof under Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act (or any successor provision), the Company covenants and agrees that it shall, during any period in which it is not subject to Section 13 or 15(d) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, make available to any Holder or beneficial Holder of Initial Notes in connection with any sale thereof and any prospective purchaser of Initial Notes designated by such Holder or beneficial Holder, the information required pursuant to Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Securities Act upon the request of any Holder or beneficial Holder of the Initial Notes and it will take such further action as any Holder or beneficial Holder of such Initial Notes may reasonably request, all to the extent required from time to time to enable such Holder or beneficial Holder to sell its Initial Notes without registration under the Securities Act within the limitation of the exemption provided by Rule 144A, as such Rule may be amended from time to time. Upon the request of any Holder or any beneficial Holder of the Initial Notes, the Company will deliver to such Holder a written statement as to whether it has complied with such requirements. (b) Any Initial Notes that, prior to the expiration of the holding period applicable to sales thereof under Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act (or any successor provision), are purchased or owned by the Company or any affiliate 14
thereof (within the meaning of Rule 144) that is controlled by the Company may not be resold by the Company or such affiliate unless registered under the Securities Act or resold pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act in a transaction which results in such Initial Notes no longer being "RESTRICTED SECURITIES" (as defined under Rule 144). Section 5.02. Ratification Of Indenture. The Indenture, as supplemented by this Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects ratified and confirmed, and this Supplemental Indenture shall be deemed part of the Indenture in the manner and to the extent herein and therein provided. Section 5.03. Trustee Not Responsible For Recitals. The recitals herein contained are made by the Company and not by the Trustee, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for the correctness thereof. The Trustee makes no representation as to the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture. Section 5.04. Governing Law. This Supplemental Indenture and each Note shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York without regard to the principles of conflicts of laws thereof. Section 5.05. Separability. In case any one or more of the provisions contained in this Supplemental Indenture or in the Notes shall for any reason be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability shall not affect any other provisions of this Supplemental Indenture or of the Notes, but this Supplemental Indenture and the Notes shall be construed as if such invalid or illegal or unenforceable provision had never been contained herein or therein. Section 5.06. Counterparts. This Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts each of which shall be an original; but such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument. 15
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Supplemental Indenture to be signed and acknowledged by its duly authorized officers, and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., has caused this Supplemental Indenture to be signed by one of its duly authorized officers, as of the day and year first above written. CINCINNATI FINANCIAL CORPORATION By: /s/ John J. Schiff, Jr. -------------------------------------- Name: John J. Schiff, Jr. Title: President and Chief Executive Officer By: /s/ Kenneth W. Stecher -------------------------------------- Name: Kenneth W. Stecher Title: Treasurer THE BANK OF NEW YORK TRUST COMPANY, N.A., as Trustee By: /s/ Geoffrey D. Anderson -------------------------------------- Name: Geoffrey D. Anderson Title: Assistant Vice President
EXHIBIT A1 [FACE OF NOTE] [Unless and until a Note is exchanged for an Exchange Note or sold in connection with an effective Registration Statement pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement, the Notes shall bear the legend set forth below on the face thereof :] [INSERT RESTRICTIVE LEGEND, IF REQUIRED] A1-1
CUSIP No. 172062AD3 CINCINNATI FINANCIAL CORPORATION 6.125% Senior Notes Due 2034 No. 1 $375,000,000 CINCINNATI FINANCIAL CORPORATION, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of Ohio (herein called the "COMPANY", which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture referred to herein), for value received, hereby promises to pay to CEDE & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of THREE HUNDRED SEVENTY FIVE MILLION DOLLARS ($375,000,000) on November 1, 2034, and to pay interest thereon from November 1, 2004, or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semiannually in arrears on May 1 and November 1 in each year commencing May 1, 2005, at the rate of 6.125% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more predecessor Notes) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the April 15 or October 15 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date; provided, however, that interest at Stated Maturity will be payable to the Person to whom principal shall be payable. Except as otherwise provided in the Indenture, any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more predecessor Notes) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Notes of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Notes of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture. Payment of the principal of and interest on this Note will be made at the Place of Payment which, subject to the right of the Company to vary or terminate the appointment of such agency, shall initially be the principal office of the Trustee, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; provided, however, that, at the option of the Company, payment of interest may be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register. A1-2
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Note set forth on the pages following the certificate of authentication hereon, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place. Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to below, directly or through an Authenticating Agent, by manual signature of an authorized officer, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose. A1-3
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Cincinnati Financial Corporation has caused this instrument to be signed by its duly authorized officers. Dated: November 1, 2004 CINCINNATI FINANCIAL CORPORATION By: _____________________________________ Title: By: _____________________________________ Title: A1-4
CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION This is one of the Notes of the series designated herein and referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture. The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee By: _____________________________________ Authorized Signatory A1-5
[REVERSE OF SECURITY] CINCINNATI FINANCIAL CORPORATION 6.125% Notes Due 2034 This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of Securities of the Company (herein called the "NOTES"), issued and to be issued in one or more series under the Indenture, dated as of November 1, 2004 and the Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 1, 2004 (collectively herein called the "INDENTURE"), between the Company and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. (herein called the "TRUSTEE," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Notes and of the terms upon which the Notes are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Note is one of the Notes of the series designated herein, limited in aggregate principal amount to $375,000,000. The Notes are redeemable, at any time in whole and from time to time in part, at the option of the Company, prior to the Stated Maturity at the Redemption Price and on any Redemption Date as provided in the Indenture. This Note is not subject to any sinking fund. As provided in the Indenture, defeasance may occur at any time of (a) the entire indebtedness of the Company on this Note and (b) certain restrictive covenants and the related defaults and Events of Default, upon compliance by the Company with certain conditions set forth therein, which provisions apply to this Note. If an Event of Default with respect to Notes of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Notes of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture. The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series (including these Notes) to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of greater than 50% in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of each series affected. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of each series affected, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or A2-1
waiver by the Holder of this Note shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Note and of any Note issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Note. As set forth in, and subject to, the provisions of the Indenture, no Holder of any Note will have any right to institute any proceeding with respect to the Indenture or for any remedy thereunder, unless such Holder shall have previously given to the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to such Security, the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Notes shall have made written request, and offered indemnity, to the Trustee to institute such proceeding as trustee, and the Trustee shall not have received from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Notes a direction inconsistent with such request and shall have failed to institute such proceeding within 60 days; provided, however, that such limitations do not apply to a suit instituted by the Holder hereof for the enforcement of payment of the principal of or interest on this Note on or after the respective due dates expressed herein. No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and interest on this Note at the times, places, and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Note is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Notes of this series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees. The Notes of this series are issuable only in global or definitive registered form, without coupons, in denominations of $1,000 and integral multiples thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth and to the limitations described below, if applicable, Notes are exchangeable at the office or agency of the Company for a like aggregate principal amount of Notes of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same. [TO BE INCLUDED IN INITIAL NOTES, NOT EXCHANGE NOTES: If a Registration Default (as defined in the Registration Rights Agreement) A2-2
occurs, then the Company shall pay Additional Interest (as defined in the Registration Rights Agreement) (in addition to the interest otherwise due hereon) to the Holder as provided in the Registration Rights Agreement.] [TO BE INCLUDED IN EXCHANGE NOTES: There shall also be payable in respect of this Security all Additional Interest that may have accrued on the Note for which this Note was exchanged (as defined in such Note) pursuant to the Exchange Offer, such Additional Interest to be calculated in accordance with the terms of such Security and payable at the same time and in the same manner as periodic interest on this Note.] This Note is exchangeable for Notes in definitive registered form only if (x) the Depository notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depository for this Global Note or if at any time the Depository ceases to be a clearing agency registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (y) the Company in its sole discretion determines that this Note shall be exchangeable for definitive Notes in registered form and so notifies the Trustee or (z) an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing; provided that the definitive Notes so issued in exchange for this Global Note shall be in denominations of $1,000 and integral multiples thereof and be of like aggregate principal amount and tenor as the portion of this Global Note to be exchanged, and provided further that, unless the Company agrees otherwise, Notes of this series in definitive registered form will be issued in exchange for this Global Note, or any portion hereof, only if such Notes in definitive registered form were requested by written notice to the Trustee or the Security Registrar by or on behalf of a Person who is beneficial owner of an interest hereof given through the Holder hereof. Except as provided above, owners of beneficial interests in this Global Note will not be entitled to receive physical delivery of Notes in definitive registered form and will not be considered the Holders thereof for any purpose under the Indenture. No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith. Prior to the due presentment of this Note for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Note is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Note is overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary. The Indenture and the Notes shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York. A2-3
All terms used in this Note which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture. ABBREVIATIONS The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of this instrument, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations: TEN COM -- as tenants in common TEN ENT -- as tenants by the entireties JT TEN -- as joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common UNIF GIFT MIN ACT -- Custodian Under Uniform Gifts to Minors Act (Cust) (Minor) (State) Additional abbreviations may also be used though not in the above list. A2-4
[FORM OF TRANSFER NOTICE] FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby sell(s), assign(s) and transfer(s) unto PLEASE INSERT SOCIAL SECURITY OR OTHER IDENTIFYING NUMBER OF ASSIGNEE ______________________________ PLEASE PRINT OR TYPEWRITE NAME AND ADDRESS INCLUDING POSTAL ZIP CODE OF ASSIGNEE ______________________________ ______________________________ ______________________________ the within Note and all rights thereunder, hereby irrevocably constituting and appointing ____________ attorney to transfer said Security on the books of the Company, with full power of substitution in the premises. Dated: ________________________________________ Signature NOTICE: THE SIGNATURE TO THIS ASSIGNMENT MUST CORRESPOND WITH THE NAME AS WRITTEN UPON THE FACE OF THE WITHIN INSTRUMENT IN EVERY PARTICULAR, WITHOUT ALTERATION OR ENLARGEMENT OR ANY CHANGE WHATEVER. A2-5
[THE FOLLOWING PROVISION TO BE INCLUDED ON ALL NOTES OTHER THAN EXCHANGE NOTES] In connection with any transfer of this Note occurring prior to the date which is the earlier of (i) the date of an effective Registration or completion of the Exchange Offer (as defined in the Registration Rights Agreement) or (ii) two years (or such lesser period as may be provided in any amendment to Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act) after the later of the original issuance of this Note or the last date on which this Note was held by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company, the undersigned confirms that without utilizing any general solicitation or general advertising that this Note is being transferred in accordance with its terms: [Check One] (1) [ ] to the Company or a subsidiary of the Company; (2) [ ] pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933; or (3) [ ] to a "qualified institutional buyer" (as defined in Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933) that purchases for its own account or for the account of a qualified institutional buyer to whom notice is given that such transfer is being made in reliance on Rule 144A, in each case pursuant to and in compliance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933; or (4) [ ] pursuant to another available exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933. Unless one of the boxes is checked, the Trustee will refuse to register any of the Notes evidenced by this certificate in the name of any Person other than the registered holder thereof, provided, however, that if box (4) is checked, the Trustee may require, prior to registering any such transfer of the Notes, such legal opinions, certifications and other information as the Company has reasonably requested to confirm that such transfer is being made pursuant to an exemption from, or in a transaction not subject to, the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933. Signature Signature Guarantee: Signature must be guaranteed Signature A2-6
Signatures must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution" meeting the requirements of the Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Security Transfer Agent Medallion Program ("STAMP") or such other "signature guarantee program" as may be determined by the Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. A2-7
TO BE COMPLETED BY PURCHASER IF (3) ABOVE IS CHECKED. The undersigned represents and warrants that it is purchasing this Note for its own account or an account with respect to which it exercises sole investment discretion and that it and any such account is a "qualified institutional buyer" within the meaning of Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, and is aware that the sale to it is being made in reliance on Rule 144A and acknowledges that it has received such information regarding the Company as the undersigned has requested pursuant to Rule 144A or has determined not to request such information and that it is aware that the transferor is relying upon the undersigned's foregoing representations in order to claim the exemption from registration provided by Rule 144A. Dated:________________ ____________________________________ NOTICE: To be executed by an executive officer A2-8
Schedule I [Include as Schedule I only for a Global Note] SCHEDULE OF EXCHANGES OF DEFINITIVE NOTES CINCINNATI FINANCIAL CORPORATION 6.125% Senior Notes due 2034 No. [ ] The following exchanges of a part of this Global Note for Definitive Notes have been made: A2-9

EXHIBIT 4.3 CINCINNATI FINANCIAL CORPORATION 6.125% Senior Notes due 2034 Registration Rights Agreement This REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT dated November 1, 2004 (the "AGREEMENT") is entered into by and among Cincinnati Financial Corporation, an Ohio corporation (the "COMPANY"), and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and UBS Securities LLC, as representatives of the Initial Purchasers listed on Schedule 1 to the Purchase Agreement referred to below (each an "INITIAL PURCHASER" and, collectively, the "INITIAL PURCHASERS"). The Company and the Initial Purchasers are parties to the Purchase Agreement dated November 1, 2004 (the "PURCHASE AGREEMENT"), which provides for the sale by the Company to the Initial Purchasers of $375,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 6.125% Senior Notes due 2034 (the "SECURITIES"). As an inducement to the Initial Purchasers to enter into the Purchase Agreement, the Company has agreed to provide to the Initial Purchasers and their direct and indirect transferees the registration rights set forth in this Agreement. The execution and delivery of this Agreement is a condition to the closing under the Purchase Agreement. In consideration of the foregoing, the parties hereto agree as follows: 1. Definitions. As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings: "BUSINESS DAY" shall mean any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in New York City or Cincinnati, Ohio are authorized or required by law to remain closed. "CLOSING DATE" shall mean the Closing Date as defined in the Purchase Agreement. "COMPANY" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble and shall also include the Company's successors. "EXCHANGE ACT" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time. "EXCHANGE DATES" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(b)(ii) hereof. "EXCHANGE OFFER" shall mean the exchange offer by the Company of Exchange Securities for Registrable Securities pursuant to Section 2(a)-(e) hereof.
"EXCHANGE OFFER REGISTRATION" shall mean a registration under the Securities Act effected pursuant to Section 2(a)-(e) hereof. "EXCHANGE OFFER REGISTRATION STATEMENT" shall mean an exchange offer registration statement on Form S-4 (or, if applicable, on another appropriate form) and all amendments and supplements to such registration statement, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein, all exhibits thereto and any document incorporated by reference therein. "EXCHANGE SECURITIES" shall mean senior notes issued by the Company under the Indenture containing terms identical to the Securities (except that the Exchange Securities will not be subject to restrictions on transfer or to any increase in annual interest rate for failure to comply with this Agreement) and to be offered to Holders of Securities in exchange for such Securities pursuant to the Exchange Offer. "HOLDERS" shall mean the Initial Purchasers, for so long as they own any Registrable Securities, and each of their successors, assigns and direct and indirect transferees who become owners of Registrable Securities under the Indenture; provided that for purposes of Sections 4 and 5 of this Agreement, the term "Holders" shall include Participating Broker-Dealers. "INDENTURE" shall mean the Indenture and the Supplemental Indenture relating to the Securities, each dated as of the date hereof, between the Company and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as trustee, and as the same may be amended from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof. "INITIAL PURCHASERS" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble. "INSPECTOR" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a)(xiii) hereof. "MAJORITY HOLDERS" shall mean the Holders of a majority of the aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Registrable Securities; provided that whenever the consent or approval of Holders of a specified percentage of Registrable Securities is required hereunder, any Registrable Securities owned directly or indirectly by the Company or any of its affiliates shall not be counted in determining whether such consent or approval was given by the Holders of such required percentage or amount; and provided, further, that if the Company shall issue any additional Securities under the Indenture prior to consummation of the Exchange Offer or, if applicable, the effectiveness of any Shelf Registration Statement, such additional Securities and the Registrable Securities to which this Agreement relates shall be treated together as one class for purposes of determining whether the consent or approval of Holders of a specified percentage of Registrable Securities has been obtained. "PARTICIPATING BROKER-DEALERS" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 2
"PERSON" shall mean an individual, partnership, limited liability company, corporation, trust or unincorporated organization, or a government or agency or political subdivision thereof. "PROSPECTUS" shall mean the prospectus included in a Registration Statement, including any preliminary prospectus, and any such prospectus as amended or supplemented by any prospectus supplement, including a prospectus supplement with respect to the terms of the offering of any portion of the Registrable Securities covered by a Shelf Registration Statement, and by all other amendments and supplements to such prospectus, and in each case including any document incorporated by reference therein. "PURCHASE AGREEMENT" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble. "REGISTRABLE SECURITIES" shall mean the Securities; provided that the Securities shall cease to be Registrable Securities (i) when a Registration Statement with respect to such Securities has been declared effective under the Securities Act and such Securities have been exchanged or disposed of pursuant to such Registration Statement, (ii) when such Securities are eligible to be sold pursuant to Rule 144(k) (or any similar provision then in force, but not Rule 144A) under the Securities Act or (iii) when such Securities cease to be outstanding. "REGISTRATION DEFAULT" includes any of the following: (i) the Company fails to file any of the Registration Statements required by this Agreement on or before the date specified for such filing, (ii) any of such Registration Statements is not declared effective by the SEC on or prior to the date specified for such effectiveness, (iii) the Company fails to complete the Exchange Offer on or prior to the date specified for such completion; or (iv) the Shelf Registration Statement is declared effective but thereafter ceases to be effective or usable in connection with resales of the Securities during the period specified in the Agreement, subject to the Company's right to suspend the availability of the Shelf Registration Statement for certain periods. "REGISTRATION EXPENSES" shall mean any and all expenses incident to performance of or compliance by the Company with this Agreement, including without limitation: (i) all SEC, stock exchange or National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. registration and filing fees; (ii) all fees and expenses incurred in connection with compliance with state securities or blue sky laws (including reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for any Underwriters or Holders in connection with blue sky qualification of any Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities); (iii) all expenses of any Persons in preparing or assisting in preparing, word processing, printing and distributing any Registration Statement, any Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto, any underwriting agreements, securities sales agreements or other similar agreements and any other documents relating to the performance of and compliance with this Agreement; (iv) all rating agency fees; (v) all fees and disbursements relating to the qualification of the Indenture under applicable securities laws; (vi) the fees and disbursements of the Trustee and its counsel; (vii) the fees and disbursements of counsel for the Company and, in the case of a Shelf Registration 3
Statement, the fees and disbursements of one counsel for the Holders (which counsel shall be selected by the Majority Holders and which counsel may also be counsel for the Initial Purchasers); and (viii) the fees and disbursements of the independent public accountants of the Company, including the expenses of any special audits or "comfort" letters required by or incident to the performance of and compliance with this Agreement, but excluding fees and expenses of counsel to the Underwriters (other than fees and expenses set forth in clause (ii) above) or the Holders and underwriting discounts and commissions, brokerage commissions and transfer taxes, if any, relating to the sale or disposition of Registrable Securities by a Holder. "REGISTRATION STATEMENT" shall mean any registration statement of the Company that covers any of the Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement and all amendments and supplements to any such registration statement, including post-effective amendments, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein, all exhibits thereto and any document incorporated by reference therein. "SEC" shall mean the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. "SECURITIES ACT" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended from time to time. "SHELF EFFECTIVENESS PERIOD" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(g)(iii) hereof. "SHELF REGISTRATION" shall mean a registration effected pursuant to Section 2(f)- (h) hereof. "SHELF REGISTRATION STATEMENT" shall mean a "shelf" registration statement of the Company that covers all or a portion of the Registrable Securities (but no other securities unless approved by the Holders whose Registrable Securities are to be covered by such Shelf Registration Statement) on an appropriate form under Rule 415 under the Securities Act, or any similar rule that may be adopted by the SEC, and all amendments and supplements to such registration statement, including post-effective amendments, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein, all exhibits thereto and any document incorporated by reference therein. "STAFF" shall mean the staff of the SEC. "TRUST INDENTURE ACT" shall mean the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended from time to time. "TRUSTEE" shall mean the trustee with respect to the Securities under the Indenture. "UNDERWRITER" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(e) hereof. 4
"UNDERWRITTEN OFFERING" shall mean an offering in which Registrable Securities are sold to an Underwriter for reoffering to the public. 2. Registration Under the Securities Act. (a) To the extent not prohibited by any applicable law or applicable interpretations of the Staff, the Company shall (i) file an Exchange Offer Registration Statement covering an offer to the Holders to exchange all the Registrable Securities for Exchange Securities no later than the 90th day after the date that the Securities are first issued, (ii) use its reasonable best efforts to cause the Exchange Offer Registration Statement to become effective under the Securities Act no later than the 150th day after the Securities are first issued, (iii) use its reasonable best efforts to commence the Exchange Offer within 30 days after the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is declared effective by the SEC and keep the Exchange Offer open for a period of not less than 20 Business Days (or longer, if required by applicable law) after the date on which the notice of the Exchange Offer is mailed to Holders of the Securities and (iv) complete the Exchange Offer not later than the 180th day after the Securities are first issued. (b) The Company shall commence the Exchange Offer by mailing the related Prospectus, appropriate letters of transmittal and other accompanying documents to each Holder stating, in addition to such other disclosures as are required by applicable law, substantially the following: (i) that the Exchange Offer is being made pursuant to this Agreement and that all Registrable Securities validly tendered and not properly withdrawn will be accepted for exchange; (ii) the dates of acceptance for exchange (which shall be a period of at least 20 Business Days from the date such notice is mailed) (the "EXCHANGE DATES"); (iii) that any Registrable Security not tendered will remain outstanding and continue to accrue interest but will not retain any rights under this Agreement; (iv) that any Holder electing to have a Registrable Security exchanged pursuant to the Exchange Offer will be required to surrender such Registrable Security, together with the appropriate letters of transmittal, to the institution and at the address (located in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York) and in the manner specified in the notice, prior to the close of business on the last Exchange Date; and (v) that any Holder will be entitled to withdraw its election, not later than the close of business on the last Exchange Date, by sending to the institution and at the address (located in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York) specified in the notice, a telegram, telex, facsimile transmission or 5
letter setting forth the name of such Holder, the principal amount of Registrable Securities delivered for exchange and a statement that such Holder is withdrawing its election to have such Securities exchanged. (c) As a condition to participating in the Exchange Offer, a Holder will be required to represent to the Company that: (i) any Exchange Securities to be received by it will be acquired in the ordinary course of its business; (ii) at the time of the commencement of the Exchange Offer, it has no arrangement or understanding with any Person to participate in the distribution (within the meaning of the Securities Act) of the Exchange Securities in violation of the provisions of the Securities Act; (iii) it is not an "affiliate" (within the meaning of Rule 405 under the Securities Act) of the Company, or if it is an affiliate, it will comply with the registration and prospectus delivery requirements of the Securities Act to the extent applicable; (iv) if it is not a broker-dealer, it is not engaged in, and do not intend to engage in, the distribution of the Exchange Securities; and (v) if such Holder is a broker-dealer that will receive Exchange Securities for its own account in exchange for Registrable Securities that were acquired as a result of market-making or other trading activities, then such Holder will deliver a Prospectus in connection with any resale of such Exchange Securities; and (vi) it is not acting on behalf of any person who could not truthfully make the foregoing representations. (d) As soon as practicable after the last Exchange Date, the Company shall: (i) accept for exchange Registrable Securities or portions thereof validly tendered and not properly withdrawn pursuant to the Exchange Offer; and (ii) deliver, or cause to be delivered, to the Trustee for cancellation all Registrable Securities or portions thereof so accepted for exchange by the Company and issue, and cause the Trustee to promptly authenticate and deliver to each Holder, Exchange Securities equal in principal amount to the principal amount of the Registrable Securities surrendered by such Holder. (e) The Company shall complete the Exchange Offer as provided above and shall comply in all material respects with the applicable requirements of the Securities 6
Act, the Exchange Act and other applicable laws and regulations in connection with the Exchange Offer. The Exchange Offer shall not be subject to any conditions, other than that the Exchange Offer does not violate any applicable law or applicable interpretations of the Staff. (f) In the event that (i) after the date the Securities are issued, there is a change in law or applicable interpretations of the law by the staff of the SEC, and as a result, the Company is not permitted to complete the Exchange Offer as contemplated by this Agreement, (ii) any Holder of the Securities is prohibited by law or SEC policy to participate in the Exchange Offer, (iii) any Holder of the Securities does not receive freely tradable Exchange Notes, (iv) the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is not declared effective or the Exchange Offer is not consummated prior to the dates specified in this Agreement, or (v) any Initial Purchaser so requests with respect to Securities that are not eligible to be exchanged for Exchange Securities in the Exchange offer and that are held by it following consummation of the Exchange Offer, the Company is requested to do so by any Initial Purchaser, the Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause to be filed as soon as practicable after such determination, date or request, as the case may be, a Shelf Registration Statement providing for the sale of all the Registrable Securities by the Holders thereof and to have such Shelf Registration Statement declared effective by the SEC. (g) In the event that the Company is required to file a Shelf Registration Statement, the Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to: (i) file a Shelf Registration Statement with the SEC after such obligation arises; (ii) cause the Shelf Registration Statement to be declared effective by the SEC as promptly as reasonably practicable after filing, but no later than the 210th day after the Securities are first issued; and (iii) keep the Shelf Registration Statement effective for a period of two years after the date the Shelf Registration Statement is declared effective (or one year in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement effected at the request of the Initial Purchasers), or such shorter period that will terminate when all of the Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement are sold thereunder or are already freely tradable ("SHELF EFFECTIVENESS PERIOD"). (h) The Company further agrees to supplement or amend the Shelf Registration Statement and the related Prospectus if required by the rules, regulations or instructions applicable to the registration form used by the Company for such Shelf Registration Statement or by the Securities Act or by any other rules and regulations thereunder for shelf registration or if reasonably requested by a Holder of Registrable Securities with respect to information relating to such Holder, and to use its reasonable best efforts to cause any such amendment to become effective and such Shelf Registration Statement and Prospectus to become usable as soon as thereafter practicable. 7
The Company agrees to furnish to the Holders of Registrable Securities copies of any such supplement or amendment promptly after it has being used or filed with the SEC. (i) The Company shall pay all Registration Expenses in connection with any registration pursuant to Section 2(a)-(h) hereof. Each Holder shall pay all underwriting discounts and commissions, brokerage commissions and transfer taxes, if any, relating to the sale or disposition of such Holder's Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement. (j) An Exchange Offer Registration Statement pursuant to Section 2(a)-(e) hereof or a Shelf Registration Statement pursuant to Section 2(f)-(h) hereof will not be deemed to have become effective unless it has been declared effective by the SEC. (k) If (i) the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is not filed prior to the date specified in Section 2(a)(i), (ii) the Exchange Offer Registration Statement or the Shelf Registration Statement, as the case may be, is not declared effective prior to the date specified in Section 2(a)(ii) or Section 2(g)(ii), respectively, (iii) the Exchange Offer is not completed prior to the date specified in Section 2(a)(iv), or (iv) the Shelf Registration Statement, if required hereby, has been declared effective and thereafter either ceases to be effective or the Prospectus contained therein ceases to be usable at any time during the Shelf Effectiveness Period, and such failure to remain effective or usable exists for more than 30 days (whether or not consecutive) in any 12-month period, then the Company shall pay additional interest to each Holder of the Securities equal to 0.25% per annum upon the occurrence of each Registration Default which amount shall increase by an additional 0.25% per annum for each subsequent 90-day period that a Registration Default remains uncured; however, in no event shall the rate of additional interest exceed .50% per annum ("ADDITIONAL INTEREST"). Such Additional Interest will accrue only for those days that a Registration Default occurs and is continuing. All accrued Additional Interest will be paid to the Holders of the Securities in the same manner as interest payments on the Securities, with payments being made on the interest payment dates for the Securities. Following the cure of all Registration Defaults, no more Additional Interest will accrue. (l) Without limiting the remedies available to the Initial Purchasers and the Holders, the Company acknowledge that any failure by the Company to comply with its obligations under Section 2(a)-(h) hereof may result in material irreparable injury to the Initial Purchasers or the Holders for which there is no adequate remedy at law, that it will not be possible to measure damages for such injuries precisely and that, in the event of any such failure, the Initial Purchasers or any Holder may obtain such relief as may be required to specifically enforce the Company's obligations under Section 2(a)-(h) hereof. 3. Registration Procedures. (a) In connection with its obligations pursuant to Section 2(a)-(h) hereof, the Company shall as expeditiously as possible: (i) prepare and file with the SEC a Registration Statement on the appropriate form under the Securities Act, which form (x) shall be selected by the Company, (y) 8
shall, in the case of a Shelf Registration, be available for the sale of the Registrable Securities by the Holders thereof and (z) shall comply as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the applicable form and include all financial statements required by the SEC to be filed therewith; and use its reasonable best efforts to cause such Registration Statement to become effective and remain effective for the applicable period in accordance with Section 2 hereof; (ii) prepare and file with the SEC such amendments and post-effective amendments to each Registration Statement as may be necessary to keep such Registration Statement effective for the applicable period in accordance with Section 2 hereof and cause each Prospectus to be supplemented by any required prospectus supplement and, as so supplemented, to be filed pursuant to Rule 424 under the Securities Act; and keep each Prospectus current during the period described in Section 4(3) of and Rule 174 under the Securities Act that is applicable to transactions by brokers or dealers with respect to the Registrable Securities or Exchange Securities; (iii) in the case of a Shelf Registration, furnish to each Holder of Registrable Securities that are covered by the Shelf Registration Statement, to counsel for the Initial Purchasers, to counsel for such Holders and to each Underwriter of an Underwritten Offering of Registrable Securities, if any, without charge, as many copies of each Prospectus, including each preliminary Prospectus, and any amendment or supplement thereto, in order to facilitate the sale or other disposition of the Registrable Securities thereunder; and the Company consents to the use of such Prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto in accordance with applicable law by each of the Holders of Registrable Securities and any such Underwriters in connection with the offering and sale of the Registrable Securities covered by and in the manner described in such Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto in accordance with applicable law; (iv) use its reasonable best efforts to register or qualify the Registrable Securities under all applicable state securities or blue sky laws of such jurisdictions as any Holder of Registrable Securities covered by a Registration Statement shall reasonably request in writing by the time the applicable Registration Statement is declared effective by the SEC; cooperate with such Holders in connection with any filings required to be made with the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.; and do any and all other acts and things that may be reasonably necessary or advisable to enable each Holder to complete the disposition in each such jurisdiction of the Registrable Securities owned by such Holder; provided that the Company shall not be required to (1) qualify as a foreign corporation or other entity or as a dealer in securities in any such jurisdiction where it would not otherwise be required to so qualify, (2) file any general consent to service of process in any such jurisdiction or (3) subject itself to taxation in any such jurisdiction if it is not so subject; (v) in the case of a Shelf Registration, notify each Holder of Registrable Securities that are covered by the Shelf Registration Statement, counsel for such Holders and counsel for the Initial Purchasers promptly and, if requested by any such Holder or counsel, confirm such advice in writing (1) when a Registration Statement has become 9
effective and when any post-effective amendment thereto has been filed and becomes effective, (2) of any request by the SEC or any state securities authority for amendments and supplements to a Registration Statement and Prospectus or for additional information after the Registration Statement has become effective, (3) of the issuance by the SEC or any state securities authority of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of a Registration Statement or the initiation of any proceedings for that purpose, (4) if, between the effective date of a Registration Statement and the closing of any sale of Registrable Securities covered thereby, the representations and warranties of the Company contained in any underwriting agreement, securities sales agreement or other similar agreement, if any, relating to an offering of such Registrable Securities cease to be true and correct in all material respects or if the Company receives any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of the Registrable Securities for sale in any jurisdiction or the initiation of any proceeding for such purpose, (5) of the happening of any event during the period a Shelf Registration Statement is effective that makes any statement made in such Registration Statement or the related Prospectus untrue in any material respect or that requires the making of any changes in such Registration Statement or Prospectus in order to make the statements therein not misleading and (6) of any determination by the Company that a post-effective amendment to a Registration Statement would be appropriate; (vi) use its reasonable best efforts to obtain the withdrawal of any order suspending the effectiveness of a Registration Statement at the earliest possible moment and provide immediate notice to each Holder of the withdrawal of any such order; (vii) in the case of a Shelf Registration, furnish to each Holder of Registrable Securities, without charge, at least one conformed copy of each Registration Statement and any post-effective amendment thereto (without any documents incorporated therein by reference or exhibits thereto, unless requested); (viii) in the case of a Shelf Registration, cooperate with the Holders of Registrable Securities to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates representing Registrable Securities to be sold and not bearing any restrictive legends and enable such Registrable Securities to be issued in such denominations and registered in such names (consistent with the provisions of the Indenture) as such Holders may reasonably request at least one Business Day prior to the closing of any sale of Registrable Securities; (ix) in the case of a Shelf Registration, upon the occurrence of any event contemplated by Section 3(a)(v)(5) hereof, use its reasonable best efforts to prepare and file with the SEC a supplement or post-effective amendment to such Shelf Registration Statement or the related Prospectus or any document incorporated therein by reference or file any other required document so that, as thereafter delivered to purchasers of the Registrable Securities, such Prospectus will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; and the Company shall notify the Holders of Registrable Securities to suspend use of the 10
Prospectus as promptly as practicable after the occurrence of such an event, and such Holders hereby agree to suspend use of the Prospectus until the Company has amended or supplemented the Prospectus to correct such misstatement or omission; (x) a reasonable time prior to the filing of any Registration Statement, any Prospectus, any amendment to a Registration Statement or amendment or supplement to a Prospectus or of any document that is to be incorporated by reference into a Registration Statement or a Prospectus after initial filing of a Registration Statement, provide copies of such document to the Initial Purchasers and their counsel (and, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, to the Holders of Registrable Securities and their counsel) and make such of the representatives of the Company as shall be reasonably requested by the Initial Purchasers or their counsel (and, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the Holders of Registrable Securities or their counsel) available for discussion of such document; and the Company shall not, at any time after initial filing of a Registration Statement, file any Prospectus, any amendment of or supplement to a Registration Statement or a Prospectus, or any document that is to be incorporated by reference into a Registration Statement or a Prospectus, of which the Initial Purchasers and their counsel (and, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the Holders of Registrable Securities and their counsel) shall not have previously been advised and furnished a copy or to which the Initial Purchasers or their counsel (and, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the Holders of Registrable Securities or their counsel) shall reasonably object; (xi) obtain a CUSIP number for all Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities, as the case may be, not later than the effective date of a Registration Statement; (xii) cause the Indenture to be qualified under the Trust Indenture Act in connection with the registration of the Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities, as the case may be; cooperate with the Trustee and the Holders to effect such changes to the Indenture as may be required for the Indenture to be so qualified in accordance with the terms of the Trust Indenture Act; and execute, and use its reasonable best efforts to cause the Trustee to execute, all documents as may be required to effect such changes and all other forms and documents required to be filed with the SEC to enable the Indenture to be so qualified in a timely manner; (xiii) in the case of a Shelf Registration, make available for inspection by a representative of the Holders of the Registrable Securities (an "INSPECTOR"), any Underwriter participating in any disposition pursuant to such Shelf Registration Statement, any attorneys and accountants designated by the Holders of Registrable Securities and any attorneys and accountants designated by such Underwriter, at reasonable times and in a reasonable manner, all pertinent financial and other records, documents and properties of the Company, and cause the respective officers, directors and employees of the Company to supply all information reasonably requested by any such Inspector, Underwriter, attorney or accountant in connection with a Shelf Registration Statement; provided that if any such information is identified by the Company as being confidential or proprietary, each Person receiving such information 11
shall take such actions as are reasonably necessary to protect the confidentiality of such information to the extent such action is otherwise not inconsistent with, an impairment of or in derogation of the rights and interests of any Inspector, Holder or Underwriter); (xiv) in the case of a Shelf Registration, use its reasonable best efforts to cause all Registrable Securities to be listed on any securities exchange or any automated quotation system on which similar securities issued or guaranteed by the Company are then listed if requested by the Majority Holders, to the extent such Registrable Securities satisfy applicable listing requirements; (xv) if reasonably requested by any Holder of Registrable Securities covered by a Shelf Registration Statement, promptly include in a Prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment such information with respect to such Holder as such Holder reasonably requests to be included therein and make all required filings of such Prospectus supplement or such post-effective amendment as soon as the Company has received notification of the matters to be so included in such filing; and (xvi) in the case of a Shelf Registration, enter into such customary agreements and take all such other actions in connection therewith (including those requested by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Registrable Securities being sold) in order to expedite or facilitate the disposition of such Registrable Securities including, but not limited to, an Underwritten Offering and in such connection, (1) to the extent possible, make such representations and warranties to the Holders and any Underwriters of such Registrable Securities with respect to the business of the Company and its subsidiaries and the Registration Statement, Prospectus and documents incorporated by reference or deemed incorporated by reference, if any, in each case, in form, substance and scope as are customarily made by issuers to underwriters in underwritten offerings and confirm the same if and when requested, (2) obtain opinions of counsel to the Company (which counsel and opinions, in form, scope and substance, shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Holders and such Underwriters and their respective counsel) addressed to each selling Holder and Underwriter of Registrable Securities, covering the matters customarily covered in opinions requested in underwritten offerings, (3) obtain "comfort" letters from the independent registered public accountants of the Company (and, if necessary, any other independent registered public accountant of any subsidiary of the Company, or of any business acquired by the Company for which financial statements and financial data are or are required to be included in the Registration Statement) addressed to each selling Holder and Underwriter of Registrable Securities, such letters to be in customary form and covering matters of the type customarily covered in "comfort" letters in connection with underwritten offerings and (4) deliver such documents and certificates as may be reasonably requested by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Registrable Securities being sold or the Underwriters, and which are customarily delivered in underwritten offerings, to evidence the continued validity of the representations and warranties of the Company made pursuant to clause (1) above and to evidence compliance with any customary conditions contained in an underwriting agreement. 12
(b) In the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the Company may require each Holder of Registrable Securities to furnish to the Company such information regarding such Holder and the proposed disposition by such Holder of such Registrable Securities as the Company may from time to time reasonably request in writing. (c) In the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, each Holder of Registrable Securities agrees that, upon receipt of any notice from the Company of the happening of any material pending corporate development or other similar event, such Holder will forthwith discontinue disposition of Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement for one or more periods not to exceed 90 days in any twelve-month period, and if so directed by the Company, such Holder will deliver to the Company all copies in its possession, other than permanent file copies then in such Holder's possession, of the Prospectus covering such Registrable Securities that is current at the time of receipt of such notice. (d) If the Company shall give any notice pursuant to Section 3(c) hereof to suspend the disposition of Registrable Securities pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement, the Company shall extend the period during which such Shelf Registration Statement shall be maintained effective pursuant to this Agreement by the number of days during the period from and including the date of the giving of such notice to and including the date when such dispositions resume. (e) The Holders of Registrable Securities covered by a Shelf Registration Statement who desire to do so may sell such Registrable Securities in an Underwritten Offering. In any such Underwritten Offering, the investment bank or investment banks and manager or managers (each an "UNDERWRITER") that will administer the offering will be selected by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Registrable Securities included in such offering and shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Company. 4. Participation of Broker-Dealers in Exchange Offer. (a) The Staff has taken the position that any broker-dealer that receives Exchange Securities for its own account in the Exchange Offer in exchange for Securities that were acquired by such broker-dealer as a result of market-making or other trading activities (a "PARTICIPATING BROKER-DEALER") may be deemed to be an "underwriter" within the meaning of the Securities Act and must deliver a prospectus meeting the requirements of the Securities Act in connection with any resale of such Exchange Securities. The Company understands that it is the Staff's position that if the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement includes a plan of distribution containing a statement to the above effect and the means by which Participating Broker-Dealers may resell the Exchange Securities, without naming the Participating Broker-Dealers or specifying the amount of Exchange Securities owned by them, such Prospectus may be delivered by Participating Broker-Dealers to satisfy their prospectus delivery obligation under the Securities Act in connection with resales of Exchange Securities for their own accounts, so long as the Prospectus otherwise meets the requirements of the Securities Act. 13
(b) In light of the above, and notwithstanding the other provisions of this Agreement, the Company agrees to amend or supplement the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement for a period of up to 180 days after the last Exchange Date (as such period may be extended pursuant to Section 3(d) of this Agreement), if requested by the Initial Purchasers or by one or more Participating Broker-Dealers, in order to expedite or facilitate the disposition of any Exchange Securities by Participating Broker-Dealers consistent with the positions of the Staff recited in Section 4(a) above. The Company further agrees that Participating Broker-Dealers shall be authorized to deliver such Prospectus during such period in connection with the resales contemplated by this Section 4. (c) The Initial Purchasers shall have no liability to the Company or any Holder with respect to any request that they may make pursuant to Section 4(b) above. 5. Indemnification and Contribution. (a) The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Initial Purchaser and each Holder, their respective affiliates, directors and officers and each Person, if any, who controls any Initial Purchaser or any Holder within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act, from and against any and all losses, claims, damages and liabilities (including, without limitation, reasonable legal fees and other expenses incurred in connection with any suit, action or proceeding or any claim asserted, as such fees and expenses are incurred), that arise out of, or are based upon, any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Registration Statement or any Prospectus or any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, except insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities arise out of, or are based upon, any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with any information relating to any Initial Purchaser or information relating to any Holder furnished to the Company in writing through any Initial Purchaser or any selling Holder expressly for use therein. In connection with any Underwritten Offering permitted by Section 3, the Company will also indemnify the Underwriters, if any, selling brokers, dealers and similar securities industry professionals participating in the distribution, their respective affiliates and each Person who controls such Persons (within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act) to the same extent as provided above with respect to the indemnification of the Holders, if requested in connection with any Registration Statement. (b) Each Holder agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, the Initial Purchasers and the other selling Holders, the directors of the Company, each officer of the Company who signed the Registration Statement and each Person, if any, who controls the Company, any Initial Purchaser and any other selling Holder within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act to the same extent as the indemnity set forth in paragraph (a) above, but only with respect to any losses, claims, damages or liabilities that arise out of, or are 14
based upon, any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with any information relating to such Holder furnished to the Company in writing by such Holder expressly for use in any Registration Statement and any Prospectus. (c) If any suit, action, proceeding (including any governmental or regulatory investigation), claim or demand shall be brought or asserted against any Person in respect of which indemnification may be sought pursuant to either paragraph (a) or (b) above, such Person (the "INDEMNIFIED PERSON") shall promptly notify the Person against whom such indemnification may be sought (the "INDEMNIFYING PERSON") in writing; provided that the failure to notify the Indemnifying Person shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have under this Section 5 except to the extent that it has been materially prejudiced (through the forfeiture of substantive rights or defenses) by such failure; and provided, further, that the failure to notify the Indemnifying Person shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have to an Indemnified Person otherwise than under this Section 5. If any such proceeding shall be brought or asserted against an Indemnified Person and it shall have notified the Indemnifying Person thereof, the Indemnifying Person shall retain counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Person to represent the Indemnified Person and any others entitled to indemnification pursuant to this Section 5 that the Indemnifying Person may designate in such proceeding and shall pay the reasonable fees and expenses of such counsel related to such proceeding, as incurred. In any such proceeding, any Indemnified Person shall have the right to retain its own counsel, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such Indemnified Person unless (i) the Indemnifying Person and the Indemnified Person shall have mutually agreed to the contrary; (ii) the Indemnifying Person has failed within a reasonable time to retain counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Person; (iii) the Indemnified Person shall have reasonably concluded that there may be legal defenses available to it that are different from or in addition to those available to the Indemnifying Person; or (iv) the named parties in any such proceeding (including any impleaded parties) include both the Indemnifying Person and the Indemnified Person and representation of both parties by the same counsel would be inappropriate due to actual or potential differing interests between them. It is understood and agreed that the Indemnifying Person shall not, in connection with any proceeding or related proceeding in the same jurisdiction, be liable for the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm (in addition to any local counsel) for all Indemnified Persons, and that all such reasonable fees and expenses shall be reimbursed as they are incurred. Any such separate firm (x) for any Initial Purchaser, its affiliates, directors and officers and any control Persons of such Initial Purchaser shall be designated in writing by the Initial Purchasers, (y) for any Holder, its directors and officers and any control Persons of such Holder shall be designated in writing by the Majority Holders and (z) in all other cases shall be designated in writing by the Company. The Indemnifying Person shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent, but if settled with such consent or if there be a final judgment for the plaintiff, the Indemnifying Person agrees to indemnify each Indemnified Person from and against any loss or liability by reason of such settlement or judgment. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, if at any time an Indemnified Person shall have requested that an Indemnifying Person reimburse the Indemnified Person for fees 15
and expenses of counsel as contemplated by this paragraph, the Indemnifying Person shall be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 60 business days after receipt by such Indemnifying Person of the aforesaid request, (ii) the Indemnifying Person shall not have reimbursed the Indemnified Person in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement and (iii) such Indemnified Person shall have given the Indemnifying Person at least 30 days' prior written notice of its intention to settle. No Indemnifying Person shall, without the written consent of the Indemnified Person, effect any settlement of any pending or threatened proceeding in respect of which any Indemnified Person is or could have been a party and indemnification could have been sought hereunder by such Indemnified Person, unless such settlement (A) includes an unconditional release of such Indemnified Person, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to such Indemnified Person, from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such proceeding and (B) does not include any statement as to or any admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any Indemnified Person. (d) If the indemnification provided for in paragraphs (a) and (b) above is unavailable to an Indemnified Person or insufficient in respect of any losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to therein, then each Indemnifying Person under such paragraph, in lieu of indemnifying such Indemnified Person thereunder, shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such Indemnified Person as a result of such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company from the offering of the Securities and the Exchange Securities, on the one hand, and by the Holders from receiving Securities or Exchange Securities registered under the Securities Act, on the other hand, or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) but also the relative fault of the Company on the one hand and the Holders on the other in connection with the statements or omissions that resulted in such losses, claims, damages or liabilities, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative fault of the Company on the one hand and the Holders on the other shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company or by the Holders and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission. (e) The Company and the Holders agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 5 were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Holders were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation that does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in paragraph (d) above. The amount paid or payable by an Indemnified Person as a result of the losses, claims, damages and liabilities referred to in paragraph (d) above shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth above, any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such Indemnified Person in connection with any such action or claim. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 5, in no event shall a Holder be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at 16
which the Securities or Exchange Securities sold by such Holder exceeds the amount of any damages that such Holder has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. No Person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any Person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. (f) The remedies provided for in this Section 5 are not exclusive and shall not limit any rights or remedies that may otherwise be available to any Indemnified Person at law or in equity. (g) The indemnity and contribution provisions contained in this Section 5 shall remain operative and in full force and effect regardless of (i) any termination of this Agreement, (ii) any investigation made by or on behalf of the Initial Purchasers or any Holder or any Person controlling any Initial Purchaser or any Holder, or by or on behalf of the Company or the officers or directors of or any Person controlling the Company, (iii) acceptance of any of the Exchange Securities and (iv) any sale of Registrable Securities pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement. 6. General. (a) No Inconsistent Agreements. The Company represents, warrants and agrees that (i) the rights granted to the Holders hereunder do not in any way conflict with and are not inconsistent with the rights granted to the holders of any other outstanding securities issued or guaranteed by the Company under any other agreement and (ii) the Company has not entered into, or on or after the date of this Agreement will enter into, any agreement that is inconsistent with the rights granted to the Holders of Registrable Securities in this Agreement or otherwise conflicts with the provisions hereof. (b) Amendments and Waivers. The provisions of this Agreement, including the provisions of this sentence, may not be amended, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to departures from the provisions hereof may not be given unless the Company has obtained the written consent of Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Registrable Securities affected by such amendment, modification, supplement, waiver or consent; provided that no amendment, modification, supplement, waiver or consent to any departure from the provisions of Section 5 hereof shall be effective as against any Holder of Registrable Securities unless consented to in writing by such Holder. Any amendments, modifications, supplements, waivers or consents pursuant to this Section 6(b) shall be by a writing executed by each of the parties hereto. (c) Notices. All notices and other communications provided for or permitted hereunder shall be made in writing by hand-delivery, registered first-class mail, telex, telecopier, or any courier guaranteeing overnight delivery (i) if to a Holder, at the most current address given by such Holder to the Company by means of a notice given in accordance with the provisions of this Section 6(c), which address initially is, with 17
respect to the Initial Purchasers, the address set forth in the Purchase Agreement; (ii) if to the Company, initially at the Company's address set forth in the Purchase Agreement and thereafter at such other address, notice of which is given in accordance with the provisions of this Section 6(c); and (iii) to such other persons at their respective addresses as provided in the Purchase Agreement and thereafter at such other address, notice of which is given in accordance with the provisions of this Section 6(c). All such notices and communications shall be deemed to have been duly given: at the time delivered by hand, if personally delivered; five Business Days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, if mailed; when answered back, if telexed; when receipt is acknowledged, if telecopied; and on the next Business Day if timely delivered to an air courier guaranteeing overnight delivery. Copies of all such notices, demands or other communications shall be concurrently delivered by the Person giving the same to the Trustee, at the address specified in the Indenture. (d) Successors and Assigns. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the successors, assigns and transferees of each of the parties, including, without limitation and without the need for an express assignment, subsequent Holders; provided that nothing herein shall be deemed to permit any assignment, transfer or other disposition of Registrable Securities in violation of the terms of the Purchase Agreement or the Indenture. If any transferee of any Holder shall acquire Registrable Securities in any manner, whether by operation of law or otherwise, such Registrable Securities shall be held subject to all the terms of this Agreement, and by taking and holding such Registrable Securities such Person shall be conclusively deemed to have agreed to be bound by and to perform all of the terms and provisions of this Agreement and such Person shall be entitled to receive the benefits hereof. The Initial Purchasers (in their capacity as Initial Purchasers) shall have no liability or obligation to the Company with respect to any failure by a Holder to comply with, or any breach by any Holder of, any of the obligations of such Holder under this Agreement. (e) Third Party Beneficiaries. Each Holder shall be a third party beneficiary to the agreements made hereunder between the Company, on the one hand, and the Initial Purchasers, on the other hand, and shall have the right to enforce such agreements directly to the extent it deems such enforcement necessary or advisable to protect its rights or the rights of other Holders hereunder. (f) Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement. (g) Headings. The headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only, are not a part of this Agreement and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning hereof. 18
(h) Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, without regard to the conflicts of laws rules of such state. (j) Miscellaneous. This Agreement contains the entire agreement between the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all oral statements and prior writings with respect thereto. If any term, provision, covenant or restriction contained in this Agreement is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, void or unenforceable or against public policy, the remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions contained herein shall remain in full force and effect and shall in no way be affected, impaired or invalidated. The Company and the Initial Purchasers shall endeavor in good faith negotiations to replace the invalid, void or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the invalid, void or unenforceable provisions. 19
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above. CINCINNATI FINANCIAL CORPORATION By: /s/ Kenneth W. Stecher ----------------------------------------- Name: Kenneth W. Stecher Title: Treasurer Accepted as of the date hereof J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. UBS Securities LLC Acting severally on behalf of themselves and the several Initial Purchasers referred to herein By: UBS Securities LLC By: /s/ William J. Woolfrey ------------------------------------------ Name: William J. Woolfrey Title: Executive Director Debt Capital Markets By: /s/ Joseph Moore ------------------------------------------ Name: Joseph Moore Title: Director Debt Capital Markets

EXHIBIT 99.1 [COMPANY LOGO] CINCINNATI FINANCIAL CORPORATION Mailing Address: P.O. BOX 145496 CINCINNATI, OHIO 45250-5496 (513) 870-2000 Investor Contact: Heather J. Wietzel (513) 603-5950 Media Contact: Joan O. Shevchik (513) 603-5323 CINCINNATI FINANCIAL CORPORATION COMPLETES SALE OF $375 MILLION OF SENIOR NOTES IN RULE 144A OFFERING CINCINNATI, NOVEMBER 1, 2004 -- CINCINNATI FINANCIAL CORPORATION (NASDAQ: CINF) today announced that it has completed its previously announced offering of $375 million aggregate principal amount of its 6.125% senior notes due November 2034. Cincinnati Financial Corporation intends to use the net proceeds as follows: (i) approximately $58 million will be used to pay the entire outstanding balance under its line of credit; (ii) approximately $128 million will be paid to The Cincinnati Insurance Company to satisfy an outstanding intercompany debt; (iii) approximately $100 million will be used beginning in 2005 to finance the construction of a parking garage and office building to be situated at its headquarters located in Fairfield, Ohio; and (iv) remaining net proceeds will be used for general corporate purposes. The company increased the size of the offering to $375 million from the originally announced $350 million. The senior notes were sold to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (Securities Act). Cincinnati Financial Corporation offers property and casualty insurance, its main business, through The Cincinnati Insurance Company, The Cincinnati Indemnity Company and The Cincinnati Casualty Company. The Cincinnati Life Insurance Company markets life and disability income insurance and annuities. CFC Investment Company supports the insurance subsidiaries and their independent agent representatives through commercial leasing and financing activities. CinFin Capital Management Company provides asset management services to institutions, corporations and individuals. This news release does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy nor shall there be any sale of the notes referred to herein in any state in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state. The notes have not be registered under the Securities Act or applicable state securities laws, and the initial purchasers offered them only to qualified institutional buyers in reliance on Rule 144A under the Securities Act. Unless so registered, the notes may not be offered or sold in the United States except pursuant to an exemption from, or in a transaction not subject to, the registration requirements of the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws. This is a "Safe Harbor" statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain forward-looking statements contained herein involve potential risks and uncertainties. Our future results could differ materially from those discussed. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to: - unusually high levels of catastrophe losses due to changes in weather patterns, environmental events, terrorism incidents or other causes - ability to obtain adequate reinsurance on acceptable terms, amount of reinsurance purchased and financial strength of reinsurers - increased frequency and/or severity of claims - events or conditions that could weaken or harm our relationships with our independent agencies and hamper opportunities to add new agencies, resulting in limitations on our opportunities for growth, such as: - downgrade of our financial strength ratings - concerns that doing business with us is too difficult or - perceptions that our level of service, particularly claims service, is no longer a distinguishing characteristic in the marketplace
- insurance regulatory actions, legislation or court decisions or legal actions that increase expenses or place us at a disadvantage in the marketplace - delays in the development, implementation, performance and benefits of technology projects and enhancements - inaccurate estimates or assumptions used for critical accounting estimates, including loss reserves - results and timely completion of assessment and remediation of internal controls for financial reporting under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 - recession or other economic conditions or regulatory, accounting or tax changes resulting in lower demand for insurance products - sustained decline in overall stock market values negatively affecting our equity portfolio, in particular a sustained decline in the market value of Fifth Third Bancorp shares, a significant equity holding - events that lead to a significant decline in the market value of a particular security and impairment of the asset - prolonged low interest rate environment or other factors that limit our ability to generate growth in investment income - adverse outcomes from litigation or administrative proceedings - effect on the insurance industry as a whole, and thus on our business, of the suit brought by the Attorney General of the State of New York against participants in the insurance industry, as well as any increased regulatory oversight that might result from the suit - limited flexibility in conducting investment activities if the restrictions imposed by the Investment Company Act of 1940 become applicable to us. Further, our insurance businesses are subject to the effects of changing social, economic and regulatory environments. Public and regulatory initiatives have included efforts to adversely influence and restrict premium rates, restrict the ability to cancel policies, impose underwriting standards and expand overall regulation. We also are subject to public and regulatory initiatives that can affect the market value for our common stock, such as recent measures affecting corporate financial reporting and governance. The ultimate changes and eventual effects, if any, of these initiatives are uncertain. Readers are cautioned that we undertake no obligation to review or update the forward-looking statements included in this material. ***


