FILE:CINF/CINF-8K-20050616115914.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On June 15, 2005, Cincinnati Financial Corporation issued the attached news release "Cincinnati Financial Subsidiaries Earn A.M. Best's A++ (Superior) Financial Strength Ratings." The news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference. This report should not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information contained in the news release.
The information furnished in Item 7.01 of this report shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
News release dated June 15, 2005, titled "Cincinnati Financial Subsidiaries Earn A.M. Best's A++ (Superior) Financial Strength Ratings."
Exhibit 99.1
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
CINCINNATI FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Date:
June 16, 2005
/s/ Kenneth W. Stecher
Kenneth W. Stecher
Chief Financial Officer, Senior Vice President, Secretary and Treasurer
(Principal Accounting Officer)

Mailing Address:                  P.O. BOX 145496
CINCINNATI, OHIO  45250-5496
              (513) 870-2000
Media Contact: Joan O. Shevchik
(513) 603-5323
Investor Contact: Heather J. Wietzel
 (513) 603-5236
Cincinnati Financial Corporation (Nasdaq: CINF) announced that A.M. Best Co. this week affirmed its insurance subsidiaries' financial strength ratings with stable outlooks. Best affirmed its highest A++ (Superior) financial strength rating for The Cincinnati Insurance Companies property casualty group and its A+ (Superior) rating for The Cincinnati Life Insurance Company. About 9 percent of insurer groups receive ratings in the Superior category, and less than 2 percent receive the highest rating, A++.
Cincinnati, June 15, 2005
In other action, Best:
affirmed Cincinnati Financial's debt rating of "aa-"on the company's 6.125% senior notes due 2034
assigned a senior debt rating of "aa-" to the company's newly issued 6.92% senior debentures that were offered in exchange for the outstanding 6.90% senior debentures due 2028
assigned issuer credit ratings of "aa-" to Cincinnati Financial Corporation, "aaa" to The Cincinnati Insurance Companies and "aa-" to The Cincinnati Life Insurance Company
In affirming the property casualty group's insurer financial strength ratings, Best cited superior risk-based capitalization, very strong operating performance and a successful business position developed through building a network of independent agents to market Cincinnati's packaged policies in selected states. Best also noted Cincinnati's very strong overall underwriting results with a 2004 statutory combined ratio of 89.4 percent.
"Independent insurance agents and their quality-conscious clients look for strong insurers to protect their assets. Cincinnati Insurance competes effectively by maintaining superior claims-paying ability and by responding to property casualty claims promptly and in person," said John J. Schiff Jr., CPCU, chairman and chief executive officer of Cincinnati Financial Corporation and The Cincinnati Insurance Companies.
Best said it expects Cincinnati's overall operating results and capitalization will remain strong in the near term.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation offers property and casualty insurance, its main business, through The Cincinnati Insurance Company, The Cincinnati Indemnity Company and The Cincinnati Casualty Company. The Cincinnati Life Insurance Company markets life and disability income insurance and annuities. CFC Investment Company offers commercial leasing and financing services. CinFin Capital Management Company provides asset management services to institutions, corporations and individuals.


