FILE:CINF/CINF-8K-20050804101913.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code
(513) 870-2000
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13a-4(c))
 
 
 
On August 4, 2005, Cincinnati Financial Corporation issued the attached news release titled "" furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference. On August 4, 2005, the company also distributed the attached information titled "Supplemental Financial Data," furnished as Exhibit 99.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference. This report should not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information contained in the news release or supplemental financial data.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
Cincinnati Financial Net Income up 1.6% and Operating Income* Gains 25.4% for second-quarter 2005
In accordance with general instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information furnished in this report shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
Investor Contact: Heather J. Wietzel (513) 870-2768 Media Contact: Joan O. Shevchik (513) 603-5323
today reported for the second quarter and first six months of 2005:
Cincinnati, August 4, 2005  Cincinnati Financial Corporation (Nasdaq: CINF)
Financial Highlights*
Corporate Highlights
Insurance Operations Highlights
 
 
Marketplace Position
"An unusually low level of catastrophe losses, continued strong performance from our commercial lines insurance operations, improved personal lines insurance profitability and higher investment income all contributed to the second-quarter and six-month results," commented Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John J. Schiff, Jr., CPCU.
"Across our commercial lines market areas, we are seeing everything from modest increases to modest declines in renewal pricing, before any changes in an account's exposures. Account quality, class of business, size of account, location and the specific local market competition all are affecting pricing levels. Agents indicate that commercial policyholders continue to respond favorably to our value proposition  customized coverage packages, personal claims service and high financial strength ratings  all wrapped up in a convenient three-year commercial policy."
Schiff added, "In June, we appointed our first agency in Delaware, the company's 32 state of operation and its first new active state since 2000. The expansion was accomplished by staffing a second Maryland territory that includes Delaware agencies. In addition, field territories in Birmingham, Alabama; South Central Indiana; and Chicago were subdivided and staffed in the first half of 2005. Plans to subdivide territories in upstate New York; Chattanooga and Nashville, Tennessee; and Utah will bring us to 100 field marketing territories by year-end 2005.
nd
"The higher level of service provided in subdivided territories helps Cincinnati field representatives earn business from the independent agencies that currently represent the company. Smaller territories also allow the appointment of additional, high-caliber agencies in markets where there may be untapped opportunities to attract new policyholders. In total, we appointed 22 new agencies during the first half of 2005 as part of our program to appoint 100 new agencies in 2005 and 2006. This brought the total number of agencies to 995 across 96 territories at quarter-end."
Schiff commented, "As the improving 2005 personal lines underwriting results indicates, we are making some progress toward returning personal lines to full-year profitability. Still, we remained concerned about the lower business retention and new business activity. We have made territory-by-territory refinements to our rates and premium credits effective September. These changes better position our agents to sell the value of our homeowner-auto package, superior claims service and financial strength."
Looking Ahead
Schiff noted, "Our 2005 outlook remains favorable. We continue to look for property casualty written premium growth in the low single digits based on market intelligence from insurance agents and field marketing representatives, production results for agencies and policy retention trends. We also see the combined ratio at or below 93 percent, assuming catastrophe losses contribute approximately 3.5 percentage points to the combined ratio.
"Through the first six months of 2005, catastrophe losses contributed an unusually low 1.1 percentage points to the overall property casualty combined ratio of 88.2 percent. Typically, the most severe weather-related catastrophe events, particularly hurricanes, occur in the third quarter. We will review our 2005 combined ratio targets when the third quarter is complete and we have more details on actual catastrophe losses. During July 2005, Hurricane Dennis affected our policyholders in Alabama, Florida, Georgia and Mississippi. We currently estimate losses in the range of $11 million from this event, which will be included in results for the third quarter.
"Investment income continues to benefit from the allocation of new investment dollars to fixed-income securities. We now believe growth for the full year will be in line with the 6.5 percent increase in the first half of 2005," Schiff noted. "During the first half, we did not resume allocating a portion of cash flow to equity investing, as we had anticipated. Over the longer term, investing in common stocks helps us achieve our portfolio objectives and we are optimistic we can begin making common stock investments during the second half of 2005. As we decide each period what portion of our investment dollars to allocate to fixed-income investments, we consider various factors, including the ratio of common stock to statutory surplus for the property casualty insurance group."
2
 
Property Casualty Insurance Operations
 
3
 
Commercial Lines
 
4
 
Personal Lines
 
5
 
Life Insurance Operations
 
6
 
Investment Operations
Balance Sheet
7
 
Cincinnati Financial Corporation offers property and casualty insurance, its main business, through The Cincinnati Insurance Company, The Cincinnati Indemnity Company and The Cincinnati Casualty Company. The Cincinnati Life Insurance Company markets life and disability income insurance and annuities. CFC Investment Company offers commercial leasing and financing services. CinFin Capital Management Company provides asset management services to institutions, corporations and individuals. For additional information about the company, please visit .
www.cinfin.com
For additional information or to register for this afternoon's conference call, please visit www.cinfin.com.
This is a "Safe Harbor" statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain forward-looking statements contained herein involve potential risks and uncertainties. The company's future results could differ materially from those discussed. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to:
Further, the company's insurance businesses are subject to the effects of changing social, economic and regulatory environments. Public and regulatory initiatives have included efforts to adversely influence and restrict premium rates, restrict the ability to cancel policies, impose underwriting standards and expand overall regulation. The company also is subject to public and regulatory initiatives that can affect the market value for its common stock, such as recent measures affecting corporate financial reporting and governance. The ultimate changes and eventual effects, if any, of these initiatives are uncertain.
Readers are cautioned that the company undertakes no obligation to review or update the forward-looking statements included herein.
8
 
Accompanying notes are an integral part of this statement.
9
 
Accompanying notes are an integral part of this statement.
Since 1996, Cincinnati Financial has disclosed the estimated impact of stock options on net income and earnings per share in a Note to the Financial Statements. For the first and second quarters of 2005 and 2004, diluted net income would have been reduced by approximately 2 cents per share, if option expense, calculated using the binomial option-pricing model, were included as an expense.
10
 
Cincinnati Financial Corporation prepares its public financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). Statutory data is prepared in accordance with statutory accounting rules as defined by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners' (NAIC) Accounting Practices and Procedures Manual and therefore is not reconciled to GAAP data.
Management uses certain non-GAAP and non-statutory financial measures to evaluate its primary business areas  property casualty insurance, life insurance and investments  when analyzing both GAAP and certain non-GAAP measures may improve understanding of trends in the underlying business, helping avoid incorrect or misleading assumptions and conclusions about the success or failure of company strategies. Management adjustments to GAAP measures generally: apply to non-recurring events that are unrelated to business performance and distort short-term results; involve values that fluctuate based on events outside of management's control; or relate to accounting refinements that affect comparability between periods, creating a need to analyze data on the same basis.
11
 
Dollar amounts shown are rounded to millions; certain amounts may not add due to rounding. Ratios are calculated based on whole dollar amounts. The sum of quarterly amounts may not equal the full year as each is computed independently.
12
 
Dollar amounts shown are rounded to millions; certain amounts may not add due to rounding. Ratios are calculated based on whole dollar amounts. The sum of quarterly amounts may not equal the full year as each is computed independently. nm  Not meaningful
14
 
Dollar amounts shown are rounded to millions; certain amounts may not add due to rounding. Ratios are calculated based on whole dollar amounts. The sum of quarterly amounts may not equal the full year as each is computed independently. nm  Not meaningful
13
 
Dollar amounts shown are rounded to millions; certain amounts may not add due to rounding. Ratios are calculated based on whole dollar amounts. The sum of quarterly amounts may no equal the full year as each is computed independently. nm  Not meaningful
15

 
Exhibit 99.2
The consolidated financial statements and financial exhibits that follow are unaudited. These consolidated financial statements and exhibits should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2004. The results of operations for interim periods should not be considered indicative of results to be expected for the full year.
 
 
Cincinnati Financial Corporation prepares its public financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). Statutory data is prepared in accordance with statutory accounting rules as defined by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners' (NAIC) Accounting Practices and Procedures Manual and therefore is not reconciled to GAAP data.
Management uses certain non-GAAP and non-statutory financial measures to evaluate its primary business areas  property casualty insurance, life insurance and investments  when analyzing both GAAP and certain non-GAAP measures may improve understanding of trends in the underlying business, helping avoid incorrect or misleading assumptions and conclusions about the success or failure of company strategies. Management adjustments to GAAP measures generally: apply to non-recurring events that are unrelated to business performance and distort short-term results; involve values that fluctuate based on events outside of management's control; or relate to accounting refinements that affect comparability between periods, creating a need to analyze data on the same basis.
 
(Based on reported data  see Pages 23-25 for adjusted data)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dollar amounts shown are rounded to millions; certain amounts may not add due to rounding. Ratios are calculated based on whole dollar amounts.
 
Dollar amounts shown are rounded to millions; certain amounts may not add due to rounding. Ratios are calculated based on whole dollar amounts. The sum of quarterly amounts may not equal the full year as each is computed independently.
 
 
 
* Statutory data prepared in accordance with statutory accounting rules as defined by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners and filed with the appropriate regulatory bodies.
 
Dollar amounts shown are rounded to millions; certain amounts may not add due to rounding. Ratios are calculated based on whole dollar amounts.
NM  Not meaningful
 
* Statutory data prepared in accordance with statutory accounting rules as defined by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners and filed with the appropriate regulatory bodies.
 
Dollar amounts shown are rounded to millions; certain amounts may not add due to rounding. Ratios are calculated based on whole dollar amounts.
NM  Not meaningful
 
Dollar amounts shown are rounded to millions; certain amounts may not add due to rounding. Ratios are calculated based on whole dollar amounts.
NM  Not meaningful
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dollar amounts shown are rounded to millions; certain amounts may not add due to rounding. Ratios are calculated based on whole dollar amounts. The sum of quarterly amounts may not equal the full year as each is computed independently.
nm  Not meaningful
 
* Statutory data prepared in accordance with statutory accounting rules as defined by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners and filed with the appropriate regulatory bodies.
 
 
 
 
 


