FILE:CINF/CINF-8K-20050201135435.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On January 31, 2005, Cincinnati Financial Corporation issued the attached news release "The Cincinnati Insurance Companies Name New Manager of Field Claims Operations." The news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference. This report should not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information contained in the news release.
The information furnished in this report shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits
Exhibit 99.1  News release dated January 31, 2005, titled "The Cincinnati Insurance Companies Name New Manager of Field Claims Operations."
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
      
CINCINNATI FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Date:
January 31, 2005
/s/ Kenneth W. Stecher
Kenneth W. Stecher
Chief Financial Officer, Senior Vice President, Secretary and Treasurer
(Principal Accounting Officer)
Mailing Address:                  P.O. BOX 145496
CINCINNATI, OHIO  45250-5496
              (513) 870-2000
Investor Contact: Heather J. Wietzel
 (513) 870-2768
Media Contact: Joan O. Shevchik
(513) 603-5323
The Cincinnati Insurance Companies announced today that Charles P. Stoneburner has been appointed manager of field claims, effective immediately. In this position, he will lead the Field Claims department, which continues as a division of Operations reporting to Senior Vice President Timothy L. Timmel. Field Claims operates through a 750-strong force of field claims representatives who respond to policyholder claims in communities across 31 states.
Cincinnati, January 31, 2005Cincinnati Financial Corporation (Nasdaq:CINF)
Stoneburner continues to serve as assistant vice president of The Cincinnati Insurance Company and its subsidiaries, The Cincinnati Casualty Company and The Cincinnati Indemnity Company, which together form the company's property casualty group. Stoneburner's recent responsibilities as regional manager in the Headquarters Claims department have included supervising property claims. He advanced through the ranks, serving as field claims manager for southwestern Virginia before joining the Headquarters Claims department in 1990. Stoneburner holds a degree in management from Virginia Tech and earned the Chartered Property Casualty Underwriter (CPCU) professional designation in 1994.
His predecessor, Senior Vice President Dean W. Dicke, retired this month after 35 years with the company and 15 years managing the Field Claims department.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John J. Schiff, Jr., CPCU, commented, "Bud Stoneburner has the talent and experience to maintain and build on Dean's high standards for this strategic service group. Dean developed a superbly trained field claims staff with a national reputation for excellence among independent agents, policyholders and claimants. Bud shares with him the commitment to manage claims professionally, with a human touch."
Cincinnati Financial Corporation offers property and casualty insurance, its main business, through The Cincinnati Insurance Company, The Cincinnati Indemnity Company and The Cincinnati Casualty Company. The Cincinnati Life Insurance Company markets life and disability income insurance and annuities. CFC Investment Company supports the insurance subsidiaries and their independent agent representatives through commercial leasing and financing activities. CinFin Capital Management Company provides asset management services to institutions, corporations and individuals. For additional information, please visit the company's Web site at www.cinfin.com.
6200 S. Gilmore Road, Fairfield, Ohio  45014-5141


