FILE:CINF/CINF-8K-20060206110159.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On February 6, 2006, Cincinnati Financial Corporation issued the attached news release "Cincinnati Financial Corporation Increases Cash Dividend." The news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference. This report should not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information contained in the news release.
On February 6, 2006, Cincinnati Financial Corporation issued the attached news release "Cincinnati Financial Corporation's Subsidiaries Announce Appointments." The news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference. This report should not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information contained in the news release.
The information furnished in Item 7.01 of this report shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
News release dated February 6, 2006, titled "Cincinnati Financial Corporation Increases Cash Dividend."
Exhibit 99.1
News release dated February 6, 2006, titled "Cincinnati Financial Corporation's Subsidiaries Announce Appointments."
Exhibit 99.2
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
CINCINNATI FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Date:
February 6, 2006
/S/ Kenneth W. Stecher
Kenneth W. Stecher
Chief Financial Officer, Senior Vice President, Secretary and Treasurer
(Principal Accounting Officer)

Mailing Address:                  P.O. BOX 145496
CINCINNATI, OHIO  45250-5496
              (513) 870-2000
Investor Contact: Heather J. Wietzel
 (513) 870-2768
Media Contact: Joan O. Shevchik
(513) 603-5323
today announced that the board of directors voted at its regular meeting on February 3, 2006, to increase the regular quarterly cash dividend 9.8 percent to 33.5 cents per share, payable April 14, 2006, to shareholders of record on March 24, 2006. At the new level, the indicated annual dividend is $1.34 per share. Adjusted for stock dividends, cash dividends declared in 2005 were $1.205 per share.
Cincinnati, February 6, 2006 -- Cincinnati Financial Corporation (Nasdaq: CINF)
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John J. Schiff, Jr., CPCU, commented, "As we announced on January 30, we now expect to report that written premium growth, the combined ratio and investment income growth for full-year 2005 may match or exceed the results we previously anticipated. Cincinnati Financial has consistently generated value for shareholders by following a long-term approach that commits us to the independent agency system, claims service excellence, loss reserve adequacy and total return investing. Today's action signals the board's continuing confidence in that approach."
Cincinnati Financial's common stock total return to shareholders over the five years ended December 31, 2005, was 40.9 percent compared with a 2.8 percent total return for the Standard & Poor's 500 Index.
Cincinnati Financial plans to report fourth-quarter and year-end 2005 results on Wednesday, February 8. A conference call to discuss the results will be held at 1:00 p.m. EST on that day. Details regarding the Internet broadcast of the conference call are available on .
www.cinfin.com/investors
Cincinnati Financial Corporation offers property and casualty insurance, its main business, through The Cincinnati Insurance Company, The Cincinnati Indemnity Company and The Cincinnati Casualty Company. The Cincinnati Life Insurance Company markets life and disability income insurance and annuities. CFC Investment Company offers commercial leasing and financing services. CinFin Capital Management Company provides asset management services to institutions, corporations and individuals.
This is a "Safe Harbor" statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain forward-looking statements contained herein involve potential risks and uncertainties. The company's future results could differ materially from those discussed. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to:
Unusually high levels of catastrophe losses due to changes in weather patterns, environmental events, terrorism incidents or other causes
Ability to obtain adequate reinsurance on acceptable terms, amount of reinsurance purchased and financial strength of reinsurers
Increased frequency and/or severity of claims
Events or conditions that could weaken or harm the company's relationships with its independent agencies and hamper opportunities to add new agencies, resulting in limitations on the company's opportunities for growth, such as:
o
Downgrade of the company's financial strength ratings,
o
Concerns that doing business with the company is too difficult or
o
Perceptions that the company's level of service, particularly claims service, is no longer a distinguishing characteristic in the marketplace
Increased competition that could result in a significant reduction in the company's premium growth rate
Underwriting and pricing methods adopted by competitors that could allow them to identify and flexibly price risks, which could decrease our competitive advantages.
Insurance regulatory actions, legislation or court decisions or legal actions that increase expenses or place us at a disadvantage in the marketplace
Delays in the development, implementation, performance and benefits of technology projects and enhancements
Inaccurate estimates or assumptions used for critical accounting estimates, including loss reserves
Events that reduce the company's ability to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 in the future
Recession or other economic conditions or regulatory, accounting or tax changes resulting in lower demand for insurance products
Sustained decline in overall stock market values negatively affecting the company's equity portfolio; in particular a sustained decline in the market value of Fifth Third Bancorp shares, a significant equity holding
Events that lead to a significant decline in the value of a particular security and impairment of the asset
Prolonged low interest rate environment or other factors that limit the company's ability to generate growth in investment income
Adverse outcomes from litigation or administrative proceedings
Effect on the insurance industry as a whole, and thus on the company's business, of the recent actions undertaken by the Attorney General of the State of New York and other regulators against participants in the insurance industry, as well as any increased regulatory oversight that might result
Limited flexibility in conducting investment activities if the restrictions imposed by the Investment Company Act of 1940 were to become applicable to the parent company or the application for exemptive relief is not approved
Further, the company's insurance businesses are subject to the effects of changing social, economic and regulatory environments. Public and regulatory initiatives have included efforts to adversely influence and restrict premium rates, restrict the ability to cancel policies, impose underwriting standards and expand overall regulation. The company also is subject to public and regulatory initiatives that can affect the market value for its common stock, such as recent measures affecting corporate financial reporting and governance. The ultimate changes and eventual effects, if any, of these initiatives are uncertain.
Readers are cautioned that the company undertakes no obligation to review or update the forward-looking statements included herein.

Mailing Address:                  P.O. BOX 145496
CINCINNATI, OHIO  45250-5496
              (513) 870-2000
Investor Contact: Heather J. Wietzel
 (513) 870-2768
Media Contact: Joan O. Shevchik
(513) 603-5323
Directors, Officers and Counsel
 Cincinnati Financial Corporation announced today that the boards of its subsidiary companies appointed directors, officers and counsel at their regular meetings on February 3, 2006.
Cincinnati, February 6, 2006  Cincinnati Financial Corporation (Nasdaq:CINF)
Newly appointed to boards of The Cincinnati Insurance Company and The Cincinnati Indemnity Company were Thomas A. Joseph, CPCU, senior vice president  commercial lines; and Daniel T. McCurdy, senior vice president  bond and executive risk. Newly appointed to the board of The Cincinnati Casualty Company was parent company director Larry R. Webb, CPCU.
Boards of subsidiary companies also met and made the following promotions and new or additional appointments of officers and counsel:  
Property Casualty Insurance Subsidiaries:
The Cincinnati Insurance Company
The Cincinnati Casualty Company
The Cincinnati Indemnity Company
Gary B. Givler, Vice President  Headquarters Claims
Theresa A. Hoffer, Vice President and Treasurer  Corporate Accounting
Gary A. Nichols, Vice President  Headquarters Claims
Todd H. Pendery, FLMI, Vice President  Corporate Accounting
Marc C. Phillips, CPCU, AIM, Vice President  Commercial Lines
Stephen A. Ventre, CPCU, Vice President  Commercial Lines
Anthony E. Henn, CPCU, AIM, AAM, ARe, AIT, Assistant Vice President  Commercial Lines
Brent E. Billman, CPCU, CIC, Secretary  Sales & Marketing
William M. Clevidence, CIC, Secretary  Sales & Marketing
Thomas J. Lupinetti, CPCU, ALCM, AIM, CSP, Secretary  Loss Control
Franklyn T. Shaut, Secretary  Staff Underwriting
Richard J. Taphorn, CPCU, AIM, Secretary  Staff Underwriting
Steven S. Timmel, CPCU, AIM, Secretary  Headquarters Claims
Gerald L. Varney, Secretary  Purchasing/Fleet
John B. Boylan, CPCU, APA, Assistant Secretary  Premium Audit
David T. Cunningham, AIM, Assistant Secretary  Headquarters Claims
J. Michael Hennigan, Assistant Secretary  Headquarters Claims
James D. Ogle, CPCU, AIC, Assistant Secretary  Headquarters Claims
Sean P. Sweeney, PMP, Assistant Secretary  Information Technology
Teresa L. Cracas, Counsel
The Cincinnati Life Insurance Company:
Eric N. Mathews, CPCU, AIAF, Senior Vice President  Corporate Accounting
Theresa A. Hoffer, Vice President  Corporate Accounting
Gerald L. Varney*
Sean P. Sweeney, PMP*
Teresa L. Cracas*
*Title as listed above
Cincinnati Financial Corporation offers property and casualty insurance, its main business, through The Cincinnati Insurance Company, The Cincinnati Indemnity Company and The Cincinnati Casualty Company. The Cincinnati Life Insurance Company markets life and disability income insurance and annuities. CFC Investment Company offers commercial leasing and financing services. CinFin Capital Management Company provides asset management services to institutions, corporations and individuals. For additional information, please visit the company's Web site at www.cinfin.com.


