FILE:CINF/CINF-8K-20060606082952.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
On June 1, 2006, Cincinnati Financial Corporation issued the attached news release "The Cincinnati Insurance Companies Name New Manager of Headquarters Claims Operations." The news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation's senior officers will be meeting with investors and analysts on June 7 and June 8 and presenting at an industry conference on June 8. These discussions will focus on the company's strategy and outlook.
In advance of those meetings and based on available information regarding interim financial results, we are reaffirming our 2006 full-year guidance, as previously disclosed on May 3, 2006, as follows:
2006 property casualty written premiums expected to be flat to up slightly, with modest growth in commercial lines written premiums offsetting anticipated decline in personal lines written premiums.
April catastrophe losses were estimated at $55 million. The company expects May catastrophe losses to be less than $1 million.
2006 GAAP combined ratio expected to be 92 percent to 94 percent, assuming full-year catastrophe losses contribute approximately 4.0 to 4.5 percentage points.
As previously announced,
2006 pretax investment income growth expected to be at the upper end of the 6.5 percent to 7.0 percent range.
This is our "Safe Harbor" statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our business is subject to certain risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements in this report. Some of those risks and uncertainties are discussed in our 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K, Item 1A, Risk Factors, Page 21. Although we often review or update our forward-looking statements when events warrant, we caution our readers that we undertake no obligation to do so.
Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to:
Unusually high levels of catastrophe losses due to risk concentrations, changes in weather patterns, environmental events, terrorism incidents or other causes
Ability to obtain adequate reinsurance on acceptable terms, amount of reinsurance purchased and financial strength of reinsurers
Increased frequency and/or severity of claims
Events or conditions that could weaken or harm the company's relationships with its independent agencies and hamper opportunities to add new agencies, resulting in limitations on the company's opportunities for growth, such as:
o
Downgrade of the company's financial strength ratings,
o
Concerns that doing business with the company is too difficult or
o
Perceptions that the company's level of service, particularly claims service, is no longer a distinguishing characteristic in the marketplace
Increased competition that could result in a significant reduction in the company's premium growth rate
Underwriting and pricing methods adopted by competitors that could allow them to identify and flexibly price risks, which could decrease our competitive advantages
Insurance regulatory actions, legislation or court decisions or legal actions that increase expenses or place us at a disadvantage in the marketplace
Delays or inadequacies in the development, implementation, performance and benefits of technology projects and enhancements
Inaccurate estimates or assumptions used for critical accounting estimates, including loss reserves
Events that reduce the company's future ability to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
Recession or other economic conditions or regulatory, accounting or tax changes resulting in lower demand for insurance products
Sustained decline in overall stock market values negatively affecting the company's equity portfolio; in particular a sustained decline in the market value of Fifth Third shares, a significant equity holding
Events that lead to a significant decline in the value of a particular security and impairment of the asset
Prolonged medium- and long-term low interest rate environment or other factors that limit the company's ability to generate growth in investment income
Adverse outcomes from litigation or administrative proceedings
Effect on the insurance industry as a whole, and thus on the company's business, of the actions undertaken by the Attorney General of the State of New York and other regulators against participants in the insurance industry, as well as any increased regulatory oversight that might result
Investment activities or market value fluctuations that trigger restrictions applicable to the parent company under the Investment Company Act of 1940
Further, the company's insurance businesses are subject to the effects of changing social, economic and regulatory environments. Public and regulatory initiatives have included efforts to adversely influence and restrict premium rates, restrict the ability to cancel policies, impose underwriting standards and expand overall regulation. The company also is subject to public and regulatory initiatives that can affect the market value for its common stock, such as recent measures affecting corporate financial reporting and governance. The ultimate changes and eventual effects, if any, of these initiatives are uncertain.
This report should not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information contained herein or in attached exhibits. The information furnished in this report shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits
 News release dated June 1, 2006, titled "The Cincinnati Insurance Companies Name New Manager of Headquarters Claims Operations."
Exhibit 99.1
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
CINCINNATI FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Date
June 6, 2006
/S/ Kenneth W. Stecher
Kenneth W. Stecher
Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice President, Secretary and Treasurer
(Principal Accounting Officer)

Mailing Address:                  P.O. BOX 145496
CINCINNATI, OHIO  45250-5496
              (513) 870-2000
Investor Contact:  Heather J. Wietzel
(513) 870-2768
Media Contact:  Joan O. Shevchik
(513) 603-5323
The Cincinnati Insurance Companies announced today that Bruce S. Fisher has been appointed manager of headquarters claims, effective June 1. In this position, he will lead the Headquarters Claims department, reporting to James E. Benoski, vice chairman and chief insurance officer, who was named president of Cincinnati Financial Corporation and The Cincinnati Insurance Company on May 6, 2006.
Cincinnati, June 1, 2006Cincinnati Financial Corporation (Nasdaq:CINF) 
The Headquarters Claims department supports the company's Field Claims department, reviews reserves, ensures statutory compliance, supervises large claims and manages specialty claims and complex claims such as those involving litigation.
Fisher has served since 1998 as vice president of The Cincinnati Insurance Company and its subsidiaries, The Cincinnati Casualty Company and The Cincinnati Indemnity Company, which together form the company's property casualty group. His recent responsibilities have included managing casualty claims. He advanced through the ranks, serving as a field claims representative for nine years before joining the Headquarters Claims department in 1979. Fisher holds a degree in business administration from Defiance College and earned the Chartered Property Casualty Underwriter (CPCU) professional designation in 1988.
Several headquarters claims associates are advancing effective June 1 as the department reorganizes following the promotions of Benoski and Fisher. Martin J. Mullen, CPCU, has been promoted to Fisher's former position as manager of casualty claims; Robert W. Wallace, CPCU, has been named assistant manager of casualty claims; and Troy M. Reichers has been named manager of complex claims. Two areas of Headquarters Claims, the Special Investigations Unit and Claims Administration, continue to report directly to Benoski.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John J. Schiff, Jr., CPCU, commented, "Jim Benoski has developed tremendous depth and experience within Headquarters Claims, which should serve us well in this transition. These associates have, on average, 30 years of professional claims experience, including service as field claims representatives. With Jim as president and Bruce as manager of headquarters claims, I'm confident we'll continue to excel in this strategic area, providing support to the 750 field claims representatives who bring prompt and personal claims service to the people and businesses in their local communities."
www.cinfin.com
Cincinnati Financial Corporation offers property and casualty insurance, its main business, through The Cincinnati Insurance Company, The Cincinnati Indemnity Company and The Cincinnati Casualty Company. The Cincinnati Life Insurance Company markets life and disability income insurance and annuities. CFC Investment Company supports the insurance subsidiaries and their independent agent representatives through commercial leasing and financing activities. CinFin Capital Management Company provides asset management services to institutions, corporations and individuals. For additional information, please visit the company's Web site at
.  


