FILE:CINF/CINF-8K-20071120162837.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
On November 16, 2007, the compensation committee of Cincinnati Financial Corporation's board of directors granted increases in 2008 annual base salaries, and awarded 2007 cash and stock bonuses to executive officers with leadership roles and responsibilities. Below are the amounts for the six named executive officers whose compensation was detailed in the Proxy Statement for the company's 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.
The company's named executive officers are at-will employees and these salary and bonus amounts are not subject to any employment agreements. These salaries and bonuses do not include:
Additionally, the compensation committee approved stock awards under the company's Holiday Stock Bonus Plan, which awards one share of stock on a non-discounted basis to each full-time associate for each year of service up to a maximum of 10 years. Under the Holiday Stock Bonus Plan, the named executive officers each received 10 shares valued at $39.85 per share.
The compensation committee also adopted a standard form of performance-based restricted stock unit agreement that is attached as Exhibit 10.1.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
On November 14, 2007, Cincinnati Financial Corporation presented at the Credit Suisse Insurance Conference. A copy of the presentation is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
On November 19, 2007, Cincinnati Financial Corporation issued the attached news release "Cincinnati Financial Corporation Declares Regular Quarterly Cash Dividend." The news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference. This report should not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information contained in the news release.
The information furnished in Item 7.01 of this report shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
 Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for use under the Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2006 Stock Compensation Plan
Exhibit 10.1
 Credit Suisse Insurance Conference Presentation, November 14, 2007
Exhibit 99.1
 News release dated November 19, 2007, titled "Cincinnati Financial Corporation Declares Regular Quarterly Cash Dividend"
Exhibit 99.2
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 10.1
[RECIPIENT NAME] [RECIPIENT ADDRESS]
As of [Award Date], the Fair Market Value of the shares underlying this award was $ .
                    
      (the "Company") hereby grants to the associate identified below (the "Participant") a Restricted Stock Unit Award (the "Award") under the Company's 2006 Stock Compensation Plan (the "Plan") with respect to the number of Restricted Stock Units (the "Units") specified under the "Award Information" section below, all in accordance with and subject to the provisions set forth in Part II  Terms and Conditions.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation
PART I. AWARD INFORMATION
:
Participant Name:
                    
                    
                    
Number of Units Awarded:
                    
                    
                    
Award Date:
                    
                    
                    
, 20__
Vesting Criteria (when Units granted in the Award vest and shares are issued to the Participant):
Beneficiary Designation (Optional  see Part II, Section 8):
                      
                     
                     
THIS AWARD IS SUBJECT TO FORFEITURE AS PROVIDED IN THIS RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT AND THE PLAN.
     By accepting this Award, the Participant acknowledges the receipt of a copy of this Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (including Part II  Terms and Conditions) and a copy of the Prospectus and agrees to be bound by all the terms and provisions contained in them and in the Plan.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Restricted Stock Unit Agreement has been duly executed as of the Award Date specified above.
 
PART II. TERMS AND CONDITIONS
     1. Each Unit represents a hypothetical share of the Company's Common Stock (the "Shares"), and each Unit will at all times be equal in value to one Share. The Units will be credited to the Participant in an account established for the Participant and maintained by the Company's stock transfer department. If and when Units vest as provided below, Shares in an amount equal to the number of vested Units will automatically be issued to the Participant and will be evidenced by a stock certificate or a book entry account maintained by the Company's stock transfer department for the Common Stock.
Restricted Stock Units.
     2. Subject to Sections 3 and 4 below, the restrictions on the Units specified in Part I  Award Information (the "Award Information") shall lapse and such Units shall vest on the vesting dates set forth in the Award Information (the "Vesting Date"), provided that: (a) the Performance Target has been met; and (b) the Participant remains an employee of the Company (or a subsidiary of the Company) during the entire period ending on and including the Vesting Date (the "Restriction Period") commencing on the Award Date set forth in the Award Information and ending on the Vesting Date. Upon vesting, one Share shall be issued with respect to each vested Unit
Restrictions.
     3. In the event of the termination of the Participant's employment with the Company (and with all subsidiaries of the Company) prior to a Vesting Date due to (a) death or Disability, the attainment of the Performance Target is waived, all restrictions on the Units shall lapse, and all of the Units shall become fully vested on the date of death or Disability, or (b) the Participant reaching eligibility for Normal Retirement, restriction 2(b) concerning continuous employment during the Restriction Period is waived and shall lapse and the Units shall remain subject to all other vesting requirements and restrictions including the Vesting Date. Upon vesting, one Share shall be issued with respect to each such vested Unit.
Participant Death, Disability or Retirement During Restriction Period.
     4. If the Participant's employment with the Company (and with all subsidiaries of the Company) is terminated for any reason other than death, Disability or Normal Retirement prior to the end of the Restriction Period, the Participant shall forfeit all rights to any Units (and to the related Shares) as to which the Vesting Date has not yet occurred. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company may, in its sole discretion, waive the restrictions on, and the vesting requirements for, the Units.
Other Termination of Employment During Restriction Period.
     5. The Participant shall not have the right to vote any Shares or to receive any cash dividends payable with respect to any Shares, or otherwise have any rights as a shareholder with respect to any Shares, unless and until the Shares have actually been issued to the Participant hereunder upon the vesting of Units as provided in this Agreement.
Shareholder Rights.
     6. This Award and the Units (until they vest pursuant to the terms hereof and Shares are issued with respect thereto) are non-transferable and may not be assigned, hypothecated or otherwise pledged, except by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and shall not be subject to execution, attachment or similar process. Upon any attempt to effect any such disposition, or upon the levy of any such process, the Award shall immediately become null and void and the Units shall be forfeited.
Transfer Restrictions.
     7. The Company is authorized to satisfy the actual minimum statutory withholding taxes arising from the vesting of this Award, by deducting the number of Shares having an aggregate value equal to the amount of withholding taxes due from the total number of Shares that would otherwise be issuable upon any Units vesting or otherwise becoming subject to current taxation. Shares deducted from this Award in satisfaction of actual minimum withholding tax requirements shall be valued at the Fair Market Value of the Shares on the date as of which the amount giving rise to the withholding requirement first became includible in the gross income of the Participant under applicable tax laws.
Withholding Taxes.
     8. If any of the Units shall vest upon the death of the Participant, the Shares issued as a result of such vesting shall be registered in the name of the estate of the Participant except that, if the Participant has designated a beneficiary where indicated in the Award Information, the Shares shall be registered in the name of the designated beneficiary.
Death of Participant.
     9. The terms and provisions of the Plan (a copy of which will be furnished to the Participant upon written request) are incorporated herein by reference. To the extent any provision
Other Terms and Provisions.
 
of this Award is inconsistent or in conflict with any term or provision of the Plan, the Plan shall govern. For purposes of this Agreement, (a) the term "Disability" means permanent and total disability as determined under procedures established by the Company from time to time, and (b) the term "Normal Retirement" means retirement from active employment with at least 35 years of continuous service with the Company or its subsidiaries or otherwise under a retirement plan of the Company or any subsidiary or under an employment contract with any of them on or after the date specified as the normal retirement age in the pension plan or employment contract, if any, under which the Participant is at that time accruing retirement benefits for his or her current service (or, in the absence of a specified normal retirement age, the age at which retirement benefits under such plan or contract become payable without reduction for early commencement and without any requirement of a particular period of prior service). In any case in which (i) the meaning of "Normal Retirement" is uncertain under the definition contained in the prior sentence or (ii) a termination of employment at or after age 65 would not otherwise constitute "Normal Retirement," a termination of the Participant's employment shall be treated as a "Normal Retirement" under such circumstances as the Committee, in its sole discretion, deems equivalent to retirement. In any case in which the existence of a "Disability" is uncertain under the applicable definition and procedures hereunder, a final and binding determination shall be made by the Committee in its sole discretion.

 
Exhibit 99.1
Investor Contact: Heather J. Wietzel (513) 870-2768 Media Contact: Joan O. Shevchik (513) 603-5323
today announced that the board of directors has declared a 35/ cents per share regular quarterly cash dividend payable January 15, 2008, to shareholders of record on December 21, 2007. The current dividend level reflects the 6.0 percent increase in the quarterly dividend rate announced by the board in February. That action makes 2007 the 47 consecutive year of higher annual cash dividends declared.
CINCINNATI, November 19, 2007  Cincinnati Financial Corporation (Nasdaq: CINF)
1
2
th
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John J. Schiff, Jr., CPCU, commented, "Your company has returned $544 million to shareholders so far in 2007 through cash dividends and a record level of repurchase activity, including the accelerated share repurchase agreement we announced in October. At the same time, the board of directors expanded their repurchase authorization to communicate to shareholders its confidence in our business and our long-term outlook. We expect the board to continue to take actions to support the delivery of increasing shareholder value over the long-term."
www.cinfin.com
Cincinnati Financial Corporation offers standard market property and casualty insurance, our main business, through The Cincinnati Insurance Company, The Cincinnati Indemnity Company and The Cincinnati Casualty Company. The Cincinnati Life Insurance Company markets life and disability income insurance and annuities. CFC Investment Company offers commercial leasing and financing services. CinFin Capital Management Company provides asset management services to institutions, corporations and individuals. Recently incorporated subsidiaries, The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company and CSU Producer Resources, will begin offering excess and surplus lines insurance in 2008 through the same local independent agencies that market our current policies. For additional information about the company, please visit
.
This is our "Safe Harbor" statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our business is subject to certain risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements in this report. Some of those risks and uncertainties are discussed in our 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K, Item 1A, Risk Factors, Page 20. Although we often review or update our forward-looking statements when events warrant, we caution our readers that we undertake no obligation to do so. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to:
 
Further, the company's insurance businesses are subject to the effects of changing social, economic and regulatory environments. Public and regulatory initiatives have included efforts to adversely influence and restrict premium rates, restrict the ability to cancel policies, impose underwriting standards and expand overall regulation. The company also is subject to public and regulatory initiatives that can affect the market value for its common stock, such as recent measures affecting corporate financial reporting and governance. The ultimate changes and eventual effects, if any, of these initiatives are uncertain.

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


