FILE:CINF/CINF-8K-20080505145720.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
On May 5, 2008, Cincinnati Financial Corporation issued the attached news release Cincinnati Financial Corporation Holds Shareholders' and Directors' Meetings." The news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference. This report should not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information contained in the news release.
The information furnished in Item 7.01 of this report shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
 News release dated May 5, 2008, titled "Cincinnati Financial Corporation Holds Shareholders' and Directors' Meetings"
Exhibit 99.1
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

: Heather J. Wietzel
Investor Contact
 513-870-2768
CINF-IR@cinfin.com
: Joan O. Shevchik
Media Contact
513-603-5323
Media_Inquiries@cinfin.com
today announced that at the company's annual meeting on May 3, 2008, shareholders elected one director for a term of two years and four directors for terms of three years to the 13 member board. Shareholders also ratified the selection of Deloitte & Touche LLP as independent registered public accounting firm and approved amending the company's Code of Regulation to provide express authority for uncertificated shares.
Cincinnati, May 5, 2008  Cincinnati Financial Corporation (Nasdaq: CINF)
The board of directors also met and named Martin F. Hollenbeck, CFA, CPCU, as senior vice president and manager  investments, assistant secretary and assistant treasurer for Cincinnati Financial Corporation. Hollenbeck currently is vice president and manager  investments for the company's insurance subsidiaries, as well as president and chief operating officer of CFC Investment Company and president and member of the board of CinFin Capital Management Company. In addition to the chartered financial analyst and chartered property casualty underwriter professional designations, he holds a master's degree in business from Xavier University and a bachelor's degree in economics from Northern Kentucky University.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John J. Schiff, Jr., CPCU, commented: "We thank shareholders for approving our selection of Deloitte & Touche and our nominees to the board. The directors who were elected Saturday, as well as our continuing directors, bring their extensive business knowledge and experience to help guide Cincinnati Financial through challenges and opportunities. We also welcome Marty as a corporate officer. Marty has served our company for more than 20 years. We greatly appreciate his leadership of our investment operations, which continue to drive the company's long-term performance."
Elected to the board were Kenneth C. Lichtendahl, president, chief executive officer and director of Tradewinds Beverage Company, based in Cincinnati; W. Rodney McMullen, vice chairman of The Kroger Co., based in Cincinnati; Thomas R. Schiff, chairman, chief executive officer and agent of John J. & Thomas R. Schiff & Co. Inc., a privately owned independent insurance agency, based in Cincinnati; John F. Steele, Jr., chairman and chief executive officer of Hilltop Basic Resources Inc., a family owned aggregates and ready-mixed concrete supplier to the construction industry, based in Cincinnati; and Larry R. Webb, CPCU, president, director, principal owner and agent of Webb Insurance Agency Inc., a privately owned independent insurance agency based in Lima, Ohio.
The board also announced committee service for the coming year, in line with the independence requirements of applicable law and the listing standards of Nasdaq:
Audit  William F. Bahl, Gregory T. Bier, Dirk J. Debbink, Kenneth C. Lichtendahl (chair), Gretchen W. Price, Douglas S. Skidmore and John F. Steele, Jr.
Compensation  Kenneth C. Lichtendahl, W. Rodney McMullen (chair), Gretchen W. Price and E. Anthony Woods.
Executive  William F. Bahl, James E. Benoski, Dirk J. Debbink, W. Rodney McMullen, John J. Schiff, Jr. (chair), Larry R. Webb and E. Anthony Woods
Investment  William F. Bahl, James E. Benoski, Gregory T. Bier, W. Rodney McMullen, John J. Schiff, Jr. (chair), Thomas R. Schiff and E. Anthony Woods. Richard M. Burridge, CFA, continues to serve as committee adviser.
Nominating  William F. Bahl (chair), Kenneth C. Lichtendahl, Gretchen W. Price and Douglas S. Skidmore.
Schiff noted, "Through their committee assignments and their dedication to understanding our insurance business, our directors work toward a prosperous future for the shareholders of Cincinnati Financial, supporting stability for our agents, policyholders and associates."


