FILE:CINF/CINF-8K-20080430090123.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 30, 2008, Cincinnati Financial Corporation issued the attached news release titled "Cincinnati Financial Reports First-quarter 2008 Results," furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference. On April 30, 2008, the company also distributed the attached information titled "Supplemental Financial Data," furnished as Exhibit 99.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference. This report should not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information contained in the news release or supplemental financial data.
In accordance with general instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information furnished in this report shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
today reported:
Cincinnati, April 30, 2008  Cincinnati Financial Corporation (Nasdaq: CINF)
Financial Highlights
Insurance Operations Highlights
Investment and Balance Sheet Highlights
Full-year 2008 Outlook Unchanged**
 
 
Challenging Markets  Insurance and Investments
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John J. Schiff, Jr., CPCU, commented, "This was a tough quarter for Cincinnati Financial as both the insurance and investment markets presented unusual challenges. Soft pricing in the property casualty insurance market pressured our growth and profitability while pressure on financial stocks in our portfolio reduced our net income and book value.
"We firmly believe  and our 55 plus year history supports our confidence  that Cincinnati's strategies will work as designed, helping us rise above these challenges. After carefully reviewing our position, we are confirming our previously announced outlook, including all of our estimates for full-year performance. We will continue to support agents by providing local service and local decision making authority. We will continue to invest, looking for opportunities that will let us ride out this market cycle with the high level of financial strength and stability that our agents and policyholders rely on."
Long-term Investment in Property Casualty Business
James E. Benoski, vice chairman, president and chief insurance officer, said, "Our new excess and surplus lines operation is off to a good start. It increases our underwriting capabilities, adding a new layer of flexibility to write the whole account, even when part of it isn't a good fit for a standard market business policy. We began quoting and issuing excess and surplus business during the first quarter, adding almost $1 million to net written premiums and putting much more in the pipeline."
"We initiated our excess and surplus business with the ability to underwrite general liability in five states. We plan to expand both coverage offerings and operating territory. By year-end, we plan to offer commercial property insurance, along with miscellaneous professional liability and excess casualty. Cincinnati agents benefit not only from prompt and efficient policy processing, but also from the ease of accessing services such as loss control and personal attention from knowledgeable underwriters. Our reputation for superb claims handling and other value-added services also is encouraging agencies to select Cincinnati's excess and surplus lines carrier as their preferred market to serve this segment of their clients. We're very satisfied with progress to date."
Benoski added, "This year began with severe weather in the South and Midwest. We incurred $43 million of catastrophe losses during the quarter, quite a contrast to $3 million for last year's first quarter. Of almost 2,500 catastrophe claims our commercial and personal policyholders reported in the five events during the quarter, approximately 85 percent are already closed. Our claims representatives' prompt responses and personal service are creating tremendous policyholder loyalty that will help agents market Cincinnati policies in the current competitive marketplace."
2008 Property Casualty Outlook Update
Kenneth W. Stecher, chief financial officer and executive vice president, commented, "We continue to expect our full-year 2008 results will reflect current commercial lines pricing trends, leading to as much as a 5 percent decline in net written premiums and a combined ratio in the range of 96 percent to 98 percent. Softer pricing is likely to continue to challenge us as we hold steady to our core business values of strong agency relationships, policyholder retention and accurate risk classification.
"We also continue to make deliberate decisions not to write or renew certain business. In this environment, we have been careful to maintain our underwriting discipline. Across our industry, the expectation is for full-year 2008 net written premiums to decline 0.5 percent with the combined ratio at 98.6 percent."
Stecher noted that the combined ratio target relies on three assumptions:
2
 
Stecher added, "We believe this level of full-year performance will allow us to sustain our industry leading position in the commercial lines insurance marketplace. We are taking steps in our personal lines insurance operations to enhance our opportunities in the changing marketplace. We also expect our life insurance business to continue its contribution to our earnings.
"As the preferred market for our agents' best business, we are well positioned to carry out our commitments, supporting market stability and contributing to their success. While we believe we may see a positive contribution from our new excess and surplus lines operations, our 2008 targets do not take into account any contribution. It will take some time before that operation is of sufficient size to materially influence our overall corporate results."
Investment Performance Affected by Recent Market Activity
Schiff commented, "Our equity investing strategy has been key to the long-term growth of our assets and shareholders' equity. We identify companies with the potential for sales, earnings and dividend growth, a strong management team and favorable outlook. Over the years, these equities have generally offered a steady flow of dividend income along with the potential for capital appreciation.
"Broad concerns about credit quality, liquidity and the general health of the economy have disrupted the financial markets, causing unusual volatility in our equity portfolio. Valuations of a number of our holdings have been significantly influenced and, in some cases, dividend payouts have been reduced. As a result, our book value declined further in the first quarter. We are making some changes in our portfolio and we took a non-cash charge to earnings to reduce our carrying cost for some holdings, including four equity investments. We adjusted our carrying value to quarter-end market value because we concluded that the decline in the value of these holdings to below our cost was other than temporary.' Other-than-temporary impairment losses represent a non-cash charge to income.
"Our bond portfolio, however, continued to hold steady, with a total value of $5.965 billion at quarter-end, up 2.0 percent from the year-end level. The flight to quality and the resulting lower interest rates for risk-free securities continued to support bond valuations, helping offset the effects of increasing risk premiums and credit spreads in the first quarter of 2008. Our focus remains on portfolio strategies to balance near-term income generation and long-term book value growth. While decisions to sell investments that no longer meet our investment criteria could have a negative impact on income in the short-term, reinvestment in securities with lower, but more secure, yields should help us weather the present storm.
"We are committed to sustaining the strong capitalization that supports our high insurer financial strength ratings, giving our agents a distinct marketing advantage for their value-oriented clients. On March 26, A.M. Best Co. affirmed our issuer credit and financial strength ratings. Best said its stable outlook on our ratings reflects our group's superior risk-adjusted capitalization and its historical ability to generate solid operating results through underwriting cycles, which will enable the group to absorb any near-term increases in volatility as a result of its investment philosophy or weather-related events.'
"Our ratio of property casualty written premiums to statutory surplus, an important measure of that financial strength, rose slightly at March 31, 2008, to 0.75 from 0.72 at year-end 2007, but remains more than 10 percent stronger than the industry average," Schiff noted. "Cincinnati Financial has the resources and tenacity to get through times such as these in good shape.
"We returned $168 million to shareholders in the first three months of 2008 through cash dividends and repurchase activity," Schiff concluded.
3
 
Catastrophe Loss and Loss Expenses Incurred
4
 
Commercial Lines Insurance Operations
Personal Lines Insurance Operations
5
 
Life Insurance Operations
6
 
Investment Operations
For additional information or to register for this morning's conference call webcast, please visit .
www.cinfin.com/investors
7
 
This is our "Safe Harbor" statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our business is subject to certain risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements in this report. Some of those risks and uncertainties are discussed in our 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K, Item 1A, Risk Factors, Page 21. Although we often review and update our forward-looking statements when events warrant, we caution our readers that we undertake no obligation to do so.
Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to:
Further, the company's insurance businesses are subject to the effects of changing social, economic and regulatory environments. Public and regulatory initiatives have included efforts to adversely influence and restrict premium rates, restrict the ability to cancel policies, impose underwriting standards and expand overall regulation. The company also is subject to public and regulatory initiatives that can affect the market value for its common stock, such as recent measures affecting corporate financial reporting and governance. The ultimate changes and eventual effects, if any, of these initiatives are uncertain.
 
www.cinfin.com
Cincinnati Financial Corporation offers property and casualty insurance, our main business, through our three standard market companies, The Cincinnati Insurance Company, The Cincinnati Indemnity Company and The Cincinnati Casualty Company. The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company provides excess and surplus lines property and casualty insurance. The Cincinnati Life Insurance Company markets life and disability income insurance and annuities. CSU Producer Resources Inc., is our excess and surplus lines brokerage, serving the same local independent agencies that offer our standard market policies. CFC Investment Company offers commercial leasing and financing services. CinFin Capital Management Company provides asset management services to institutions, corporations and individuals. For additional information about the company, please visit
.
8
 
 
9
 
Cincinnati Financial Corporation prepares its public financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). Statutory data is prepared in accordance with statutory accounting rules as defined by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners' (NAIC) Accounting Practices and Procedures Manual and therefore is not reconciled to GAAP data.
Management uses certain non-GAAP and non-statutory financial measures to evaluate its primary business areas  property casualty insurance, life insurance and investments  when analyzing both GAAP and certain non-GAAP measures may improve understanding of trends in the underlying business, helping avoid incorrect or misleading assumptions and conclusions about the success or failure of company strategies. Management adjustments to GAAP measures generally: apply to non-recurring events that are unrelated to business performance and distort short-term results; involve values that fluctuate based on events outside of management's control; or relate to accounting refinements that affect comparability between periods, creating a need to analyze data on the same basis.
10
 
11

 
Exhibit 99.2
Ratings are as of April 29, 2008, under continuing review and subject to change and/or affirmation. For the latest ratings, select Ratings tab on .
www.cinfin.com
The consolidated financial statements and financial exhibits that follow are unaudited. These consolidated financial statements and exhibits should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes included our periodic filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The results of operations for interim periods may not be indicative of results to be expected for the full year.
 
 
Cincinnati Financial Corporation prepares its public financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). Statutory data is prepared in accordance with statutory accounting rules as defined by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners' (NAIC) Accounting Practices and Procedures Manual and therefore is not reconciled to GAAP data.
Management uses certain non-GAAP and non-statutory financial measures to evaluate its primary business areas  property casualty insurance, life insurance and investments  when analyzing both GAAP and certain non-GAAP measures may improve understanding of trends in the underlying business, helping avoid incorrect or misleading assumptions and conclusions about the success or failure of company strategies. Management adjustments to GAAP measures generally: apply to non-recurring events that are unrelated to business performance and distort short-term results; involve values that fluctuate based on events outside of management's control; or relate to accounting refinements that affect comparability between periods, creating a need to analyze data on the same basis.
3
 
(Based on reported data  see Pages 20-22 for adjusted data)
4
 
Due to net loss from operations, basic and diluted shares are the same.
5
 
6
 
7
 
.
Dollar amounts shown are rounded to millions; certain amounts may not add due to rounding. Ratios are calculated based on whole dollar amounts. The sum of quarterly amounts may not equal the full year as each is computed independently
8
 
9
 
10
 
11
 
 
12
 
 
13
 
14
 
15
 
(Dollars in millions)
16
 
17
 
 18
 
19 
 
20 
 
p
21
 
22
 
23
 
 
24
 
25


