FILE:CINF/CINF-8K-20080703124810.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 5.02(b) Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On July 3, 2008, Cincinnati Financial Corporation issued the attached news release "Cincinnati Financial Corporation Director Appointed as Chief of Navy Reserve, United States Navy."  The news release discusses the resignation of Dirk Debbink as a director of Cincinnati Financial Corporation on June 29, 2008 effective June 30, 2008.  Mr. Debbink's resignation is due to his recall to active military duty and his promotion to Vice Admiral and Chief of Navy Reserve, U.S. Navy, which was confirmed by the United States Senate effective June 27, 2008.    The news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference. This report should not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information contained in the news release.
With Mr. Debbink's departure, the board intends to act to return the size of the board to 13 members at its next meeting.
The information furnished in Item 7.01 of this report shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.  
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
New Release dated July 3, 2008, "Cincinnati Financial Corporation Director Appointed as Chief of Navy Reserve, United States Navy."
Exhibit 99.1
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
CINCINNATI  FINANCIAL  CORPORATION
Investor Contact: Heather J. Wietzel
513-870-2768
CINF-IR@cinfin.com
Media Contact:  Joan O. Shevchik
513-603-5323
Media_Inquiries@cinfin.com
 
today announced that Dirk J. Debbink, a director on the company's board since 2004, has been appointed Vice Admiral and Chief of Navy Reserve, U.S. Navy. Debbink was recalled to active military duty in Washington, D.C., and confirmed by the U.S. Senate effective June 27, 2008. He tendered his resignation from the Cincinnati Financial board of directors, effective June 30, 2008.
CINCINNATI, July 3, 2008  Cincinnati Financial Corporation (Nasdaq: CINF)
Thirteen directors serve on the board following Debbink's departure and the previously announced addition of Kenneth W. Stecher to the board. Stecher was named on June 16, 2008, as the company's president and chief executive and appointed to the board effective July 1, 2008. John J. Schiff, Jr., CPCU, continues as chairman of the board. James E. Benoski continues as vice chairman of the board, as he transitions toward retirement.
Stecher commented, "Dirk was a member of our audit committee, now comprised of six other independent directors, and our executive committee, which also is a group of six directors with business and insurance expertise. The talent on our board is deep, and we expect our directors will work together without missing a beat. Our seasoned directors are great assets as we work through a challenging period for our company, our insurance industry and the financial sector.
"While we will miss working with Dirk, we are pleased to see this well-deserved recognition of his dedication, character and leadership. We understand that all Americans benefit from the willingness of our highest-caliber leaders to serve our country. As he steps up to his new responsibilities for the U.S. Navy, we thank him for all he did to step up for Cincinnati Financial and our shareholders over the past four years."


