FILE:CINF/CINF-8K-20080206103606.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13a-4(c))
o
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On February 6, 2008, Cincinnati Financial Corporation issued the attached news release titled "Cincinnati Financial Reports Fourth-quarter and Full-year 2007 Results," furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference. On February 6, 2008, the company also distributed the attached information titled "Supplemental Financial Data," furnished as Exhibit 99.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference. This report should not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information contained in the news release or supplemental financial data.
In accordance with general instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information furnished in this report shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On February 4, 2008, Cincinnati Financial Corporation issued the attached news release "Cincinnati Financial Corporation Increases Cash Dividend." The news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.3 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference. This report should not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information contained in the news release.
On February 4, 2008, Cincinnati Financial Corporation issued the attached news release "Cincinnati Financial Corporation and Subsidiaries Announce Appointments." The news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.4 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference. This report should not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information contained in the news release.
The information furnished in Item 7.01 of this report shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: February 6, 2008

 
today reported:
Cincinnati, February 6, 2008  Cincinnati Financial Corporation (Nasdaq: CINF)
Financial Highlights
Insurance Operations Highlights
Investment and Balance Sheet Highlights
Full-year 2008 Outlook**
 
 
Challenging Property Casualty Insurance Environment
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John J. Schiff, Jr., CPCU, commented, "We continue to see the benefits of our agency-centered approach, with local market decision making that creates agent and policyholder loyalty through all stages of the insurance pricing cycle. We credit those relationships with contributing to 2007's strong results. Further, our policyholders' catastrophe losses were at the lowest level since 1997 and our savings from favorable development on prior period reserves was above our guidance. We expect these measures to return to more normal levels in the future."
Schiff added, "Our commercial lines premiums continue to reflect reduced pricing due to increased competition. As well, we are seeing economic pressure in some regions and on some types of business, which affects our policyholders' revenues or payrolls and is a factor in the premiums calculated for certain business policies. We have performed well under these types of tough commercial lines market conditions in the past. Our approach  supporting our agents' strong local advantages through our team of field representatives and headquarters associates  gives us unique strengths to succeed. The local knowledge of our agents and field associates helps us carefully underwrite accounts, selecting only the commercial business that appears to be appropriately priced relative to the risk we would assume."
Schiff noted, "Likewise, the marketplace is competitive for personal lines in many regions. Lower new and renewal premiums per policy have reduced our personal lines net written premiums. We are addressing our competitive position so we can resume growing in personal lines. We continue to refine our rates, building on the changes we made in mid-2006 to the structure of our premium credits. Those changes better positioned our agencies to sell the value of our homeowner and personal auto policies. As a result, policy retention rates remain above 90 percent and new personal lines business continues to grow. Another way in which we hope to grow is by making our personal lines products available over the next two years in states where agents currently market only our commercial lines products."
Long-term Investment in Property Casualty Business
James E. Benoski, vice chairman, chief insurance officer and president, said, "2007 marked our first agency appointments and first commercial lines policies in Washington and New Mexico, the 33 and 34 states where we actively market property casualty insurance."
rd
th
Benoski added, "Across our established states, Cincinnati has earned a generous share of each agency's business over the years by offering the products and services agents need to protect their local businesses and families. Our agents have indicated their desire to have Cincinnati available as a market for commercial accounts that require the flexibility of excess and surplus lines coverage. Preparations that began in early 2007 for our excess and surplus lines operations concluded on schedule in December. Our new subsidiary, The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company, received an A (Excellent) rating from A.M. Best Co., an independent provider of insurer ratings. They began 2008 by successfully issuing the first surplus lines policies from the new policy administration system.
"In addition to growing with our current agencies, we also continue to build new relationships, making agency appointments within our current marketing territories and recently opened states. In total, we completed 66 agency appointments in 2007, including 50 that were new relationships. With many more in the pipeline, we are targeting another 65 appointments in 2008. New appointments, net of other changes in our agency relationships, brought total reporting agency locations to 1,327 at year-end 2007, compared with 1,289 at year-end 2006."
2007 Property Casualty Combined Ratio
Kenneth W. Stecher, chief financial officer and executive vice president, said, "Cincinnati's overall profitability for the fourth quarter and full year was excellent and improved from last year's levels. Results for both the quarter and year benefited from very low catastrophe losses and savings from favorable development on prior period reserves above our guidance. In contrast, the industry's full-year 2007 combined ratio is expected to rise to approximately 95.6 percent, including 1.7 percentage points from catastrophe losses, from 92.4 percent, including 2.1 percentage points from catastrophe losses, in 2006.
Stecher noted, "We did experience a rise in the current accident year loss ratio excluding catastrophe losses. We believe two factors were largely responsible. First, current market conditions and softer pricing are hampering profitability. Second, there are instances when losses from weather events can be significant for some carriers, but not rise to the level where Property Claims Services tracks industrywide losses and designates the events as insurance catastrophes. We believe that was the case for us in 2007, with non-catastrophe weather-related losses adding about 1 percentage point more to our loss ratio than in 2006."
2
 
2008 Property Casualty Outlook Update
Stecher commented, "If current commercial lines pricing trends continue into 2008, our net written premiums could decline as much as 5 percent. We believe our GAAP combined ratio could be between 96 percent and 98 percent, as we meet the needs of our agencies while managing for long-term profitability. Industry full-year 2008 net written premiums are expected to decline 0.6 percent with the combined ratio rising to 98.6 percent."
Stecher observed that the combined ratio target relies on three assumptions:
Stecher added, "We believe the level of performance we have targeted will allow us to sustain our industry leading position in the commercial lines insurance marketplace. We plan to take steps in our personal lines insurance operations to enhance our response to the changing marketplace. And finally, we look for our life insurance business to continue to make a solid and growing contribution to our earnings.
"Our strong position gives us opportunities to be a market for our agents' best business, giving them market stability and contributing to their success. Further, we believe we can expect a positive contribution from our new excess and surplus lines operations, although our 2008 targets do not take into account any contribution from excess and surplus lines. We are mindful that it will take some time before our excess and surplus lines operation is of sufficient size to materially influence our overall corporate results," Stecher said.
Investment Performance Affected by Recent Market Activity
Schiff commented, "Our buy-and-hold equity investing strategy has been key to the long-term growth of our assets and shareholders' equity. We identify companies with the potential for sales, earnings and dividend growth, a strong management team and favorable outlook. Over the years, these equities have generally offered a steadily increasing flow of dividend income along with the potential for capital appreciation.
"Since mid-2007, the success of this strategy has been interrupted as the financial markets have reflected broad concerns about credit quality, liquidity and the general health of the economy. As we noted in September 2007, uncertainty about the duration and the impact of these issues could significantly influence valuations and the volatility of the markets," Schiff continued.
"Five months later, our book value has declined due to the significant drop in market value of our financial sector common stocks, which represent approximately 35 percent of our investment portfolio. To varying degrees, these companies are addressing a challenging credit quality environment and related issues. As a result, they may evaluate their dividend levels in light of their own capital requirements and earnings outlook, potentially slowing our investment income growth.
"Providing balance to the challenges of our equity portfolio, our bond portfolio continued to hold steady in the fourth quarter as widening credit spreads were offset by the strong demand in the market for low-risk securities. We believe our investment strategy will continue to allow us to maximize both income and capital appreciation over the long term. We are committed to sustaining the strong capitalization that supports our high insurer financial strength ratings, giving our agents a distinct marketing advantage for their value-oriented clients."
Schiff added, "Your company returned $546 million to shareholders in 2007 through cash dividends and a record level of repurchase activity, including the accelerated share repurchase agreement announced in October. At that time, the board of directors expanded its repurchase authorization to communicate to shareholders its confidence in our business and our long-term outlook. The board acted last week to raise the indicated annual dividend rate by 9.9 percent, to $1.56 per share. We expect the board to continue to take actions supporting increased shareholder value over the long term."
3
 
2008 Reinsurance Program
4
 
Commercial Lines Insurance Operations
Personal Lines Insurance Operations
5
 
Life Insurance Operations
6
 
Investment Operations
7
 
For additional information or to register for this morning's conference call webcast, please visit .
www.cinfin.com/investors
This is our "Safe Harbor" statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our business is subject to certain risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements in this report. Some of those risks and uncertainties are discussed in our 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K, Item 1A, Risk Factors, Page 20. Although we often review or update our forward-looking statements when events warrant, we caution our readers that we undertake no obligation to do so. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to:
Further, the company's insurance businesses are subject to the effects of changing social, economic and regulatory environments. Public and regulatory initiatives have included efforts to adversely influence and restrict premium rates, restrict the ability to cancel policies, impose underwriting standards and expand overall regulation. The company also is subject to public and regulatory initiatives that can affect the market value for its common stock, such as recent measures affecting corporate financial reporting and governance. The ultimate changes and eventual effects, if any, of these initiatives are uncertain.
8
 
9
 
www.cinfin.com
Cincinnati Financial Corporation offers property and casualty insurance, our main business, through our three standard market companies, The Cincinnati Insurance Company, The Cincinnati Indemnity Company and The Cincinnati Casualty Company. The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company provides excess and surplus lines property and casualty insurance. The Cincinnati Life Insurance Company markets life and disability income insurance and annuities. CSU Producer Resources Inc., is our excess and surplus lines brokerage, serving the same local independent agencies that offer our standard market policies. CFC Investment Company offers commercial leasing and financing services. CinFin Capital Management Company provides asset management services to institutions, corporations and individuals. For additional information about the company, please visit
.
10
 
Cincinnati Financial Corporation prepares its public financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). Statutory data is prepared in accordance with statutory accounting rules as defined by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners' (NAIC) Accounting Practices and Procedures Manual and therefore is not reconciled to GAAP data.
Management uses certain non-GAAP and non-statutory financial measures to evaluate its primary business areas  property casualty insurance, life insurance and investments  when analyzing both GAAP and certain non-GAAP measures may improve understanding of trends in the underlying business, helping avoid incorrect or misleading assumptions and conclusions about the success or failure of company strategies. Management adjustments to GAAP measures generally: apply to non-recurring events that are unrelated to business performance and distort short-term results; involve values that fluctuate based on events outside of management's control; or relate to accounting refinements that affect comparability between periods, creating a need to analyze data on the same basis.
11
 
Dollar amounts shown are rounded to millions; certain amounts may not add due to rounding. Ratios are calculated based on whole dollar amounts. The sum of quarterly amounts may not equal the full year as each is computed independently.
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
Ratings are as of February 5, 2008, under continuing review and subject to change and/or affirmation. For the latest ratings, select Ratings tab on .
www.cinfin.com
The consolidated financial statements and financial exhibits that follow are unaudited. These consolidated financial statements and exhibits should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2006. The results of operations for interim periods may not be indicative of results to be expected for the full year. Certain 2006 interim period data has been updated to correct rounding differences.
 
 
Cincinnati Financial Corporation prepares its public financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). Statutory data is prepared in accordance with statutory accounting rules as defined by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners' (NAIC) Accounting Practices and Procedures Manual and therefore is not reconciled to GAAP data.
Management uses certain non-GAAP and non-statutory financial measures to evaluate its primary business areas  property casualty insurance, life insurance and investments  when analyzing both GAAP and certain non-GAAP measures may improve understanding of trends in the underlying business, helping avoid incorrect or misleading assumptions and conclusions about the success or failure of company strategies. Management adjustments to GAAP measures generally: apply to non-recurring events that are unrelated to business performance and distort short-term results; involve values that fluctuate based on events outside of management's control; or relate to accounting refinements that affect comparability between periods, creating a need to analyze data on the same basis.
 
(Based on reported data  see Pages 27-29 for adjusted data)
(Dollars in millions except share data)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dollar amounts shown are rounded to millions; certain amounts may not add due to rounding. Ratios are calculated based on whole dollar amounts. The sum of quarterly amounts may not equal the full year as each is computed independently.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.3
today announced that the board of directors voted at its regular meeting on February 1, 2008, to increase the regular quarterly cash dividend 9.9 percent to 39 cents per share, payable April 15, 2008, to shareholders of record on March 21, 2008. At the new level, the indicated annual dividend is $1.56 per share. Cash dividends declared in 2007 were $1.42 per share.
Cincinnati, February 4, 2008  Cincinnati Financial Corporation (Nasdaq: CINF)
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John J. Schiff, Jr., CPCU, commented, "For 48 consecutive years, the board has rewarded our shareholders by increasing the cash dividend. This consistency places Cincinnati Financial in the top tier of U.S. dividend-paying companies, with a long, uninterrupted history of increases that can be claimed by only 10 other companies. We are thankful for the loyalty of our shareholders and policyholders and the efforts of our agents and associates, which together have supported our mutual prosperity."
Cincinnati Financial plans to report fourth-quarter and year-end 2007 results on Wednesday, February 6. A conference call to discuss the results will be held at 11:00 a.m. EST on that day. Details regarding the Internet broadcast of the conference call are available on .
www.cinfin.com/investors
www.cinfin.com
Cincinnati Financial Corporation offers property and casualty insurance, our main business, through our three standard market companies, The Cincinnati Insurance Company, The Cincinnati Indemnity Company and The Cincinnati Casualty Company. The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company provides excess and surplus lines property and casualty insurance. The Cincinnati Life Insurance Company markets life and disability income insurance and annuities. CSU Producer Resources Inc., is our excess and surplus lines brokerage, serving the same local independent agencies that offer our standard market policies. CFC Investment Company offers commercial leasing and financing services. CinFin Capital Management Company provides asset management services to institutions, corporations and individuals. For additional information about the company, please visit
.

 
Exhibit 99.4
announced today that its board and boards of its subsidiary companies appointed officers, counsel and a subsidiary director at their regular meetings on February 1, 2008.
Cincinnati, February 4, 2008  Cincinnati Financial Corporation (Nasdaq:CINF)
For the company and its three standard market property casualty insurance subsidiaries, Donald J. Doyle, Jr., Martin F. Hollenbeck and Charles P. Stoneburner II, were named executive officers. For the standard market subsidiaries, Stoneburner additionally was promoted to senior vice president. For the excess and surplus lines subsidiary, Doyle additionally was named executive officer. Hollenbeck additionally was named executive officer for The Cincinnati Life Insurance Company, president and chief operating officer of CFC Investment Company; and president and member of the board of directors of CinFin Capital Management Company.
Boards of subsidiary companies made the following promotions and new or additional appointments of officers and counsel:
Charles P. Stoneburner II, CPCU, AIM, Senior Vice President  Field Claims
Property Casualty Insurance  Standard Market Subsidiaries:
The Cincinnati Insurance Company The Cincinnati Casualty Company The Cincinnati Indemnity Company
Teresa C. Cracas, Counsel and Vice President  Planning & Risk Management Martin F. Hollenbeck, CFA, CPCU, Vice President and Manager  Investments David E. McKinney, CPCU, AIM, Vice President  Commercial Lines Michael K. O'Connor, CFA, CPCU, AFSB, Vice President  Investments Paul W. Wells, Vice President  Bond & Executive Risk
Ted W. Doughman, CPCU, AFSB, RPLU, Assistant Vice President  Bond & Executive Risk Anthony W. Dunn, CPA, CPCU, CIA, Assistant Vice President  Internal Audit Philip T. Kramer, CIC, Assistant Vice President  Sales & Marketing Jerry L. Litton, Assistant Vice President  Corporate Accounting Gregory J. Schloemer, Assistant Vice President  Bond & Executive Risk Charlotte A. Tungate, CPCU, AIC, Assistant Vice President  Headquarters Claims Matthew A. Zimmerman, Assistant Vice President  Commercial Lines
C. Duane Cantrell, CPCU, AIC, Secretary  Machinery & Equipment Specialties Karen L. Hock, Secretary  Meetings & Travel Jack D. Kelley, CPCU, AIC, Secretary  Field Claims Michelle L. Kyle, Secretary  Information Technology Dennis E. McDaniel, CPA, CMA, CFM, CPCU, Secretary  Planning & Risk Management David V. Neville, CPCU, AIM, API, ARe, Secretary  Personal Lines Janet L. Partin, Secretary  Premium Audit David A. Rice, SCLA, Secretary  Field Claims Henry C. Schmidt III, AIM, Secretary  Personal Lines Blake D. Slater, Secretary  Corporate Accounting Stephen M. Spray, Secretary  Excess & Surplus Lines
 
Brent A. Hardesty III, CPCU, CISA, CIA, AIAF, Assistant Secretary  Internal Audit Michael D. Hingsbergen, PMP, Assistant Secretary  Information Technology Troy M. Reichers, Assistant Secretary  Headquarters Claims James R. Richards, CPCU, AIC, Assistant Secretary  Headquarters Claims Brett J. Starr, CISA, Assistant Treasurer  Financial Reporting & Systems Development
Keith W. Collett, Associate Counsel  Legal-Trial Division
Stephen M. Spray, Secretary*
Property Casualty Insurance  Excess & Surplus Lines Subsidiary:
The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company:
Scott E. Hintze, CPCU, AIM, CIC, AU, Assistant Secretary  Excess & Surplus Lines Marc J. Schambow, CPCU, AIM, Assistant Secretary  Excess & Surplus Lines
Martin F. Hollenbeck* Teresa C. Cracas* Michael K. O'Connor* Anthony W. Dunn* Ann S. Binzer, FLHC, CLU, ChFC, FALU, FLMI, Secretary  Life & Health Claims Michelle L. Kyle* Dennis E. McDaniel* Kevin C. Smith, Secretary  Corporate Accounting Brent A. Hardesty III* Michael D. Hingsbergen* Keith W. Collett*
The Cincinnati Life Insurance Company:
Martin F. Hollenbeck, CFA, CPCU, President
Financial Services Subsidiaries:
CinFin Capital Management Company
Martin F. Hollenbeck, CFA, CPCU, President and Chief Operating Officer Blake D. Slater*
CFC Investment Company
 
www.cinfin.com
Cincinnati Financial Corporation offers property and casualty insurance, our main business, through our three standard market companies, The Cincinnati Insurance Company, The Cincinnati Indemnity Company and The Cincinnati Casualty Company. The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company provides excess and surplus lines property and casualty insurance. The Cincinnati Life Insurance Company markets life and disability income insurance and annuities. CSU Producer Resources Inc. is our excess and surplus lines brokerage, serving the same local independent agencies that offer our standard market policies. CFC Investment Company offers commercial leasing and financing services. CinFin Capital Management Company provides asset management services to institutions, corporations and individuals. For additional information about the company, please visit
.


