FILE:CINF/CINF-8K-20081029073718.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 29, 2008, Cincinnati Financial Corporation issued the attached news release titled "Cincinnati Financial Reports Profitable 2008 Third Quarter," furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference. On October 29, 2008, the company also distributed the attached information titled "Supplemental Financial Data," furnished as Exhibit 99.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference. This report should not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information contained in the news release or supplemental financial data.
In accordance with general instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information furnished in this report shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits
      News release dated October 29, 2008, "Cincinnati Financial Reports Profitable 2008 Third Quarter"
Exhibit 99.1
      Supplemental Financial Data dated October 29, 2008
Exhibit 99.2
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Cincinnati Financial Reports Profitable 2008 Third Quarter
today reported:
Cincinnati, October 29, 2008  Cincinnati Financial Corporation (Nasdaq: CINF)
Financial Highlights
Insurance Operations Highlights
Investment and Balance Sheet Highlights
Outlook**
 
 
 
Financial and Operational Strength for Current Challenges and Ongoing Success
     Kenneth W. Stecher, president and chief executive officer, commented, "The current instability of financial markets highlights the value of operating in a transparent and conservative way, building a cushion of financial strength over a period of years. A long-term perspective governs all of our major decisions  to the consistent benefit of our policyholders, agents, shareholders and associates. We continue to focus on our risk management program, with the goal of more specifically defining our risk limits, aligning our operating plan accordingly and improving management's ability to identify and respond to changing conditions.
     "Exceptional liquidity arises from our strong cash flows and prudent cash balances. All of our insurance subsidiaries continue to be highly rated, operating with a level of capital far exceeding regulatory requirements. Statutory surplus of our property casualty insurance companies increased slightly during the third quarter of 2008. Plus, unlike many insurers, we hold significant additional assets at the parent company level, increasing our flexibility through all periods to maintain our cash dividend and to continue to invest in and expand our insurance operations.
     "New internal parameters for our investment portfolio, including more conservative limits on sector and issuer concentrations, are helping us prepare to withstand future challenges. Recent sales of selected common stock holdings are part of a strategic rebalancing, providing cash for reinvestment into sectors that we believe have better prospects for both current income and long-term appreciation. In early October we sold approximately 9 million additional shares of Fifth Third Bancorp (NASDAQ: FITB), reducing our position to 20 million shares. In total, we have reduced our financial sector holdings 25 percent since midyear, moving this sector more in line with our longer-term targets. In large part, common stock sales occurred when we exercised appropriate sell discipline to lock in gains.
     "At quarter-end, fixed-maturity investments represented almost 60 percent of the portfolio, a level management believes is appropriate. We view our diversification to be consistent with our view of prudent risk management. Going forward, we will evaluate all of our fixed-maturity and equity investments using our investment parameters and risk limits and adding to both the fixed maturity and equity portfolios, as appropriate. We believe our current capital position can withstand short-term pressures, such as the market volatility that we have experienced in October," Stecher noted.
Third Quarter 2008 Underwriting Results and Full-year 2008 Property Casualty Outlook
     Steven J. Johnston, FCAS, MAAA, CFA, chief financial officer, said, "As we work to write profitable insurance business, we continue to face unfavorable pricing and economic trends. At this time, we continue to believe that 2008 full-year written premiums could decline by 5 percent, or slightly more, if pessimistic views of these trends prove accurate and commercial insurance pricing continues to be very competitive.
     "A more optimistic view could result in a rate of decline for full-year 2008 premiums closer to the 4.2 percent we experienced so far in 2008. This pace is appropriate and consistent with our agents' practice of selecting and retaining accounts with manageable risk characteristics that support the lower prevailing prices. It reflects the advantages of our three-year policies. We believe this pace also reflects the advantages we achieve by maintaining an experienced field force. Our representatives live in our agents' communities and serve their clients, providing us with quality intelligence on local market conditions. Since the end of the third quarter, our first Texas representative has begun to explore relationships with agencies in the Austin market, and our second team member is scheduled to relocate to the Dallas market in November.
     "We continue to pioneer this and other new paths to future growth. During the third quarter, we introduced our excess and surplus lines capabilities to additional agencies in more states, staying on track with our plans to have these products available in 33 states by year end. We continued appointing new agencies and working to position our personal lines for profitable future growth, including introducing personal lines capabilities in new geographies. We look to 2009 for momentum in all of these initiatives, as well as advances in our technology that will make it easier for agents and their policyholders to do business with our company."
     Johnston continued, "High catastrophe losses continued to temper property casualty profitability despite satisfactory underlying trends. Our commercial lines combined ratio was 96.6 percent for the nine-month period, despite a 5.5 percentage-point rise in commercial catastrophe losses. We continue to see the potential for the full-year 2008 combined ratio for our overall property casualty operations to remain slightly above 100 percent.
     "We're taking that conservative view of the combined ratio because of the record catastrophe losses this year. Hurricane Ike moved into the Midwest on September 14, causing unusually high winds in Ohio, Indiana and Kentucky. Our third-quarter estimate of gross losses from that storm was $105 million, making it the single largest gross catastrophe event in the company's history. Net of reinsurance, the loss is estimated at $57 million. Our reinsurance program, an important part of
2
 
our risk management efforts, protected our surplus from outsized losses as intended. Virtually all of the losses reported by our policyholders occurred in the Midwest.
     "Through October 24, we had received approximately 18,000 claims from Hurricane Ike, of which more than 80 percent have been closed. To restore the affected layers of our catastrophe reinsurance treaty, we incurred a reinstatement premium of $11 million, which reduced written and earned premiums for the three- and nine-month periods."
     Johnston noted, "In mid-2008, we modified our defined benefit pension plan and began transitioning to a sponsored 401(k) with company matching of associate contributions. This action reduces the company's future risk while offering associates an up-to-date, more flexible benefits program. The pension plan now includes only associates 40 years of age or older on August 31, 2008, who elected to remain in the plan. We now expect fourth-quarter 2008 results to reflect a settlement cost of approximately $26 million, largely related to benefit distributions to those who left the qualified pension plan. Going forward, we expect potential savings from lower funding requirements for the pension plan to be offset by company matching contributions to 401(k) accounts for associates who do not accrue pension plan benefits."
Risk Management Strengthens Investment Opportunities
     Stecher added, "Our rebalancing actions, together with market and economic forces, have significantly changed our investment portfolio over the past 12 months. The decision to rebalance our portfolio grew out of our implementation of an enhanced risk management process, which involves modeling outcomes, setting tolerances and acting to optimize use of our capital. We considered opportunities to reduce volatility risk while retaining upside potential. After common stock sales made since midyear, our financial sector holdings now account for approximately 30 percent of the market value of our equity portfolio, down 25 percent.
     "While our equity portfolio now is better positioned for total return, it is producing lower dividend income. We expect full-year 2008 pretax investment income to be less than 90 percent of the 2007 level, with no resumption of earned dividend growth in 2009. We also expect our highly rated and diversified $5.941 billion bond and short-term investment portfolio to continue providing steady interest income. We generally hold bonds to maturity, redeeming them at full value of the principal."
     Stecher concluded, "We believe that our strong surplus position and superior insurer financial strength ratings are competitive advantages that help our agents market our policies. In this market, consistency and predictability are our most valuable differentiators. Our financial strength supports the consistent, predictable performance that our policyholders, agents, associates and shareholders have always expected and received. We will continue to manage our capital to withstand significant challenges. We believe our capital position and cash flow continues to support our cash dividend, which the board sees as a priority over repurchase in this market."
3
 
4
 
Commercial Lines Insurance Operations
Personal Lines Insurance Operations
5
 
Life Insurance Operations
6
 
Investment Operations
7
 
For additional information or to register for this morning's conference call webcast, please visit .
www.cinfin.com/investors
www.cinfin.com
Cincinnati Financial Corporation offers property and casualty insurance, our main business, through our three standard market companies, The Cincinnati Insurance Company, The Cincinnati Indemnity Company and The Cincinnati Casualty Company. The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company provides excess and surplus lines property and casualty insurance. The Cincinnati Life Insurance Company markets life and disability income insurance and annuities. CSU Producer Resources Inc., is our excess and surplus lines brokerage, serving the same local independent agencies that offer our standard market policies. CFC Investment Company offers commercial leasing and financing services. CinFin Capital Management Company provides asset management services to institutions, corporations and nonprofit organizations. For additional information about the company, please visit
.
Safe Harbor Statement
This is our "Safe Harbor" statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our business is subject to certain risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements in this report. Some of those risks and uncertainties are discussed in our 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K, Item 1A, Risk Factors, Page 21. Although we often review and update our forward-looking statements when events warrant, we caution our readers that we undertake no obligation to do so.
Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to:
8
 
Further, the company's insurance businesses are subject to the effects of changing social, economic and regulatory environments. Public and regulatory initiatives have included efforts to adversely influence and restrict premium rates, restrict the ability to cancel policies, impose underwriting standards and expand overall regulation. The company also is subject to public and regulatory initiatives that can affect the market value for its common stock, such as recent measures affecting corporate financial reporting and governance. The ultimate changes and eventual effects, if any, of these initiatives are uncertain.
9
 
10
 
Cincinnati Financial Corporation prepares its public financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). Statutory data is prepared in accordance with statutory accounting rules as defined by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners' (NAIC) Accounting Practices and Procedures Manual and therefore is not reconciled to GAAP data.
Management uses certain non-GAAP and non-statutory financial measures to evaluate its primary business areas  property casualty insurance, life insurance and investments  when analyzing both GAAP and certain non-GAAP measures may improve understanding of trends in the underlying business, helping avoid incorrect or misleading assumptions and conclusions about the success or failure of company strategies. Management adjustments to GAAP measures generally: apply to non-recurring events that are unrelated to business performance and distort short-term results; involve values that fluctuate based on events outside of management's control; or relate to accounting refinements that affect comparability between periods, creating a need to analyze data on the same basis.
11
 
Dollar amounts shown are rounded to millions; certain amounts may not add due to rounding. Ratios are calculated based on whole dollar amounts.
12

Exhibit 99.2
Ratings are as of September 25, 2008, under negative review or outlook and always subject to change and/or affirmation. For the latest ratings, select Ratings tab on .
www.cinfin.com
The consolidated financial statements and financial exhibits that follow are unaudited. These consolidated financial statements and exhibits should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes included our periodic filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The results of operations for interim periods may not be indicative of results to be expected for the full year.
 
 
Cincinnati Financial Corporation prepares its public financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). Statutory data is prepared in accordance with statutory accounting rules as defined by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners' (NAIC) Accounting Practices and Procedures Manual and therefore is not reconciled to GAAP data.
Management uses certain non-GAAP and non-statutory financial measures to evaluate its primary business areas  property casualty insurance, life insurance and investments  when analyzing both GAAP and certain non-GAAP measures may improve understanding of trends in the underlying business, helping avoid incorrect or misleading assumptions and conclusions about the success or failure of company strategies. Management adjustments to GAAP measures generally: apply to non-recurring events that are unrelated to business performance and distort short-term results; involve values that fluctuate based on events outside of management's control; or relate to accounting refinements that affect comparability between periods, creating a need to analyze data on the same basis.
3
 
(Based on reported data  see Pages 21-23 for adjusted data)
4
 
5
 
6
 
7
 
8
 
     
Dollar amounts shown are rounded to millions; certain amounts may not add due to rounding. Ratios are calculated based on whole dollar amounts. The sum of quarterly amounts may not equal the full year as each is computed independently.
9
 
10
 
     
11
 
     
12
 
     
13
 
     
14
 
     
15
 
     
 
16
 
     
(Dollars in millions)
17
 
     
 
18
 
     
 
19
 
     
20
 
     
 
 
     
 
 
     
 
24
 
 
25


