FILE:CINF/CINF-8K-20080806083130.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13a-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On August 6, 2008, Cincinnati Financial Corporation issued the attached news release titled "Cincinnati Financial Reports Second-quarter 2008 Profit" furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference. On August 6, 2008, the company also distributed the attached information titled "Supplemental Financial Data," furnished as Exhibit 99.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference. This report should not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information contained in the news release or supplemental financial data.
In accordance with general instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information furnished in this report shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

EXHIBIT 99.1
today reported:
Cincinnati, August 6, 2008  Cincinnati Financial Corporation (Nasdaq: CINF)
Financial Highlights
Insurance Operations Highlights
Investment and Balance Sheet Highlights
Full-year 2008 Outlook**
 
 
Responding to Current Challenges and Positioning for Continued Success
Kenneth W. Stecher, president and chief executive officer, stated, "Volatile weather patterns and financial markets hampered our results for the first half of 2008. Our strong business relationships and solid financial foundation allowed us to respond confidently and flexibly to these challenges while acting on our promise of prompt and fair claims service.
"Our financial position remains solid, having absorbed costs associated with the severe storms and with declining valuations of holdings in our equity investment portfolio. Independent agents continue to find that our policies are the best match for their better accounts, appreciating the value of our financial strength and our standout service. Over recent months, we repositioned our investment portfolio, improving our risk profile and adding to our long-term prospects for investment income growth and capital appreciation.
"Also looking to the long-term future, we added depth in our next generation of leadership. The executive transitions we announced in June will broaden and round out the experience of our managers. As a team, we are focused on serving our agent customers and achieving continued growth in earnings and book value over the long term. Our capital position and cash flow continue to support our current cash dividend payout and the board's intention to continue our 48-year tradition of annually increasing cash dividends to our shareholders."
Results Reflect Core Underwriting Expertise and Strength of Agency Relationships
Stecher said, "Our second-quarter results were driven by weather-related events that were largely responsible for the rise in our combined ratio over the same quarter last year. Catastrophe losses totaled $113 million, as we tracked seven events that each contributed $5 million or more to our loss and loss expenses. These storms caused primarily wind, hail and flood damage to our policyholders across 21 states. Our local claims representatives, assisted by four full teams of volunteer representatives from around the country, have already closed approximately 70 percent of the 3,565 reported claims as of July 31. Agents tell us that this prompt and personal claims service is a source of new business referrals.
"Our agents continued to bring the company quality business that allowed us to underwrite insurance near breakeven levels for the first six months of 2008 despite the high catastrophe losses. Agents and underwriters are working together to select and retain appropriately priced accounts, taking the case-by-case approach that has served us so well through all market and pricing cycles.
"As expected, our net written premiums declined 2.5 percent in the second quarter and a little more than 5 percent during the first half, reflecting competitive industry pricing and disciplined company underwriting. Agents continue to market Cincinnati's advantages to their value-oriented clients, leveraging our customized, multi-year commercial coverage packages, superior claims service and high financial strength ratings."
Stecher continued, "We're seeing a steady flow of new business submissions from agents, some resulting from our rollover initiatives that help agents lower expenses by reducing the number of carriers they represent. We see substantial growth opportunities in our newer states, and we're planning to appoint our first agencies in Texas before year-end. Plus, we've already appointed 37 new agencies this year in our 34 active states. Historically, in several of those 34 states we marketed commercial policies, but not personal insurance. Now, more of our agencies in more states are able to bring our personal lines products to their valued clients, thanks to technology advances that make our processes easier and more efficient.
"In addition, we expect premium growth to continue benefiting from expansion of our capabilities in excess and surplus lines. During the second quarter, we added property excess and surplus coverages in the five initial states where we already marketed general liability, entered five more states to market general liability and continued planning for marketing in the total of 33 states by year-end. These new capabilities allow us to provide both admitted and non-admitted coverage solutions to our agents and their business insurance clients, attracting new standard market property casualty business as agents and businesses that require excess and surplus solutions also look to Cincinnati to provide the complete insurance program.
"At the same time these activities generate growth, they also further diversify our book of business, geographically and by product line, helping us manage risk to improve the stability of our underwriting results and add to our overall financial strength."
2
 
2008 Property Casualty Outlook Update
Steven J. Johnston, chief financial officer, commented, "Our updated guidance for full-year 2008 results reflects current market trends and our actual six-month catastrophe loss experience. Unusually high industrywide storm activity through the first half of 2008 may lead to a full-year 2008 combined ratio above 100 percent."
Key assumptions for full-year 2008 combined ratio guidance include:
Johnston also said, "Our expectations for premium volume have not changed. Competitive pricing could result in our full-year 2008 net written premiums declining by as much as 5 percent. We continue to maintain our underwriting standards, declining inadequately priced new business and non-renewing selected accounts. Our agents help us target accounts with manageable risk characteristics that support the lower prevailing prices.
"We have updated our investment income guidance based on changes in the equity portfolio in the past 12 months, the reduced level of dividend income anticipated from equity holdings, the investment of insurance operations cash flow and the current portfolio attributes. We now believe that full-year 2008 investment income may decline as much as 10 percent from the 2007 level. This expectation considers Fifth Third's 66 percent reduction in its quarterly cash dividend in June 2008 and our sale of 35 million shares of Fifth Third in July 2008."
Investment Income Declines in the Near-term as We Improve Balance of Growth and Risks
Stecher added, "Investment income declined during the second quarter of 2008 as we received lower cash dividends from several of the financial institution stocks in our equity portfolio, including $20 million less from Fifth Third. We are working to return to previous levels of investment income by systematically identifying secure sources of interest income as well as common stocks of companies with the potential for growth in earnings and dividends. Our investment income philosophy stands  to balance near-term income generation with the potential for long-term book value growth.
"Our bond portfolio has held up well in the current challenging environment. As of June 30, the bond portfolio was trading at more than 98 percent of its stated par value. It is a diverse mix of taxable and tax-exempt securities, covering a wide range of sectors, industries and maturities. The fixed income portfolio exceeds by a comfortable margin the $5.7 billion we currently estimate we will need to pay claims, including those not yet reported to us, that occurred through the end of the second quarter. Looking back over the past 15 years, our property casualty reserve estimate has proven consistently adequate. A prudent view of a continuation of the current economic and credit trends could be expected to lead to further declines in bond portfolio values and potentially to related other-than-temporary impairment charges. Nonetheless, the bond portfolio and our strong record of reserve adequacy are pillars of our financial strength and our high financial strength ratings.
"In recent quarters, we have chosen to sell some or all of our positions in common stocks with reduced dividend growth prospects, including some financial services holdings. In July, we sold 35 million shares, or slightly more than half, of our Fifth Third holding. This decision reflected our recent efforts to better diversify the portfolio, a part of managing our enterprise risk. We anticipate applying to our portfolio of common stocks a set of enhanced investment parameters that our board and investment department currently are considering for adoption. These new parameters would align our investment strategy with specific risk tolerances, thereby improving our ability to identify and respond to changing conditions," Stecher said.
3 
 
Catastrophe Loss and Loss Expenses Incurred
4 
 
Commercial Lines Insurance Operations
Personal Lines Insurance Operations
5 
 
Life Insurance Operations
6
 
Investment Operations
     For additional information or to register for this morning's conference call webcast, please visit .
www.cinfin.com/investors
7
 
www.cinfin.com
Cincinnati Financial Corporation offers property and casualty insurance, our main business, through our three standard market companies, The Cincinnati Insurance Company, The Cincinnati Indemnity Company and The Cincinnati Casualty Company. The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company provides excess and surplus lines property and casualty insurance. The Cincinnati Life Insurance Company markets life and disability income insurance and annuities. CSU Producer Resources Inc., is our excess and surplus lines brokerage, serving the same local independent agencies that offer our standard market policies. CFC Investment Company offers commercial leasing and financing services. CinFin Capital Management Company provides asset management services to institutions, corporations and nonprofit organizations. For additional information about the company, please visit
.
8
 
Safe Harbor Statement
This is our "Safe Harbor" statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our business is subject to certain risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements in this report. Some of those risks and uncertainties are discussed in our 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K, Item 1A, Risk Factors, Page 21. Although we often review and update our forward-looking statements when events warrant, we caution our readers that we undertake no obligation to do so.
Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to:
Further, the company's insurance businesses are subject to the effects of changing social, economic and regulatory environments. Public and regulatory initiatives have included efforts to adversely influence and restrict premium rates, restrict the ability to cancel policies, impose underwriting standards and expand overall regulation. The company also is subject to public and regulatory initiatives that can affect the market value for its common stock, such as recent measures affecting corporate financial reporting and governance. The ultimate changes and eventual effects, if any, of these initiatives are uncertain.
9
 
10
 
Cincinnati Financial Corporation prepares its public financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). Statutory data is prepared in accordance with statutory accounting rules as defined by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners' (NAIC) Accounting Practices and Procedures Manual and therefore is not reconciled to GAAP data.
Management uses certain non-GAAP and non-statutory financial measures to evaluate its primary business areas  property casualty insurance, life insurance and investments  when analyzing both GAAP and certain non-GAAP measures may improve understanding of trends in the underlying business, helping avoid incorrect or misleading assumptions and conclusions about the success or failure of company strategies. Management adjustments to GAAP measures generally: apply to non-recurring events that are unrelated to business performance and distort short-term results; involve values that fluctuate based on events outside of management's control; or relate to accounting refinements that affect comparability between periods, creating a need to analyze data on the same basis.
11
 
Dollar amounts shown are rounded to millions; certain amounts may not add due to rounding. Ratios are calculated based on whole dollar amounts.
12

Exhibit 99.2
Ratings are as of August 3, 2008, under negative review or outlook and always subject to change and/or affirmation. For the latest ratings, select Ratings tab on .
www.cinfin.com
The consolidated financial statements and financial exhibits that follow are unaudited. These consolidated financial statements and exhibits should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes included our periodic filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The results of operations for interim periods may not be indicative of results to be expected for the full year.
 
 
 
 
Cincinnati Financial Corporation prepares its public financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). Statutory data is prepared in accordance with statutory accounting rules as defined by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners' (NAIC) Accounting Practices and Procedures Manual and therefore is not reconciled to GAAP data.
Management uses certain non-GAAP and non-statutory financial measures to evaluate its primary business areas  property casualty insurance, life insurance and investments  when analyzing both GAAP and certain non-GAAP measures may improve understanding of trends in the underlying business, helping avoid incorrect or misleading assumptions and conclusions about the success or failure of company strategies. Management adjustments to GAAP measures generally: apply to non-recurring events that are unrelated to business performance and distort short-term results; involve values that fluctuate based on events outside of management's control; or relate to accounting refinements that affect comparability between periods, creating a need to analyze data on the same basis.
3
 
(Based on reported data  see Pages 21-23 for adjusted data)
4
 
5
 
6
 
7
 
8
 
Dollar amounts shown are rounded to millions; certain amounts may not add due to rounding. Ratios are calculated based on whole dollar amounts. The sum of quarterly amounts may not equal the full year as each is computed independently.
9
 
10
 
11
 
12
 
13
 
14
 
15
 
16
 
     
17
 
     
18
 
     
19
 
     
20
 
21
 
22
 
23
 
 
 
     


