FILE:CINF/CINF-8K-20090730094345.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 30, 2009, Cincinnati Financial Corporation issued the attached news release titled "Cincinnati Financial Reports Second-Quarter 2009 Results," furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference. On July 30, 2009, the company also distributed the attached information titled "Supplemental Financial Data," furnished as Exhibit 99.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference. This report should not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information contained in the news release or supplemental financial data.
In accordance with general instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information furnished in this report shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits
           News release dated July 30, 2009, "Cincinnati Financial Reports Second-Quarter 2009 Results"
Exhibit 99.1
           Supplemental Financial Data dated July 30, 2009
Exhibit 99.2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
Cincinnati, July 30, 2009  Cincinnati Financial Corporation (Nasdaq: CINF) today reported:
Financial Highlights
Insurance Operations Highlights
Balance Sheet and Investment Highlights
 
Cincinnati Financial Second-Quarter Earnings Release 1
 
Focus Continues on Long-Term Value Creation
Kenneth W. Stecher, president and chief executive officer, commented, "The 2009 second quarter brought an unwelcome repeat of recent trends for our property casualty insurance operations. Our underwriting loss primarily was driven by very high catastrophe losses, less favorable development on claims for prior accident years and a prolonged period of soft pricing and economic weakness that has reduced premium revenues for our company and our industry. Interest and dividend income from investments and steady profits from life insurance operations offset some of the property casualty underwriting loss.
"At June 30, 2009, unrealized gains in our stock and bond portfolio significantly exceeded the March 31 level. This increase offset the effects of the second-quarter underwriting loss on book value per share, which rose by $1.61 during the quarter. As a result, the value creation ratio we use to measure our success trended positively, reaching 8.4 percent for the second quarter and 2.0 percent for the six months. Looking past 2009 to the 2010-2014 period, we continue to target a five-year value creation ratio of 12 percent to 15 percent, comprised of the total of our rate of growth in book value per share plus the rate of dividend contribution per share.
"We continue to focus on actions to build our company's long-term competitive advantages, financial strength and stability through all market cycles. Some of those actions, such as the diversification of our investment portfolio that has been achieved over the past year, set income back for the short term but improved our position going forward. We rebalanced our portfolio with a smaller equity component in order to preserve capital and increase stability. After adjusting prior periods to reflect current accounting standards for impaired securities, we expect to again see favorable trend comparisons for investment income by the end of this year's second half. At that point, we anticipate interest from bonds will increase to a level that offsets lower dividends from our stock holdings.
"We believe that the quality of an insurer's balance sheets hinges on its reserving practices," Stecher noted. "Consistent reserving practices are essential during soft markets. As losses develop over the years after they occur, our reserves have proven more than adequate and allowed us to release favorable development from prior-year loss reserves into current earnings. In the current quarter and first half, the benefit from this savings was less than in the year-ago period because we slightly increased our inflation assumption for workers' compensation reserves going back 20 or more years. Our reserves for open workers' compensation claims total nearly $1 billion, so even small changes in inflation assumptions translate into significant quarterly income effects.
"The unique strength of our relationship with our agents remains a key competitive advantage, and we remain confident that it will lead to profitable growth as insurance markets improve. Our strong capital position provides plenty of capacity for that growth along with financial flexibility."
Improving Profitability
Stecher said, "We expect to see improvement in our underperforming workers' compensation and homeowner lines of business as we apply predictive modeling techniques to improve pricing accuracy. We are on target to begin using our workers' compensation predictive modeling tool throughout our operating territory during the second half of 2009 to assist our underwriting staff with improved risk selection and pricing capabilities. We recently refined our homeowner predictive modeling and continue to improve pricing sophistication for individual risks. Rate increases are also being implemented for states representing approximately 80 percent of our personal lines business.
"Frequent catastrophe events continue to weigh on our results, particularly for the homeowner line. In addition to the three significant events during the second quarter for which we reported a preliminary catastrophe loss estimate on July 13, we identified smaller impacts from several events classified as catastrophes by Property Claims Services, an industry group that declares catastrophes when a single incident or a series of closely related incidents causes severe insured property losses totaling more than $25 million. Our second quarter 2009 total incurred losses from catastrophes were $118 million compared with $113 million for the same quarter in 2008.
"These amounts in both periods were well above our historical norm for catastrophe losses. We are addressing catastrophe risk through several initiatives, including ongoing efforts to control our hurricane exposure. Additionally, we have made progress with geographic diversification, expanding our personal lines operations over the past 18 months into seven states less prone to catastrophe events. Through the first six months of 2009, agencies in these states already have contributed more than $5 million of new business, approximately 15 percent of total new personal lines business. While it will take time to see meaningful earnings effects from geographic diversification, it is an important part of our enterprise risk management program."
Cincinnati Financial Second-Quarter Earnings Release 2
 
Driving Growth
Stecher continued, "Although new property casualty business written for the second quarter of 2009 exceeded the 2008 level by 6.9 percent, due primarily to our surplus lines operation, total net written premiums declined 8.5 percent. These trends reflect pricing pressure as well as reduced premiums based on insured exposures that are highly sensitive to economic cycles, such as business sales or payrolls. Premiums on commercial accounts we choose to renew continue to reflect pricing declines at a low-single-digit rate, on average. We choose not to renew accounts that would require price decreases out of proportion to the quality of the individual risk.
"Rather than compete for business that appears to be underpriced, we are focusing on expanding our agency plant, geographical territory and lines of business. During the second quarter, we appointed our first Colorado agency, and we expect to announce our first agency relationship in Wyoming soon. We also recently added a third marketing territory in Texas, a state where we began actively marketing in 2008, and generated $3 million in direct written premiums for the first half of 2009. Typically, new agencies give us opportunities to underwrite accounts they formerly placed with another carrier, bringing us the advantage of risk characteristics and loss histories that are well-known to our agent.
"Agents also have responded enthusiastically to the surplus lines offerings of The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company, now in its second year of operation. Of the $29 million increase in new, consolidated property casualty business written in the first six months, $12 million was surplus lines premium. Our ability to handle surplus lines risk through this company also increases our opportunities to write standard business for the same accounts through The Cincinnati Insurance Company.
"Our life insurance operation similarly provides opportunities to cross-sell life insurance products to clients of the independent agencies that sell Cincinnati's property casualty insurance policies. We continue to enhance this portfolio of products and later this year plan to offer a new secondary guarantee universal life product, a new return of premium term life series and also a worksite return of premium 20-year term life product.
"We are on the verge of introducing our new commercial lines policy administration system, which we expect to drive future premium growth. A group of our associates are using it now to produce commercial package and commercial auto policies for Ohio and Indiana agencies they serve. In October, agents will receive the system and will gain direct bill capability. Further, our improved personal lines administration system is on track for early 2010 delivery to agents.
"In summary, our second quarter results were a disappointment but not a surprise, and we see few signs of a better environment for the remainder of 2009. Looking to the future, we strengthened our competitive and financial position during the second quarter by continuing to improve our portfolio and risk management, build our agency relationships, expand our independent agency force and advance our technology."
Stecher concluded, "Our property casualty insurance group was named in July to the Ward's 50 list of insurers that excel at balancing financial strength with superior performance over a five-year period. Our group is one of only five insurers named to the Ward's 50 every year since inception of the list 19 years ago. With support from our loyal shareholders, agents, policyholders and associates, we will continue making progress and building value that endures over time."
Cincinnati Financial Second-Quarter Earnings Release 3
 
Cincinnati Financial Second-Quarter Earnings Release 4
 
Commercial Lines Insurance Operations
Personal Lines Insurance Operations
Cincinnati Financial Second-Quarter Earnings Release 5
 
Life Insurance Operations
Cincinnati Financial Second-Quarter Earnings Release 6
 
Investment Operations
For additional information or to register for this morning's conference call webcast, please visit www.cinfin.com/investors.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation offers business, home and auto insurance, our main business, through The Cincinnati Insurance Company and its two standard market property casualty companies. The same local independent insurance agencies that market those policies may offer products of our other subsidiaries, including life and disability income insurance, annuities and surplus lines property and casualty insurance. For additional information about the company, please visit
www.cinfin.com.
Cincinnati Financial Second-Quarter Earnings Release 7
 
Safe Harbor Statement
This is our "Safe Harbor" statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our business is subject to certain risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements in this report. Some of those risks and uncertainties are discussed in our 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K, Item 1A, Risk Factors, Page 25. Although we often review or update our forward-looking statements when events warrant, we caution our readers that we undertake no obligation to do so.
Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to:
Further, the company's insurance businesses are subject to the effects of changing social, economic and regulatory environments. Public and regulatory initiatives have included efforts to adversely influence and restrict premium rates, restrict the ability to cancel policies, impose underwriting standards and expand overall regulation. The company also is subject to public and regulatory initiatives that can affect the market value for its common stock, such as recent measures affecting corporate financial reporting and governance. The ultimate changes and eventual effects, if any, of these initiatives are uncertain.
Cincinnati Financial Second-Quarter Earnings Release 8
 
Cincinnati Financial Second-Quarter Earnings Release 9
 
Cincinnati Financial Corporation prepares its public financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). Statutory data is prepared in accordance with statutory accounting rules as defined by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners' (NAIC) Accounting Practices and Procedures Manual and therefore is not reconciled to GAAP data.
Management uses certain non-GAAP and non-statutory financial measures to evaluate its primary business areas  property casualty insurance, life insurance and investments. Management uses these measures when analyzing both GAAP and non-GAAP measures may improve its understanding of trends in the underlying business and help avoid incorrect or misleading assumptions and conclusions about the success or failure of company strategies. Management adjustments to GAAP measures generally: apply to non-recurring events that are unrelated to business performance and distort short-term results; involve values that fluctuate based on events outside of management's control; or relate to accounting refinements that affect comparability between periods, creating a need to analyze data on the same basis.
Cincinnati Financial Second-Quarter Earnings Release 10
 
Dollar amounts shown are rounded to millions; certain amounts may not add due to rounding. Ratios are calculated based on whole dollar amounts.
 
Cincinnati Financial Second-Quarter Earnings Release 11

Exhibit 99.2
Ratings are as of July 24, 2009, under continuous review and subject to change and/or affirmation. For the current ratings, select Financial Strength Ratings on .
www.cinfin.com
The consolidated financial statements and financial exhibits that follow are unaudited. These consolidated financial statements and exhibits should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes included our periodic filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The results of operations for interim periods may not be indicative of results to be expected for the full year.
 
 
Cincinnati Financial Corporation prepares its public financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). Statutory data is prepared in accordance with statutory accounting rules as defined by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners' (NAIC) Accounting Practices and Procedures Manual and therefore is not reconciled to GAAP data.
Management uses certain non-GAAP and non-statutory financial measures to evaluate its primary business areas  property casualty insurance, life insurance and investments. Management uses these measures when analyzing both GAAP and non-GAAP measures may improve its understanding of trends in the underlying business and help avoid incorrect or misleading assumptions and conclusions about the success or failure of company strategies. Management adjustments to GAAP measures generally: apply to non-recurring events that are unrelated to business performance and distort short-term results; involve values that fluctuate based on events outside of management's control; or relate to accounting refinements that affect comparability between periods, creating a need to analyze data on the same basis.
3
 
(Based on reported data  see Pages 18-20 for adjusted data)
4
 
 
5
 
 
6
 
Dollar amounts shown are rounded to millions; certain amounts may not add due to rounding. Ratios are calculated based on whole dollar amounts. The sum of quarterly amounts may not equal the full year as each is computed independently.
7
 
8
 
 
9
 
 
10
 
11
 
12
 
13
 
14
 
15
 
16
 
 
17
 
18
 
19
 
20
 
 
21


