FILE:CINF/CINF-8K-20090713142742.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.  
On July 13, 2009, Cincinnati Financial Corporation issued the attached news release titled "Cincinnati Financial Corporation Announces Second-Quarter Catastrophe Losses and Early Online Access to Its June 30 Portfolio Listing," furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference. This report should not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information contained in the news release.
In accordance with general instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information furnished in this report shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c)
Exhibits
 News release dated July 13, 2009, "Cincinnati Financial Corporation Announces Second-Quarter Catastrophe Losses and Early Online Access to Its June 30 Portfolio Listing"
Exhibit 99.1
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Dennis E. McDaniel
Investor Contact:
513-870-2768
CINF-IR@cinfin.com
Joan O. Shevchik
Media Contact:
513-603-5323
Media_Inquiries@cinfin.com
today said that it expects to report second-quarter pre-tax catastrophe losses from severe weather of approximately $106 million for its property casualty insurance operations through The Cincinnati Insurance Companies. Catastrophe losses reduce property casualty insurance underwriting income, a component of consolidated net income along with income from investment operations and life insurance operations.
Cincinnati, July 13, 2009  Cincinnati Financial Corporation (NASDAQ:CINF)
Kenneth W. Stecher, president and chief executive officer, commented, "Our policyholders and agents appreciate our quick response and fair payment of storm claims. Our financial strength and superior claims service continue to be reasons they can depend on Cincinnati Insurance."
Storm Losses
Our $106 million catastrophe loss estimate for the second quarter of 2009 compares to $113 million for the second quarter of 2008. This translates into a second-quarter estimated catastrophe loss contribution to the combined ratio of approximately 14.5 percentage points in 2009 and 14.9 percentage points in 2008, both significantly exceeding the 10-year annual average of 3.8 percentage points.
Stecher added, "The impact from severe weather was worse than its impact in the first quarter of this year and similar to its impact in the second quarter of last year. Most of the second-quarter 2009 losses were due to wind and hail damage from three separate storms with nearly $30 million each in losses. The largest one occurred June 10 through June 18, covering a 13-state area."
Investment Portfolio Listing as of June 30, 2009
The company will post a preliminary listing of its fixed-maturity and equity portfolio as of June 30, 2009, on its Web site at during the week of July 20, 2009 The consolidated portfolio listing with market values and amortized cost will be available in PDF format. The spreadsheet format option will offer detail of securities ownership by the parent and each subsidiary company.
www.cinfin.com/investors
.
Stecher concluded, "Providing this investment data prior to our quarterly earnings announcement will give investors a preview of an important component of our book value, which will reflect the favorable impact of improved valuation during the second quarter for our investment portfolio. Our investment philosophy continues to consider the appropriate balance between current income and the potential for long-term capital appreciation for the benefit of shareholders."  
Cincinnati Financial plans to report final, full results for the second quarter on Thursday, July 30, 2009. A conference call to discuss the results will be held at 11:00 a.m. EDT on that day, with a live, audio-only webcast available at .
www.cinfin.com/investors
Safe Harbor Statement
This is our "Safe Harbor" statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our business is subject to certain risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements in this report. Some of those risks and uncertainties are discussed in our 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K, Item 1A, Risk Factors, Page 25. Although we often review or update our forward-looking statements when events warrant, we caution our readers that we undertake no obligation to do so.
Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to:
Unusually high levels of catastrophe losses due to risk concentrations, changes in weather patterns, environmental events, terrorism incidents or other causes
Increased frequency and/or severity of claims
Inadequate estimates or assumptions used for critical accounting estimates
Recession or other economic conditions resulting in lower demand for insurance products or increased payment delinquencies
Delays in adoption and implementation of underwriting and pricing methods that could increase our pricing accuracy, underwriting profit and competitiveness
Inability to defer policy acquisition costs for our personal lines segment if pricing and loss trends would lead management to conclude this segment could not achieve sustainable profitability.
Further decline in overall stock market values negatively affecting the company's equity portfolio and book value
Events, such as the credit crisis, followed by prolonged periods of economic instability, that lead to:
Significant or prolonged decline in the value of a particular security or group of securities and impairment of the asset(s)
Significant decline in investment income due to reduced or eliminated dividend payouts from a particular security or group of securities
Significant rise in losses from surety and director and officer policies written for financial institutions
Prolonged low interest rate environment or other factors that limit the company's ability to generate growth in investment income or interest rate fluctuations that result in declining values of fixed-maturity investments, including declines in accounts in which we hold bank-owned life insurance contract assets
Increased competition that could result in a significant reduction in the company's premium volume
Changing consumer insurance-buying habits and consolidation of independent insurance agencies that could alter our competitive advantages
Ability to obtain adequate reinsurance on acceptable terms, amount of reinsurance purchased, financial strength of reinsurers and the potential for non-payment or delay in payment by reinsurers
Events or conditions that could weaken or harm the company's relationships with its independent agencies and hamper opportunities to add new agencies, resulting in limitations on the company's opportunities for growth, such as:
Multi-notch downgrades of the company's financial strength ratings
Concerns that doing business with the company is too difficult
Perceptions that the company's level of service, particularly claims service, is no longer a distinguishing characteristic in the marketplace
Delays or inadequacies in the development, implementation, performance and benefits of technology projects and enhancements
Actions of insurance departments, state attorneys general or other regulatory agencies, including a change to a federal system of regulation from a state-based system, that:
Restrict our ability to exit or reduce writings of unprofitable coverages or lines of business
Place the insurance industry under greater regulatory scrutiny or result in new statutes, rules and regulations
Increase our expenses
Add assessments for guaranty funds, other insurance related assessments or mandatory reinsurance arrangements; or that impair our ability to recover such assessments through future surcharges or other rate changes
Limit our ability to set fair, adequate and reasonable rates
Place us at a disadvantage in the marketplace
Restrict our ability to execute our business model, including the way we compensate agents
Adverse outcomes from litigation or administrative proceedings
Events or actions, including unauthorized intentional circumvention of controls, that reduce the company's future ability to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
Unforeseen departure of certain executive officers or other key employees due to retirement, health or other causes that could interrupt progress toward important strategic goals or diminish the effectiveness of certain longstanding relationships with insurance agents and others
Events, such as an epidemic, natural catastrophe or terrorism, that could hamper our ability to assemble our workforce at our headquarters location
Further, the company's insurance businesses are subject to the effects of changing social, economic and regulatory environments. Public and regulatory initiatives have included efforts to adversely influence and restrict premium rates, restrict the ability to cancel policies, impose underwriting standards and expand overall regulation. The company also is subject to public and regulatory initiatives that can affect the market value for its common stock, such as recent measures affecting corporate financial reporting and governance. The ultimate changes and eventual effects, if any, of these initiatives are uncertain.
2


