FILE:CINF/CINF-8K-20091029075232.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 29, 2009, Cincinnati Financial Corporation issued the attached news release titled "Cincinnati Financial Reports Third-Quarter 2009 Results," furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference. On October 29, 2009, the company also distributed the attached information titled "Supplemental Financial Data," furnished as Exhibit 99.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference. This report should not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information contained in the news release or supplemental financial data.
In accordance with general instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information furnished in this report shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
Cincinnati, October 29, 2009  Cincinnati Financial Corporation (Nasdaq: CINF) today reported:
Financial Highlights
Insurance Operations Highlights
Balance Sheet and Investment Highlights
 
 
Return to Profitability and Positive Direction
Kenneth W. Stecher, president and chief executive officer, commented, "While the economy and price competition continue to challenge our insurance business, the metrics we use to measure our success moved in a distinctly positive direction in the third quarter. Operating income of $96 million or 59 cents per share surpassed the amounts reported since the first quarter of 2008. Pre-tax investment income nearly reached the level of the 2008 third quarter, on track to resume a growth trend by year-end 2009.
"Our property casualty insurance operations benefitted from atypically low catastrophe losses, strong reserves and some stabilization of pricing. We achieved $36 million of pre-tax underwriting profit and a combined ratio of 95.1 percent for the third quarter, our best result since the fourth quarter of 2007. As expected, our workers' compensation and homeowner lines of business continued to underperform. For both of these lines, we are using predictive modeling techniques to improve the accuracy of our pricing for each account and to target best-of-class accounts. Early results show positive impacts on pricing and verify the trend to higher quality accounts, which should, over time, return these lines to profitability.
"We are satisfied with third-quarter results relative to other recent quarters, recognizing that we still have work to do. As we navigate through a difficult period for our company, our industry and economy, we continue to sharply focus on initiatives that have just begun to bear fruit and have strong potential to drive future profitable growth," Stecher said. "During the third quarter, we saw clear indications that these efforts are increasing current opportunities and opening new ones. Among those indications was a healthy amount of new business that directly resulted from our initiatives, helping offset lower premiums resulting from lower policyholder sales and payrolls used to calculate premiums. We continue to decline underpriced business, giving up short-term revenue to protect long-term profitability."
Current Progress and Potential for Profitable Growth
Stecher continued, "We are making good progress in expanding our product lines and pursuing geographic diversification. Our new surplus lines subsidiary has been well received by our independent agent representatives, and it is contributing steadily to new business. Our entry into additional states is going well, with business building at a good pace in Texas, New Mexico and eastern Washington. In September, we appointed our first Wyoming agency, expanding the marketing territory that includes northern Colorado. We're receiving rollover books of personal lines business in areas where we recently expanded that product line.
"Our technology initiatives also are proceeding on time and on budget. In October, we put our new policy administration system for commercial packages and auto policies into production in five states accounting for approximately 40 percent of our commercial lines premium. The system makes it easier for agents to serve the insurance needs of the businesses in their communities, offering efficiencies such as direct billing by the company and the ability to quote and issue policies in real time directly from their agency systems. We expect to have this system in six more states before year-end, with 19 additional states scheduled for 2010.
"Our expansion and technology initiatives support our long-term strategies. First, we are working to improve profitability by introducing more efficient systems and enhancing our underwriting capabilities. Second, we are driving premium growth by making it more attractive for agents to do business with us and by moving toward a larger footprint that also reduces volatility of our results associated with weather-related catastrophes. We also continue to make progress with the third part of our long-term strategy, to preserve capital. Our investment portfolio is actively managed, with an eye toward the appropriate balance between current income and the potential for capital appreciation that benefits shareholders."
Shareholder Rewards
Stecher concluded, "Significantly exceeding year-end 2008 levels, shareholders' equity rose to $4.626 billion and book value per share rose to $28.44 at the end of the third quarter. The increase helped take our value creation ratio for the year-to-date period to the 15 percent level earlier than anticipated. Our target for this measure is a 12 percent to 15 percent average for the five-year period of 2010 through 2014. The value creation ratio is the sum of our rate of growth in book value per share plus the ratio of dividends declared per share to beginning book value. It captures the contribution of our insurance operations, the success of our investment strategy and the importance we place on paying cash dividends to shareholders.
"During the third quarter, our board of directors increased the indicated annual dividend for a 49consecutive year, raising the quarterly dividend paid October 15 by a half cent to 39.5 cents. This gesture signaled their confidence that we are moving steadily in the right direction, as verified by underwriting profit in the third quarter. We are eager to further pursue the new opportunities we have just begun to tap."
th
2
 
3
 
Commercial Lines Insurance Operations
Personal Lines Insurance Operations
4
 
Life Insurance Operations
5
 
Investment Operations
For additional information or to register for this morning's conference call webcast, please visit .
www.cinfin.com/investors
Cincinnati Financial Corporation offers business, home and auto insurance, our main business, through The Cincinnati Insurance Company and its two standard market property casualty companies. The same local independent insurance agencies that market those policies may offer products of our other subsidiaries, including life and disability income insurance, annuities and surplus lines property and casualty insurance. For additional information about the company, please visit
www.cinfin.com.
6
 
Safe Harbor Statement
This is our "Safe Harbor" statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our business is subject to certain risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements in this report. Some of those risks and uncertainties are discussed in our 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K, Item 1A, Risk Factors, Page 25. Although we often review or update our forward-looking statements when events warrant, we caution our readers that we undertake no obligation to do so.
Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to:
Further, the company's insurance businesses are subject to the effects of changing social, economic and regulatory environments. Public and regulatory initiatives have included efforts to adversely influence and restrict premium rates, restrict the ability to cancel policies, impose underwriting standards and expand overall regulation. The company also is subject to public and regulatory initiatives that can affect the market value for its common stock, such as recent measures affecting corporate financial reporting and governance. The ultimate changes and eventual effects, if any, of these initiatives are uncertain.
7
 
8
 
Cincinnati Financial Corporation prepares its public financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). Statutory data is prepared in accordance with statutory accounting rules as defined by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners' (NAIC) Accounting Practices and Procedures Manual and therefore is not reconciled to GAAP data.
Management uses certain non-GAAP and non-statutory financial measures to evaluate its primary business areas  property casualty insurance, life insurance and investments. Management uses these measures when analyzing both GAAP and non-GAAP measures to improve its understanding of trends in the underlying business and to help avoid incorrect or misleading assumptions and conclusions about the success or failure of company strategies. Management adjustments to GAAP measures generally: apply to non-recurring events that are unrelated to business performance and distort short-term results; involve values that fluctuate based on events outside of management's control; or relate to accounting refinements that affect comparability between periods, creating a need to analyze data on the same basis.
9
 
Dollar amounts shown are rounded to millions; certain amounts may not add due to rounding. Ratios are calculated based on whole dollar amounts.
 
10

Exhibit 99.2
Ratings are as of October 28, 2009, under continuous review and subject to change and/or affirmation. For the current ratings, select Financial Strength Ratings on .
www.cinfin.com
The consolidated financial statements and financial exhibits that follow are unaudited. These consolidated financial statements and exhibits should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes included our periodic filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The results of operations for interim periods may not be indicative of results to be expected for the full year.
 
 
Cincinnati Financial Corporation prepares its public financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). Statutory data is prepared in accordance with statutory accounting rules as defined by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners' (NAIC) Accounting Practices and Procedures Manual and therefore is not reconciled to GAAP data.
Management uses certain non-GAAP and non-statutory financial measures to evaluate its primary business areas  property casualty insurance, life insurance and investments. Management uses these measures when analyzing both GAAP and non-GAAP measures may improve its understanding of trends in the underlying business and help avoid incorrect or misleading assumptions and conclusions about the success or failure of company strategies. Management adjustments to GAAP measures generally: apply to non-recurring events that are unrelated to business performance and distort short-term results; involve values that fluctuate based on events outside of management's control; or relate to accounting refinements that affect comparability between periods, creating a need to analyze data on the same basis.
 
(Based on reported data  see Pages 14-16 for adjusted data)
 
 
 
 
 
Dollar amounts shown are rounded to millions; certain amounts may not add due to rounding. Ratios are calculated based on whole dollar amounts. The sum of quarterly amounts may not equal the full year as each is computed independently.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


