FILE:CINF/CINF-8K-20090430081517.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 30, 2009, Cincinnati Financial Corporation issued the attached news release titled "Cincinnati Financial Reports First-quarter 2009 Results," furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference. On April 30, 2009, the company also distributed the attached information titled "Supplemental Financial Data," furnished as Exhibit 99.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference. This report should not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information contained in the news release or supplemental financial data.
In accordance with general instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information furnished in this report shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits
 News release dated April 30, 2009, "Cincinnati Financial Reports First-quarter 2009 Results"
Exhibit 99.1
 Supplemental Financial Data dated April 30, 2009
Exhibit 99.2
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
Cincinnati, April 30, 2009  Cincinnati Financial Corporation (Nasdaq: CINF) today reported:
Financial Highlights
Insurance Operations Highlights
Investment and Balance Sheet Highlights
 
 
Market Challenges Continue
Kenneth W. Stecher, president and chief executive officer, commented, "As anticipated, 2009 is shaping up to be a challenging, transitional year for our company, our industry and our economy. Our first-quarter results affirm that view. At the same time, our progress on key initiatives affirms our confidence that we will emerge a stronger, more competitive company as conditions improve. Looking past 2009 to the 2010-2014 period, we continue to target a five-year value creation ratio of 12 percent to 15 percent growth, reflecting the total of our rate of growth in book value plus the rate of dividend contribution.
"The broader economic and investment market trends and the low pricing trend in commercial insurance all appeared to be in a holding pattern over the first months of 2009  not getting much worse but not getting much better either. Continued soft pricing and two other items significantly affected our profitability for the first quarter. We announced on April 16 that our property casualty insurance operations  our main business  experienced high catastrophe losses from winter storms. Our claims representatives promptly assisted policyholders in the South, Midwest and East, and as of this week, 88 percent of the more than 8,600 reported claims from those storms are closed. We also reported on April 16 that we strengthened workers' compensation reserves for claims incurred in prior years, recognizing that loss cost inflation, including medical costs, was higher than previously anticipated.
"We believe consistent and conservative reserving practices are never more important than during a period of economic distress. Likewise, we believe the superior claims service we provide in storm situations is an investment," Stecher said. "It earns policyholder and agent loyalty, ultimately bringing us new business as policyholders spread the word. Our commitment to high standards of service and a long-term perspective persists through all phases of economic and industry cycles.
"We expect unfavorable economic, investment and insurance pricing trends to continue over the coming months, dampening 2009 results and masking the positive impact of progress on our strategic initiatives  which clearly are not in a holding pattern. Our strong capital, financial flexibility and commitment to our agency-centered business model have allowed us to push steadily forward with diversification of our equity investment portfolio; with geographical expansion that will better spread our risk and reduce our vulnerability to catastrophe losses; with our new surplus lines business; and with technology improvements that are making processing more efficient for our company and our independent agencies."
Progress On Strategic Initiatives
Stecher continued, "Preserving capital is our first priority, supported by our initiative to diversify our $8.794 billion investment portfolio. At March 31, equity investments accounted for approximately 26.2 percent of our investment portfolio, reduced from 32.9 percent at year-end 2008 and now at the lowest level in many years. In the first quarter, we sold or reduced our holdings of some stocks that had appreciated to our target price, and others where we saw opportunities to improve portfolio diversification. Further, we sold our remaining bank stocks, consistent with our longstanding preference for dividend-paying stocks and the current lack of visibility on resumption of dividends from bank holdings. At quarter-end, no single sector accounted for more than 26 percent of the equity portfolio and no single holding accounted for more than 11 percent.
"Although we have reduced our near term exposure to the equity markets, we intend to continue to include common stocks as a key component of our investing strategy. Currently, we are purchasing more taxable and municipal bonds, which increased our pretax interest income for the first quarter by $20 million compared with interest income at this time last year. The increase was insufficient to offset a $46 million reduction in dividend income. We continue to invest for both income growth and potential for appreciation, anticipating that investment income may resume growth in the second half of the year.
"For our property casualty insurance operations, we are pursuing several new business growth initiatives, both to improve our long-term competitive position and to offset lower written premiums, which have been reduced by our emphasis on selectivity when writing or renewing accounts at prevailing low prices. While we do compete for high quality accounts, we do not aim to offer the lowest price due to the value of our coverages, claims service and multi-year policy contracts.
"New commercial business grew 14.9 percent in the first quarter. To generate increased new business that meets our standards, we continued adding to our sales force, appointing 18 new agencies in the first quarter. We added a third commercial marketing territory in our newest state of operations, Texas, and continued preparing to begin agency selection and marketing in Colorado and Wyoming later this year. Our personal lines operation also expanded in the first quarter; with the addition of Idaho and South Carolina, we now market homeowner and personal auto insurance in 29 states. These expansions help set the stage to diversify catastrophe risk arising from geographical concentration, although it generally takes time for new agency relationships to mature and for written premiums to grow.
2
 
"Our strong new business also reflected our agents' very favorable response to our surplus lines products, available since the first quarter of 2008, when we wrote $1 million of new surplus lines business. Just a year later, our first-quarter 2009 new surplus lines business was $7 million.
"Our technology progress is making it possible to attract more professional agencies as we expand and to increase efficiencies that will save time and money for all of our agencies and our company. These advances also improve service for policyholders and give them more options. First-quarter milestones included enhancement of our claims system to allow many agencies to securely submit notice of loss online and introduction of a new online payment system for personal lines policyholders who are billed by our company instead of their agency. In the second quarter, we plan to begin offering direct billing of workers' compensation policies.
"Our major projects are on track. We will take a major leap forward before year-end as agencies in 11 states begin using our new commercial policy administration system. It will offer efficiencies such as real time policy quote and issue and payment options including direct billing, monthly payments and electronic funds transfer. We expect this system to have a positive impact on future growth from our agencies."
Stecher concluded, "First quarter was less than satisfactory for our company, and there are few signs that industry and economic conditions will improve in the near term. We are not daunted. We are carefully managing risk and prudently adapting, all the while working to build more value, service and stability for agents and policyholders, and ultimately more shareholder value."
3
 
4
 
Commercial Lines Insurance Operations
Personal Lines Insurance Operations
5
 
Life Insurance Operations
6
 
Investment Operations
For additional information or to register for this morning's conference call webcast, please visit www.cinfin.com/investors.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation offers business, home and auto insurance, our main business, through The Cincinnati Insurance Company and its two standard market property casualty companies. The same local independent insurance agencies that market those policies may offer products of our other subsidiaries, including life and disability income insurance, annuities and surplus lines property and casualty insurance. For additional information about the company, please visit
www.cinfin.com.
7
 
Safe Harbor Statement
This is our "Safe Harbor" statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our business is subject to certain risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements in this report. Some of those risks and uncertainties are discussed in our 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K, Item 1A, Risk Factors, Page 25. Although we often review or update our forward-looking statements when events warrant, we caution our readers that we undertake no obligation to do so.
Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to:
8
 
9
 
Cincinnati Financial Corporation prepares its public financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). Statutory data is prepared in accordance with statutory accounting rules as defined by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners' (NAIC) Accounting Practices and Procedures Manual and therefore is not reconciled to GAAP data.
Management uses certain non-GAAP and non-statutory financial measures to evaluate its primary business areas  property casualty insurance, life insurance and investments. Management uses these measures when analyzing both GAAP and non-GAAP measures may improve its understanding of trends in the underlying business and help avoid incorrect or misleading assumptions and conclusions about the success or failure of company strategies. Management adjustments to GAAP measures generally: apply to non-recurring events that are unrelated to business performance and distort short-term results; involve values that fluctuate based on events outside of management's control; or relate to accounting refinements that affect comparability between periods, creating a need to analyze data on the same basis.
10
 
Dollar amounts shown are rounded to millions; certain amounts may not add due to rounding. Ratios are calculated based on whole dollar amounts.
 
11

Exhibit 99.2
Ratings are as of April 29, 2009, under continuous review and subject to change and/or affirmation. For the current ratings, select Financial Strength Ratings on .
www.cinfin.com
The consolidated financial statements and financial exhibits that follow are unaudited. These consolidated financial statements and exhibits should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes included our periodic filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The results of operations for interim periods may not be indicative of results to be expected for the full year.
 
 
Cincinnati Financial Corporation prepares its public financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). Statutory data is prepared in accordance with statutory accounting rules as defined by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners' (NAIC) Accounting Practices and Procedures Manual and therefore is not reconciled to GAAP data.
Management uses certain non-GAAP and non-statutory financial measures to evaluate its primary business areas  property casualty insurance, life insurance and investments. Management uses these measures when analyzing both GAAP and non-GAAP measures may improve its understanding of trends in the underlying business and help avoid incorrect or misleading assumptions and conclusions about the success or failure of company strategies. Management adjustments to GAAP measures generally: apply to non-recurring events that are unrelated to business performance and distort short-term results; involve values that fluctuate based on events outside of management's control; or relate to accounting refinements that affect comparability between periods, creating a need to analyze data on the same basis.
3
 
(Based on reported data  see Pages 14-16 for adjusted data)
4
 
5
 
6
 
7
 
 
8
 
9
 
10
 
11
 
12
 
13
 
14
 
15
 
 
16
 
 
17


