FILE:CINF/CINF-8K-20090205081446.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On February 5, 2009, Cincinnati Financial Corporation issued the attached news release titled "Cincinnati Financial Reports Profitable 2008 Fourth Quarter and Full Year," furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference. On February 5, 2009, the company also distributed the attached information titled "Supplemental Financial Data," furnished as Exhibit 99.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference. This report should not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information contained in the news release or supplemental financial data.
In accordance with general instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information furnished in this report shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
On February 2, 2009, Cincinnati Financial Corporation issued the attached news release "Cincinnati Financial Corporation Board Declares 39 Quarterly Cash Dividend." The news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.3 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference. This report should not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information contained in the news release.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On February 2, 2009, Cincinnati Financial Corporation issued the attached news release "Cincinnati Financial Corporation Subsidiaries Announce Appointments and Promotions." The news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.4 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference. This report should not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information contained in the news release.
The information furnished in Item 7.01 of this report shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
today reported:
Cincinnati, February 5, 2009  Cincinnati Financial Corporation (Nasdaq: CINF)
Financial Highlights
Insurance Operations Highlights
Investment and Balance Sheet Highlights
Outlook**
 
 
Looking to a Strong Future
Kenneth W. Stecher, president and chief executive officer, said, "2008 was a tough year for our economy, our industry and our company. Our long-term perspective lets us address the immediate challenges while focusing on the major decisions that best position the company for success through all market cycles. We believe that this forward-looking view has consistently benefited our policyholders, agents, shareholders and associates.
"To measure our progress, we're defining a value creation ratio that we believe captures the contribution of our insurance operations, the success of our investment strategy and the importance we place on paying cash dividends to shareholders. Between 2010 and 2014, we expect the total of our rate of growth in book value plus the rate of dividend contribution to average 12 percent to 15 percent. With the current economic and market uncertainty, we believe this ratio is an appropriate way to measure our long-term progress in creating value."
Strategic Initiatives
Stecher added, "We were founded more than 50 years ago by independent agents who established the mission that continues to guide us  To grow profitably and enhance the ability of local independent insurance agents to deliver quality financial protection to the people and businesses they serve. To continue to achieve that objective, we have worked with our board of directors to identify actions that will position us for long-term success in three broad areas of strategic focus  preservation of capital, profitability and growth.
Stecher said, "First, we are addressing preservation of capital to sustain our capacity for growth of our insurance business. We ended 2008 with a healthy property casualty premium to surplus ratio of 0.9-to-1. All of our insurance subsidiaries continue to be highly rated, operating with a level of capital far exceeding regulatory requirements. We also can sustain our investment in the people and infrastructure needed to succeed in the future. Smart spending today means we'll be even better prepared with strong, local market-based relationships when external conditions improve.
"As we stated on Monday, we're working on a variety of initiatives, including the repositioning of our investment portfolio, to preserve our capital strength and liquidity. Additionally, we hold more than $1 billion of our assets at the parent company level, increasing our flexibility through all periods to maintain our cash dividend and to continue to invest in and expand our insurance operations."
Stecher said, "Second, we are emphasizing business initiatives that support improved cash flow and profitability for the agencies that represent us and for our company.
"Several technology initiatives are well under way to improve critical efficiencies and streamline processes for our appointed agencies, allowing us to win an increasing share of their business. By the end of this year, we expect to make significant strides with deployment of a new commercial lines policy administration system; the groundwork for a major upgrade of our personal lines policy administration system; and a variety of online initiatives to serve agencies and policyholders. We'll also sustain our reputation for superior claims service, improving processes with options such as allowing agents access to more detailed information on the status of pending claims.
"Other technology projects in process will improve our business data, supporting accurate underwriting, pricing and decisions. These will enhance our hallmark  local decision making based on the local knowledge and risk selection expertise we derive from our agents and from having a large network of field representatives who live and work in our agents' communities.
"All of our initiatives seek to strengthen our relationships with agents, allowing them to serve clients faster and manage expenses better. We expect these efforts to contribute to our rank as the No. 1 or No. 2 carrier in agencies that have represented us for at least five years. In 2008, we again earned that rank in more than 75 percent of the agencies that have represented Cincinnati Insurance for more than five years. We are working to improve that rank again in 2009 and in each of the years that follow."
Stecher added, "The third area of focus is adding to our property casualty premiums without significant concentration of risk or infrastructure expense. Expanding our geographic footprint and diversifying our premium sources should give us profitable growth while also reducing catastrophe exposure risk. With our entry into Texas during the fourth quarter of 2008, Cincinnati Insurance now is actively marketing our policies in 35 states, expanding our opportunities beyond the Midwest and South. We now have a sizeable presence in the western states  opening New Mexico and Washington in 2007, Utah in 2000, Idaho in 1999 and Montana in 1998. We plan to look next at taking the Cincinnati Insurance franchise to agencies in Colorado and Wyoming.
2
 
"To diversify the sources of our premiums, we also continue to appoint new agencies in our current operating territories, adding 76 in 2008 and targeting at least 65 additional appointments in 2009. We are working to position our personal lines business for profitable future growth with rate and credit modifications and making personal lines policies available in new geographies to spread risk. Another source of premiums is our new excess and surplus lines operation, which ended the year on track with $14 million of written premiums and products available in 33 states."
Factors Influencing 2009 Performance
Steven J. Johnston, FCAS, MAAA, CFA, chief financial officer, said, "When looking at our longer-term objectives, we believe over any five-year period our agency relationships and growth strategies can lead to a property casualty written premium growth rate that exceeds the industry average. We also believe our underwriting philosophy can generate a GAAP combined ratio over any five-year period that is consistently below 100 percent. Finally, we believe our investment philosophy can drive investment income growth and lead to a total return on our equity investment portfolio that exceeds the Standard & Poor's 500's five-year return."
Johnston added, "Our view of the value we can create over the next five years relies on two assumptions about the external environment. First, we're anticipating some firming of commercial insurance pricing during 2009. Second, we believe that the economy and financial markets can resume a growth track by the end of 2010."
On 2008 results and the outlook for 2009, Johnston said, "In 2009, we believe our value creation ratio may be below our long-term target for several reasons. First, the weak economy is expected to continue to affect policyholders by deflating their business and personal insurable assets. Until the economy begins to recover, we also do not expect to see significant appreciation of our investments. Second, the lingering effects of soft insurance market pricing are expected to affect growth rates and earned premium levels into 2010, continuing to weaken loss ratios and hamper near-term profitability. Third, our property casualty written premium growth may lag as our growth initiatives need more time to reach their full contribution. Fourth, we continue to invest in our business, including technology, new states and process initiatives to create long-term value.
Johnston noted, "The diversification of the investment portfolio over the past year included sales of selected positions to lock in gains, reduce concentrations and increase liquidity. We expect to continue to make changes to the portfolio, as appropriate. Proceeds of sales are being reinvested in both fixed income and equity securities with yields that we believe are likely to be more secure. This may slow the return to growth in investment income although we believe year-over-year comparisons may turn positive in the second half of the year."
3
 
4
 
2009 Reinsurance Program
5
 
Commercial Lines Insurance Operations
Personal Lines Insurance Operations
6
 
Life Insurance Operations
7
 
Investment Operations
8
 
For additional information or to register for this morning's conference call webcast, please visit .
www.cinfin.com/investors
www.cinfin.com.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation offers property and casualty insurance, our main business, through our three standard market companies, The Cincinnati Insurance Company, The Cincinnati Indemnity Company and The Cincinnati Casualty Company. The Cincinnati Life Insurance Company markets life and disability insurance and annuities. The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company provides excess and surplus lines property and casualty insurance. CSU Producer Resources Inc., our excess and surplus lines brokerage, serves the same local independent agencies that offer our standard market policies. CFC Investment Company offers commercial leasing and financing services. For additional information about the company, please visit
Safe Harbor Statement
This is our "Safe Harbor" statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our business is subject to certain risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements in this report. Some of those risks and uncertainties are discussed in our 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K, Item 1A, Risk Factors, Page 21, with updates to certain risk factors described in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2008. Although we often review and update our forward-looking statements when events warrant, we caution our readers that we undertake no obligation to do so.
Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to:
9
 
Further, the company's insurance businesses are subject to the effects of changing social, economic and regulatory environments. Public and regulatory initiatives have included efforts to adversely influence and restrict premium rates, restrict the ability to cancel policies, impose underwriting standards and expand overall regulation. The company also is subject to public and regulatory initiatives that can affect the market value for its common stock, such as recent measures affecting corporate financial reporting and governance. The ultimate changes and eventual effects, if any, of these initiatives are uncertain.
Financial strength ratings are effective as of the date of this release, are under continuous review and are subject to change and/or affirmation. For the latest ratings, access Financial Strength Ratings at .
www.cinfin.com
10
 
11
 
12
 
Cincinnati Financial Corporation prepares its public financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). Statutory data is prepared in accordance with statutory accounting rules as defined by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners' (NAIC) Accounting Practices and Procedures Manual and therefore is not reconciled to GAAP data.
Management uses certain non-GAAP and non-statutory financial measures to evaluate its primary business areas  property casualty insurance, life insurance and investments. Management uses these measures when analyzing both GAAP and non-GAAP measures may improve its understanding of trends in the underlying business and help avoid incorrect or misleading assumptions and conclusions about the success or failure of company strategies. Management adjustments to GAAP measures generally: apply to non-recurring events that are unrelated to business performance and distort short-term results; involve values that fluctuate based on events outside of management's control; or relate to accounting refinements that affect comparability between periods, creating a need to analyze data on the same basis.
13
 
Dollar amounts shown are rounded to millions; certain amounts may not add due to rounding. Ratios are calculated based on whole dollar amounts.
 
14

Exhibit 99.2
 
(Based on reported data  see Pages 21-23 for adjusted data)
 
     
* Dollar amounts shown are rounded to millions; certain amounts may not add due to rounding. Ratios are calculated based on whole dollar amounts.
 
     
* Dollar amounts shown are rounded to millions; certain amounts may not add due to rounding. Ratios are calculated based on whole dollar amounts.
 
     
* Dollar amounts shown are rounded to millions; certain amounts may not add due to rounding. Ratios are calculated based on whole dollar amounts.
 
 
     
 
     
     
Dollar amounts shown are rounded to millions; certain amounts may not add due to rounding. Ratios are calculated based on whole dollar amounts. The sum of quarterly amounts may not equal the full year as each is computed independently.
 
     
 
     
* Dollar amounts shown are rounded to millions; certain amounts may not add due to rounding. Ratios are calculated based on whole dollar amounts.
 
     
 
     
     
 
     
 
     
 
     
 
     
 
     
 
     
     
 
     
 
     
     
 
     
 
     
 
 
     
 
* Dollar amounts shown are rounded to millions; certain amounts may not add due to rounding. Ratios are calculated based on whole dollar amounts.
 
     
 
Ratings are as of February 5, 2009, under continuous review and subject to change and/or affirmation. For the current ratings, select Financial Strength Ratings on .
www.cinfin.com
The consolidated financial statements and financial exhibits that follow are unaudited. These consolidated financial statements and exhibits should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes included our periodic filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The results of operations for interim periods may not be indicative of results to be expected for the full year.
 
Cincinnati Financial Corporation prepares its public financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). Statutory data is prepared in accordance with statutory accounting rules as defined by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners' (NAIC) Accounting Practices and Procedures Manual and therefore is not reconciled to GAAP data.
Management uses certain non-GAAP and non-statutory financial measures to evaluate its primary business areas  property casualty insurance, life insurance and investments. Management uses these measures when analyzing both GAAP and non-GAAP measures may improve its understanding of trends in the underlying business and help avoid incorrect or misleading assumptions and conclusions about the success or failure of company strategies. Management adjustments to GAAP measures generally: apply to non-recurring events that are unrelated to business performance and distort short-term results; involve values that fluctuate based on events outside of management's control; or relate to accounting refinements that affect comparability between periods, creating a need to analyze data on the same basis.

Exhibit 99.3
today announced that the board of directors voted at its regular meeting on January 30, 2009, to pay a first-quarter cash dividend of 39 cents per share, unchanged from the prior four quarters. The dividend is payable April 15, 2009, to shareholders of record on March 20, 2009. At this level, the indicated annual dividend is $1.56 per share. The company had 162,411,529 shares outstanding at December 31, 2008.
Cincinnati, February 2, 2009  Cincinnati Financial Corporation (Nasdaq: CINF)
Chairman John J. Schiff, Jr., CPCU, commented, "A long-term perspective governs all of our major decisions  with the goal of benefiting our policyholders, agents, shareholders and associates over time. The ongoing instability of the financial markets highlights the value of operating in an open and consistent way, building a cushion of financial strength over a period of years. In responding to current economic pressures, we are confident in the steps we have taken to protect our capital.
"In view of current economic and market conditions, the board chose to continue for later discussion the potential for an increase in the 2009 dividend payout level," Schiff said, "The board is cognizant that Cincinnati Financial stands among the top tier of U.S. dividend-paying companies, with a long, uninterrupted history of annual dividend increases that we believe only 11 other companies can claim. While there is merit to sustaining that record, the first priority of the board and management is to assure continued financial strength as the company enters 2009 so that we can reward shareholders over the long term."
President and Chief Executive Officer Kenneth W. Stecher, added, "Our consistent cash flows and prudent cash balances continue to create exceptional liquidity. At January 31, we had slightly more than $1 billion in cash and cash equivalents on hand. That gives us the flexibility to help build value for shareholders by investing where we see potential for both current income and long-term return. Our low debt leverage also enhances flexibility. Our $795 million of long-term debt isn't due until 2028 and 2032 and we have only $49 million in short-term borrowings on a $75 million line of credit. In addition, we have a second, untapped line of credit with availability of $150 million.
"At year-end 2008, we estimate book value was approximately $25.75. Our year-end consolidated cash and invested assets totaled $9.9 billion, including $2.7 billion of common stock holdings, compared with $10.5 billion, including $3.9 billion of common stock holdings, at September 30, 2008, and $12.5 billion, including $6.0 billion of common stock holdings, at year-end 2007.
"Further, our insurance appetite remains strong. All of our insurance subsidiaries continue to be highly rated, operating with a level of capital far exceeding regulatory requirements. We ended 2008 with a healthy property casualty premium-to-surplus ratio of 0.9 to 1, allowing us the flexibility to reduce risk by expanding our operations into new geographies and product areas. Plus, we hold more than $1 billion of our assets at the parent company level, increasing our flexibility through all periods to continue to invest in and expand our insurance operations while maintaining our cash dividend."
Stecher said, "Preserving this high level of capital and liquidity remains a key objective. In mid-summer, we began applying new investment guidelines that increased portfolio diversification, reducing single issue and sector concentrations. Our year-end 2008 portfolio, fully detailed today in our regular online portfolio listing, shows how we have positioned the portfolio for reduced volatility going forward. As a result, despite economic and market disruptions that led to unprecedented market value declines, our equity portfolio suffered less than the broader indices
 
during the fourth quarter and full year of 2008. It continues to hold up well in the challenging environment we have experienced since the beginning of 2009.
"At year-end, our financial sector holdings were 12.4 percent of our $2.7 billion publicly traded common stock portfolio, below the Standard & Poor's 500 weighting, and significantly lower than our 56.2 percent financial sector weighting at year-end 2007. Among other changes, we reduced our Fifth Third Bancorp holding to approximately 12 million shares at year-end 2008. Following Fifth Third's further reduction of its dividend payout in December 2008, we sold the remainder of our holding in January for an additional capital gain."
Stecher noted, "In addition to equities, our portfolio includes highly rated taxable and tax-exempt fixed maturity and short-term investments valued at $5.8 billion at year-end 2008, virtually unchanged from year-end 2007. This bond portfolio's value continues to exceed our insurance liabilities. It contains less than 1 percent, or approximately $43 million book value, of collateralized mortgage obligations we obtained in the termination of a securities lending program. We own no other mortgage-related securities nor any other derivative products."
Stecher concluded, "As the disruptions of the financial market have pressured short-term results for our company and others, we have continued to look to the long term. On Thursday, we will provide a thorough look at our financial results for 2008. We also will share our perspective on Cincinnati's long-term potential to create value for shareholders by continuing to act on strategic initiatives that further our mission: to grow profitability and enhance the ability of local independent agents to deliver quality financial protection to the people and businesses they serve."
Cincinnati Financial plans to report fourth-quarter and year-end 2008 results on Thursday, February 5. A conference call to discuss the results will be held at 11:00 a.m. EST on that day. Details regarding the Internet broadcast of the conference call are available on . The company today posted a listing of its fixed-maturity and equity portfolio as of year-end 2008 on its Web site at .
www.cinfin.com/investors
www.cinfin.com/investors
Cincinnati Financial Corporation offers property and casualty insurance, our main business, through our three standard market companies, The Cincinnati Insurance Company, The Cincinnati Indemnity Company and The Cincinnati Casualty Company. The Cincinnati Life Insurance Company markets life and disability insurance and annuities. The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company provides excess and surplus lines property and casualty insurance. CSU Producer Resources Inc., our excess and surplus lines brokerage, serves the same local independent agencies that offer our standard market policies. CFC Investment Company offers commercial leasing and financing services. For additional information about the company, please visit
www.cinfin.com.
Safe Harbor Statement
This is our "Safe Harbor" statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our business is subject to certain risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements in this report. Some of those risks and uncertainties are discussed in our 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K, Item 1A, Risk Factors, Page 21, with updates to certain risk factors described in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2008. Although we often review and update our forward-looking statements when events warrant, we caution our readers that we undertake no obligation to do so.
Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to:
 
Further, the company's insurance businesses are subject to the effects of changing social, economic and regulatory environments. Public and regulatory initiatives have included efforts to adversely influence and restrict premium rates, restrict the ability to cancel policies, impose underwriting standards and expand overall regulation. The company also is subject to public and regulatory initiatives that can affect the market value for its common stock, such as recent measures affecting corporate financial reporting and governance. The ultimate changes and eventual effects, if any, of these initiatives are uncertain.
Financial strength ratings are effective as of the date of this release, are under continuous review and are subject to change and/or affirmation. For the latest ratings, access Financial Strength Ratings at .
www.cinfin.com

Exhibit 99.4
announced today that boards of its subsidiary companies appointed directors, officers and counsel at their regular meetings on January 30, 2009.
Cincinnati, February 2, 2009  Cincinnati Financial Corporation (Nasdaq:CINF)
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Steven J. Johnston, FCAS, MAAA, CFA, was named to the boards of all subsidiaries. Senior Vice Presidents Martin F. Hollenbeck, CFA, CPCU, and Martin J. Mullen, CPCU, were named to the boards of all insurance subsidiaries, and Hollenbeck was additionally named to the board of CFC Investment Company. Senior Vice Presidents Donald J. Doyle, Jr., CPCU, AIM, and Charles P. Stoneburner II, CPCU, AIM, were named to the boards of all property casualty insurance subsidiaries.
The board also acted on other business, affirming the corporate governance guidelines, the code of ethics for senior financial officers, the code of conduct for all company associates and board committee charters, which are reviewed annually by the respective committees as stipulated in the governance guidelines.
Boards of subsidiary companies made the following promotions and new or additional appointments of officers and counsel:
Property Casualty Insurance  Standard Market:
The Cincinnati Insurance Company The Cincinnati Casualty Company The Cincinnati Indemnity Company
Senior Vice President: Martin F. Hollenbeck, CFA, CPCU  Investments
Vice Presidents: William J. Geier, CPCU, CLU, ChFC, FLMI, AIM, HIAA  Information Technology Douglas W. Stang, FCAS, MAAA  Staff Underwriting Brian K. Wood, CPCU, AIM  Personnel
Assistant Vice Presidents: William M. Clevidence, CIC  Sales & Marketing Michael K. Dockery  Information Security Rodney M. French, CPCU, AIM, ARe  Commercial Lines Sharon K. Larrick  Staff Underwriting Stephen M. Spray  Excess & Surplus Lines Gerald L. Varney  Purchasing/Fleet
Secretaries: Robert E. Bernard, CPCU, AIM  Personal Lines Glenn W. Koch, CPCU, AIM  Commercial Lines Philip D. Motz  Information Technology James D. Ogle, CPCU, AIC  Headquarters Claims Stephen G. Stockwell, CPCU, AMIM  Commercial Lines Sean P. Sweeney, CPCU, PMP  Information Technology Daniel R. Walsh  Headquarters Claims
 
Assistant Secretaries: Brian K. Baker, CPCU, AIM, AIC  Field Claims William L. Gregory, SCLA  Headquarters Claims Molly A. Grimm  Shareholder Services George A. Grossenbaugh, SCLA  Special Investigation Unit Ronald C. Klimkowski, CIC, AIC  Sales & Marketing Kenneth P. Mikkelson, CPCU, ALCM  Loss Control C. Kathleen Saurber, CPCU  Staff Underwriting
Associate Counsel: J. Richard Brown Louis M. DeMarco
Martin F. Hollenbeck* Stephen M. Spray*
Property Casualty Insurance  Excess & Surplus Lines:
The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company:
Martin F. Hollenbeck* William J. Geier* Brian K. Wood* Roger A. Brown, FSA, MAAA, Assistant Vice President  Actuarial Michael K. Dockery* Gerald L. Varney* Philip D. Motz* Sean P. Sweeney* Mona J. Day, Assistant Secretary  Life Field Services J. Richard Brown* Louis M. DeMarco*
The Cincinnati Life Insurance Company:
Stephen M. Spray*
Financial Services:
CSU Producer Resources Inc.
 
Cincinnati Financial Corporation offers property and casualty insurance, our main business, through our three standard market companies, The Cincinnati Insurance Company, The Cincinnati Indemnity Company and The Cincinnati Casualty Company. The Cincinnati Life Insurance Company markets life and disability insurance and annuities. The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company provides excess and surplus lines property and casualty insurance. CSU Producer Resources Inc., our excess and surplus lines brokerage, serves the same local independent agencies that offer our standard market policies. CFC Investment Company offers commercial leasing and financing services. For additional information about the company, please visit
www.cinfin.com.


