FILE:CINF/CINF-8K-20091110164700.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On November 10, 2009, Cincinnati Financial Corporation posted presentation slides in PDF format on www.cinfin.com/investors that will be used in investor presentations beginning that date. Exhibit 99.1 is a copy of the slides. The slides are being furnished pursuant to Item 7.01, and the information contained therein shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. Furthermore, the information contained in Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into the filings of the company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. This report should not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information contained in the news release.
Safe Harbor Statement
This is our "Safe Harbor" statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our business is subject to certain risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements in this report. Some of those risks and uncertainties are discussed in our 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K, Item 1A, Risk Factors, Page 25. Although we often review or update our forward-looking statements when events warrant, we caution our readers that we undertake no obligation to do so.
Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to:
Table of Contents
Further, the company's insurance businesses are subject to the effects of changing social, economic and regulatory environments. Public and regulatory initiatives have included efforts to adversely influence and restrict premium rates, restrict the ability to cancel policies, impose underwriting standards and expand overall regulation. The company also is subject to public and regulatory initiatives that can affect the market value for its common stock, such as recent measures affecting corporate financial reporting and governance. The ultimate changes and eventual effects, if any, of these initiatives are uncertain.
Table of Contents
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits
Exhibit 99.1
Investor presentation slides
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
1
 
2
 
3
 
4
 
5
 
6
 
7
 
8
 
9
 
10
 
11
 
12
 
13
 
14
 
15
 
16


