FILE:CINF/CINF-8K-20100503163434.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.07 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
 
On May 3, 2010, Cincinnati Financial Corporation issued the attached news release Cincinnati Financial Corporation Holds Shareholders' and Directors' Meetings. The news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Preliminary voting results on matters properly brought before the annual meeting of shareholders are set forth below:
 
Total Outstanding Shares as of Record Date:  162,927,521                         Shares Voted at Meeting:  137,896,910
 
                                                                
Proposal 1: Election of Directors:
 
 
Proposal 2: Amendment
of
Articles of Incorporation to Declassify Board
:
 
 
 
Proposal 3: Amendment of Code of Regulations to Add Advance Notice Provisions
:
 
 
 
Proposal 4:  Ratify Selection of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
:
 
 
 
This report should not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information contained in the news release.
 
The information furnished in Item 7.01 of this report shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 News release dated May 3, 2010, titled Cincinnati Financial Corporation Holds Shareholders' and Directors' Meetings
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
today announced that based on preliminary voting results at the companys annual meeting on May 1, 2010, shareholders elected four directors for terms of three years to the 13-member board. Shareholders also ratified the selection of Deloitte & Touche LLP as independent registered public accounting firm, approved an amendment to the companys Articles of Incorporation to declassify its board structure and approved an amendment to its Code of Regulations to add procedures for shareholder meeting proposals.
Cincinnati, May 3, 2010  Cincinnati Financial Corporation (Nasdaq: CINF)
 
 
Chairman John J. Schiff, Jr., CPCU, commented: We thank shareholders for approving our selection of Deloitte & Touche and our nominees to the board. The directors who were elected Saturday, as well as our continuing directors, combine their experiences from differing business backgrounds to execute long-term strategic plans for Cincinnati Financial Corporation and to increase our long-term return to shareholders.
 
 
Elected to the board were Gregory T. Bier, CPA (Ret), former managing partner of the Cincinnati Office of Deloitte & Touche LLP; Linda Clement-Holmes, senior vice president of Global Diversity and Global Business Services for Procter & Gamble Company; Douglas S. Skidmore, president and chief executive officer of Skidmore Sales & Distributing Company Inc.; and Larry R. Webb, president of Webb Insurance Agency Inc.
 
 
The board also announced committee service for the coming year, in line with the independence requirements of applicable law and the listing standards of Nasdaq:
 
 
Schiff noted, Through their committee assignments and their dedication to understanding our insurance business, our directors work toward a prosperous future for the shareholders of Cincinnati Financial, supporting stability for our agents, policyholders and associates.
 
Cincinnati Financial Corporation offers business, home and auto insurance, our main business, through The Cincinnati Insurance Company and its two standard market property casualty companies. The same local independent insurance agencies that market those policies may offer products of our other subsidiaries, including life and disability income insurance, annuities and surplus lines property and casualty insurance. For additional information about the company, please visit www.cinfin.com.
 
 
 
 
 


