FILE:CINF/CINF-8K-20100614165407.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On June 14, 2010, Cincinnati Financial Corporation issued the attached news release titled Cincinnati Financial Corporation Announces Second-Quarter Catastrophe Losses, furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference. This report should not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information contained in the news release.
In accordance with general instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information furnished in this report shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c)       Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
 
 
said that as of June 10, 2010, it estimates incurred second-quarter pre-tax catastrophe losses from severe weather at approximately $65 million for its property casualty insurance operations through The Cincinnati Insurance Companies. Catastrophe losses affect property casualty insurance underwriting income, one of the sources of consolidated net income along with profits from investment operations and life insurance operations.
Cincinnati,
June 1
4, 2010  Cincinnati Financial Corporation (Nasdaq: CINF)
today
 
Kenneth W. Stecher, president and chief executive officer, commented, Our storm losses typically rise in the second quarter, averaging 7.7 percentage points over the past 10 years compared with a full-year average of 4.2 percentage points. If no additional catastrophe losses are incurred beyond those we estimated through June 10, our 2010 second-quarter estimate would stand at approximately 9 percentage points, bringing our early estimate for the first half to approximately 5.6 percentage points. Catastrophe losses can vary significantly from quarter to quarter, as shown by our below-average contribution of only 2.1 percentage points in the first quarter of 2010.
 
Our agents and policyholders know they can depend on Cincinnati Insurance to provide the highest quality service for claims involving storms or other insured loss events. A total of eight events, including a storm in June that primarily affected our policyholders in northern Ohio, together accounted for approximately half of our policyholders estimated second-quarter catastrophe losses. The other half was largely due to claims in Nashville, Tennessee for water-damaged business equipment and related business interruption. Policyholders can purchase all-risk coverage for some types of equipment and expanded coverage for business interruption as options with our commercial multi-peril policy.
 
Representatives of Cincinnati Financial Corporation management will review progress on strategic initiatives for improving profitability and driving premium growth at the Macquarie Small & Mid-Cap conference on June 15, 2010, as previously announced. Stecher concluded, We continue during the second quarter to execute on these initiatives, including preparations for entry to two new states outside of our Midwest footprint, increased pricing precision and introduction of our Educational Institutions Program  the first product release from our new target markets unit. In May, we received the Vanguards in Insurance Best Practices first-place award, recognizing our delivery of real time technology that increases agency efficiency. We are on track with plans to further deploy and improve our new policy administration systems. By continuing to strengthen service and respond fully to the needs of our agents and policyholders, we plan to create value over the long term for shareholders.
Company and its two standard market property casualty companies. The same local independent insurance agencies that market those policies may offer products of our other subsidiaries, including life and disability income insurance, annuities and surplus lines property and casualty insurance. For additional information about the company, please visit
www.cinfin.com.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement
 
This is our Safe Harbor statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our business is subject to certain risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements in this report. Some of those risks and uncertainties are discussed in our 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K, Item 1A, Risk Factors, Page 23. Although we often review or update our forward-looking statements when events warrant, we caution our readers that we undertake no obligation to do so.
 
Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to:
 
 
Further, the companys insurance businesses are subject to the effects of changing social, economic and regulatory environments. Public and regulatory initiatives have included efforts to adversely influence and restrict premium rates, restrict the ability to cancel policies, impose underwriting standards and expand overall regulation. The company also is subject to public and regulatory initiatives that can affect the market value for its common stock, such as recent measures affecting corporate financial reporting and governance. The ultimate changes and eventual effects, if any, of these initiatives are uncertain.
 
 
 
 
 


