FILE:CINF/CINF-8K-20100428164401.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 28, 2010, Cincinnati Financial Corporation issued the attached news release titled , furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference. On April 28, 2010, the company also distributed the attached information titled Supplemental Financial Data, furnished as Exhibit 99.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference. This report should not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information contained in the news release or supplemental financial data.
Cincinnati Financial Reports First-Quarter 2010 Results
In accordance with general instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information furnished in this report shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c)       Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
Cincinnati,
April 28, 2010
Cincinnati Financial Corporation (Nasdaq: CINF) today reported:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Highlights 
 
Insurance Operations Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
Investment and Balance Sheet Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Improving Trends
 
Kenneth W. Stecher, president and chief executive officer, commented, 
First-quarter trends were largely positive, including better weather in the Midwest. The result was operating earnings
and net income well above amounts achieved in the comparable 2009 quarter. The first-quarter property casualty insurance underwriting loss narrowed as our policyholders experienced fewer weather-related catastrophe losses and fewer large losses individual
l
y amounting to $250,000 or higher. We also noted improved pricing trends for our personal lines policies and nearly flat pricing for our commercial renewal policies.
 
On the investment side of our business, our rebalanced portfolio generated investment inco
me exceeding first-quarter 2009 by 5 percent before taxes. Equities and bonds in the portfolio further appreciated in fair value, leading to a fourth consecutive quarter of increasing financial strength, with growth of our invested assets, total assets, b
o
ok value and statutory
surplus for both our property casualty insurance group and for our life insurance company.
 
Insurance Growth and Profitability
 
Stecher continued, 
With a 102.5 percent combined ratio for the first quarter, our personal lines segment
is drawing closer to underwriting profitability. Our modest levels of personal lines business in the Northeast and along the Eastern Seaboard helped us avoid major losses from severe winter storms in those areas. Excluding catastrophes, the personal lines
current accident year loss ratio is trending favorably, improving to 63.7 percent compared with 70.9 percent for full-year 2009.
 
Personal lines net premiums written rose 7 percent, including $18 million of new business for an eighth consecutive quarter o
f new business growth. This healthy growth comes from expansion of our personal lines agency force and entry into new states over the past two years, as well as homeowner rate changes that began taking effect in the fourth quarter of 2009. Before year-end
,
we plan to develop predictive modeling that supports greater pricing sophistication for personal auto policies and to implement targeted homeowner rate increases effective in October.
 
Our commercial lines segment
s combined ratio held steady at 102.1 per
cent compared with 102.2 percent for the 2009 first quarter. While our average renewal pricing was almost flat, our business policyholders had lower insurable exposures and new business pricing remains competitive. Commercial lines net written premiums fe
l
l almost 6 percent, including 13 percent lower new business. Agents in three states entered since December 2008 produced a robust $5 million of new business, only partially offsetting declines in established states. Most of the new business decline came f
r
om the workers
compensation line of business, where we have effected improved underwriting guidelines to help restore profitability. In addition, we are working to reduce the interval between workers
compensation injuries and reporting of the claim to u
s
, improving our claims response and allowing for better managing of costs. Taking a proactive approach, we also are promoting loss control services available to workers
compensation policyholders.
 
We continue to see great opportunity for our excess and s
urplus lines company, now in its third year of operations. Net written premiums were $12 million for the first quarter, including $8 million of new business. Our excess and surplus policies feature relatively low policy limits along with significant flexi
b
ility in pricing and terms and conditions.
 
Continuing to Invest in Strong Agency Relationships
 
Our underwriting expense ratio spiked in the first quarter, reflecting lower earned premiums; higher assessments, self-funded insurance costs and contingent li
abilities; and the investments we are making to expand and to strengthen our ties with the independent agencies that represent us. Our technology systems are key to this effort. During the first quarter, our new policy administration system for commercial
packages and auto rolled out to three of the 19 states scheduled to receive it in 2010. A new version of our personal lines administration system rolled out to 28 states in February, with ongoing efforts to improve speed and implement agent-suggested enha
n
cements. We continue to invest in training so our agents can get the most benefit from these systems and in additional technology projects to expand our use of predictive modeling, develop our data warehouse and introduce additional online services for po
l
icyholders.
 
Each of these initiatives is expected to provide efficiency benefits over the long term to the company and to our agencies. We also continue to invest in new agency relationships, including staffing in new states and territories. We expect du
ring the second half of 2010 to deploy field staff and appoint our first agencies in Connecticut and Oregon. We
re expanding our product portfolio too. Our new Target Markets department was staffed during the first quarter with specialists who will resear
c
h, develop, market, monitor and manage products that help our agents target selected classes of business.
 
 
 
 
 
Over the first four months of 2010, our executive team has held 20 sales meetings with our agency customers in locations across our operating territ
ory. Agents enthusiastically affirmed the value to their agencies of our investments in efficiency and service, including extending to commercial package and auto policies the option for the company to directly bill policyholders. Agents also appreciate o
u
r efforts to broaden use of workers
compensation specialists, provide proactive loss control services and develop dedicated marketing support for target products. They are confident that these measures help them gain new business opportunities and make u
s
a stronger competitor for the best accounts within their agencies.
 
Creating Long-Term Value
 
Stecher concluded, 
Book value per share growth for the quarter included 63 cents from a higher investment portfolio valuation including realized gains and 47 cen
ts from investment income in non-life insurance portfolios, lowered by 39.5 cents for shareholder dividends and 9 cents of other items, principally insurance operations and interest on corporate debt. We continue to measure the overall progress of our ins
u
rance and investment operations through the value creation ratio, which reflects our ability to pay shareholder dividends plus our ability to increase book value. That ratio was 3.4 percent for the first quarter, representing nearly 14 percent on an annua
l
ized basis. We continue to be confident that our initiatives are taking us steadily in the right direction to achieve an annual average ratio in the range of 12 percent to 15 
percent for the 2010 to 2014 period.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following table shows incurred c
atastrophe losses for the first quarters of 2010 and 2009.
 
 
 
 
Commercial Lines Insurance Operations
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Personal Lines Insurance Operations
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Life Insurance Operations
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Investment Operations
 
 
 
 
 
 
For additional information or to register for our conference call webcast, please visit .
ww
w.cinfin.com/investors
 
 
Safe Harbor Sttement
a
This is our Safe Harbor statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our business is subject to certain risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements in this report. Some of those risks and uncertainties are discussed in our 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K, Item 1A, Risk Factors, Page 23. Although we often review or update our forward-looking statements when events warrant, we caution our readers that we undertake no obligation to do so.
Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to:
Further, the companys insurance businesses are subject to the effects of changing social, economic and regulatory environments. Public and regulatory initiatives have included efforts to adversely influence and restrict premium rates, restrict the ability to cancel policies, impose underwriting standards and expand overall regulation. The company also is subject to public and regulatory initiatives that can affect the market value for its common stock, such as recent measures affecting corporate financial reporting and governance. The ultimate changes and eventual effects, if any, of these initiatives are uncertain.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cincinnati Financial Corporation prepares its public financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). Statutory data is prepared in accordance with statutory accounting rules as defined by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) Accounting Practices and Procedures Manual and therefore is not reconciled to GAAP data.
 
Management uses certain non-GAAP and non-statutory financial measures to evaluate its primary business areas  property casualty insurance, life insurance and investments. Management uses these measures when analyzing both GAAP and non-GAAP measures to improve its understanding of trends in the underlying business and to help avoid incorrect or misleading assumptions and conclusions about the success or failure of company strategies. Management adjustments to GAAP measures generally: apply to non-recurring events that are unrelated to business performance and distort short-term results; involve values that fluctuate based on events outside of managements control; or relate to accounting refinements that affect comparability between periods, creating a need to analyze data on the same basis.
 
 
For these reasons, many investors and shareholders consider operating income to be one of the more meaningful measures for evaluating insurance company performance. Equity analysts who report on the insurance industry and the company generally focus on this metric in their analyses. The company presents operating income so that all investors have what management believes to be a useful supplement to GAAP information.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Ratings are as of April 28, 2010, under continuous review and subject to change and/or affirmation. For the current ratings, select Financial Strength Ratings on .
www.cinfin.com
 
The consolidated financial statements and financial exhibits that follow are unaudited. These consolidated financial statements and exhibits should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes included our periodic filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The results of operations for interim periods may not be indicative of results to be expected for the full year.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cincinnati Financial Corporation prepares its public financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). Statutory data is prepared in accordance with statutory accounting rules as defined by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) Accounting Practices and Procedures Manual and therefore is not reconciled to GAAP data.
 
Management uses certain non-GAAP and non-statutory financial measures to evaluate its primary business areas  property casualty insurance, life insurance and investments. Management uses these measures when analyzing both GAAP and non-GAAP measures to improve its understanding of trends in the underlying business and to help avoid incorrect or misleading assumptions and conclusions about the success or failure of company strategies. Management adjustments to GAAP measures generally: apply to non-recurring events that are unrelated to business performance and distort short-term results; involve values that fluctuate based on events outside of managements control; or relate to accounting refinements that affect comparability between periods, creating a need to analyze data on the same basis.
 
For these reasons, many investors and shareholders consider operating income to be one of the more meaningful measures for evaluating insurance company performance. Equity analysts who report on the insurance industry and the company generally focus on this metric in their analyses. The company presents operating income so that all investors have what management believes to be a useful supplement to GAAP information.
 
 
3
 
 
4
 
*Dollar amounts shown are rounded to millions; certain amounts may not add due to rounding. Ratios are calculated based on whole dollar amounts.
 
5
 
 
 
 
6
 
*Dollar amounts shown are rounded to millions; certain amounts may not add due to rounding. Ratios are calculated based on whole dollar amounts.
* Statutory data prepared in accordance with statutory accounting rules as defined by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners and filed with the appropriate regulatory bodies.
 
7
 
*Dollar amounts shown are rounded to millions; certain amounts may not add due to rounding.  The sum of quarterly amounts may not equal the full year as each is computed independently.
* Statutory data prepared in accordance with statutory accounting rules as defined by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners and filed with the appropriate regulatory bodies.
 
8
 
*Certain amounts may not add due to rounding. Ratios are calculated based on whole dollar amounts.
* Statutory data prepared in accordance with statutory accounting rules as defined by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners and filed with the appropriate regulatory bodies.
 
9
The sum of quarterly amounts may not equal the full year as each is computed independently.
* Statutory data prepared in accordance with statutory accounting rules as defined by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners and filed with the appropriate regulatory bodies.
 
10
 
Surplus direct premiums written were $13.2 million and $7.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
*Consolidated change consists of commercial lines, personal lines and E&S.
Dollar amounts shown are rounded to millions; certain amounts may not add due to rounding.  Percentage changes are calculated based on whole dollar amounts.
 
11
 
*Dollar amounts shown are rounded to millions; certain amounts may not add due to rounding. Ratios are calculated based on whole dollar amounts. The sum of quarterly amounts may not equal the full year as each is computed independently.
 
12
 
*Dollar amounts shown are rounded to millions; certain amounts may not add due to rounding. Ratios are calculated based on whole dollar amounts. The sum of quarterly amounts may not equal the full year as each is computed independently.
 
13
 
*Dollar amounts shown are rounded to millions; certain amounts may not add due to rounding.
 
14
 
*Dollar amounts shown are rounded to millions; certain amounts may not add due to rounding. Ratios are calculated based on whole dollar amounts. The sum of quarterly amounts may not equal the full year as each is computed independently.
*nm - Not meaningful
* Statutory data prepared in accordance with statutory accounting rules as defined by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners and filed with the appropriate regulatory bodies.
 
15
 
*Dollar amounts shown are rounded to millions; certain amounts may not add due to rounding. Ratios are calculated based on whole dollar amounts. The sum of quarterly amounts may not equal the full year as each is computed independently.
*nm - - Not meaningful
* Statutory data prepared in accordance with statutory accounting rules as defined by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners and filed with the appropriate regulatory bodies.
 
16
 
*Dollar amounts shown are rounded to millions; certain amounts may not add due to rounding. Ratios are calculated based on whole dollar amounts. The sum of quarterly amounts may not equal the full year as each is computed independently.
 *nm - - Not meaningful
 * Statutory data prepared in accordance with statutory accounting rules as defined by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners and filed with the appropriate regulatory bodies.
 
17
 
*Dollar amounts shown are rounded to millions; certain amounts may not add due to rounding. Ratios are calculated based on whole dollar amounts.
* Statutory data prepared in accordance with statutory accounting rules as defined by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners and filed with the appropriate regulatory bodies.
 
18


