FILE:CINF/CINF-8K-20110504162728.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 (e) Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
Item 5.07 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
 
On May 2, 2011, Cincinnati Financial Corporation issued the attached news release Cincinnati Financial Corporation Holds Shareholders' and Directors' Meetings. The news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Voting results on matters properly brought before the annual meeting of shareholders are set forth below:
 
Total Outstanding Shares as of Record Date:  163,003,067         Shares Voted at Meeting:   128,140,500
   
 
Proposal 1Election of Directors
 
Proposal 2Ratify Selection of Deloitte & Touche LLP as Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm for 2011
Proposal 3 Nonbinding Vote to Approve Compensation for Named Executive Officers
Proposal 4 Nonbinding Vote to Establish Frequency of Future Nonbinding votes on Executive Compensation
Proposal 5 Nonbinding Re-approval of Performance Objectives of Cincinnati Financial Corporation Stock Compensation Plan of 2006
At its meeting on April 29, 2011, the compensation committee adjusted base annual salaries, compensation tier assignments and granted performance-based annual incentive and stock compensation awards for the following named executive officers:
 
With a grant date of May 2, 2011:
 
For Mr. Stecher: adjusting base annual salary to $500,000 from $963,863;
 
For Mr. Johnston: adjusting base annual salary to $800,000 from $627,590; assignment to the CEO tier for performance based compensation; granting an award of performance-based annual incentive compensation with a target award of $232,067 and grants of stock based compensation with grant date value of $232,067, comprised of 4,893 non-qualified stock options and 2,447 performance based restricted stock units.
 
For Mr. Scherer: adjusting base annual salary to $750,000 from $701,602; no change in tier assignment; granting an award of performance-based annual incentive compensation with a target award of $31,459 and grants of stock based compensation with grant date value of $31,459, comprised of 664 non-qualified stock options and 332 performance based restricted stock units.
 
 
 
With a grant date of May 31, 2011:
 
For Mr. Sewell, effective his date of hire on May 31, 2011, establishment of base annual salary of $700,000; assignment to Tier I for performance-based compensation; granting of performance based annual incentive compensation with a target award of $455,000 and grants of stock based compensation with grant date value of $455,000. The number of non-qualified stock options and performance-based RSUs will be determined on May 31, 2011, the date of grant by dividing the total award grant date value of $455,000 by the fair market value of the companys stock on that date, with two-thirds of the award being allocated to non-qualified stock options and one-third to performance based restricted stock units. The grant date for all performance-based compensation conditionally awarded to Mr. Sewell will be May 31, 2011, his first date of employment with the company. In addition, the company purchased a paid-up annuity for the benefit of Mr. Sewell that will vest and pay a lifetime annual benefit of $54,000 when Mr. Sewell reaches age 58. The purpose of the annuity is to replace the accrued but unvested retirement benefits forfeited by Mr. Sewell with his current employer when he terminates that employment to become the companys chief financial officer. The cost of the annuity was $716,136.
 
The grants of performance-based annual incentive cash and stock-based compensation described above are subject to the same terms and conditions, including threshold, target and maximum performance hurdles and payouts as apply to grants of such performance-based compensation made on February 18, 2011 and described in the compensation, discussion and analysis of our 2011 proxy statement, filed on March 18, 2011. The committee recognizes that the performance-based compensation granted on May 2, 2011 and to be granted on May 31, 2011, if paid, may not be fully tax deductible because of the timing of the grants.
 
This report should not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information contained in the news release.
 
The information furnished in Item 7.01 of this report shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 News release dated May 2, 2011, titled Cincinnati Financial Corporation Holds Shareholders' and Directors' Meetings
Exhibit 99.1
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
today announced that based on preliminary voting results at the companys annual meeting on April 30, 2011, shareholders elected four directors for one-year terms to the 13-member board. Shareholders also ratified the selection of Deloitte & Touche LLP as independent registered public accounting firm, approved a nonbinding proposal to approve the compensation for the companys named executive officers, approved an annual frequency of future nonbinding votes on executive compensation, and re-approved the performance objectives contained in the Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2006 Stock Compensation Plan.
Cincinnati, May 2, 2011  Cincinnati Financial Corporation (Nasdaq: CINF)
 
Kenneth W. Stecher, chairman as of today, commented: We thank shareholders for approving our selection of Deloitte & Touche and our nominees to the board. The directors who were elected Saturday, as well as our continuing directors, combine their experiences from differing business backgrounds to guide long-term strategic plans for Cincinnati Financial Corporation and to increase our long-term return to shareholders.
 
Elected to the board for terms of one year were Kenneth C. Lichtendahl, senior adviser (former president and chief executive officer) to Tradewinds Beverage Company; W. Rodney McMullen, president and chief operating officer of The Kroger Company; Thomas R. Schiff, chairman and chief executive officer for John J. & Thomas R. Schiff & Co. Inc.; and John F. Steele, Jr., chairman and chief executive officer of Hilltop Basic Resources Inc.
 
At the board of directors regularly scheduled meeting following the annual meeting, they appointed incoming president and chief executive officer, Steven J. Johnston, FCAS, MAAA, CFA, to a one-year term on the board, expanding it to 14 seats. The board also announced committee service for the coming year, in line with the independence requirements of applicable law and the listing standards of Nasdaq:
 
 
The board also announced that future advisory shareholder votes on executive compensation will be held annually, selecting the frequency that a majority of shareholders supported by a wide margin.
 
Steven J. Johnston, president and CEO of the company as of today, remarked: We are grateful for the support of our directors and shareholders. Our company is more focused and more ready than ever before to be a strong competitor. As announced on April 25, we have a new leadership team that is energized and ready to execute on our strategic plans. A new company logo we introduced at our meeting celebrates the momentum we are building by expanding our operations, increasing efficiencies, stepping up our expertise and recommitting to ethical values. As we start the next chapter of our 60-year history, we are committed to improve on our traditional strengths and create new ones that enhance our relationships with our agency customers and add value for shareholders.
 
 
 
 
Cincinnati Financial Corporation offers business, home and auto insurance, our main business, through The Cincinnati Insurance Company and its two standard market property casualty companies. The same local independent insurance agencies that market those policies may offer products of our other subsidiaries, including life and disability income insurance, annuities and surplus lines property and casualty insurance. For additional information about the company, please visit .
www.cinfin.com
 
 
 
Safe Harbor
 
This is our Safe Harbor statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our business is subject to certain risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements in this report. Some of those risks and uncertainties are discussed in our 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K, Item 1A, Risk Factors, Page 24.
 
Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to:
 
 
 
 
 
Further, the companys insurance businesses are subject to the effects of changing social, economic and regulatory environments. Public and regulatory initiatives have included efforts to adversely influence and restrict premium rates, restrict the ability to cancel policies, impose underwriting standards and expand overall regulation. The company also is subject to public and regulatory initiatives that can affect the market value for its common stock, such as measures affecting corporate financial reporting and governance. The ultimate changes and eventual effects, if any, of these initiatives are uncertain.
 
 
 
 


