FILE:CINF/CINF-8K-20110523144209.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
 
On May 23, 2011, Cincinnati Financial Corporation issued the attached news release Cincinnati Financial Corporation Declares Regular Quarterly Cash Dividend. The news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
This report should not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information contained in the news release.
The information furnished in Item 7.01 of this report shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 News release dated May 23, 2011, titled Cincinnati Financial Corporation Declares Regular Quarterly Cash Dividend
Exhibit 99.1
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
today announced that the executive committee of its board of directors has declared a 40-cents-per-share regular quarterly cash dividend payable July 15, 2011, to shareholders of record as of June 22, 2011.
Cincinnati, May 23, 2011  Cincinnati Financial Corporation (Nasdaq: CINF)
 
Steven J. Johnston, president and chief executive officer, commented, Cincinnati Financial has more than $1 billion of cash and marketable securities at the parent level, providing exceptional financial flexibility and liquidity to support our dividend record through periods of earnings pressure. According to Spring 2011), shareholders have benefited from Cincinnati Financials longer record of consecutive-year dividend increases than all but nine other publicly traded U.S. companies. The boards dividend decisions consider this record as well as the strategies we are executing and our future performance prospects.
Mergents Handbook of Dividend Achievers (
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement
 
This is our Safe Harbor statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our business is subject to certain risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements in this report. Some of those risks and uncertainties are discussed in our 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K, Item 1A, Risk Factors, Page 24.
 
Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to:
 
Further, the companys insurance businesses are subject to the effects of changing social, economic and regulatory environments. Public and regulatory initiatives have included efforts to adversely influence and restrict premium rates, restrict the ability to cancel policies, impose underwriting standards and expand overall regulation. The company also is subject to public and regulatory initiatives that can affect the market value for its common stock, such as measures affecting corporate financial reporting and governance. The ultimate changes and eventual effects, if any, of these initiatives are uncertain.
 
 
 
 
 


