FILE:CINF/CINF-8K-20110613114501.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On June 13, 2011, Cincinnati Financial Corporation issued the attached news release titled Cincinnati Financial Corporation Announces Preliminary Loss Estimate for May Storms, furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference. This report should not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information contained in the news release.
On June 13, 2011, Cincinnati Financial Corporation posted presentation slides in PDF format on www.cinfin.com/investors that will be used in investor presentations beginning June 14, 2011.  Exhibit 99.2 is a copy of the slides.  The slides are being furnished pursuant to Item 7.01, and the information contained therein shall not be deemed filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  This report should not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information contained in the investor presentation slides.
In accordance with general instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information furnished in this report shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Safe Harbor
This is our Safe Harbor statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our business is subject to certain risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements in this report. Some of those risks and uncertainties are discussed in our 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K, Item 1A, Risk Factors, Page 24.
Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to:
 
 
 
 
 
Further, the companys insurance businesses are subject to the effects of changing social, economic and regulatory environments. Public and regulatory initiatives have included efforts to adversely influence and restrict premium rates, restrict the ability to cancel policies, impose underwriting standards and expand overall regulation. The company also is subject to public and regulatory initiatives that can affect the market value for its common stock, such as measures affecting corporate financial reporting and governance. The ultimate changes and eventual effects, if any, of these initiatives are uncertain.
 
 
 
 
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c)       Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

: Dennis E. McDaniel, 513-870-2768
Investor Contact
CINF-IR@cinfin.com
 
: Joan O. Shevchik, 513-603-5323
Media Contact
Media_Inquiries@cinfin.com
 
today announced that The Cincinnati Insurance Companies property casualty group expects its second-quarter results to include pre-tax catastrophe losses, net of reinsurance, of approximately $240 million to $290 million incurred due to severe weather during the entire months of April and May. This total includes the companys previously announced catastrophe loss estimate for April storms, which has now been updated to approximately $155 million to $190 million, net of reinsurance. Catastrophe losses affect property casualty insurance underwriting income, one of the sources of consolidated net income along with profits from investment operations and life insurance operations.
Cincinnati, June 13, 2011  Cincinnati Financial Corporation (Nasdaq: CINF)
 
Steven J. Johnston, president and chief executive officer, commented, Much of the United States continued to see a higher than usual level of spring storm activity, raising our catastrophe losses well above our historical second-quarter average. The same storm system that caused the tragic tornado in Joplin, Missouri extended to Dayton, Ohio where hail damaged property of more than 5,000 policyholders. Our representatives working with affected families and businesses are promptly providing professional assistance. We are confident that their dedication will create long-term customer loyalty and appreciation for our agencies and our company.
 
Over the past 10 years, the impact of catastrophes on our second-quarter loss ratio has averaged 8.5 percentage points compared with a full-year average of 4.4 points. The estimated impact of April plus May 2011 catastrophe losses on our second-quarter loss ratio would be approximately 33 to 40 percentage points, net of reinsurance and based on estimated earned premiums for the full second quarter. The mix of total April and May net catastrophe losses was split between commercial lines and personal lines, at approximately 50 percent each, roughly in line with our 10-year annual average.
 
Our reinsurance program provided coverage for our losses above $45 million from a single catastrophe event. Policyholder losses exceeded that level for both the May tornado and hail event and the late April tornado event. Accordingly, we expect to recover significant amounts from our reinsurers. Reinsurance premiums we will pay to reinstate applicable coverage for the April and May events are expected to reduce our second-quarter 2011 earned premiums by approximately $33 million to $40 million, including the previously reported $26 million estimated after the April tornado event.
 
For the remainder of 2011, we continue to have reinsurance coverage for any single catastrophe event that causes losses above $200 million up to $500 million, with one automatic reinstatement provision. While we may not again buy coverage for 2011 single-event catastrophe losses between $45 million and $105 million, we are studying options and we expect to replenish coverage we partially tapped for single-event losses above $105 million and up to $200 million. Our reinsurance relationships have served us well in 2011, and we are pleased to continue our coverage with highly rated reinsurers.
 
With our solid reinsurance program and strong capital complementing ample recent-period net cash flow from operations, we have financial flexibility to pay catastrophe claims without liquidating any investments. We continue to earn a larger share of business from agents appointed in recent years in several states less prone to catastrophe losses. Over the long term, a result of that gradual geographic diversification should be reduced variability in our future catastrophe loss ratio.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement
This is our Safe Harbor statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our business is subject to certain risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements in this report. Some of those risks and uncertainties are discussed in our 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K, Item 1A, Risk Factors, Page 24.
Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to:
Further, the companys insurance businesses are subject to the effects of changing social, economic and regulatory environments. Public and regulatory initiatives have included efforts to adversely influence and restrict premium rates, restrict the ability to cancel policies, impose underwriting standards and expand overall regulation. The company also is subject to public and regulatory initiatives that can affect the market value for its common stock, such as measures affecting corporate financial reporting and governance. The ultimate changes and eventual effects, if any, of these initiatives are uncertain.
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


