FILE:CINF/CINF-8K-20110815130515.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
On August 15, 2011, Cincinnati Financial Corporation issued the attached news release Cincinnati Financial Corporation Increases Regular Quarterly Cash Dividend. The news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
This report should not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information contained in the news release.
The information furnished in Item 7.01 of this report shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
On August 15, 2011, Cincinnati Financial Corporation posted presentation slides in PDF format on www.cinfin.com/investors that will be used in investor presentations beginning August 16, 2011.  Exhibit 99.2 is a copy of the slides.  The slides are being furnished pursuant to Item 7.01, and the information contained therein shall not be deemed filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  This report should not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information contained in the investor presentation slides.
 
 
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 News release dated August 15, 2011, titled Cincinnati Financial Corporation Increases Regular Quarterly Cash Dividend
Exhibit 99.1
Investor presentation slides
Exhibit 99.2 
Safe Harbor Statement
This is our Safe Harbor statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our business is subject to certain risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements in this report. Some of those risks and uncertainties are discussed in our 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K, Item 1A, Risk Factors, Page 24.
Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to:
Further, the companys insurance businesses are subject to the effects of changing social, economic and regulatory environments. Public and regulatory initiatives have included efforts to adversely influence and restrict premium rates, restrict the ability to cancel policies, impose underwriting standards and expand overall regulation. The company also is subject to public and regulatory initiatives that can affect the market value for its common stock, such as measures affecting corporate financial reporting and governance. The ultimate changes and eventual effects, if any, of these initiatives are uncertain.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Dennis E. McDaniel, 513-870-2768
:
Investor Contact
CINF-IR@cinfin.com
 
Joan O. Shevchik, 513-603-5323
:
Media Contact
Media_Inquiries@cinfin.com
 
 
today announced that the board of directors voted at its regular meeting on August 12, 2011, to increase the regular quarterly cash dividend from 40 cents to 40.25 cents per share, payable October 17, 2011, to shareholders of record as of September 21, 2011.
Cincinnati, August 15, 2011  Cincinnati Financial Corporation (Nasdaq: CINF)
 
At the new level, the indicated annual dividend is $1.61 per share. In 2010, cash dividends paid were $1.585 per share and dividends declared were $1.59 per share.
 
Steven J. Johnston, president and chief executive officer, commented, Cincinnati Financial has increased shareholder dividends in each of the past 50 years, and this board action maintains that record. Our capital management strategies balance the need for future capital to grow our business with the goal of returning capital to shareholders over time.
 
While dividends remain our preferred method of returning capital, we also periodically repurchase shares, and third-quarter repurchases to date have totaled approximately $10 million. We consider opportunities to repurchase when our stock price is attractive relative to book value, for purposes of offsetting dilution from stock-based incentive programs or returning additional capital to shareholders.
 
Our high levels of liquidity and capital help support consistent payment of shareholder dividends through periods of earnings pressure. At the end of June, we held more than $1 billion of cash and marketable securities at the parent company level.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement
 
This is our Safe Harbor statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our business is subject to certain risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements in this report. Some of those risks and uncertainties are discussed in our 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K, Item 1A, Risk Factors, Page 24.
 
Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to:
 
Further, the companys insurance businesses are subject to the effects of changing social, economic and regulatory environments. Public and regulatory initiatives have included efforts to adversely influence and restrict premium rates, restrict the ability to cancel policies, impose underwriting standards and expand overall regulation. The company also is subject to public and regulatory initiatives that can affect the market value for its common stock, such as measures affecting corporate financial reporting and governance. The ultimate changes and eventual effects, if any, of these initiatives are uncertain.
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


