FILE:CINF/CINF-8K-20111011161125.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 11, 2011, Cincinnati Financial Corporation issued the attached news release titled Cincinnati Financial Corporation Announces Preliminary Loss Estimate for Third-Quarter Storm Losses, furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference. This report should not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information contained in the news release.
In accordance with general instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information furnished in this report shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Dennis E. McDaniel, 513-870-2768
:
Investor Contact
CINF-IR@cinfin.com
 
Joan O. Shevchik, 513-603-5323
:
Media Contact
Media_Inquiries@cinfin.com
 
today announced that The Cincinnati Insurance Companies property casualty group expects its third-quarter results to include pre-tax catastrophe losses of approximately $88 million to $98 million, with its commercial lines insurance segment accounting for almost two-thirds of that total. Catastrophe losses from storm damage affect property casualty insurance underwriting income, one of the sources of consolidated net income along with profits from investment operations and life insurance operations.
Cincinnati, October 11, 2011  Cincinnati Financial Corporation (Nasdaq: CINF)
 
Steven J. Johnston, president and chief executive officer, commented, The impact of storm losses on our third-quarter combined ratio will be significantly higher than our historical 10-year average of 4.9 percentage points for the third quarter and 4.4 points on a full-year basis. The estimated impact of catastrophe losses on our third-quarter 2011 ratio would be approximately 11.5 to 12.5 percentage points, based on estimated property casualty earned premiums.
 
The capital strength and liquidity of Cincinnati Insurance continue to benefit our independent agents and policyholders, giving us exceptional ability to absorb storm losses while providing the highest quality service for claims involving storms or other insured loss events. Roughly one-third of our third-quarter storm losses were from Hurricane Irene, the first hurricane to hit the U.S. since 2008. The remaining two-thirds included eight other third-quarter events.
 
While Irene caused an estimated $5 billion of insured losses for our industry, careful management of our companys coastal exposures in these and other states limited its impact. Most of our Irene losses stemmed from wind damage to commercial property we insure in North Carolina and Virginia, our fifth and sixth largest states in terms of 2010 commercial lines earned premiums.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement
 
This is our Safe Harbor statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our business is subject to certain risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements in this report. Some of those risks and uncertainties are discussed in our 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K, Item 1A, Risk Factors, Page 24.
 
Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to:
 
 
Further, the companys insurance businesses are subject to the effects of changing social, economic and regulatory environments. Public and regulatory initiatives have included efforts to adversely influence and restrict premium rates, restrict the ability to cancel policies, impose underwriting standards and expand overall regulation. The company also is subject to public and regulatory initiatives that can affect the market value for its common stock, such as measures affecting corporate financial reporting and governance. The ultimate changes and eventual effects, if any, of these initiatives are uncertain.
 
 
 
 
 


