FILE:CINF/CINF-8K-20120821100727.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report:  August 17, 2012 (Date of earliest event reported)
   
CINCINNATI FINANCIAL CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
 
 
Registrants telephone number, including area code:  (513) 870-2000
 
N/A
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report.)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
       
  
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
 
Cincinnati Financial Corporation Increases Regular Quarterly Cash Dividend
On August 17, 2012, Cincinnati Financial Corporation issued the attached news release titled 
, furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference. This report should not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information contained in the news release.
 
On August 21, 2012, Cincinnati Financial Corporation posted presentation slides in PDF format on that will be used in investor presentations beginning August 22, 2012. Exhibit 99.2 is a copy of the slides. The slides are being furnished pursuant to Item 7.01, and the information contained therein shall not be deemed filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. This report should not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information contained in the investor presentation slides.
www.cinfin.com/investors
 
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits
 
News release dated August 17, 2012, Cincinnati Financial Corporation Increases Regular Quarterly Cash Dividend
Exhibit 99.1 
 
Investor presentation slides
Exhibit 99.2 
 
Safe Harbor Statement
This is our Safe Harbor statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our business is subject to certain risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements in this report. Some of those risks and uncertainties are discussed in our 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K, Item 1A, Risk Factors, Page 26.
 
Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to:
 
 
Further, the companys insurance businesses are subject to the effects of changing social, economic and regulatory environments. Public and regulatory initiatives have included efforts to adversely influence and restrict premium rates, restrict the ability to cancel policies, impose underwriting standards and expand overall regulation. The company also is subject to public and regulatory initiatives that can affect the market value for its common stock, such as measures affecting corporate financial reporting and governance. The ultimate changes and eventual effects, if any, of these initiatives are uncertain.
 
 
Signature
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 : Dennis E. McDaniel, 513-870-2768
Investor Contact
CINF-IR@cinfin.com
 
: Joan O. Shevchik, 513-603-5323
Media Contact
Media_Inquiries@cinfin.com
 
Cincinnati Financial Corporation Increases Regular Quarterly Cash Dividend
 
today announced that the executive committee of its board of directors has declared a 40.75-cents-per-share regular quarterly cash dividend, increasing from the previous 40.25-cents-per-share rate for the dividend that was paid on July 16, 2012. The dividend is payable October 15, 2012, to shareholders of record as of September 19, 2012.
Cincinnati, August 17, 2012  Cincinnati Financial Corporation (Nasdaq: CINF)
 
At the new level, the indicated annual dividend is $1.63 per share. In 2011, cash dividends paid were $1.6025 per share and dividends declared were $1.605 per share.
 
Steven J. Johnston, president and chief executive officer, commented, The company has consistently increased dividends in each of the past 51 years, with the pace of the current increase exceeding that of a year ago. The board of directors decision to continue that record benefits shareholders, while also reflecting confidence in the companys prospects for future earnings growth
.
 
Our capital strength remains in place for supporting profitable growth of our insurance business. Our capital management strategies reflect our long-term perspective as we seek to balance future capital needs for business growth with our objective to consistently return capital to shareholders over time.
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
Safe Harbor Statement
This is our Safe Harbor statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our business is subject to certain risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements in this report. Some of those risks and uncertainties are discussed in our 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K, Item 1A, Risk Factors, Page 26.
Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to:
Further, the companys insurance businesses are subject to the effects of changing social, economic and regulatory environments. Public and regulatory initiatives have included efforts to adversely influence and restrict premium rates, restrict the ability to cancel policies, impose underwriting standards and expand overall regulation. The company also is subject to public and regulatory initiatives that can affect the market value for its common stock, such as measures affecting corporate financial reporting and governance. The ultimate changes and eventual effects, if any, of these initiatives are uncertain.
* * * 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


