FILE:CINF/CINF-8K-20120413091712.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
Cincinnati Financial Corporation Announces Preliminary First-Quarter Combined Ratio and Posts Its Portfolio Listing as of March 31, 2012
On April 13, 2012, Cincinnati Financial Corporation issued the attached news release titled 
, furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference. This report should not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information contained in the news release.
 
In accordance with general instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information furnished in this report shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
  
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits
  
Cincinnati Financial Corporation Announces Preliminary First-Quarter Combined Ratio and Posts Its Portfolio Listing as of March 31, 2012
 News release dated April 13, 2012, 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Signature
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
  
 

Cincinnati Financial Corporation Announces Preliminary First-Quarter Combined Ratio and Posts Its Portfolio Listing as of March 31, 2012
  
today estimated its first-quarter 2012 property casualty combined ratio will be in the range of 98 percent to 101 percent, with improved core underwriting results offsetting significant storm-related losses. Property casualty underwriting results affect consolidated net income, which also includes contributions from investment operations and life insurance operations.
Cincinnati, April 13, 2012  Cincinnati Financial Corporation (Nasdaq: CINF)
 
The Cincinnati Insurance Companies property casualty group expects the quarters results to include pretax catastrophe losses of approximately $85 million to $95 million, with slightly more than half of that total from its personal lines insurance segment. The estimated impact of those losses on the first-quarter 2012 combined ratio would be approximately 10.5 to 11.5 percentage points, based on estimated property casualty earned premiums. That impact is higher than the companys historical 10-year average of 3.0 percentage points for the first quarter and 5.4 points on a full-year basis. Substantially all of the 2012 first-quarter catastrophe losses were from two storms causing significant damage in the Midwest and Southeast in late February and early March.
 
Steven J. Johnston, president and chief executive officer, commented, Before the effects of catastrophes, our combined ratio continued the favorable trend of fourth-quarter 2011, reflecting our improved pricing precision and successful initiatives to contain loss costs, as well as improving market conditions. Healthy new business and renewal price increases contributed to first-quarter net written premium growth of approximately 8 percent.
 
The capital strength and liquidity of Cincinnati Insurance continue to benefit our policyholders and independent agents, giving us exceptional ability to grow our business while absorbing storm losses and responding to all claims with high quality service. In the newer states we have entered to improve our geographical diversification, including Texas, we have experienced no significant 2012 catastrophes losses.
 
Investment Portfolio Listing as of March 31, 2012
 
The company today posted a preliminary listing of its fixed-maturity and equity portfolio as of March 31, 2012, on its website at The consolidated portfolio listing with market values and amortized cost is available in PDF format and in a spreadsheet format with details of securities ownership by the parent and each subsidiary company.
www.cinfin.com/investors.
 
Johnston concluded, While we typically provide this information when we announce our final quarterly earnings, we believe our announcement of portfolio details along with first-quarter combined ratio estimate will be helpful to investors. We continue to invest in a manner that seeks to balance current income and the potential for long-term appreciation.
 
Cincinnati Financial plans to report final results for the first quarter on . A conference call to discuss the results will be held at 11 a.m. ET on with a live, audio-only Internet broadcast available at .
Thursday, April 26, 2012, after the close of regular trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market
Friday, April 27, 2012,
www.cinfin.com/investors
  
Cincinnati Financial Corporation offers business, home and auto insurance, our main business, through The Cincinnati Insurance Company and its two standard market property casualty companies. The same local independent insurance agencies that market those policies may offer products of our other subsidiaries, including life and disability income insurance, annuities and surplus lines property and casualty insurance. For additional information about the company, please visit
www.cinfin.com
.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement
This is our Safe Harbor statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our business is subject to certain risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements in this report. Some of those risks and uncertainties are discussed in our 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K, Item 1A, Risk Factors, Page 26.
Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to:
Further, the companys insurance businesses are subject to the effects of changing social, economic and regulatory environments. Public and regulatory initiatives have included efforts to adversely influence and restrict premium rates, restrict the ability to cancel policies, impose underwriting standards and expand overall regulation. The company also is subject to public and regulatory initiatives that can affect the market value for its common stock, such as measures affecting corporate financial reporting and governance. The ultimate changes and eventual effects, if any, of these initiatives are uncertain.
 
 
***
 


