FILE:CINF/CINF-8K-20121127122821.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report:  November 27, 2012
(Date of earliest event reported)
 
CINCINNATI FINANCIAL CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
Registrants telephone number, including area code:  (513) 870-2000
 
N/A
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report.)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
 
Cincinnati Financial Corporation Announces Preliminary Estimate for October Storm Losses
On November 27, 2012, Cincinnati Financial Corporation issued the attached news release titled 
 furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference. This report should not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information contained in the news release.
  
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits
 
Cincinnati Financial Corporation Announces Preliminary Estimate for October Storm Losses.
News release dated November 27, 2012, 
Exhibit 99.1 
 
Signature
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

 
 
: Dennis E. McDaniel, 513-870-2768
Investor Contact
CINF-IR@cinfin.com
 
: Joan O. Shevchik, 513-603-5323
Media Contact
Media_Inquiries@cinfin.com
 
Cincinnati Financial Corporation Announces Preliminary Estimate for October Storm Losses
 
today announced that The Cincinnati Insurance Companies property casualty group expects its fourth-quarter results to include pre-tax catastrophe losses of approximately $25 million to $35 million from Superstorm Sandy, with its commercial lines insurance segment accounting for approximately two-thirds of that total. Catastrophe losses from storm damage affect property casualty insurance underwriting income, one of the sources of consolidated net income along with profits from investment operations and life insurance operations.
Cincinnati, November 27, 2012  Cincinnati Financial Corporation (Nasdaq: CINF)
 
Approximately 60 percent of the groups claims from Sandy occurred in the Cleveland, Ohio area and another 20 percent occurred in the state of Pennsylvania. Most of the claims stemmed from wind damage or from water damage due to drain back-ups, hydrostatic pressure or roofs that leaked after unusually heavy rain.
 
Steven J. Johnston, president and chief executive officer, commented, Our hearts go out to those who lost loved ones, suffered injuries or had their lives turned upside down. Their losses are immeasurable.
 
The estimate we have provided for our Sandy losses is preliminary. If we experience no additional effect from storm losses during the fourth quarter of 2012, the effect of these catastrophe losses on our combined ratio for the quarter would be approximately three times higher than our historical 10-year average of 1.1 percentage points for the fourth quarter, based on estimated property casualty earned premiums.
 
The capital strength and liquidity of Cincinnati Insurance continue to benefit our independent agents and policyholders, giving us exceptional ability to absorb storm losses while providing the highest quality service for claims involving storms or other insured loss events.
 
 
  
 
Safe Harbor Statement
This is our Safe Harbor statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our business is subject to certain risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements in this report. Some of those risks and uncertainties are discussed in our 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K, Item 1A, Risk Factors, Page 26.
Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to:
Further, the companys insurance businesses are subject to the effects of changing social, economic and regulatory environments. Public and regulatory initiatives have included efforts to adversely influence and restrict premium rates, restrict the ability to cancel policies, impose underwriting standards and expand overall regulation. The company also is subject to public and regulatory initiatives that can affect the market value for its common stock, such as measures affecting corporate financial reporting and governance. The ultimate changes and eventual effects, if any, of these initiatives are uncertain.
* * *
 
 


