FILE:CINF/CINF-8K-20120503161658.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report:  April 28, 2012
(Date of earliest event reported)
 
 
CINCINNATI FINANCIAL CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
 
 
Registrants telephone number, including area code:  (513) 870-2000
 
N/A
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report.)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Item 5.07 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
 
On April 30, 2012,
Cincinnati Financial Corporation issued the attached news release Cincinnati Financial Corporation Holds Shareholders' and Directors' Meetings. The news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Final voting results on matters properly brought before the annual meeting of shareholders are set forth below:
 
 
Proposal 1Election of Directors
 
 
Proposal 2Ratify Selection of Deloitte & Touche LLP as Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm for 2012
 
Proposal 3 Nonbinding Vote to Approve Compensation for Named Executive Officers
 
Proposal 4 Adoption of the Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2012 Stock Compensation Plan
 
This report should not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information contained in the news release.
 
The information furnished in Item 7.01 of this report shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 News release dated April 30, 2012, titled Cincinnati Financial Corporation Holds Shareholders' and Directors' Meetings
Exhibit 99.1
 
Signature
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

  
: Dennis E. McDaniel, 513-870-2768
Investor Contact
CINF-IR@cinfin.com
 
: Joan O. Shevchik, 513-603-5323
Media Contact
Media_Inquiries@cinfin.com
 
 
Cincinnati Financial Corporation Holds Shareholders' and Directors' Meetings
  
today announced that based on preliminary voting results at the companys annual meeting on April 28, 2012, shareholders elected 10 directors for one-year terms to the 14-member board. Shareholders also ratified the selection of Deloitte & Touche LLP as independent registered public accounting firm, approved a nonbinding proposal to approve the compensation for the companys named executive officers and adopted the Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2012 Stock Compensation Plan.
Cincinnati, April 30, 2012  Cincinnati Financial Corporation (Nasdaq: CINF)
 
Kenneth W. Stecher, chairman of the board, commented: We thank shareholders for approving our selection of Deloitte & Touche and our nominees to the board. The directors who were elected Saturday, as well as our continuing directors, combine their experiences from differing business backgrounds to guide long-term strategic plans for Cincinnati Financial Corporation and to increase our long-term return to shareholders.
 
Shareholders elected to the board for terms of one year:
 
 
The board also met on April 28 and announced committee service for the coming year, in line with the independence requirements of applicable law and the listing standards of Nasdaq:
 
 
 
Cincinnati Financial Corporation offers business, home and auto insurance, our main business, through The Cincinnati Insurance Company and its two standard market property casualty companies. The same local independent insurance agencies that market those policies may offer products of our other subsidiaries, including life and disability income insurance, annuities and surplus lines property and casualty insurance. For additional information about the company, please visit .
www.cinfin.com
 
 
 
Safe Harbor
This is our Safe Harbor statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our business is subject to certain risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements in this report. Some of those risks and uncertainties are discussed in our 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K, Item 1A, Risk Factors, Page 26.
 
Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to:
 
Further, the companys insurance businesses are subject to the effects of changing social, economic and regulatory environments. Public and regulatory initiatives have included efforts to adversely influence and restrict premium rates, restrict the ability to cancel policies, impose underwriting standards and expand overall regulation. The company also is subject to public and regulatory initiatives that can affect the market value for its common stock, such as measures affecting corporate financial reporting and governance. The ultimate changes and eventual effects, if any, of these initiatives are uncertain.
****


