FILE:CINF/CINF-8K-20121119090528.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.04. Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrants Employee Benefit Plan.
 
On November 19, 2012, Cincinnati Financial Corporation (CFC or the company) received a notice that was delivered to all plan participants about a blackout period (the Blackout Period) of its stock fund under the CFC Tax-Qualified Savings Plan (the Plan). Also on November 19, 2012, the company delivered a notice to its directors and executive officers of this Blackout Period (the Notice). The Notice advises the companys directors and executive officers of the applicable trading restrictions that apply to them under Section 306 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Securities and Exchange Commissions Regulation BTR. A copy of the Notice is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference. The Blackout Period is required in order to transition recordkeeping services provided for the Plan to Fidelity Management Trust Company. The Blackout Period will begin on December 24, 2012, and is expected to end during the week of January 13, 2013. During the Blackout Period, participants in the Plan will be temporarily unable to make any transactions involving their Plan accounts and additionally directors and executive officers will be unable to make any non-exempt transactions involving the companys common stock. During the Blackout Period and for a period of two years after the ending date of the Blackout Period, security holders or other interested persons may obtain, without charge, information about the actual beginning and ending dates of the Blackout Period by contacting the companys corporate secretary, to whom all inquiries regarding the Blackout Period should be directed, at the following address:
 
Corporate Secretary
Cincinnati Financial Corporation
6200 S. Gilmore Road
Fairfield, Ohio
45014-5141
 
 
Safe Harbor
This is our Safe Harbor statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our business is subject to certain risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements in this report. Some of those risks and uncertainties are discussed in our 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K, Item 1A, Risk Factors, Page 26.
Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to:
 
 
Further, the companys insurance businesses are subject to the effects of changing social, economic and regulatory environments. Public and regulatory initiatives have included efforts to adversely influence and restrict premium rates, restrict the ability to cancel policies, impose underwriting standards and expand overall regulation. The company also is subject to public and regulatory initiatives that can affect the market value for its common stock, such as measures affecting corporate financial reporting and governance. The ultimate changes and eventual effects, if any, of these initiatives are uncertain.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c)   Exhibits
 
99.1  Notice of Blackout Period to Directors and Executive Officers of Cincinnati Financial Corporation
Exhibit
 
Signature
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

  
 
    
Michael J. Sewell, CPA
     Chief Financial Officer
 
Notice of Blackout Period to Directors and Executive Officers of Cincinnati Financial Corporation
 
November 19, 2012
 
To Members of the Board of Directors and Executive Officers:
 
The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires Cincinnati Financial Corporation to notify you of an upcoming, temporary restriction for participants of CFCs 401(k) Tax-Qualified Savings Plan (the Plan).
 
From 1:00 p.m. on December 24, 2012 until the week of January 13, 2013, CFC will be transitioning the recordkeeping services for the Plan from Fifth Third Retirement Services to Fidelity Management Trust Company. We timed this change to coincide with the companys regular quarterly trading blackout. During this blackout period, participants in the Plan may not buy, sell, transfer, rebalance or make any transactions. Please see the attached transition guide from Fidelity, which notifies plan participants of this restriction.
 
Since the Plan includes the companys common stock as an investment option through the CFC Stock Fund, the Act also requires that you are prohibited from directly or indirectly purchasing, exercising, selling or otherwise transferring equity securities of CFC during the blackout period, other than in an exempt transaction if those securities were acquired in connection with your service or employment as director or executive officer of CFC. Not all transactions in such securities are exempt. Please call Lisa Love, 513-870-2288, to discuss any proposed exempt transactions.
 
These prohibitions are in addition to any other trading restrictions to which you may be subject pursuant to federal securities laws or because of other regular or special trading blackout periods that may also be in effect.
 
For more information, please call me, 513-603-5075.
 
 
Mailing Address: P.O. Box 145496  Cincinnati, Ohio 45250-5496 Headquarters: 6200 S. Gilmore Road  Fairfield, Ohio 45014-5141
513-870-2000
www.cinfin.com
 


