FILE:CINF/CINF-8K-20120928090503.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report:  September 24, 2012
(Date of earliest event reported)
 
CINCINNATI FINANCIAL CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
 
Registrants telephone number, including area code:  (513) 870-2000
 
N/A
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report.)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13a-4(c))
 
 
Item 5.02(b) Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
 
The Cincinnati Insurance Company Consolidates Executive Oversight of Insurance Operations
On September 24, 2012, Cincinnati Financial Corporation issued the attached news release titled 
 furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference. This report should not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information contained in the news release. As referenced in the news release, Mr. Josephs last day of employment was September 24, 2012.
 
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits
 
The Cincinnati Insurance Company Consolidates Executive Oversight of Insurance Operations.
News release dated September 24, 2012, 
Exhibit 99.1 
 
 
Signature
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 : Dennis E. McDaniel, 513-870-2768
Investor Contact
CINF-IR@cinfin.com
 
: Joan O. Shevchik, 513-603-5323
Media Contact
Media_Inquiries@cinfin.com
 
The Cincinnati Insurance Company Consolidates Executive Oversight of
Insurance Operations
 
today announced that Jacob F. Scherer, executive vice president of The Cincinnati Insurance Company since 2008, now is also chief insurance officer. His executive oversight responsibility for the insurance subsidiaries is expanded to include personal lines and reinsurance in addition to business insurance. The company is consolidating under Scherer the responsibility for strategic oversight of multiple departments handling property casualty insurance sales, marketing, underwriting and related field services.
Cincinnati, September 24, 2012  Cincinnati Financial Corporation (Nasdaq: CINF)
 
Scherers 28 years with Cincinnati and 38 years of service in the insurance industry include experience in sales and agency relationship management, field marketing and underwriting, life insurance marketing, agency perpetuation planning and management of a family-owned independent insurance agency.
 
The company also announced that Thomas A. Joseph, CPCU, is leaving the company today after 35 years of service. Joseph was senior vice president in charge of personal lines operations for The Cincinnati Insurance Company and president of The Cincinnati Casualty Company since 2008.
 
Steven J. Johnston, president and chief executive officer, commented, We thank Tom for his willingness over the years to take on many challenging assignments in areas from claims to information systems, commercial lines and personal lines. In recent years, he also has managed our highly effective catastrophe, treaty and facultative reinsurance programs.
 
Naming a chief insurance officer unites our team of leaders responsible for profitable growth of our commercial, personal and excess and surplus lines insurance business. JF is a proven champion for our independent insurance agency customers and the field representatives who serve those agencies and their clients locally. He has brought people together to drive significant improvements across our business insurance operations. I believe he will replicate this success in his expanded role, increasing collaboration to drive achievement of our shared goals.
 
 
 
  
  
Safe Harbor Statement
This is our Safe Harbor statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our business is subject to certain risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements in this report. Some of those risks and uncertainties are discussed in our 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K, Item 1A, Risk Factors, Page 26.
Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to:
Further, the companys insurance businesses are subject to the effects of changing social, economic and regulatory environments. Public and regulatory initiatives have included efforts to adversely influence and restrict premium rates, restrict the ability to cancel policies, impose underwriting standards and expand overall regulation. The company also is subject to public and regulatory initiatives that can affect the market value for its common stock, such as measures affecting corporate financial reporting and governance. The ultimate changes and eventual effects, if any, of these initiatives are uncertain.
 
* * * 
 


