FILE:RAI/RAI-8K-20040915132908.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
ITEM 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     The information in this Current Report is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subjected to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
     On September 15, 2004, Reynolds American Inc. issued a news release announcing its 2004 earnings guidance. A copy of the news release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
ITEM 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits.
     The following is furnished as an Exhibit to this Report.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
Reynolds American Inc. P.O. Box 2990 Winston-Salem, NC 27102-2990
Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI) today issued earnings guidance for 2004. This is the first full-year earnings guidance issued by Reynolds American since becoming a publicly traded company on July 30, 2004, following a combination of the nation's No. 2 and No. 3 cigarette manufacturers, R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company and the U.S. business of Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation (B&W). Also on that date, Reynolds American acquired Lane Limited from British American Tobacco, p.l.c. (BAT).
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.  Sept. 15, 2004 
"In the six weeks since we completed the merger, we've made considerable progress in integrating R.J. Reynolds and the U.S. business of B&W," said Susan Ivey, Reynolds American's chief executive officer. "The marketing and sales organizations have already been consolidated, and we have begun developing a combined brand-portfolio strategy that we plan to implement in early 2005. I am very pleased with the passion and commitment that all of our employees are bringing to the new, combined company."
Dianne M. Neal, Reynolds American's chief financial officer, said that Reynolds American's 2004 earnings guidance reflects the pre-merger results of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Holdings, Inc. (RJR) and the consolidated RAI earnings for August through December.
"Today's guidance includes previously announced cost reductions and merger-related synergies," Neal said. "The $1 billion cost-reduction program that RJR began in 2003 will be at least 90 percent complete by year-end.
"Additionally," she said, "we are beginning to capture merger-related synergies that will build to $550 million to $600 million through 2006. These cost-savings initiatives, as well as incremental earnings from the new businesses partially offset by merger-related costs, are contributing to forecasted 2004 operating income of $1 billion to $1.05 billion, net income of $645 million to $675 million, and diluted earnings per share of $5.75 to $6.05."
 
Neal specifically detailed several key elements included in today's 2004 guidance, noting that operating income includes:
On an after-tax basis, Neal noted that net income included an expected benefit of approximately $90 million associated with the resolution of prior-year tax matters.
Neal said that Reynolds American expects to end the year with total debt of $1.6 billion to $1.7 billion, and cash and short-term investments of approximately $1.8 billion. She also said that, as required by the company's agreement with BAT, Reynolds American will repurchase shares to offset stock options that are exercised through June 2005. The company expects that less than 1 percent of its outstanding shares would be repurchased under this agreement.
"We have taken significant steps to begin creating positive momentum, and we are pleased with our progress," Neal said. "The creation of Reynolds American Inc. provides a significant opportunity to build shareholder value, and we look forward to reporting RAI's quarterly earnings results in late October."
Reynolds American will webcast a conference call to discuss its 2004 earnings guidance at 9:30 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time on Wednesday, Sept. 15. The call will be available live online on a listen-only basis. To register for the call, please visit the "Investors" section of . A replay of the call will be available on the site for seven days. Remarks made during the conference call will be current at the time of the call and will not be updated to reflect subsequent material developments. Although news media representatives will not be permitted to ask questions during the call, they are welcome to monitor the remarks on a listen-only basis. Following the call, media representatives may direct inquiries to Seth Moskowitz at (336) 741-7698.
www.ReynoldsAmerican.com
 
Cautionary Information Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
Statements included in this news release that are not historical in nature are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements regarding RAI's future performance and financial results include risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. These risks include the substantial and increasing regulation and taxation of the cigarette industry; various legal actions, proceedings and claims relating to the sale, distribution, manufacture, development, advertising, marketing and claimed health effects of cigarettes that are pending or may be instituted against RAI or its subsidiaries; the substantial payment obligations and limitations on the advertising and marketing of cigarettes under various litigation settlement agreements; the continuing decline in volume in the domestic cigarette industry; competition from other cigarette manufacturers, including increased promotional activities and the growth of deep-discount brands; the success or failure of new product innovations and acquisitions; the responsiveness of both the trade and consumers to new products and marketing and promotional programs; the ability to realize the benefits and synergies arising from the combination of RJR Tobacco and the U.S. cigarette and tobacco business of B&W; any potential costs or savings associated with realigning the cost structure of RAI and its subsidiaries; the ability to achieve efficiencies in manufacturing and distribution operations without negatively affecting sales; the cost of tobacco leaf and other raw materials and commodities used in products; the effect of market conditions on the performance of pension assets and the return on corporate cash; and the ratings of RAI securities. Due to these uncertainties and risks, undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this news release. Except as provided by federal securities laws, RAI is not required to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
is the parent company of , , Lane Limited and R.J. Reynolds Global Products, Inc. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, the second-largest U.S. tobacco company, manufactures about one of every three cigarettes sold in the United States, including five of the nation's 10 best-selling brands: Camel, Winston, KOOL, Salem and Doral. Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Inc. manufactures Natural American Spirit cigarettes and other tobacco products, and markets them both nationally and internationally. Lane Limited manufactures several roll-your-own, pipe tobacco and little cigar brands, and distributes Dunhill tobacco products. R.J. Reynolds Global Products, Inc. manufactures, sells and distributes American-blend cigarettes and other tobacco products to a variety of customers worldwide. Copies of RAI's news releases, annual reports, SEC filings and other financial materials are available on the company's Web site, .
Reynolds American Inc.
R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Inc.
www.ReynoldsAmerican.com


