FILE:RAI/RAI-8K-20041206091703.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On November 30, 2004, the board of directors of Reynolds American Inc., referred to as RAI, amended the Reynolds American Inc. Annual Incentive Award Plan, effective July 30, 2004 (the "Plan"), to eliminate the option to defer payment of future awards under the Plan, and to clarify the determination of awards under the Plan when a Plan participant is transferred to a non-participating company, returns to active employment while on salary continuation or severance pay or has his or her salary continuation or severance pay interrupted in the short term. A copy of the Plan, as amended on November 30, 2004, is attached as Exhibit 10.1 to this report. On November 30, 2004, the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee of the Board of Directors of RAI approved the following compensation for the position of Non-Executive Chairman of the Board: an annual retainer of $114,000; Board meeting attendance fees of $2,500 per meeting; an initial grant of 2,500 deferred stock units under the Equity Inc entive Award Plan for Directors of Reynolds American Inc. and Subsidiaries (the "EIAP") upon election as Non-Executive Chairman; an annual grant of 2,000 deferred stock units under the EIAP; and quarterly grants of deferred stock units equal in value to $20,000 per quarter under the EIAP. A Non-Executive Chairman also will receive all other benefits received by outside directors of RAI, including life insurance having a death benefit up to $100,000, excess liability and business travel accident insurance and matching gifts under RAIs matching gifts program for directors.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits. Exhibit 10.1 Reynolds American Inc. Annual Incentive Award Plan, Effective July 30, 2004, As Amended November 30, 2004.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Exhibit 10.1
1. Purpose
The Reynolds American Inc. Annual Incentive Award Plan is established to link corporate and business priorities with individual and group performance objectives for the management employees of RAI and its affiliated companies. The Plan is an amendment, restatement and continuation of the R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Holdings, Inc. Annual Incentive Award Plan.
2. Definitions
Capitalized terms have the meanings set forth in Exhibit A.
3. Eligibility
To be eligible to participate in the Plan and receive an award, an employee must:
4. Performance Objectives
5. Determination of Target Awards
Each Participant's target award for each year equals the product of (a) the Participant's highest annual rate of base salary in effect for three months or more during the year, multiplied by (b) the Participant's highest target award level for which he was eligible for three months or more during the year. Each Participant's target award level is expressed as a percentage of base pay and falls within a range of target award levels set for the Participant's salary grade. The Committee will periodically review and may modify the range of target award levels for each salary grade. Subject to the approval of the Chief Human Resources Officer, Reviewing Managers will periodically review and may modify specific target award levels for individual Participants.
6. Determination of Cash Awards
7. Determination of Cash Awards for SBC Program Participants
8. Deferral
9. Tax Withholding
Each Participant's employer will deduct any taxes required to be withheld by federal, state, local or foreign governments from payments and distributions under the Plan.
10. Adjustments, Amendments or Termination
11. Adoption/Withdrawal by Operating Companies
(d) Liability for Payment/Transfers of Employment.
12. Miscellaneous
13. Effective Date
The Plan is effective as of July 30, 2004.
(a) "Board of Directors" The Board of Directors of RAI.
(b) "Cash Award" Annual cash payments made to Participants pursuant to the Plan.
(g) "Committee" The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.
(h) "Common Stock" The Common Stock of RAI.
(i) "Companies" RAI and the Operating Companies.
(j) "Company Focus Areas" As defined in Section 4(b) of the Plan.
(k) "Company Focus Areas Rating" As defined in Section 6(b) of the Plan.
(m) "Group Life Insurance Coverage" As defined in Section 12(i) of the Plan.
(p) "Performance Objectives" As defined in Section 4(a) of the Plan.
(q) "Performance Rating" As defined in Section 6(a) of the Plan.
(r) "Personal Program Objectives" As defined in Section 4(b) of the Plan.
(s) "Personal Program Rating" As defined in Section 6(b) of the Plan.
(t) "Plan" Reynolds American Inc. Annual Incentive Award Plan.
(u) "RAI" Reynolds American Inc.
(v) "Retirement" Retirement with eligibility for retiree medical benefits.
(w) "Reviewing Manager" As defined in Section 4(b) of the Plan.


