FILE:RAI/RAI-8K-20050408134055.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
On April 8, 2005, Reynolds American Inc., referred to as RAI, announced that Thomas R. Adams has been named Senior Vice President-Business Processes of R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, the largest subsidiary of RAI, and will lead key strategic initiatives related to business processes. Mr. Adams will continue to serve in his existing role of Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer of RAI during a brief transition period. Concurrently, RAI announced the employment and appointment on April 4, 2005, of Michael S. Desmond as Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer-Designate. Mr. Desmond, 38, is expected to be elected Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer by RAIs board of directors on May 6, 2005, at which time Mr. Adams duties and responsibilities as Chief Accounting Officer will be reassigned to Mr. Desmond. Prior to joining RAI, Mr. Desmond was a partner in audit and enterprise-risk services at Deloitte & Touche LLP, which he joined in 200 2. Prior to that, he served as a partner at Arthur Andersen LLP in audit and business advisory services, having joined that firm in 1988. Mr. Desmond is a member of the Accounting Advisory Board of Appalachian State University. The material terms of Mr. Desmonds employment arrangement will be disclosed subsequent to its approval by RAIs board of directors. A copy of RAIs press release dated April 8, 2005, is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Exhibit 99.1
[ReynoldsAmerican logo]
Reynolds American Inc. P.O. Box 2990 Winston-Salem, NC 27102-2990
Michael S. Desmond has been appointed senior vice president and chief accounting officer  designate for Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI).
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.  April 8, 2005 
"Mike Desmond is a seasoned financial executive with in-depth experience in auditing, regulatory compliance and leveraging business opportunities at global public accounting firms," said Dianne M. Neal, executive vice president and chief financial officer of Reynolds American. "He also has a strong track record of team leadership and talent development."
Prior to joining Reynolds American, Desmond was a partner in audit and enterprise-risk services at Deloitte & Touche LLP in Charlotte, N.C., which he joined in 2002. He previously served as a partner at Arthur Andersen LLP in audit and business advisory services, having joined that firm in 1988.
After a brief transition period, Desmond will succeed Thomas R. Adams, senior vice president and chief accounting officer, who will become senior vice president  business processes for R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, the largest subsidiary of Reynolds American. In his new role, Adams will lead key strategic initiatives related to business processes. Adams joined the company in 1999 as senior vice president and controller, and was named chief accounting officer in 2004.
"Tom Adams' expertise in our business dynamics and processes, as well as his leadership experience in numerous cross-functional initiatives, will enhance our ability to execute critical strategies that we have underway," said Neal.
A native of Wisconsin who spent his early years in Durham, N.C., Desmond holds a bachelor's degree in business administration from The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
Adams, a native of Pine Grove, Pa., holds a bachelor's degree in accounting from Duke University.
Reynolds American Inc.
is the parent company of
R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
,
Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Inc.
, Lane Limited and R.J. Reynolds Global Products, Inc. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, the second-largest U.S. tobacco company, manufactures about one of every three cigarettes sold in the United States, including five of the nation's 10 best-selling brands: Camel, Winston, Kool, Salem and Doral. Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Inc. manufactures Natural American Spirit cigarettes and other tobacco products, and markets them both nationally and internationally. Lane Limited manufactures several roll-your-own, pipe tobacco and little cigar brands, and distributes Dunhill tobacco products. R.J. Reynolds Global Products, Inc. manufactures, sells and distributes American-blend cigarettes and other tobacco products to a variety of customers worldwide. Copies of RAI's news releases, annual reports, SEC filings and other financial materials are available on the company's Web site,
www.ReynoldsAmerican.com
.


