FILE:RAI/RAI-8K-20050913085917.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
On September 9, 2005, Andrew J. Schindler, the Non-Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors of Reynolds American Inc. ("RAI"), notified the Board that he intends to resign from RAI's Board effective December 31, 2005. At its meeting on September 9, 2005, the Board of RAI elected Susan M. Ivey, currently Chief Executive Officer and President of RAI, to the additional position of Chairman of the Board, effective January 1, 2006. A copy of the press release announcing the foregoing changes is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits. 99.1 Press Release dated September 12, 2005.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Exhibit 99.1
[Reynolds American logo]
Reynolds American Inc. P.O. Box 2990 Winston-Salem, NC 27102-2990
 Andrew J. Schindler, non-executive chairman of the board of Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI), has notified the board that he intends to leave his position at year-end 2005. At its Sept. 9 meeting, the board elected Susan M. Ivey to replace Schindler as chairman, effective Jan. 1, 2006. Ivey is currently chief executive officer and president of Reynolds American.
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.  Sept. 12, 2005
"My primary role for the last year has been to assist the new RAI board and participate in the successful formation of the new company," said Schindler. "It's been an exciting time for the company. Susan and her team have made tremendous strides in seamlessly integrating two former competitors and have established a sound business model and strategic direction for Reynolds American," Schindler said.
"I look forward to this new role with the RAI board, seeing through to completion the vision they have helped set for the company," said Ivey. "We have a very strong board, representing a wealth of experience and diversity of talent which will prove invaluable as we grow this company.
"In addition," Ivey said, "I want to thank Andy for his 31 years of service, and his dedication to returning value to RAI shareholders. His commitment to the company has been extraordinary."
Editor's Note: Schindler became non-executive chairman of RAI on Jan. 31, 2005, when he retired as a full-time employee of Reynolds American. Prior to his retirement, he was chairman of the board of RAI, having served in that capacity since the company's formation in July 2004. He served as chairman of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Holdings, Inc. (RJR) from June 1999 to July 2004. Reynolds American was created as a parent holding company in connection with the merger of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. and the U.S. businesses of Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp.
Ivey's new title at Reynolds American will be chairman, president and CEO.
Reynolds American Inc.
is the parent company of
R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
,
Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Inc.
, Lane Limited and R.J. Reynolds Global Products, Inc. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, the second-largest U.S. tobacco company, manufactures about one of every three cigarettes sold in the United States, including five of the nation's 10 best-selling brands: Camel, Winston, Kool, Salem and Doral. Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Inc. manufactures Natural American Spirit cigarettes and other tobacco products, and markets them both nationally and internationally. Lane Limited manufactures several roll-your-own, pipe tobacco and little cigar brands, and distributes Dunhill tobacco products. R.J. Reynolds Global Products, Inc. manufactures, sells and distributes American-blend cigarettes and other tobacco products to a variety of customers worldwide. Copies of RAI's news releases, annual reports, SEC filings and other financial materials are available on the company's Web site,
www.ReynoldsAmerican.com
.


