FILE:RAI/RAI-8K-20050207162637.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17CF 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
ITEM 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
(a) On February 2, 2005, the Board of Directors of Reynolds American Inc. approved certain amendments to its indemnification agreement with its directors and executive officers, pursuant to which RAI has agreed to indemnify, and advance expenses to, such persons under the circumstances described in the agreement. Prior to the amendments, the form of indemnification agreement required that certain actions or approvals be taken by a majority of "Incumbent Directors." An "Incumbent Director" is a director of RAI who, as of July 30, 2004, was a member of the RAI Board, or who has been designated as a director pursuant to the Business Combination Agreement, dated October 27, 2003, between R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Holdings, Inc. and Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation, as amended, or is subsequently appointed, or nominated for election, as a director by the Board under particular circumstances. Section 8 of Article VIII of RAI's Articles of Incorporation generally prohibits RAI from entering into or maintaining an agreement limiting the ability of RAI's Board to take action only upon the approval of certain continuing directors. To ensure that the form of indemnification agreement is consistent with that provision of the Articles of Incorporation, RAI's Board adopted, on February 2, 2005, a revised form of indemnification agreement, replacing references to approval by a majority of Incumbent Directors with approval by 3/4 of the members of the Board. A copy of the amended and restated form of indemnification agreement, which contains other, non-material amendments, is attached as Exhibit 10.1 to this Report. RAI intends to enter into this revised form of indemnification agreement with each of its directors and executive officers, with such agreements replacing RAI's existing indemnification agreements with these individuals.
(b) On February 2, 2005, the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee of RAI's Board of Directors approved certain amendments to the Equity Incentive Award Plan for Directors of Reynolds American Inc., referred to as the EIAP. Such amendments consist of (1) modifications to ensure that the EIAP conforms to applicable provisions of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, (2) addition of provisions relating to the participation of the Non-Executive Chairman in the EIAP and (3) certain other non-material changes. A copy of the amended and restated EIAP is attached as Exhibit 10.2 to this Report.
(c) On February 2, 2005, the Governance Committee approved certain amendments to the Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors of Reynolds American Inc., referred to as the DCP. Such amendments consist of (1) modifications to ensure that the DCP conforms to applicable provisions of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 and (2) certain other non-material changes. A copy of the amended and restated DCP is attached as Exhibit 10.3 to this Report.
(d) On February 2, 2005, RAI's Board of Directors, based upon a recommendation from its Compensation Committee, approved certain amendments to the Reynolds American Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan, referred to as the LTIP. Such amendments consist of (1) modifications to ensure that the LTIP conforms to applicable provisions of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, (2) clarification of the number of shares authorized for issuance under the LTIP, (3) clarification of the nature of performance factors that may apply to LTIP grants and (4) certain other non-material changes. A copy of the amended and restated LTIP is attached as Exhibit 10.4 to this Report.
(e) On February 1, 2005, the Compensation Committee of RAI's Board of Directors approved the performance factors which will be used to determine the extent to which bonuses will be payable for the 2005 fiscal year under the Reynolds American Inc. Annual Incentive Award Plan, referred to as the AIAP, the Company's annual cash bonus plan for key employees. Any such bonus under the AIAP will be paid in the first quarter of 2006. The AIAP performance factors, which vary from participant to participant depending upon the entity that employs the participant, are as follows: for participants employed by RAI, net income and market share; for participants employed by R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, referred to as RJR Tobacco, operating income and market share; for participants employed by Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Inc., earnings and volume; and for participants employed by R.J. Reynolds Global Products, Inc., earnings, cash flow and branded volume.
In addition, on February 1, 2005, the Compensation Committee approved the grant, under the LTIP, of performance units to the following five executive officers, with such grants being made in lieu of such persons' participation in the AIAP: Susan M. Ivey, Lynn J. Beasley, Charles A. Blixt, Dianne M. Neal and Jeffrey A. Eckmann. Any payment with respect to such performance units will be made in cash in the first quarter of RAI's 2006 fiscal year. The value of the performance units will be based upon, in the case of Mmes. Ivey and Neal and Messrs. Blixt and Eckmann, the 2005 AIAP performance factors for employees of RAI, and, in the case of Ms. Beasley, the 2005 AIAP performance factors for employees of RJR Tobacco.
 
(f) On February 2, 2005, RAI's Board of Directors, based upon a recommendation from its Compensation Committee, approved an amendment to the employment offer letter, dated July 29, 2004, between RAI and Jeffrey A. Eckmann, Executive Vice President  Strategy, Integration, IT and Business Development of RAI. Pursuant to such amendment, Mr. Eckmann will be eligible to receive severance under the terms of a special severance benefits and change of control protection agreement upon the termination of his active employment with RAI, projected to be August 31, 2006. In addition, the amendment provides that if his termination from active employment makes him eligible for the terms of the special severance benefits and change of control protection agreement, any award granted to Mr. Eckmann under the LTIP will become fully vested upon the last day of his active employment. A copy of the amendment to Mr. Eckmann's employment offer letter is attached as Exhibit 10.5 to this Report.
(g) On February 1, 2005, the Compensation Committee of RAI's Board of Directors approved the form of a special severance benefits and change of control protections agreement. RAI intends to offer such form of agreement to certain key employees of RAI and its operating subsidiaries. The agreement provides that if the participant's employment is involuntarily terminated other than for cause or if the participant terminates his or her employment for a specifically designated good reason, then the participant will receive two years base salary and target bonus (as in effect at the time of termination of employment), payable over three years, and full employee benefits coverage (including coverage under the executive supplemental payment plan if the individual is otherwise a participant in such plan) for three years.
The agreement further provides that if there is a change of control of RAI, then the participant is entitled to tax reimbursement payments if a "parachute" excise tax is imposed with respect to any payments made by RAI or its affiliates, and reimbursement payments for certain legal and accounting fees as a result of the participant's termination of employment without cause. In addition, following a change of control of RAI, the participant is entitled under such agreement to terminate his or her employment for a specifically designated good reason during the 24-month period after such change of control, in which case the participant will receive severance benefits, described in the preceding paragraph, as if he or she had been terminated by RAI without cause.
A copy of the form of special severance benefits and change of control protections agreement is attached as Exhibit 10.6 to this Report.
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
On February 2, 2005, RAI's Board of Directors approved the following changes to the Bylaws of RAI: (1) deletion of the provision mandating that the Chairman of the Board be an officer of RAI, (2) addition of a requirement that the Board designate the Chairman as either the Executive Chairman (in which case, the Chairman will be an officer of RAI) or the Non-Executive Chairman, (3) addition of a provision that the Chairman shall preside at all meetings of the Board and have such other duties as may be directed by the Board, (4) addition of a provision that the Board may designate a Vice Chairman from among its members, (5) clarification of the duties of the Executive Chairman in certain circumstances and (6) technical modifications to the section relating to the advance notice required for shareholder proposals. A copy of RAI's amended and restated Bylaws is attached as Exhibit 3.1 to this Report.
 
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 3.1
     . Meetings of shareholders of the Corporation shall be held at such time and place either within or without the State of North Carolina as shall be fixed by the Corporation's Board of Directors (the "Board) and designated in the notice or waiver thereof. The Board may postpone and reschedule any previously scheduled annual or special meeting of shareholders.
Section 1.01 Place of Meetings
     . Annual meetings of shareholders shall be held at a place, if any, date and hour fixed by the Board to elect directors to the Board and to transact such other business as may properly come before the meeting. Special meetings of shareholders may be called by the persons permitted to call such meetings by the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation.
Section 1.02 Annual and Special Meetings
     . Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Articles of Incorporation, written notice shall be given to each shareholder entitled to vote at such meeting not fewer than 10 nor more than 60 days before the date of each meeting of shareholders, such notice to include the place, if any, date and hour of the meeting, the means of remote communications, if any, by which shareholders and proxy holders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at such meeting and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called. When a meeting is adjourned to a different date, time or place, notice need not be given of the new date, time or place if (i) the new date, time or place is announced at the meeting before adjournment, and (ii) a new record date is not fixed for the adjourned meeting. If a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting (which must be done if the new meeting date is more than 120 days after the date of the original meeting), notice of the adjourned meeting must be given as provided in this section to persons who are shareholders as of the new record date.
Section 1.03 Notice
     . Shares entitled to vote as a separate voting group may take action in a matter only if a quorum of those shares exists with respect to that matter. A majority of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter by the voting group constitutes a quorum of the voting group for action on that matter. Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Articles of Incorporation, at the opening of any meeting, such meeting may be adjourned from time to time by the vote of a majority of the votes cast on the motion to adjourn or by any officer entitled to preside at or to act as secretary of the meeting. Once a share is represented for any purpose at a meeting, it is deemed present for quorum purposes for the remainder of the meeting and for any adjournment of that meeting unless a new record date is or must be set for that adjourned meeting. Subject to the provisions of the North Carolina Business Corporation
Section 1.04 Quorum; Adjournment
 
Act, at any adjourned meeting any business may be transacted that might have been transacted at the original meeting if a quorum exists with respect to the matter proposed.
     . The Chairman or, at the Chairman's request or in the absence of the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, or, in the absence of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer, such person as shall be selected by the Board, shall act as chairman at all meetings of shareholders. The Secretary of the Corporation or, in his or her absence, an Assistant Secretary shall act as secretary at all meetings of shareholders. The chairman of the meeting shall have the right and authority to determine and maintain the rules, regulations and procedures for the proper conduct of the meeting, including but not limited to restricting entry to the meeting after it has commenced, maintaining order and the safety of those in attendance, opening and closing the polls for voting, dismissing business not properly submitted, and limiting time allowed for discussion of the business of the meeting.
Section 1.05 Conduct of Meeting and Order of Business
     Business to be conducted at annual meetings of shareholders shall be limited to that properly submitted to the meeting either by or at the direction of the Board or by any shareholder of the Corporation who shall be entitled to vote at such meeting and who complies with the notice requirements set forth in Section 1.06. If the chairman of the meeting shall determine that any business was not properly submitted in accordance with the terms of Section 1.06, he or she shall so declare to the meeting and the business that was not properly submitted shall not be transacted at that meeting.
     . In addition to any other applicable requirements, in order to properly submit any business to an annual meeting of shareholders, a shareholder must give timely notice in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation. To be timely, such notice must be delivered either in person or by United States certified mail, postage prepaid, and received prior to the close of business at the principal executive offices of the Corporation (a) not less than 120 days nor more than 150 days before the first anniversary of the date of the Corporation's proxy statement released to shareholders in connection with the most recent annual meeting of shareholders or (b) if no annual meeting was held in the previous year or the date of the applicable annual meeting has been changed by more than 30 days from the date contemplated at the time of the previous year's proxy statement, not later than the close of business on the later of the tenth calendar day following the day on which the first public announcement of the date of the annual meeting was made and the date that is 90 days before the date of the applicable annual meeting; (provided, however, that, for the 2005 annual meeting of shareholders, such notice by a shareholder must be so delivered no earlier than October 22, 2004 and no later than the close of business on November 21, 2004). In no event shall the public announcement of a postponement or adjournment of an annual meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a shareholder's notice as described above.
Section 1.06 Advance Notice of Shareholder Proposals
     Nomination of persons for election to the Board may be made by the Board or any committee designated by the Board or, in the case of an annual meeting, by any shareholder entitled to vote for the election of directors at the annual meeting of shareholders. However, nominations other than those made by the Board or its designated committee must be made in accordance with the procedures for submitting business at an annual meeting of the shareholders as set forth in this Section 1.06, and no person shall be eligible to serve as a director unless such procedures have been followed. A shareholder may nominate a person or persons for election to
 
the Board only if written notice of such shareholder's intent to make such nomination is given to the Secretary of the Corporation in accordance with the procedures set forth above.
     A shareholder's notice to submit business to an annual meeting of shareholders shall set forth (a) the name and address of the shareholder, (b) the class and number of shares of stock beneficially owned by such shareholder, (c) the name in which such shares are registered on the stock transfer books of the Corporation, (d) a representation that the shareholder intends to appear at the meeting in person or by proxy to submit the business specified in such notice, (e) any material interest of the shareholder in the business to be submitted and (f) a brief description of the business desired to be submitted to the annual meeting, including the complete text of any resolutions to be presented at the annual meeting, and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting. In addition, the shareholder making such proposal shall promptly provide any other information reasonably requested by the Corporation.
     In addition to the information required above to be given by a shareholder who intends to submit business to a meeting of shareholders, if the business to be submitted is the nomination of a person or persons for election to the Board then such shareholder's notice must also set forth, as to each person whom the shareholder proposes to nominate for election as a director, (a) the name, age, business address and, if known, residence address of such person, (b) the principal occupation or employment of such person, (c) the class and number of shares of stock of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by such person, (d) any other information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors or is otherwise required by the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (e) the written consent of such person to be named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serve as a director if elected and (f) a description of all arrangements or understandings between such shareholder and each nominee and any other person or persons (naming such person or persons) pursuant to which the nomination or nominations are to be made by such shareholder.
     Any person nominated for election as a director by the Board or any committee designated by the Board shall, upon the request of the Board or such committee, furnish to the Secretary of the Corporation all such information pertaining to such person that is required to be set forth in a shareholder's notice of nomination.
     In addition to the foregoing provision of this Section 1.06, a shareholder who seeks to have any proposal included in the Corporation's proxy statement shall comply with the requirements of Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
     For purposes of this Section 1.06, "public announcement'' means announcement in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
     . If a quorum exists, in all actions of shareholders other than the election of directors or as otherwise required by law, the Articles of Incorporation or these Bylaws, action on a matter by a voting group is approved if the votes cast within the voting group favoring the action exceed the votes cast opposing the action. If a quorum exists, at all
Section 1.07 Voting
 
meetings of shareholders at which directors are to be elected, subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors, directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast by the shares entitled to vote on the election of directors.
     A shareholder may appoint one or more proxies to vote or otherwise act for the shareholder in accordance with the North Carolina Business Corporation Act. A proxy shall be submitted to the secretary of the meeting at or prior to the time designated by the chairman of the meeting.
     . Prior to any meeting of shareholders, the Board may appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting and make a written report thereof. The Board may designate one or more persons as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act. Each inspector, before entering upon the discharge of his or her duties, shall take and sign an oath to execute faithfully the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his or her ability. If any inspector previously appointed shall fail to attend or refuse or be unable to serve, a substitute shall be appointed by the presiding officer.
Section 1.08 Inspectors of Election
     . Regular meetings of the Board shall be held at such times and places within or without the State of North Carolina as may from time to time be fixed by the Board or as may be specified in a notice of meeting. Special meetings of the Board may be held at any time upon the call of the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer or the President and shall be called by the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or the Secretary if directed by the Board or at least two or more Directors. A meeting of the Board may be held without notice immediately after the annual meeting of shareholders. No notice shall be required for any regular meeting of the Board. Notice of the date, time and place of holding of each special meeting shall be given by delivering such notice at least two business days before the date of the meeting to each director by telecopy or telegraph, personally or by telephone.
Section 2.01 Meetings
     . Except as otherwise provided in the Articles of Incorporation, a majority of the total number of directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. If a quorum is not present at any meeting of the Board, the directors present may adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until such a quorum is present.
Section 2.02 Quorum
     . The Board may, by resolution adopted by a majority of the Board, designate one or more committees to have and exercise such power and authority as the Board shall specify.
Section 2.03 Committees of Directors
     No action by any committee of the Board shall be valid unless taken at a meeting for which notice has been duly given in accordance with the last sentence of Section 2.01 of these Bylaws or waived by the members of such committee. Such notice shall include a description of the general nature of the business to be transacted at the meeting, and no other business may be transacted at such meeting unless all members of the committee are present and consent to the
 
consideration of such other business. Any committee member unable to participate in person at any meeting shall be given the opportunity to participate by any means of communication by which all committee members participating may simultaneously hear each other during the meeting. Notwithstanding the foregoing, action may be taken by a committee of the Board without a meeting if it is taken by unanimous written consent.
     Each of the committees established by the Board pursuant to this Section 2.03 shall establish such other rules and procedures for its operation and governance (consistent with the North Carolina Business Corporation Act) as it shall see fit and may seek such consultation and advice as to matters within its purview as it shall require.
     . The Board shall elect a Chairman of the Board from among the members of the Board. The Board shall designate the Chairman as either a Non-Executive Chairman of the Board or, in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.01 of these Bylaws, an Executive Chairman of the Board. (References in these Bylaws to the "Chairman" shall mean the Non-Executive Chairman or Executive Chairman, as designated by the Board.) The Chairman shall preside at all meetings of the Board and shall perform such other duties as may be directed by the Board or as otherwise set forth in these Bylaws.
Section 2.04 Chairman of the Board
     The Board may elect a Vice Chairman of the Board from among the members of the Board. If the Board has elected a Vice Chairman of the Board, the Vice Chairman shall perform such duties as may be designated by the Chairman, subject to the direction of the Board.
Section 2.05 Vice Chairman of the Board.
     . The officers of the Corporation shall be, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, a Treasurer and a Secretary, who shall have the duty, among other things, to record the proceedings of the meetings of shareholders and directors in a book kept for that purpose, and such other additional officers with such titles as the Board shall determine, all of whom shall be chosen by and serve at the pleasure of the Board; provided that the Chief Executive Officer may appoint Senior Vice Presidents, Vice Presidents or Assistant Officers at his or her discretion. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Board may designate the Chairman as an Executive Chairman, in which case such person shall be an officer of the Corporation and shall have, in addition to the duties set forth in these Bylaws, such powers and authority as determined by the Board. Subject to such limitations as may be imposed by the Board, the Chief Executive Officer shall have full executive power and authority with respect to the Corporation. The President, if separate from the Chief Executive Officer, shall have such powers and authority as the Chief Executive Officer may determine. If the Chief Executive Officer is absent or incapacitated, the Board or any committee designated by the Board for such purpose shall determine the person who shall have all the power and authority of the Chief Executive Officer. Other officers shall have the usual powers and shall perform all the usual
Section 3.01 Description and Terms
 
duties incident to their respective offices. All officers shall be subject to the supervision and direction of the Board. The authority, duties or responsibilities of any officer (other than an Executive Chairman, if the Chairman has been so designated) of the Corporation may be suspended by the Chief Executive Officer with or without cause. Any officer may be removed by the Board with or without cause; provided that an Executive Chairman who is removed as an officer pursuant to the foregoing shall, subject to and in accordance with the provisions and limitations of the Articles of Incorporation, these Bylaws and applicable law, retain his position as a director. Subject to such limitations as the Board and the North Carolina Business Corporation Act may provide, each officer may further delegate to any other officer or any employee or agent of the Corporation such portions of his or her authority as the officer shall deem appropriate, subject to such limitations as the officer shall specify, and may revoke such authority at any time.
     . The Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Secretary and the Treasurer, or any one of them, shall have the power and authority on behalf of the Corporation to execute any shareholders' consents or proxies and to attend and act and vote in person or by proxy at any meetings of shareholders of any corporation in which the Corporation may own stock, and at any such meetings shall possess and may exercise any and all of the rights and powers incident to the ownership of such stock which as the owner thereof the Corporation might have possessed and executed if present. The Board by resolution from time to time may confer like powers upon any officer.
Section 3.02 Shareholder Consents and Proxies
     . Whenever any statute, the Articles of Incorporation or these Bylaws require notice to be given to any shareholder, such notice is to be given in writing by mail, addressed to such shareholder at his or her address as it appears on the current shareholder records of the Corporation, with postage thereon prepaid. Such notice shall be deemed to have been given when it is deposited in the United States mail. Notice to directors may be given by telegram or facsimile transmission or be delivered personally or by telephone.
Section 4.01 Notices
     . If a claim under Section 1 or 2 of Article Ninth of the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation is not paid in full by the Corporation within 60 calendar days after a written claim has been received by the Corporation, the person claiming indemnification may at any time thereafter bring suit against the Corporation to recover the unpaid amount of the claim. If successful in whole or in part in any such suit, such claimant shall be entitled to be paid also the expense of prosecuting or defending such suit. In any case, it shall be a defense to such claims that, and the Corporation shall not be obliged to advance any such expense if, the claimant has not met any applicable standard for indemnification set forth in the North Carolina Business Corporation Act or the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation. The Corporation shall not advance any such expenses to a claimant, unless the Corporation has previously received from such claimant an undertaking to repay the amount of such expenses in the event it is determined such claimant was not entitled to indemnification. A determination by the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel or stockholders) to the effect that indemnification of the claimant is proper in the circumstances because the
Section 4.02 Indemnification
 
claimant has met the applicable standard of conduct or that the claimant has not met such applicable standard of conduct, or the failure by the Corporation to make any such determination, shall not create a presumption that the claimant has or has not met the applicable standard of conduct or be a defense to such suit.
     . The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be fixed by the Board.
Section 4.03 Fiscal Year
     . Any certificates which represent shares of the Corporation shall be signed by the Chairman or the Chief Executive Officer and by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary. Any and all signatures on any such certificates, including signature of officers, transfer agents and registrars, may be facsimile.
Section 4.04 Certificates of Stock

 
Exhibit 10.1
     This Director and Officer Indemnification Agreement, dated as of July 30, 2004, as amended on February 2, 2005 (this ""), is made by and between Reynolds American Inc., a North Carolina corporation (the ""), and the person whose name is set forth on the signature page hereto under the caption "Indemnitee" ("").
Agreement
Company
Indemnitee
     A. Section 55-8-01 of the North Carolina Business Corporation Act ("") provides that the business and affairs of a North Carolina corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of its board of directors.
NCBCA
     B. Pursuant to Section 55-8-41 of the NCBCA, significant authority with respect to the management of the Company may be delegated to the officers of the Company.
     C. By virtue of the managerial prerogatives vested in the directors and officers of a North Carolina corporation, directors and officers act as fiduciaries of the corporation and its shareholders.
     D. It is critically important to the Company and its shareholders that the Company be able to attract and retain the most capable persons reasonably available to serve as directors and officers of the Company.
     E. In recognition of the need for corporations to be able to induce capable and responsible persons to accept positions in corporate management, Sections 55-8-50, 55-8-52 and 55-8-57 of the NCBCA authorizes (and, in some instances, requires) corporations to indemnify their directors and officers, and further authorizes corporations to purchase and maintain insurance for the benefit of their directors, officers, employees and agents.
     F. The number of lawsuits challenging the judgment and actions of directors and officers of North Carolina corporations, the costs of defending those lawsuits and the threat to directors' and officers' personal assets have all materially increased over the past several years, chilling the willingness of capable persons to undertake the responsibilities imposed on corporate directors and officers.
     G. Recent federal legislation and rules adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the national securities exchanges have imposed additional disclosure and corporate governance obligations on directors and officers of public companies and have exposed such directors and officers to new and substantially broadened civil liabilities.
     H. These legislative and regulatory initiatives have also exposed directors and officers of public companies to a greater risk of criminal proceedings, with attendant defense costs and potential criminal fines and penalties.
 
     I. Under North Carolina law, a director's or officer's right to be reimbursed for the costs of defense of certain actions, whether such claims are asserted under state or federal law, does not depend upon the merits of the claims asserted against the director or officer and is separate and distinct from any right to indemnification the director or officer may be able to establish, and indemnification of the director and officer against criminal fines and penalties is permitted if the director or officer has satisfied the applicable standard of conduct.
     J. Indemnitee is or will be a director or officer of the Company and possibly one or more of its subsidiaries and his/her willingness to serve in such capacity is predicated, in substantial part, upon the Company's willingness to indemnify him/her in accordance with the principles reflected above, to the fullest extent permitted by the laws of the State of North Carolina.
     K. Therefore, in recognition of the need to provide Indemnitee with the maximum legally permitted protection against personal liability, in order to procure Indemnitee's continued service as a director or officer of the Company and to enhance Indemnitee's ability to serve the Company in an effective manner, and in order to provide such protection pursuant to express contract rights (intended to be enforceable irrespective of, among other things, any amendment to the Company's articles of incorporation or bylaws (collectively, the ""), any change in the composition of the Company's Board of Directors (the ""), or any Change in Control or Business Combination), the Company wishes to provide in this Agreement for the indemnification of and the advancement of Expenses to Indemnitee as set forth in this Agreement and for the continued coverage of Indemnitee under the Company's directors' and officers' liability insurance policies.
Constituent Documents
Board
     L. In light of the considerations referred to in the preceding recitals, it is the Company's intention and desire that the provisions of this Agreement be construed liberally to provide protections to the Indemnitee to the fullest extent now available by law or hereafter not prohibited by law as set forth in this Agreement.
     NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereby agree as follows:
     In addition to terms defined elsewhere herein, the following terms have the following meanings when used in this Agreement with initial capital letters:
1. Certain Definitions.
          (a) means the occurrence after July 30, 2004 of any of the following events:
"Change in Control"
               (i) the acquisition by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act) (a ) of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act)
"Person"
 
() of 30% or more of the combined voting power of the then-outstanding Voting Shares of the Company; , , that:
"Beneficial Ownership"
provided
however
                    (A) for purposes of this Section 1(a)(i), the following acquisitions ("") will not constitute a Change in Control: (1) any acquisition of Voting Shares of the Company directly from the Company that is approved by at least 3/4 of the members of the Board (rounded up to the nearest whole number) then in office; (2) any acquisition of Voting Shares of the Company by the Company or any Subsidiary; (3) any acquisition of Voting Shares of the Company by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any Subsidiary; (4) any acquisition of Voting Shares of the Company by any Person pursuant to a Business Combination that complies with clauses (A), (B) and (C) of Section 1(a)(iii) below, and (5) any acquisition of Voting Shares of the Company that is expressly permitted pursuant to the Governance Agreement, dated as of July 30, 2004, by and among British American Tobacco p.l.c., Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation and the Company (the "");
Exempt Transactions
Governance Agreement
                    (B) if any Person acquires Beneficial Ownership of 30% or more of the combined voting power of the then-outstanding Voting Shares of the Company as a result of a transaction described in clause (A)(1) of Section 1(a)(i) and such Person thereafter becomes the Beneficial Owner of any additional shares of Voting Shares of the Company representing 1% or more of the combined voting power of the then-outstanding Voting Shares of the Company, other than in an Exempt Transaction or other than as a result of a stock dividend, stock split or similar transaction effected by the Company in which all holders of Voting Shares are treated equally, such subsequent acquisition shall be deemed to constitute a Change in Control;
                    (C) a Change in Control will not be deemed to have occurred if a Person acquires Beneficial Ownership of 30% or more of the Voting Shares of the Company as a result of a reduction in the number of shares of Voting Shares of the Company outstanding unless and until such Person thereafter becomes the Beneficial Owner of any additional shares of Voting Shares of the Company representing 1% or more of the combined voting power of the then-outstanding Voting Shares of the Company, other than in an Exempt Transaction or other than as a result of a stock dividend, stock split or similar transaction effected by the Company in which all holders of Voting Shares are treated equally; and
                    (D) if at least 3/4 of the members of the Board (rounded up to the nearest whole number) then in office determines in good faith that a Person has acquired Beneficial Ownership of 30% or more of the combined voting power of the then-outstanding Voting Shares of the Company (or an additional 1% or more of the combined voting power of the then-outstanding Voting Shares of the Company in the circumstances described in Section 1(a)(i)(B) or 1(a)(i)(C)) inadvertently, and (1) such Person divests as promptly as practicable a sufficient number of shares so that such Person Beneficially Owns less than 30% of the combined voting power of the then-outstanding Voting Shares of the
 
Company (or such additional 1% or more of the combined voting power of the then-outstanding Voting Shares of the Company in the circumstances described in Section 1(a)(i)(B) or 1(a)(i)(C)) and (2) during the period beginning 365 days prior to such acquisition of shares, such Person shall not have proposed any individual as a nominee to be elected as a Director (other than in accordance with the terms of any agreement between the Company and such Person that was entered into in connection with a transaction that had been approved by the Board in the manner described in clause (A)(1) of Section 1(a)(i)), then no Change in Control shall have occurred as a result of such Person's acquisition; or
               (ii) the Incumbent Directors cease to constitute a majority of the Directors then in office; or
               (iii) the consummation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation, or sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company or the acquisition of assets of another corporation, or other transaction (each, a ), unless, in each case, immediately following such Business Combination (A) all or substantially all of the Persons who were the Beneficial Owners of Voting Shares of the Company immediately prior to such Business Combination Beneficially Own, directly or indirectly, more than 55% of the combined voting power of the then-outstanding shares of Voting Shares of the entity resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, an entity which as a result of such transaction owns the Company or all or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries), (B) no Person (other than the Company, such entity resulting from such Business Combination or any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company, any Subsidiary, any Person who acquired Beneficial Ownership of 30% or more of the combined voting power of the then-outstanding Voting Shares of the Company prior to the consummation of such Business Combination, or such entity resulting from such Business Combination) Beneficially Owns 30% or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding shares of Voting Shares of the entity resulting from such Business Combination, and (C) a majority of the members of the Board of Directors of the entity resulting from such Business Combination were Incumbent Directors at the time of the execution of the initial agreement or of the action of the Board providing for such Business Combination;
"Business Combination"
               (iv) approval by the shareholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company, except pursuant to a Business Combination that complies with clauses (A), (B) and (C) of Section 1(a)(iii); or
               (v) there occurs any other event of a nature that would be required to be reported in response to Item 6(e) of Schedule 14A of Regulation 14A (or in response to any similar item on any similar schedule or form) promulgated under the Exchange Act, whether or not the Company is then subject to such reporting requirement.
 
               (vi) For purposes of this Section 1(a) and as used elsewhere in this Agreement, the following terms will have the following meanings when used herein with initial capital letters:
                    (A) "" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
                    (B) means the individuals who, as of July 30, 2004, are directors of the Company (or who have been designated as directors in accordance with Section 1.09 of the Business Combination Agreement, dated as of October 27, 2003, between R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Holdings, Inc. and Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation, as amended), together with any individual becoming a director subsequent to July 30, 2004 (including other Incumbent Directors who first became directors after July 30, 2004) whose election, nomination for election by the Company's shareholders or appointment was (i) approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the then Incumbent Directors on the Board or a duly authorized directorate committee (either by a specific vote or by approval of the proxy statement of the Company in which such person is named as a nominee for director, without objection to such nomination) or (ii) made in accordance with Section 2.01 of the Governance Agreement; , , that an individual will not be an Incumbent Director if such individual's election or appointment to the Board occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest (as described in Rule 14a-12(c) of the Exchange Act) with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board.
"Incumbent Directors"
provided
however
                    (C) means an entity in which the Company directly or indirectly Beneficially Owns 50% or more of the combined voting power of the then-outstanding Voting Shares.
"Subsidiary"
                    (D) means securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (or similar governing bodies).
"Voting Shares"
          (b) means (i) any threatened, asserted, pending or completed claim, demand, action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative, arbitrative, investigative or other, and whether made pursuant to federal, state or other law, and (ii) any inquiry or investigation, whether threatened, asserted, pending or completed, by the Company or any other Person, including without limitation any federal, state or other governmental entity, that Indemnitee determines might lead to the institution of any such claim, demand, action, suit or proceeding. For the avoidance of doubt, the Company intends indemnity to be provided hereunder in respect of acts or failure to act prior to, on or after July 30, 2004 and to apply to any act or failure to act, or claim related thereto, in whole or in part prior to, on or after July 30, 2004.
"
Claim
"
          (c) means any corporation, limited liability company, partnership, joint venture, trust or other entity or enterprise, whether or not for profit, that is
"Controlled Affiliate"
 
directly or indirectly controlled by the Company. For purposes of this definition, "control" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of an entity or enterprise, whether through the ownership of Voting Shares, through other voting rights, by contract or otherwise; that direct or indirect Beneficial Ownership of capital stock or other interests in an entity or enterprise entitling the holder to cast 30% or more of the total number of votes generally entitled to be cast in the election of directors (or persons performing comparable functions) of such entity or enterprise will be deemed to constitute control for purposes of this definition.
provided, however,
          (d) "" means a director of the Company who is not and was not a party to the Claim in respect of which indemnification is sought by Indemnitee.
Disinterested Director
          (e) means any and all reasonable fees, costs and expenses (including attorneys' and experts fees) paid or payable in connection with investigating, defending, being a witness in or participating in (including on appeal), or preparing to investigate, defend, be a witness in or participate in (including on appeal), any Claim.
"
Expenses
"
          (f) means any Claim based upon, arising out of or resulting from (i) any actual, alleged or suspected act or failure to act by Indemnitee in his or her capacity as a director, officer, employee or agent of the Company or as a director, officer, employee, member, manager, trustee or agent of any other corporation, limited liability company, partnership, joint venture, trust or other entity or enterprise, whether or not for profit, as to which Indemnitee is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee, member, manager, trustee or agent, including, without limitation, any Controlled Affiliate of the Company, (ii) any actual, alleged or suspected act or failure to act by Indemnitee in respect of any business, transaction, communication, filing, disclosure or other activity of the Company or any other entity or enterprise, whether or not for profit, as to which Indemnitee is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee, member, manager, trustee or agent, including, without limitation, any Controlled Affiliate of the Company, or (iii) Indemnitee's status as a current or former director, officer, employee or agent of the Company or as a current or former director, officer, employee, member, manager, trustee or agent of the Company or any other entity or enterprise, whether or not for profit, as to which Indemnitee is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee, member, manager, trustee or agent, including, without limitation, any Controlled Affiliate of the Company or any actual, alleged or suspected act or failure to act by Indemnitee in connection with any obligation or restriction imposed upon Indemnitee by reason of such status. In addition to any service at the actual request of the Company, for purposes of this Agreement, Indemnitee will be deemed to be serving or to have served at the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee, member, manager, trustee or agent of another entity or enterprise if Indemnitee is or was serving as a director, officer, employee, member, manager, trustee or agent of such entity or enterprise and (i) such entity or enterprise is or at the time of such service was a Controlled
"
Indemnifiable Claim
"
 
Affiliate, (ii) such entity or enterprise is or at the time of such service was an employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or a Controlled Affiliate, or (iii) the Company or a Controlled Affiliate (by action of the Board, any committee thereof or the Company's Chief Executive Officer ("") (other than as the CEO himself or herself) caused or authorized Indemnitee to be nominated, elected, appointed, designated, employed, engaged or selected to serve in such capacity.
CEO
          (g) means any and all Losses relating to, arising out of or resulting from any Indemnifiable Claim.
"
Indemnifiable Losses"
          (h) "" means a law firm, or a member of a law firm, that is experienced in matters of corporation law and neither presently is, nor in the past three years has been, retained to represent: (i) the Company (or any Subsidiary), a Controlled Affiliate or Indemnitee in any matter material to either such party (other than with respect to matters concerning the Indemnitee under this Agreement, or of other indemnitees under similar indemnification agreements) or (ii) any other named (or, as to a threatened matter, reasonably likely to be named) party to the Indemnifiable Claim giving rise to a claim for indemnification hereunder. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the term "Independent Counsel" will not include any person who, under the applicable standards of professional conduct then prevailing, would have a conflict of interest in representing either the Company or Indemnitee in an action to determine Indemnitee's rights under this Agreement.
Independent Counsel
          (i) "means any and all Expenses, damages, losses, liabilities, judgments, fines, penalties (whether civil, criminal or other) and amounts paid or payable in settlement (if such settlement is approved in advance by the Company, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld), and any federal, state, local or foreign taxes imposed on the Indemnitee as a result of the actual or deemed receipt of any payments under this Agreement, including without limitation all interest, assessments and other charges paid or payable in connection with or in respect of any of the foregoing.
Losses
"
     Subject only to Section 7 and to the proviso in this Section, the Company will indemnify, defend and hold harmless Indemnitee, to the fullest extent permitted or required by the laws of the State of North Carolina in effect on July 30, 2004 or as such laws may from time to time hereafter be amended to increase the scope of such permitted indemnification, against any and all Indemnifiable Claims and Indemnifiable Losses; , , that (i) except as provided in Sections 4 and 20, Indemnitee will not be entitled to indemnification pursuant to this Agreement in connection with any Claim initiated by Indemnitee against the Company or any director or officer of the Company (other than by defense, counterclaim or crossclaim) unless the Company has joined in or consented to the initiation of such Claim and (ii) Indemnitee will not be entitled to indemnification pursuant to this Agreement to the extent that any Indemnifiable Loss is determined in a final judicial determination (as to which all rights of appeal therefrom have been exhausted or lapsed) to have resulted from knowing misconduct by such Person from which such Person derived a direct improper personal benefit (clause (i) and (ii) shall be
2. Indemnification Obligation.
provided
however
 
referred to herein together as the ""). The Company acknowledges that the foregoing obligation may be substantially broader than that now provided by applicable law and the Company's Constituent Documents and intends that it be interpreted consistently with this Section and the recitals to this Agreement. Indemnitee agrees not to assert any right to indemnification under the Company's Constituent Documents in respect of any Loss for which indemnification would not be available pursuant to this Section 2.
Indemnification Limitations
     Indemnitee will have the right to advancement by the Company, prior to the final disposition of any Indemnifiable Claim, of any and all Expenses relating to, arising out of or resulting from any Indemnifiable Claim paid or incurred by Indemnitee or which Indemnitee determines are reasonably likely to be paid or incurred by Indemnitee. Without limiting the generality or effect of any other provision hereof, Indemnitee's right to such advancement is not subject to the satisfaction of any standard of conduct. Without limiting the generality or effect of the foregoing, within five business days after any request by Indemnitee, the Company will, in accordance with such request (but without duplication), (a) pay such Expenses on behalf of Indemnitee, (b) advance to Indemnitee funds in an amount sufficient to pay such Expenses or (c) reimburse Indemnitee for such Expenses; that Indemnitee will repay, without interest, any amounts actually advanced to Indemnitee that, at the final disposition of the Indemnifiable Claim to which the advance related, were in excess of amounts paid or payable by Indemnitee in respect of Expenses relating to, arising out of or resulting from such Indemnifiable Claim or in excess of the indemnification to which Indemnitee is entitled. In connection with any such payment, advancement or reimbursement, Indemnitee will, if requested by the Company, execute and deliver to the Company an undertaking, which need not be secured and must be accepted without reference to Indemnitee's ability to repay the Expenses, by or on behalf of the Indemnitee, to repay any amounts paid, advanced or reimbursed by the Company referred to in the preceding sentence.
3. Advancement of Expenses.
provided, however,
     Without limiting the generality or effect of the foregoing, the Company will indemnify and hold harmless Indemnitee against and, if requested by Indemnitee, will reimburse Indemnitee for, or advance to Indemnitee, within five business days of such request, any and all Expenses paid or incurred by Indemnitee or which Indemnitee determines are reasonably likely to be paid or incurred by Indemnitee in connection with any Claim made, instituted or conducted by Indemnitee for (a) indemnification or reimbursement or advance payment of Expenses by the Company under any provision of this Agreement, or under any other agreement or provision of the Constituent Documents now or hereafter in effect relating to Indemnifiable Claims, and/or (b) recovery under any directors' and officers' liability insurance policies maintained by the Company, regardless in each case of whether Indemnitee ultimately is determined to be entitled to such indemnification, reimbursement, advance or insurance recovery, as the case may be; , , that Indemnitee must return, without interest, any such advance of Expenses (or portion thereof) which remains unspent at the final disposition of the Claim to which the advance related.
4. Indemnification for Additional Expenses.
provided
however
 
     If Indemnitee is entitled under any provision of this Agreement to indemnification by the Company for some or a portion of any Indemnifiable Loss but not for all of the total amount thereof, the Company shall nevertheless indemnify Indemnitee for the portion thereof to which Indemnitee is entitled.
5. Partial Indemnity.
     . To obtain indemnification under this Agreement in respect of an Indemnifiable Claim or Indemnifiable Loss, Indemnitee must submit to the Company a written request therefor, including a brief description (based upon information then available to Indemnitee) of such Indemnifiable Claim or Indemnifiable Loss, not later than 30 days after receipt by Indemnitee of notice of such Indemnifiable Claim or Indemnifiable Loss, as applicable. If, at the time of the receipt of such request, the Company has directors' and officers' liability insurance in effect under which coverage for such Indemnifiable Claim or Indemnifiable Loss is potentially available, the Company shall give prompt written notice of such Indemnifiable Claim or Indemnifiable Loss to the applicable insurers in accordance with the procedures set forth in the applicable policies. The Company will provide to Indemnitee a copy of such notice delivered to the applicable insurers, and copies of all subsequent correspondence between the Company and such insurers regarding the Indemnifiable Claim or Indemnifiable Loss, in each case substantially concurrently with the delivery or receipt thereof by the Company. The failure by Indemnitee to timely notify the Company of any Indemnifiable Claim or Indemnifiable Loss will not relieve the Company from any liability hereunder unless, and only to the extent that, the Company did not otherwise learn of such Indemnifiable Claim or Indemnifiable Loss and such failure results in forfeiture by the Company of substantial defenses, rights or insurance coverage.
6. Procedure for Notification
     . (a) To the extent that (i) Indemnitee is successful on the merits or otherwise in defense of any Indemnifiable Claim or any portion thereof or in defense of any issue or matter therein, including, without limitation, dismissal without prejudice, or (ii) the court orders indemnification in accordance with Section 55-8-54 of the NCBCA, Indemnitee will be indemnified against all Indemnifiable Losses relating to, arising out of or resulting from such Indemnifiable Claim in accordance with Section 2 and no Standard of Conduct Determination will be required. Without limiting the generality or effect of the foregoing, any Claim that is settled in whole or in part or withdrawn will be deemed to be covered by this Section 7(a) unless the indemnification would be inconsistent with any condition with respect to indemnification expressly imposed by the court in approving the settlement.
7. Determination of Right to Indemnification
          (b) To the extent that the provisions of Section 7(a) are inapplicable to an Indemnifiable Claim that has been finally disposed of, except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, Indemnitee's right to indemnification against Indemnifiable Losses relating to, arising out of or resulting from such Indemnifiable Claim under this Agreement shall be subject to a determination that Indemnitee has satisfied the standard of conduct set forth in Section 55-8-57 (a ""). The Standard of Conduct Determination will be made as follows: (i) if a Change in Control has not occurred, or if a
Standard of Conduct Determination
 
Change in Control has occurred but Indemnitee has requested that the Standard of Conduct Determination be made pursuant to this clause (i), (A) by a majority vote of the Disinterested Directors constituting a quorum of the Board, (B) by a majority vote of a committee of Disinterested Directors designated by a majority vote of all Disinterested Directors, (C) if a quorum of the Board consisting of Disinterested Directors is not obtainable or a committee of Disinterested Directors cannot be constituted under clause (i)(B), by Independent Counsel, upon giving a written opinion addressed to the Board, a copy of which must be delivered to Indemnitee or (D) by action of the Company's shareholders (provided that shares owned by or voted under the control of directors in a personal capacity who are at the time parties to the proceeding may not be voted on such determination); and (ii) if a Change in Control has occurred and Indemnitee has not requested that the Standard of Conduct Determination be made pursuant to clause (i), by Independent Counsel, upon giving a written opinion addressed to the Board, a copy of which must be delivered to Indemnitee. Upon reasonable advance request, Indemnitee will cooperate with reasonable requests of the individual or firm making such Standard of Conduct Determination, including by providing to such Person documentation or information which is not privileged or otherwise protected from disclosure and which is reasonably available to Indemnitee and reasonably necessary to such determination without incurring any unreimbursed cost in connection therewith. The Company will indemnify and hold harmless Indemnitee against and, if requested by Indemnitee, will reimburse Indemnitee for, or advance to Indemnitee, within five business days of such request, any and all costs and expenses (including attorneys' and experts' fees and expenses) incurred by Indemnitee in so cooperating with the Person making such Standard of Conduct Determination.
          (c) The Company will use commercially reasonable efforts to cause any Standard of Conduct Determination required under Section 7(b) to be made as promptly as practicable. If (i) the Persons empowered or selected under Section 7 to make the Standard of Conduct Determination do not make a determination (x) within 30 calendar days after the later of (A) receipt by the Company of written notice from Indemnitee advising the Company of the final disposition of the applicable Indemnifiable Claim (the date of such receipt being the "") and (B) the selection of an Independent Counsel, if such determination is to be made upon the written opinion of Independent Counsel, that is permitted under the provisions of Section 7(e) to make such determination or (y) if such determination is to be made by the Company's shareholders, within 180 calendar days after the Notification Date, and (ii) Indemnitee has fulfilled his/her obligations set forth in the third sentence of Section 7(b), then Indemnitee will be deemed to have satisfied the applicable standard of conduct; that such applicable period may be extended for a reasonable time, not to exceed an additional 30 calendar days, if the Person making such determination in good faith requires such additional time for the obtaining or evaluation of documentation and/or information relating thereto.
Notification Date
provided
          (d) If (i) Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification hereunder against any Indemnifiable Losses pursuant to Section 7(a), (ii) no determination of whether Indemnitee
 
has satisfied any applicable standard of conduct under North Carolina law is a legally required condition precedent to indemnification of Indemnitee hereunder against any Indemnifiable Losses or (iii) Indemnitee has been determined or deemed pursuant to Section 7(b) or (c) to have satisfied any applicable standard of conduct under North Carolina law which is a legally required condition precedent to indemnification of Indemnitee hereunder against any Indemnifiable Losses, then the Company will pay to Indemnitee, within five business days after the later of (x) the Notification Date in respect of the Indemnifiable Claim or portion thereof to which such Indemnifiable Losses are related, out of which such Indemnifiable Losses arose or from which such Indemnifiable Losses resulted and (y) the earliest date on which the applicable criterion specified in clause (i), (ii) or (iii) above have been satisfied, an amount equal to the amount of such Indemnifiable Losses.
          (e) If a Standard of Conduct Determination is required to be, but has not been, made upon the written opinion of Independent Counsel pursuant to Section 7(b)(i), the Independent Counsel will be selected by the Board or a committee of the Board and approved by the Indemnitee (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed). If a Standard of Conduct Determination is required to be, or to have been, made upon the written opinion of Independent Counsel pursuant to Section 7(b)(ii), the Independent Counsel will be selected by Indemnitee and approved by the Board (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed). In either case, Indemnitee or the Company, as applicable, may, within five business days after receiving written notice of selection from the other, deliver to the other a written objection to such selection; , , that such objection may be asserted only on the ground that the Independent Counsel so selected does not satisfy the criteria set forth in the definition of "Independent Counsel" in Section 1(h), and the objection must set forth with particularity the factual basis of such assertion. Absent a proper and timely objection, the Person so selected will act as Independent Counsel. If such written objection is properly and timely made and substantiated, (i) the Independent Counsel so selected may not serve as Independent Counsel unless and until such objection is withdrawn or a court has determined that such objection is without merit and (ii) the non-objecting party may, at its option, select an alternative Independent Counsel and give written notice to the other party advising such other party of the identity of the alternative Independent Counsel so selected, in which case the provisions of the two immediately preceding sentences and clause (i) of this sentence will apply to such subsequent selection and notice. If applicable, the provisions of clause (ii) of the immediately preceding sentence will apply to successive alternative selections. If no Independent Counsel that is permitted under the foregoing provisions of this Section 7(e) to issue the opinion regarding the Standard of Conduct Determination has been selected within 30 calendar days after the Company gives its initial notice pursuant to the first sentence of this Section 7(e), or Indemnitee gives its initial notice pursuant to the second sentence of this Section 7(e), as the case may be, either the Company or Indemnitee may petition a North Carolina court for resolution of any objection which has been made by the Company or Indemnitee to the other's selection of Independent Counsel and/or for the appointment as Independent Counsel of a person or firm selected by the Court or by such other person as the Court may designate, and the person or firm with respect to whom all objections are so resolved or the
provided
however
 
person or firm so appointed will act as Independent Counsel. In all events, the Company will pay all of the reasonable fees and expenses of the Independent Counsel incurred in connection with the Independent Counsel's determination pursuant to Section 7(b). Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Company shall not be required to pay Expenses of more than one Independent Counsel in connection with all matters concerning a single Indemnitee, and such Independent Counsel shall be the Independent Counsel for any or all other indemnitees unless (i) the Company otherwise determines or (ii) any Indemnitee shall provide a written opinion of counsel setting forth in detail a reasonable objection to such Independent Counsel representing other indemnitees.
     Notwithstanding any other provision hereof, in making any Standard of Conduct Determination, the Person making such determination must presume that Indemnitee has satisfied the applicable standard of conduct, and the Person may overcome such presumption only by its adducing clear and convincing evidence to the contrary that Indemnitee is not so entitled. Any Standard of Conduct Determination that is adverse to Indemnitee may be challenged by the Indemnitee in the Superior Court of the State of North Carolina. No determination by the Company (including by its directors, shareholders or any Independent Counsel) that Indemnitee has not satisfied any applicable standard of conduct will be a defense to any Claim by Indemnitee for indemnification or reimbursement or advance payment of Expenses by the Company hereunder or create a presumption that Indemnitee has not met any applicable standard of conduct.
8. Presumption of Entitlement.
     For purposes of this Agreement, the termination of any Claim by judgment, order, settlement (whether with or without court approval) or conviction, or upon a plea of or its equivalent, will not create a presumption that Indemnitee did not meet any applicable standard of conduct or that indemnification hereunder is otherwise not permitted. In addition, it is the parties' intention that if Indemnitee commences legal proceedings to secure a judicial determination that Indemnitee should be indemnified under this Agreement or applicable law, the question of Indemnitee's right to indemnification shall be for the court to decide, and neither the failure of any Person to have made a Standard of Conduct Determination, nor an actual Standard of Conduct Determination, shall be a defense to Indemnitee's claim or create a presumption that Indemnitee has not met any particular standard of conduct or did not have any particular belief.
9. No Negative Presumption.
nolo contendere
     The rights of Indemnitee hereunder will be in addition to any other rights Indemnitee may have under any other contract to which the Company is a party or policy of insurance or otherwise (collectively, ""); in no event will Indemnitee be entitled to indemnity hereunder to the extent that he/she has been actually indemnified under any Other Indemnity Provision (but the existence of such Other Indemnity Provisions will not affect any right hereunder). The Company may not adopt any amendment to any of the Constituent Documents the effect of which would be to deny, diminish or encumber Indemnitee's right to indemnification under this Agreement or the Other Indemnity Provisions. The Indemnification Limitations will
10. Non-Exclusivity.
Other Indemnity Provisions
provided, however,
 
not affect any rights Indemnitee may have under any policy of insurance or any rights to indemnification from any third party.
     For the duration of Indemnitee's service as a director and/or officer of the Company, and for a period ending on the sixth anniversary of the date Indemnitee is no longer a director or officer of the Company (the ""), the Company will use commercially reasonable efforts (taking into account the scope and amount of coverage available relative to the cost thereof) to cause to be maintained in effect policies of directors' and officers' liability insurance providing coverage for directors and/or officers of the Company that is at least substantially comparable in scope and amount to that provided by the Company's (or its predecessor's) current policies of directors' and officers' liability insurance. Upon request, the Company will provide Indemnitee or his or her counsel with a copy of all directors' and officers' liability insurance applications, binders, policies, declarations, endorsements and other related materials, and will provide Indemnitee with a reasonable opportunity to review and comment on the same. Without limiting the generality or effect of the two immediately preceding sentences, during the Coverage Period, the Company will not discontinue or significantly reduce the scope or amount of coverage from one policy period to the next (i) if a Change in Control has not occurred, without the prior written consent of a majority of the Covered Directors (as defined below) in each such Person's sole discretion, or (ii) if a Change in Control has occurred, without the prior written consent of each Covered Person in each such Person's sole discretion. In all policies of directors' and officers' liability insurance obtained by the Company, Indemnitee will be named as an insured in such a manner as to provide Indemnitee the same rights and benefits, subject to the same limitations, as are accorded to the Company's directors and officers most favorably insured by such policy. Notwithstanding the foregoing, (x) the Company may, but will not be required to, create a trust fund, grant a security interest or use other means, including without limitation a letter of credit, to ensure the payment of such amounts as may be necessary to satisfy its obligations to indemnify and advance expenses pursuant to this Agreement and (y) in renewing or seeking to renew any insurance hereunder, the Company will not be required to expend more than two times the premium amount for the policy period (equitably adjusted if necessary to reflect differences in policy periods) five years prior to the then-existing policy period of the Company, if any, , , that the Company uses commercially reasonable efforts to obtain and maintain a policy or policies of insurance with coverage having features as similar as reasonably practical to those described above. "" means any Person who was a director of the Company on or after July 30, 2004 who is a party to an agreement (other than the Constituent Documents or any agreement or policy of directors' and officers' liability insurance) that entitles such Person to receive the benefits of this Section 11, whether in the form of this Section 11 or otherwise, and whose Coverage Period has not yet lapsed. "" means any Person who was a director or officer of the Company on or after July 30, 2004 who is a party to an agreement (other than the Constituent Documents or any agreement or policy of directors' and officers' liability insurance) that entitles such Person to receive the benefits of this Section 11,
11. Liability Insurance and Funding.
Coverage Period
provided
however
Covered Director
Covered Person
 
whether in the form of this Section 11 or otherwise, and whose Coverage Period has not yet lapsed.
     In the event of payment under this Agreement, the Company will be subrogated to the extent of such payment to all of the related rights of recovery of Indemnitee against other Persons (other than Indemnitee's successors), including any entity or enterprise referred to in clause (i) of the definition of "Indemnifiable Claim" in Section 1(f). Indemnitee will execute all papers reasonably required to evidence such rights (all of Indemnitee's reasonable Expenses, including attorneys' fees and charges, related thereto to be reimbursed by or, at the option of Indemnitee, advanced by the Company).
12. Subrogation.
     The Company will not be liable under this Agreement to make any payment to Indemnitee in respect of any Indemnifiable Losses to the extent Indemnitee has otherwise already actually received payment (net of Expenses incurred in connection therewith) under any insurance policy, the Constituent Documents and Other Indemnity Provisions or otherwise (including from any entity or enterprise referred to in clause (i) of the definition of "Indemnifiable Claim" in Section 1(f)) in respect of such Indemnifiable Losses otherwise indemnifiable hereunder.
13. No Duplication of Payments.
     The Company will be entitled to participate in the defense of any Indemnifiable Claim or to assume the defense thereof with counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnitee; that if Indemnitee determines, after consultation with counsel selected by Indemnitee, that (a) the use of counsel chosen by the Company to represent Indemnitee would present such counsel with an actual or potential conflict, (b) the named parties in any such Indemnifiable Claim (including any impleaded parties) include both the Company and Indemnitee and Indemnitee concludes that there may be one or more legal defenses available to him or her that are different from or in addition to those available to the Company, (c) any such representation by such counsel would be precluded under the applicable standards of professional conduct then prevailing, then Indemnitee will be entitled to retain separate counsel (but not more than one law firm plus, if applicable, local counsel in respect of any particular Indemnifiable Claim for all indemnitees in Indemnitee's circumstances) at the Company's expense or (d) Indemnitee reasonably determines that it has defenses or claims that are unique, separate or distinct from the defenses or claims of other Persons against whom the Claim has been made or might reasonably be expected to be made. The Company will not be liable to Indemnitee under this Agreement for any amounts paid in settlement of any threatened or pending Indemnifiable Claim effected without the Company's prior written consent. The Company will not, without the prior written consent of the Indemnitee, effect any settlement of any threatened or pending Indemnifiable Claim which the Indemnitee is or could have been a party unless such settlement solely involves the payment of money and includes a complete and unconditional release of the Indemnitee from all liability on any claims that are the subject matter of such Indemnifiable Claim. Neither the Company nor Indemnitee will unreasonably withhold its consent to any proposed settlement; that Indemnitee may
14. Defense of Claims.
provided, however,
provided
 
withhold consent to any settlement that does not provide a complete and unconditional release of Indemnitee.
     (a) The Company will require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation, reorganization or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business or assets of the Company, by agreement in form and substance satisfactory to Indemnitee and his/her counsel, expressly to assume and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent the Company would be required to perform if no such succession had taken place. This Agreement will be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Company and any successor to the Company, including, without limitation, any person acquiring directly or indirectly all or substantially all of the business or assets of the Company whether by purchase, merger, consolidation, reorganization or otherwise (and such successor will thereafter be deemed the "" for purposes of this Agreement), but will not otherwise be assignable or delegatable by the Company.
15. Successors and Binding Agreement.
Company
          (b) This Agreement will inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Indemnitee's spouse, personal or legal representatives, executors, administrators, heirs, distributees, legatees and other successors.
          (c) This Agreement is personal in nature and neither of the parties hereto will, without the consent of the other, assign or delegate this Agreement or any rights or obligations hereunder except as expressly provided in Sections 15(a) and 15(b). Without limiting the generality or effect of the foregoing, Indemnitee's right to receive payments hereunder will not be assignable, whether by pledge, creation of a security interest or otherwise, other than by a transfer by the Indemnitee's will or by the laws of descent and distribution, and, in the event of any attempted assignment or transfer contrary to this Section 15(c), the Company will have no liability to pay any amount so attempted to be assigned or transferred.
     For all purposes of this Agreement, all communications, including without limitation notices, consents, requests or approvals, required or permitted to be given hereunder must be in writing and will be deemed to have been duly given when hand delivered or dispatched by electronic facsimile transmission (with receipt thereof orally confirmed), or one business day after having been sent for next-day delivery by a nationally recognized overnight courier service, addressed to the Company (to the attention of the General Counsel of the Company) and to Indemnitee at the applicable address shown on the signature page hereto, or to such other address as any party may have furnished to the other in writing and in accordance herewith, except that notices of changes of address will be effective only upon receipt.
16. Notices.
     The validity, interpretation, construction and performance of this Agreement will be governed by and construed in accordance with the substantive laws of the State of North Carolina, without giving effect to the principles of conflict of laws of such State. The Company and Indemnitee each hereby irrevocably consent to the
17. Governing Law.
 
jurisdiction of the Superior Court of the State of North Carolina for all purposes in connection with any action or proceeding which arises out of or relates to this Agreement, waive all procedural objections to suit in that jurisdiction, including without limitation objections as to venue or inconvenience, agree that service in any such action may be made by notice given in accordance with Section 16.
     If any provision of this Agreement or the application of any provision hereof to any Person or circumstance is held invalid, unenforceable or otherwise illegal, the remainder of this Agreement and the application of such provision to any other person or circumstance will not be affected, and the provision so held to be invalid, unenforceable or otherwise illegal will be reformed to the extent, and only to the extent, necessary to make it enforceable, valid or legal. In the event that any court or other adjudicative body declines to reform any provision of this Agreement held to be invalid, unenforceable or otherwise illegal as contemplated by the immediately preceding sentence, the parties thereto will take all such action as may be necessary or appropriate to replace the provision so held to be invalid, unenforceable or otherwise illegal with one or more alternative provisions that effectuate the purpose and intent of the original provisions of this Agreement as fully as possible without being invalid, unenforceable or otherwise illegal. Notwithstanding the foregoing, both the Company and Indemnitee acknowledge that in certain instances, federal law or applicable public policy may prohibit the Company from indemnifying its directors and officers under this Agreement or otherwise. Indemnitee understands and acknowledges that the Company has undertaken or may be required to undertake with the Securities and Exchange Commission to submit the question of indemnification to a court in certain circumstances for a determination of the Company's right under public policy to indemnify Indemnitee.
18. Validity.
     No provision of this Agreement may be waived, modified or discharged unless such waiver, modification or discharge is agreed to in writing signed by Indemnitee and the Company. No waiver by either party hereto at any time of any breach by the other party hereto or compliance with any condition or provision of this Agreement to be performed by such other party will be deemed a waiver of similar or dissimilar provisions or conditions at the same or at any prior or subsequent time. No agreements or representations, oral or otherwise, expressed or implied with respect to the subject matter hereof have been made by either party that are not set forth expressly in this Agreement.
19. Miscellaneous.
     It is the intent of the Company that Indemnitee not be required to incur legal fees and or other Expenses associated with the interpretation, enforcement or defense of Indemnitee's rights under this Agreement by litigation or otherwise because the cost and expense thereof would substantially detract from the benefits intended to be extended to Indemnitee hereunder. Accordingly, without limiting the generality or effect of any other provision hereof, if it should appear to Indemnitee that the Company has failed to comply with any of its obligations under this Agreement or in the event that the Company or any other person takes or threatens to take any action to declare this Agreement void or unenforceable, or institutes any litigation or other action or proceeding designed to deny, or to recover from, Indemnitee the benefits provided or
20. Legal Fees and Expenses.
 
intended to be provided to Indemnitee hereunder, the Company irrevocably authorizes the Indemnitee from time to time to retain counsel of Indemnitee's choice, at the expense of the Company as hereafter provided, to advise and represent Indemnitee in connection with any such interpretation, enforcement or defense, including without limitation the initiation or defense of any litigation or other legal action, whether by or against the Company or any director, officer, stockholder or other person affiliated with the Company, in any jurisdiction. Notwithstanding any existing or prior attorney-client relationship between the Company and such counsel, to the fullest extent allowed by law, the Company irrevocably consents to Indemnitee's entering into an attorney-client relationship with such counsel, and in that connection the Company and Indemnitee agree that a confidential relationship will exist between Indemnitee and such counsel. Without limiting the generality or effect of any other provision hereof, and without regard to whether Indemnitee prevails, in whole or in part, in connection with any of the foregoing, the Company will pay and be solely financially responsible for any and all attorneys' and related fees and expenses incurred by Indemnitee in connection with any of the foregoing.
     Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Company shall not be obligated pursuant to the terms of this Agreement to indemnify Indemnitee for expenses and payment of profits arising from the purchase and sale by Indemnitee of securities in violation of Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act or any similar successor statute; that notwithstanding any limitation set forth in this Section 21 regarding the Company's obligation to provide indemnification, Indemnitee shall be entitled under Section 3 to receive the advancement of Expenses hereunder with respect to any such Claim unless and until a court having jurisdiction over the Claim shall have made a final judicial determination (as to which all rights of appeal therefrom have been exhausted or lapsed) that Indemnitee has violated such statute.
21. Claims Under Section 
16(b)
.
provided, however,
     Unless the context of this Agreement otherwise requires, (i) "it" or "its" or words of any gender include each other gender, (ii) words using the singular or plural number also include the plural or singular number, respectively, (iii) the terms "hereof," "herein," "hereby" and derivative or similar words refer to this entire Agreement, (iv) the term "Section" refers to the specified Section of this Agreement, (v) the terms "include," "includes" and "including" will be deemed to be followed by the words "without limitation" (whether or not so expressed), and (vi) the word "or" is disjunctive but not exclusive. Whenever this Agreement refers to a number of days, such number will refer to calendar days unless business days are specified and whenever action must be taken (including the giving of notice or the delivery of documents) under this Agreement during a certain period of time or by a particular date that ends or occurs on a non-business day, then such period or date will be extended until the immediately following business day. As used herein, "business day" means any day other than Saturday, Sunday or a United States federal holiday.
22. Certain Interpretive Matters.
     . Subject to Section 10, this Agreement, the Constituent Documents and the Other Indemnity Provisions constitute the entire agreement and
23. Entire Agreement
 
supersede all prior agreements and understandings, both written and oral, between the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement. Any prior agreements or understandings between the parties hereto with respect to indemnification are hereby terminated and of no further force or effect.
     This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which will be deemed to be an original but all of which together will constitute one and the same agreement.
24. Counterparts.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Indemnitee has executed and the Company has caused its duly authorized representative to execute this Agreement as of the date first above written.

 
Exhibit 10.2
     Reynolds American Inc., a North Carolina corporation, hereby adopts this Equity Incentive Award Plan for Directors of Reynolds American Inc. (amended and restated effective February 2, 2005). The Plan is an amendment, restatement and continuation of the Amended and Restated Equity Incentive Award Plan for Directors of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Holdings, Inc. and Subsidiaries. The purposes of this Plan are as follows:
     (1) To further the growth, development and financial success of the Company by providing additional incentives to its Directors by assisting them to become owners of capital stock of the Company and thus to benefit directly from its growth, development and financial success.
     (2) To enable the Company to obtain and retain the services of the type of Directors considered essential to the long-term success of the Company by providing and offering them an opportunity to become owners of capital stock of the Company.
Section 1.1  General
     Whenever the following terms are used in this Plan they shall have the meaning specified below unless the context clearly indicates to the contrary.
Section 1.2  Affiliate
     "Affiliate" of any person shall mean another person that directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, such first person.
Section 1.3  BAT
     "BAT" shall mean, collectively, British American Tobacco, p.l.c., a public limited company incorporated under the laws of England and Wales, and its Affiliates.
Section 1.4  Board
     "Board" shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company.
Section 1.5  Code
     "Code" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
 
Section 1.6  Committee
     "Committee" shall mean the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee of the Board.
Section 1.7  Common Stock
     "Common Stock" shall mean the common stock, par value $0.0001 per share, of the Company.
Section 1.8  Company
     "Company" shall mean Reynolds American Inc., a North Carolina corporation.
Section 1.9  Director
     "Director" shall mean a member of the Board.
Section 1.10  Eligible Director
     "Eligible Director" shall mean a Director who has never been an employee or officer of the Company, any Subsidiary, BAT or any of their Affiliates; provided, however, that the Non-Executive Chairman shall be an Eligible Director.
Section 1.11  Grant
     "Grant" shall mean an award made to a Participant pursuant to the Plan.
Section 1.12  Non-Executive Chairman
     "Non-Executive Chairman" shall mean the Non-Executive Chairman of the Board.
Section 1.13  Option
     "Option" shall mean an option granted under the Plan to purchase Common Stock.
Section 1.14  Option Price
     "Option Price" shall have the meaning given in Section 4.2.
Section 1.15  Optionee
     "Optionee" shall mean a Director to whom an Option is granted under the Plan.
Section 1.16  Participant
     "Participant" shall mean a Director to whom a Grant has been made.
 
Section 1.17  Plan
     "Plan" shall mean the Equity Incentive Award Plan for Directors of Reynolds American Inc.
Section 1.18  Secretary
     "Secretary" shall mean the Secretary of the Company.
Section 1.19  Stock Award
     "Stock Award" shall mean the annual award, either in the form of deferred stock units or shares of Common Stock, made pursuant to Article VI.
Section 1.20  Subsidiary
     "Subsidiary" shall mean any corporation in an unbroken chain of corporations beginning with the Company if each of the corporations, or if each group of commonly controlled corporations, other than the last corporation in an unbroken chain then owns stock possessing fifty percent (50%) or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other corporations in such chain.
Section 2.1  Shares Subject to Plan
     The shares of stock subject to Grant shall be shares of Common Stock. The aggregate number of shares of Common Stock which are available for Grants under the Plan shall not exceed 500,000. Shares of Common Stock related to Grants that are forfeited, terminated, canceled, expire unexercised, settled in cash in lieu of stock or in such manner that all or some of the shares of Common Stock covered by a Grant are not issued to a Participant, shall immediately become available for Grants.
Section 3.1  Eligibility
     Any Eligible Director shall be eligible to be granted Options as set forth in this Article III.
Section 3.2  Granting of Options to Directors
     Options may be granted at any time and solely in the discretion of the Committee to each Eligible Director elected to serve on the Board. Such Options shall be subject to the terms and conditions set forth in Article IV.
 
Section 4.1  Option Agreement
     A grant of Options to Eligible Directors shall be evidenced by a Stock Option Agreement, which shall be executed by the Optionee and an authorized officer of the Company and which shall incorporate the terms and conditions of this Article IV and such other terms and conditions as the Committee shall determine, consistent with the Plan.
Section 4.2  Option Price
     The exercise price of each share of Common Stock subject to an Option granted pursuant to Section 3.2 shall be the final closing price of a share of Common Stock (as reported on the New York Stock Exchange consolidated tape) on the date of grant.
Section 4.3  Commencement of Exercisability
     Options granted pursuant to Section 3.2 shall not be exercisable prior to six (6) months after the date of grant, and thereafter shall be exercisable in full, subject to applicable securities regulations.
Section 4.4  Expiration of Option
     The Option shall expire and may not be exercised to any extent after the expiration of ten (10) years from the date the Option was granted.
Section 5.1  Persons Eligible to Exercise
     During the lifetime of the Optionee, only he or his guardian may exercise an Option granted to him, or any portion thereof. After the death of the Optionee, any exercisable portion of an Option may, prior to the time when such portion becomes unexercisable under Section 4.4, be exercised by his personal representative or by any person empowered to do so under the deceased Optionee's will or under the then applicable laws of descent and distribution.
Section 5.2  Partial Exercise
     At any time and from time to time prior to the time when any exercisable Option or exercisable portion thereof expires or becomes unexercisable under Section 4.4, such Option or portion thereof may be exercised in whole or in part; , , that the Company shall not be required to issue fractional shares.
provided
however
 
Section 5.3  Manner of Exercise
     An exercisable Option, or any exercisable portion thereof, may be exercised solely by delivering to the Secretary or his office all of the following prior to the time when such Option or such portion becomes unexercisable:
     (a) Notice in writing signed by the Optionee or other person then entitled to exercise such Option or portion thereof, stating that such Option or portion thereof is exercised;
     (b) Full payment of the Option Price shall be made in cash, by check or a combination thereof, for the shares of Common Stock with respect to which such Option or portion thereof is thereby exercised, together with payment of any federal income or other tax required to be withheld by the Company with respect to such shares of Common Stock, in accordance with the terms of the Plan and of any applicable guidelines of the Committee in effect at the time. The requirement of payment will be deemed satisfied if the Participant has made arrangements satisfactory to the Company with a duly registered broker-dealer that is a member of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. to sell on the date of exercise a sufficient number of shares of Common Stock being purchased so that the net proceeds of the sale transaction will at least equal the full exercise price and pursuant to which the broker-dealer undertakes to deliver the full exercise price to the Company not later than the later of (i) the settlement date of the sale transaction and (ii) the date on which the Company delivers to the broker-dealer the shares of Common Stock being purchased pursuant to the exercise of such Option. This method is known as the "broker-dealer exercise method" and is subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, in the Option grant agreement and in guidelines established by the Committee;
     (c) Such representations and documents as the Committee reasonably deems necessary or advisable to effect compliance with all applicable provisions of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended and any other federal, state or foreign securities laws or regulations. The Committee may, in its absolute discretion, also take whatever additional actions it deems appropriate to effect such compliance, including, without limitation, placing legends on share certificates and issuing stop-transfer orders to transfer agents and registrars; and
     (d) In the event that the Option or portion thereof shall be exercised pursuant to Section 5.1 by any person or persons other than the Optionee, appropriate proof of the right of such person or persons to exercise the Option or portion thereof.
Section 5.4  Rights as Stockholders
     The holders of Options shall not be, nor have any of the rights or privileges of, stockholders of the Company in respect of any shares of Common Stock purchasable upon the exercise of any part of an Option unless and until certificates representing such shares of Common Stock have been issued by the Company to such holders.
Section 5.5  Transfer Restrictions
     The Committee, in its absolute discretion, may impose such restrictions on the transferability of the shares of Common Stock purchasable upon the exercise of an Option as it
 
deems appropriate, and any such restriction shall be set forth in the respective Stock Option Agreement and may be referred to on the certificates evidencing such shares of Common Stock.
Section 6.1  Granting of Initial Stock Award to Directors
     (a) Each Eligible Director who is elected to serve on the Board shall receive an initial Stock Award as of the date of such Director's initial election to serve on the Board (an "Initial Stock Award"). Such Initial Stock Award shall be granted only once to each Eligible Director as soon as practicable following the Director's initial election to serve on the Board and shall be subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this Article VI. Notwithstanding this Section 6.1(a), in the event of the appointment of an existing Director who is or was an employee of the Company to the position of Non-Executive Chairman and such Director has not yet received an Initial Stock Award, the Non-Executive Chairman shall receive an Initial Stock Award upon his or her appointment to the position of Non-Executive Chairman.
     (b) Except as provided in Section 6.1(c) below, the Initial Stock Award shall be made in the form of deferred stock units, as described in Section 6.4. Each Eligible Director shall receive an Initial Stock Award of 3,500 deferred stock units.
     (c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, commencing with the Initial Stock Award for 2004, an Eligible Director may elect to receive the Initial Stock Award in the form of 3,500 shares of Common Stock. The election to receive shares of Common Stock must be made in writing within thirty (30) days after the date a Director becomes a Director. An election to receive shares of Common Stock shall be irrevocable by the Director.
Section 6.2  Granting of Annual Stock Awards
     (a) Each Eligible Director shall receive an annual Stock Award as of the date of the Company's annual meeting of stockholders or the one (1) year anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting of stockholders, if no meeting has been scheduled for such subsequent year, provided that the Director serves on the Board immediately following such date (an "Annual Stock Award"). The Annual Stock Award for 2005 shall be made as of July 30, 2005 or, if later, the date of the Director's election or re-election to serve on the Board.
     (b) Except as provided in Section 6.2(c) below, the Annual Stock Award shall be made in the form of deferred stock units, as described in Section 6.4. Each Eligible Director, other than the Non-Executive Chairman, shall receive an Annual Stock Award of 1,000 deferred stock units. The Non-Executive Chairman shall receive an Annual Stock Award of 2,000 deferred stock units.
     (c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, commencing with the Annual Stock Award for 2005, an Eligible Director or the Non-Executive Chairman may elect to receive the Annual Stock Award in the form of 1,000 or 2,000 shares of Common Stock, respectively. The election to receive shares of Common Stock must be made in writing by December 31 of the year preceding the year during which the Annual Stock Award would otherwise be granted or, if later, within
 
thirty (30) days after the date a Director becomes a Director. An election to receive shares of Common Stock shall be irrevocable by the Director and shall be effective only for the year immediately following the date on which it was filed.
Section 6.3  Grant of Quarterly Stock Awards
     (a) Each Eligible Director shall receive a quarterly Stock Award on the last day of each calendar quarter, provided that the Director has served on the Board at any time during such calendar quarter (a "Quarterly Stock Award").
     (b) The Quarterly Stock Award shall be made in the form of deferred stock units, as described in Section 6.4. The number of deferred stock units to be credited to each Eligible Director's account, other than the Non-Executive Chairman's account, on the last day of each calendar quarter shall be determined pursuant to the following formula: $10,000 divided by the average of the closing price of a share of Common Stock (as reported on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") consolidated tape for each business day during the last month of such calendar quarter). The number of deferred stock units to be credited to the Non-Executive Chairman's account on the last day of each calendar quarter shall be determined pursuant to the following formula: $20,000 divided by the average of the closing price of a share of Common Stock (as reported on the NYSE consolidated tape for each business day during the last month of such calendar quarter). In the event an Eligible Director has served on the Board or in the position of Non-Executive Chairman for less than an entire quarter, the number of deferred stock units to be credited to his or her account on the last day of such quarter shall be prorated based on the actual number of days of his or her service on the Board during the quarter.
Section 6.4  Deferred Stock Units
     Each deferred stock unit shall be equal in value to one (1) share of Common Stock. As of the date any dividend is paid to shareholders of Common Stock, the Director shall be credited with additional deferred stock units equal to the number of shares of Common Stock (including fractions of a share) that could have been purchased at the closing price of Common Stock on such date with the dividend paid on the number of shares of Common Stock to which the Director's deferred stock units are then equivalent. In case of dividends paid in property, the dividend shall be deemed to be the fair market value of the property at the time of distribution of the dividend, as determined by the Committee.
Section 6.5  Distribution of Deferred Stock Units
     (a) For all Grants made under this Plan prior to December 31, 2004, the distribution of a Participant's deferred stock units will be made as follows:
     (i) Unless as otherwise elected in Section 6.5(a)(ii), payment of a Participant's deferred stock units shall be made in one (1) lump sum as soon as practicable following the end of the year in which the Participant ceases to be a Director.
     (ii) At the election of the Participant made in writing and delivered to the Committee at any time on or before December 1 of the year of termination of the Participant's service as a Director, distribution of all of his or her deferred stock units,
 
commencing as soon as practicable following the end of the year in which the Participant ceases to be a Director, shall be made in any number of annual installments not exceeding ten (10). Any such election, unless made irrevocable by its terms, may be changed by written notice to the Committee at any time prior to December 1 of the year of a Participant's termination of service as a Director.
     (b) For all Grants made under this Plan after December 31, 2004, the distribution of a Participant's deferred stock units will be made as follows:
     (i) According to the election by each Participant on an annual election form provided by the Company to the Participant in December of the year preceding the grant of any award under this Plan in the next Plan year, payment of a Participant's deferred stock units will be made either in a lump sum or in any number of annual installments not exceeding ten (10), both upon a date or dates certain or commencing in the January following the termination of service as a Director.
     (ii) Elections pursuant to Section 6.5(b)(i) are not irrevocable; provided, however, any subsequent election that changes the timing or form of a Participant's previous distribution election must comply with Section 409A of the Code, including requirements that such election (A) may not be effective until twelve (12) months after the date the election is made, (B) any subsequent elections relating to payments scheduled for a particular date or dates must be made at lease twelve (12) months prior to the date of the first scheduled payment, and (C) all subsequent elections for distributions, other than those triggered by disability, death or an unforeseeable emergency, must delay distribution by at least five (5) years from the original distribution date.
     (c) Distribution of a Participant's deferred stock units received in connection with such Participant's Quarterly Stock Awards shall be made only in cash. Distribution of a Participant's deferred stock units received in connection with such Participant's Initial Stock Award and Annual Stock Awards shall be made in cash or stock, at the election of the Participant made in writing and delivered to the Committee at any time on or before December 1 of the year of termination of the Participant's service as a Director. If distribution is made in cash, the amount of distribution shall be determined by multiplying the number of deferred stock units attributable to the installment by the average of the closing price in Common Stock on each business day in the month of December immediately prior to the year in which the installment is to be paid. If distribution is made in stock, any fractional shares of stock shall be paid in cash equal to the value of the fractional share multiplied by the closing price of the Common Stock on the last business day immediately preceding the date of distribution.
Section 6.6  Installment Amount
     In the event a Participant has elected to receive distribution of his or her deferred stock units in more than one (1) installment, the amount of each installment shall be determined by multiplying the current number of deferred stock units by a fraction, the numerator of which is one (1), and the denominator of which is the number of installments yet to be paid.
 
Section 6.7  Distribution upon Death
     In the event of the death of a Participant, whether before or after ceasing to serve as a Director, any deferred stock units to which he or she was entitled, shall be converted to cash and distributed in a lump sum to such person or persons or the survivors thereof, including corporations, unincorporated associations or trusts, as the Participant may have designated. All such designations shall be made in writing signed by the Participant and delivered to the Committee. A Participant may from time to time revoke or change any such designation by written notice to the Committee. If there is no unrevoked designation on file with the Committee at the time of the Participant's death, or if the person or persons designated therein shall have all predeceased the Participant or otherwise ceased to exist, such distributions shall be made in accordance with the Participant's will or in the absence of a will, to the administrator of the Participant's estate. Any distribution under this Section 6.7 shall be made as soon as practicable following the end of the fiscal quarter in which the Committee is notified of the Participant's death. In this case, a Participant's deferred stock units shall be converted to cash by multiplying the number of whole and fractional shares of Common Stock to which the Participant's deferred stock units are equivalent by the average of the closing price of Common Stock on each business day during the last month of the calendar quarter prior to the date of death.
Section 6.8  Withholding Taxes
     The Company shall deduct from all distributions under the Plan any taxes required to be withheld by federal, state, or local governments.
Section 6.9  Terms and Conditions
     All Stock Awards shall be subject to the terms and conditions of this Article VI and such other terms and conditions as the Committee shall determine, consistent with the Plan.
Section 7.1  Plan Administrator
     The Plan shall be administered by the Committee.
Section 7.2  Duties and Powers of Committee
     It shall be the duty of the Committee to conduct the general administration of the Plan in accordance with its provisions. The Committee shall have the power to interpret the Plan and the Grants and to adopt such rules for the administration, interpretation, and application of the Plan as are consistent therewith and to interpret, amend or revoke any such rules. Any such interpretations and rules shall be consistent with the basic purpose of the Plan to make Grants. In its absolute discretion, the Board may at any time and from time to time exercise any and all rights and duties of the Committee under the Plan. The Committee may act either by vote at a telephonic or other meeting or by unanimous written consent in lieu of a meeting.
 
Section 7.3  Compensation; Professional Assistance; Good Faith Actions
     Members of the Committee shall not receive compensation for their services as members in connection with the administration of the Plan, but all expenses and liabilities they incur in connection with the administration of the Plan shall be borne by the Company. The Committee may employ attorneys, consultants, accountants, appraisers, brokers or other persons. The Committee, the Company, the Directors and the officers of the Company shall be entitled to rely upon the advice, opinions or valuations of any such persons. All actions taken and all interpretations and determinations made by the Committee in good faith shall be final and binding upon all Participants, the Company and all other interested persons. No member of the Committee shall be personally liable for any action, determination or interpretation made in good faith with respect to the Plan or the Grants, and all members of the Committee shall be fully protected by the Company with respect to any such action, determination or interpretation.
Section 8.1  Amendment, Suspension or Termination of the Plan
     The Plan may be wholly or partially amended or otherwise modified, suspended or terminated at any time or from time to time by the Board. Except as expressly permitted by the terms of the Plan, neither the amendment, suspension nor termination of the Plan shall, without the consent of the Participant alter or impair any rights or obligations under any Grant theretofore granted. No Grant may be made during any period of suspension nor after termination of the Plan.
Section 8.2  Effect of Plan Upon Other Options and Compensation Plans
     Nothing in this Plan shall be construed to limit the right of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries (a) to establish any other forms of incentives or compensation for Directors of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or (b) to grant or assume options other than under this Plan in connection with any proper corporate purpose, including, but not by way of limitation, the grant or assumption of options in connection with the acquisition by purchase, lease, merger, consolidation or otherwise, of the business, stock or assets of any corporation, firm, association or other entity.
Section 8.3  Adjustments
     (a) In the event of any change in the outstanding Common Stock by reason of a stock split, spin-off, stock dividend, stock combination or reclassification, recapitalization or merger, change of control, or similar event, the Committee may adjust appropriately the number of shares of Common Stock subject to the Plan and available for or covered by Grants and share prices related to outstanding Grants and make such other revisions to outstanding Grants as it deems are equitably required. Any such adjustment made by the Committee shall be final and binding upon all Participants, the Company and all other interested persons.
     (b) In the event of a Change of Control (as defined in paragraph 8.3(c) hereof):
 
     (i) Options granted pursuant to Article III hereof shall become fully vested and exercisable;,, that the Committee may elect to make a cash payment to Participants in cancellation of such Options in such amount as the Committee in its sole discretion shall determine, which amount shall not be less than the product of (x) and (y), where (x) is the excess of the fair market value of Common Stock on the date of exercise over the exercise price, and (y) is the number of shares of Common Stock subject to the Options being canceled.
provided
however
     (ii) Subject to Section 8.4, deferred stock units granted pursuant to Article VI hereof shall be distributed to Participants in a single lump sum.
     (c) For purposes of the Plan, a "Change of Control" shall mean the first to occur of the following events:
     (i) an individual, corporation, partnership, group, associate or other entity or "person", as such term is defined in Section 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"), other than the Company or any employee benefit plans sponsored by the Company, is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of thirty percent (30%) or more of the combined voting power of the Company's outstanding securities ordinarily having the right to vote at elections of directors; ,, that the acquisition of Company securities by BAT pursuant to the Business Combination Agreement, dated as of October 27, 2003, between R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Holdings, Inc. ("RJR") and Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation ("B&W"), as thereafter amended (the "BCA") or as expressly permitted by the Governance Agreement, dated as of July 30, 2004, among British American Tobacco, p.l.c., B&W and the Company (the "Governance Agreement"), shall not be considered a Change of Control for purposes of this subsection (i).
provided
however
     (ii) individuals who constitute the Board (or who have been designated as directors in accordance with Section 1.09 of the BCA) on July 30, 2004 (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority thereof, provided that any person becoming a director subsequent to such date whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's shareholders, was (1) approved by a vote of at least three-quarters of the directors comprising the Incumbent Board (either by a specific vote or by approval of the proxy statement of the Company in which such person is named as a nominee of the Company for director) or (2) made in accordance with Section 2.01 of the Governance Agreement, but excluding for this purpose any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of either an actual or threatened election contest (as such terms are used in Rule 14a-11 of Regulation 14A promulgated under the Exchange Act) or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of an individual, corporation, partnership, group, associate or other entity or "person" other than the Board, shall be, for purposes of this paragraph (ii), considered as though such person were a member of the Incumbent Board;
     (iii) the approval by the shareholders of the Company of a plan or agreement providing (1) for a merger or consolidation of the Company other than with a wholly-owned Subsidiary and other than a merger or consolidation that would result in the voting
 
securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity) more than fifty percent (50%) of the combined voting power of the voting securities of the Company or such surviving entity outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation, or (2) for a sale, exchange or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company, other than any such transaction where the transferee of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company is a wholly owned subsidiary or an entity more than fifty percent (50%) of the combined voting power of the voting securities of which is represented by voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior to the transaction (either remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the transferee entity). If any of the events enumerated in this paragraph (iii) occur, the Board shall determine the effective date of the Change of Control resulting therefrom for purposes of the Plan or the Grants hereunder.
Section 8.4  Compliance with Section 409A of the Code
     The Plan is intended to comply with Section 409A of the Code and shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with such intent.
Section 8.5  Titles
     Titles are provided herein for convenience only and are not to serve as a basis for interpretation or construction of the Plan.
Section 8.6  Pronouns
     The masculine pronoun shall include the feminine and neutral and the singular shall include the plural, where the context so indicates.
Section 8.7  Governing Law
     All questions arising in respect of the Plan, including those pertaining to its validity, interpretation and administration, shall be governed, controlled and determined in accordance with the applicable provisions of federal law and, to the extent not preempted by federal law, the laws of the State of North Carolina.

 
Exhibit 10.3
     1.1 NAME AND PURPOSE. The name of this plan is the "Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors of Reynolds American Inc." (the "Plan"). The Plan is an amendment, restatement and continuation of the Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Holdings, Inc. The purpose of this Plan is to provide non-employee Directors of the Company with increased flexibility in timing the receipt of board service fees and to assist the Company in attracting and retaining qualified individuals to serve as Directors.
     1.2 DEFINITIONS. Whenever used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the meaning set forth below:
 
     2.1 PARTICIPATION IN THE PLAN. Any individual who is a Director as defined in Section 1.2(f) may participate in the Plan.
     3.1 ELECTION TO PARTICIPATE. Each Director may elect annually to have payment of all or any increment of twenty-five percent (25%) of his or her Compensation for that Plan Year deferred. An election to defer may provide that the Compensation deferred will be paid in January of a specified year in the future or in January following the end of the Plan Year during which the Participant ceased to be a Director.
     No election to defer under this Plan may be made after December 31 of the year preceding the Plan Year during which Compensation would otherwise be paid or, if later, within thirty (30) days after the date a Director becomes a Director. An election to defer any Compensation shall be in writing and shall be delivered to the Plan Administrator. An election to defer shall be irrevocable by the Director and shall be effective only for the Plan Year immediately following the date on which it was filed. In the absence of a written election to defer filed by a Director with the Plan Administrator, any Compensation will be paid directly to the Director.
     3.2 MODE OF DEFERRAL. Payment of a Participant's Compensation may be deferred in twenty-five percent (25%) increments by means of a cash credit, a stock credit or a combination of the two as the Participant shall elect in writing at the same time as the election provided for in Section 3.1. If a Participant fails to make an election as to mode of deferral, he or she shall be deemed to have elected deferral by means of a cash credit. Cash credits and stock credits shall be recorded in accounts established in Participants' names on the books of the Company.
 
quarter. As of the date any dividend is paid to shareholders of Common Stock, the Participant's stock credit account shall also be credited with an additional Common Stock equivalent equal to the number of shares of Common Stock (including fractions of a share) that could have been purchased at the Closing Price on such date with the dividend paid on the number of shares of Common Stock to which the Participant's stock credit account is then equivalent. In case of dividends paid in property, the dividend shall be deemed to be the fair market value of the property at the time of distribution of the dividend, as determined by the Plan Administrator.
     3.3 DISTRIBUTION OF CREDITS.
(i) Unless as otherwise elected in Section 3.3(a)(ii), payment of a Participant's deferred stock units shall be made in one (1) lump sum as soon as practicable in the year in which the Participant had elected to receive payment.
(ii) At the election of the Participant made in writing and delivered to the Plan Administrator at any time on or before December 1 of the year prior to the year in which the Participant had elected to receive payment, distribution of all of his or her account shall be made in any number of annual installments not exceeding ten (10). Any such election, unless made irrevocable by its terms, may be changed by written notice to the Plan Administrator at any time prior to December 1 of the Plan Year prior to the year in which the Participant had elected to receive payment.
(i) According to the election by each Participant on an annual election form provided by the Company to the Participant in December of the year preceding
 
the grant of any award under this Plan in the next Plan Year, payment of a Participant's stock credit account or cash credit account will be made either in a lump sum or in any number of annual installments not exceeding ten (10), both upon a date or dates certain or commencing in the January following the termination of service as a Director.
(ii) Elections pursuant to Section 3.3(b)(i) are not irrevocable; provided, however, any subsequent election that changes the timing or form of a Participant's previous distribution election must comply with Section 409A of the Code, including requirements that such selection (A) may not be effective until twelve (12) months after the date the election is made, (B) any subsequent elections relating to payments scheduled for a particular date or dates must be made at lease twelve (12) months prior to the date of the first scheduled payment, and (C) all subsequent elections for distributions, other than those triggered by disability, death or an unforeseeable emergency, must delay distribution by at least five (5) years from the original distribution date.
     3.4 ADJUSTMENT. If at any time the number of outstanding shares of Common Stock shall be changed or increased as the result of any stock dividend, subdivision or reclassification of shares, the number of shares of Common Stock to which each Participant's stock credit account is equivalent shall be changed or increased in the same proportion as the outstanding number of shares of Common Stock is changed or increased, or if the number of outstanding shares of Common Stock shall at any time be decreased as the result of any combination or reclassification of shares, the number of shares of Common Stock to which each Participant's stock credit account is equivalent shall be decreased in the same proportion as the outstanding number of shares of Common Stock is decreased. In the event the Company shall at any time be consolidated with or merged into any other corporation and holders of the Company's Common Stock receive common shares of the resulting or surviving corporation, there shall be credited to each Participant's stock credit account, in place of the shares then credited thereto, a stock equivalent determined by multiplying the number of common shares of stock given in exchange for a share of Common Stock upon such consolidation or merger, by the number of shares of Common Stock to which the Participant's account is then equivalent. If in such a consolidation or merger, holders of the Company's Common Stock shall receive any consideration other than common shares of the resulting or surviving corporation, the Plan Administrator, in its sole discretion, shall determine the appropriate change in Participants' accounts.
     3.5 INSTALLMENT AMOUNT. In the event a Participant has elected to receive distribution of his or her accounts in more than one installment, the amount of each installment shall be determined either (a) by multiplying the current balance (denominated in cash units for
 
the portion elected to be deferred as cash credits and denominated in stock units for the portion elected to be deferred in stock credits) in the accounts as determined under Section 3.2, by a fraction, the numerator of which is one, and the denominator of which is the number of installments yet to be paid or (b) by any other method acceptable to the Plan Administrator.
     3.6 DISTRIBUTION UPON DEATH. In the event of the death of a Participant, whether before or after ceasing to serve as a Director, any cash credit account and stock credit account to which he or she was entitled, shall be converted to cash and distributed in one (1) lump-sum to such person or persons or the survivors thereof, including corporations, unincorporated associations or trusts, as the Participant may have designated. All such designations shall be made in writing signed by the Participant and delivered to the Plan Administrator. A Participant may from time to time revoke or change any such designation by written notice to the Plan Administrator. If there is no unrevoked designation on file with the Plan Administrator at the time of the Participant's death, or if the person or persons designated therein shall have all predeceased the Participant or otherwise ceased to exist, such distributions shall be made in accordance with the Participant's will or in the absence of a will, to the administrator of the Participant's estate. Any distribution under this Section 3.6 shall be made as soon as practicable following the end of the fiscal quarter in which the Plan Administrator is notified of the Participant's death. In this case, a Participant's stock credit account shall be converted to cash by multiplying the number of whole and fractional shares of Common Stock to which the Participant's stock credit account is equivalent by the average of the Closing Price of Common Stock on each business day during the last month of the calendar quarter prior to the date of death.
     3.7 WITHHOLDING TAXES. The Company shall deduct from all distributions under the Plan any taxes required to be withheld by federal, state, or local governments.
     4.1 PLAN ADMINISTRATOR. The Plan Administrator shall have full power and authority to administer the Plan including the power to promulgate forms to be used with regard to the Plan, the power to promulgate rules of Plan administration, the power to settle any disputes as to rights or benefits arising from the Plan, and the power to make such decisions or take such action as the Plan Administrator, in its sole discretion, deems necessary or advisable to aid in the proper maintenance of the Plan.
     5.1 FUNDING. No promise hereunder shall be secured by any specific assets of the Company, nor shall any assets of the Company be designated as attributable or allocated to the satisfaction of such promises. Nothing herein creates a vested right. Cash credit and stock credit accounts are not funded and are paid from the general assets of the Company from which the Participant terminated service as a Director. Nothing herein shall be construed to require the Company to maintain any fund or segregate any amount for the benefit of any Participant and no Participant or other person shall have any claim against, right to, or security or other interest in, any fund, account or asset of the Company.
 
     6.1 NON-ALIENATION OF BENEFITS. No benefit under the Plan shall be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or charge, and any attempt to do so shall be void. No such benefit shall, prior to receipt thereof by the Participant, be in any manner liable for or subject to the debts, contracts, liabilities, engagements, or torts of the Participant.
     7.1 DELEGATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE DUTIES. Administrative duties imposed by this Plan may be delegated by the Plan Administrator or the individual charged with such duties.
     7.2 GOVERNING LAW. All questions arising in respect of the Plan, including those pertaining to its validity, interpretation and administration, shall be governed, controlled and determined in accordance with the applicable provisions of federal law and, to the extent not preempted by federal law, the laws of the State of North Carolina.
     7.3 AMENDMENT, MODIFICATION AND TERMINATION OF THE PLAN. The Plan Administrator at any time may terminate and in any respect, amend or modify the Plan.
     7.4 COMPLIANCE WITH SECTION 409A OF THE CODE. The Plan is intended to comply with Section 409A of the Code and shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with such intent.

 
Exhibit 10.4
1.
Purpose of Plan
     The Reynolds American Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan") is an amendment, restatement and continuation of the R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Holdings, Inc. 1999 Long-Term Incentive Plan. The Plan became effective June 14, 1999 and is designed:
2.
Definitions
     As used in the Plan, the following words shall have the following meanings:
 
 
3.
Administration of Plan
4.
Eligibility
     The Committee may from time to time make Grants under the Plan to such employees, or other persons having a unique relationship with Reynolds American or any of its Subsidiaries, and in such form and having such terms, conditions and limitations as the Committee may determine. No Grants may be made under this Plan to non-employee directors of Reynolds American or any of its Subsidiaries. Grants may be granted singly, in combination or in tandem. The terms, conditions and limitations of each Grant under the Plan shall be set forth in a Grant Agreement, in a form approved by the Committee, consistent, however, with the terms of the Plan; , , such Grant Agreement shall contain provisions dealing with the treatment of Grants in the event of the termination, death or disability of a Participant, and may
provided
however
 
also include provisions concerning the treatment of Grants in the event of a change of control of Reynolds American.
5.
Grants
     From time to time, the Committee will determine the forms and amounts of Grants for Participants. Such Grants may take the following forms in the Committee's sole discretion:
 
 
6.
Limitations and Conditions
 
7.
Performance Factors
     The performance factors, if any, selected by the Committee in respect of any Grant shall be based on any one or more of the following: price of Common Stock or the stock of any affiliate, shareholder return, level of dividend return, return on equity, return on investment, return on capital, return on invested capital, economic profit, economic value added, net income, cash net income, free cash flow, earnings per share, cash earnings per share, operating company contribution or market share. These factors shall have a minimum performance standard below which no amount will be paid (to the extent not waived by the Committee or except as otherwise provided in a Grant Agreement) and may have a maximum performance standard above which no additional payments will be made. The applicable performance period shall not exceed ten (10) years.
8.
Adjustments
 
 
 
9.
Amendment and Termination
     Except as otherwise required by law or as provided under the New York Stock Exchange Rules, the Committee shall have the authority to make such amendments to any terms and conditions applicable to outstanding Grants as are consistent with this Plan, provided that, except for adjustments under Sections 8(a) and 10 hereof, no such action shall modify such Grant in a manner adverse to the Participant without the Participant's consent except as such modification is provided for or contemplated in the terms of the Grant. Except as provided in Section 8(a), the exercise price of any outstanding Option or Stock Appreciation Right may not be adjusted or amended, whether through amendment, cancellation or replacement, unless such adjustment or amendment is properly approved by Reynolds American's shareholders. Likewise, the share and payment limitations set forth in Section 6(a) cannot be increased, and the minimum Option or Stock Appreciation Right grant price limitations set forth in Sections 5(a), 5(b) and 5(c) cannot be reduced, in either case without proper stockholder approval. Subject to the foregoing and except as otherwise required by law or as provided in the New York Stock Exchange Rules, the Corporation's Board of Directors may amend, suspend or terminate this Plan as it deems necessary and appropriate to better achieve the Plan's purpose.
10.
Compliance with Section 409A of the Code
     The Plan is intended to comply with Section 409A of the Code and shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with such intent.
11.
Foreign Options and Rights
 
12.
Withholding Taxes
     The Corporation shall have the right to deduct from any payment or settlement made under the Plan any federal, state or local income or other taxes required by law to be withheld with respect to such payment.
13.
Distribution upon Death
     In the event of the death of a Participant, any distribution to which such Participant is entitled under the Plan shall be made to the beneficiary designated by the Participant to receive the proceeds of any noncontributory group life insurance coverage provided for the Participant by the Corporation ("Group Life Insurance Coverage"). If the Participant has not designated such beneficiary, or desires to designate a different beneficiary, the Participant may file with the Corporation a written designation of a beneficiary under the Plan, which designation may be changed or revoked only by the Participant, in writing. If no designation of beneficiary has been made by a Participant under the Group Life Insurance Coverage or filed with the Corporation under the Plan, distribution upon such Participant's death shall be made in accordance with the provisions of the Group Life Insurance Coverage. If a Participant is no longer an employee of the Corporation at the time of death, no longer has any Group Life Insurance Coverage and has not filed a designation of beneficiary with the Corporation under the Plan, distribution upon such Participant's death shall be made to the Participant's estate.
14.
Effective Date and Termination Dates
     The Plan was adopted by Reynolds American on July 30, 2004 and amended and restated effective February 2, 2005. The Plan originally became effective on and as of June 14, 1999 (the "Effective Date"), and shall terminate ten (10) years later, subject to earlier termination by the Board of Directors pursuant to Section 9. The terms of Grants made on or before the expiration of the Plan shall extend beyond such expiration. Grants shall be governed by the terms of the Plan as in effect on the date such Grant was made, except as may be necessary to comply with Section 409A of the Code.
15.
Governing Law
     All questions arising in respect of the Plan, including those pertaining to its validity, interpretation and administration, shall be governed, controlled and determined in accordance with the applicable provisions of federal law and, to the extent not preempted by federal law, the laws of the State of North Carolina.

 
Exhibit 10.5
February 2, 2005
Jeffrey A. Eckmann 409 Orchard Park Drive Bermuda Run, NC 27006
Dear Jeff:
     When signed in the space provided below, this document shall constitute an acceptance of an amendment to your offer of employment letter dated July 29, 2004.
     Your offer of employment letter is hereby amended by adding the following explanatory language regarding your eligibility for severance and the Company's Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP):
     Please indicate your agreement to the terms of this amendment by signing below and returning it to Ann Johnston. A copy will be provided to you.

 
[
                    
, 200
  
]
[Name]
[Street]
[City, State, Zip]
          As consideration for your entering into the Non-Competition, Non-Disclosure of Confidential Information and Commitment to Provide Assistance Agreement, attached hereto as and made a part of this document, you will be eligible for special severance and certain change of control protections from Reynolds American Inc. (the "Company"), the terms and conditions of which are set forth below.
Exhibit A
 
 
 
 
          Please indicate your acceptance of the terms of this agreement by signing this agreement below and returning it to the Company. A copy will be provided to you.
Accepted and agreed to as of thisday
                    
of , 200
                    
                    
  
                    
                    
                    
                    
[Employee]
 
Exhibit A
I, , acknowledging the special severance benefits and certain change of control protections made available to me as consideration for entering into this Non-Competition, Non-Disclosure of Confidential Information and Commitment to Provide Assistance Agreement, do hereby agree to each of the following:
[Name]
 
 
 
Accepted and agreed to:


