FILE:RAI/RAI-8K-20050304171025.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17CF 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
ITEM 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
Effective as of March 2, 2005, the Board of Directors of Reynolds American Inc., referred to as RAI, at its meeting held on February 2, 2005, granted certain awards under the Amended and Restated Reynolds American Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan to approximately 950 employees of RAI and its operating subsidiaries. Each award was split evenly in value between performance units and performance shares. The material terms of each type of award are described below.
The performance units, each of which has an initial value of $1.00, will vest upon the conclusion of the three-year performance period ending December 31, 2007, referred to as the Performance Period, provided RAI pays to its shareholders a quarterly dividend of at least $.95 per share during the Performance Period. If RAI fails to pay the minimum dividend in any fiscal quarter during the Performance Period, then the performance units will be cancelled, unless RAI's Board of Directors otherwise approves the non-cancellation of such units. Upon vesting, each grantee will receive a cash payment equal to the product of $1.00, the number of vested units and the average of the total weighted scores for each year of the Performance Period under RAI's Annual Incentive Award Plan, referred to as the AIAP. Such payment will be made as soon as practicable after the end of the Performance Period. In the event of a grantee's death, permanent disability, retirement or involuntary termination of employment without cause, any outstanding performance units will vest on a pro rata basis, with payment of such units to be made after the Performance Period but before March 15, 2008. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of a change of control of RAI, any outstanding performance units will vest on a pro rata basis and will be paid as soon as practicable after the change of control but before March 15 after the year in which the change of control occurred. Upon vesting after a change of control, each grantee will receive a cash payment equal to the product of (1) the greater of (a) $1.00 and (b) $1.00 multiplied by the average of the total weighted AIAP scores for each year of the Performance Period completed prior to the change of control and (2) the number of vested units. In the event of a grantee's voluntary termination of employment or termination of employment for cause, such grantee's outstanding performance units will be cancelled, subject to the terms of any employment contract between RAI and the grantee.
The performance shares will vest on March 2, 2008, provided RAI pays to its shareholders a quarterly dividend of at least $.95 per share during the Performance Period. If RAI fails to pay the minimum dividend in any fiscal quarter during the Performance Period, then the performance shares will be cancelled, unless RAI's Board otherwise approves the non-cancellation of the performance shares. Upon vesting of the performance shares, a grantee will be entitled to a cash payment equal to the product of the number of vested shares and the per share closing price of RAI's common stock on the vesting date. Prior to the vesting of the performance shares, a grantee will receive dividends with respect to his or her outstanding unvested performance shares to the same extent that any dividends generally are paid by RAI on outstanding shares of RAI's common stock. In the event of a grantee's death or permanent disability, or a change of control of RAI, any outstanding unvested performance shares will immediately vest. In the event of a grantee's involuntary termination of employment without cause or retirement, any outstanding unvested performance shares will vest pro rata. Payment of performance shares will be made as soon as practicable after the vesting date. In the event of a grantee's voluntary termination of employment or
 
termination of employment for cause, such grantee's outstanding performance shares will be cancelled.
The grantees of performance units and performance shares on March 2, 2005, included the following executive officers of RAI: Susan M. Ivey (2,000,000 performance units and 21,207 performance shares); Lynn J. Beasley (1,189,650 performance units and 12,614 performance shares); Charles A. Blixt (819,600 performance units and 8,690 performance shares); Dianne M. Neal (675,000 performance units and 7,157 performance shares); and Jeffrey A. Eckmann (675,000 performance units and 7,157 performance shares).
A copy of the form of performance unit agreement and performance share agreement are attached as Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2 to this Report, respectively.
 
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: March 4, 2005
 

 
Exhibit 10.1
Performance Units Three-Year Vest
     1. . Pursuant to the provisions of the Long-Term Incentive Plan (collectively, the "Plan"), Reynolds American Inc. (the "Company") on the above date has granted to
Grant
subject to the terms and conditions which follow and the terms and conditions of the Plan, a target of
A copy of the Plan is attached and made a part of this Agreement with the same effect as if set forth in the Agreement itself. The initial grant value of each Performance Unit shall be $1.00 (the "Initial Grant Value"). All capitalized terms used in this Agreement shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan, unless the context requires a different meaning.
     2. . (a) The Performance Units shall have a three-year performance period, consisting of the Company's fiscal years 2005, 2006 and 2007 (the "Performance Period"), at the end of which the Performance Units will be valued and paid, if they vest, or cancelled, if they do not vest. For the Performance Units to vest, the Company must pay to its shareholders a dividend of at least $0.95 per share in each fiscal quarter during the period commencing on the Date of Grant and ending on December 31, 2007 (the "Threshold Requirement"), unless the Company's Board of Directors specifically approves the noncancellation of the Performance Units upon the declaration of a quarterly dividend of less than $0.95 per share. In the event the Company fails to pay its shareholders a dividend of at least $0.95 per share in any fiscal quarter during the period from the Date of Grant and ending on December 31, 2007, and the Company's Board of Directors does not approve the noncancellation of the Performance Units, the Performance Units shall be cancelled.
Vesting
     (b) Notwithstanding anything in Section 2(a) to the contrary, in the event of (i) the Grantee's death, (ii) the Grantee's Permanent Disability (as defined in the Company's Long-Term Disability Plan), (iii) the Grantee's Retirement (as such term is defined below), or (iv) the Grantee's involuntary Termination of Employment without Cause (as such terms are defined in Section 5 of this Agreement), the number of Performance Units which shall vest, if not previously cancelled due to the Company's failure to meet the Threshold Requirement,
 
shall be equal to product of (x) the original number of Performance Units granted to the Grantee under this Agreement and (y) a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the number of whole or partial months between January 1, 2005 and the date of the Grantee's Termination of Employment, and the denominator of which shall be 36. Such prorated award shall be paid as soon as practicable following the close of the Company's books at the end of the Performance Period, and in any event no later than March 15, 2008, and each Performance Unit shall have a Payment Value as defined in Section 3 of this Agreement. For purposes of this Agreement, the term "Retirement" shall mean an employee's voluntary Termination of Employment on or after his or her 65 birthday, or on or after his or her 55 birthday with 10 or more years of service with the Company or a subsidiary of the Company.
th
th
     (c) Notwithstanding anything in Section 2(a) to the contrary, in the event of a Change of Control (as defined in the Plan), the number of Performance Units which shall vest, if not previously cancelled due to the Company's failure to meet the Threshold Requirement, shall be equal to the product of (i) the original number of Performance Units granted to the Grantee under this Agreement and (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the number of whole or partial months in the Performance Period before the date of the Change of Control, and the denominator of which shall be 36. Such prorated award shall be paid as soon as practicable after the Change of Control, and in any event no later than March 15 after the end of the year in which the Change of Control occurs. The value of each Performance Unit shall be equal to the greater of (x) the Initial Grant Value or (y) the Initial Grant Value multiplied by the average of the total weighted Annual Incentive Award Plan ("AIAP") scores for each of the years 2005, 2006 and 2007 completed prior to the Change of Control.
     (d) Upon the Grantee's voluntary Termination of Employment or Termination of Employment for Cause (as such terms are defined in Section 5 of this Agreement) prior to the end of a Performance Period, all of the Grantee's Performance Units shall be cancelled, except to the extent that at the time of Termination of Employment, the Grantee has an employment or termination agreement with the Company or one of its subsidiaries which includes non-cancellation of some or all of the Performance Units.
     3.  At the end of the Performance Period, if the Threshold Requirement is met or otherwise waived by the Company's Board of Directors, the value of each Performance Unit shall be determined by multiplying the Initial Grant Value by the average of the total weighted AIAP scores for each of 2005, 2006 and 2007 (the "Payment Value").
Valuation of Performance Units.
     4.  (a) Payment of Performance Units shall be made only in cash. Except with respect to a Change of Control as described in Section 2(c) of this Agreement, or except under such other circumstances as the Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors (the "Compensation Committee") deems appropriate, no payment shall be made to the Grantee prior to the end of the Performance Period. Except as otherwise provided by this Agreement, payment of vested Performance Units shall be made in the amount of the Payment Value as soon as practicable following the close of the Company books at the end of the Performance Period, and in any event no later than March 15, 2008.
Payment.
     (b) In the event of the death of a Grantee, any payment to which such Grantee is entitled under the Plan shall be made to the beneficiary designated by the Grantee to receive the proceeds of any noncontributory group life insurance coverage provided for the Grantee by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company ("Group Life Insurance Coverage"). If the Grantee has not designated such beneficiary, or desires to designate a different beneficiary,
 
the Grantee may file with the Company a written designation of a beneficiary under the Plan, which designation may be changed or revoked only by the Grantee, in writing. If no designation of beneficiary has been made by a Grantee under the Group Life Insurance Coverage or filed with the Company under the Plan, distribution upon such Grantee's death shall be made in accordance with the provisions of the Group Life Insurance Coverage. If a Grantee is no longer an employee of the Company at the time of death, no longer has any Group Life Insurance Coverage and has not filed a designation of beneficiary with the Company under the Plan, distribution upon such Grantee's death shall be made to the Grantee's estate.
     5.  (a) For purposes of this Agreement, the term "Termination of Employment" shall mean termination from active employment with the Company or a subsidiary of the Company; it does not mean the termination of pay and benefits at the end of a period of salary continuation (or other form of severance pay or pay in lieu of salary).
Termination of Employment.
     (b) For purposes of this Agreement, if the Grantee has an employment or severance agreement, employment shall be deemed to have been terminated for "Cause" only as such term is defined in the employment or severance agreement. For purposes of this Agreement, if the Grantee does not have an employment or severance agreement that defines the term "Cause," the Grantee's employment shall be deemed to have been terminated for "Cause" if the Termination of Employment results from the Grantee's: (i) criminal conduct; (ii) deliberate and continual refusal to perform employment duties on substantially a full time basis; (iii) deliberate and continual refusal to act in accordance with any specific lawful instructions of an authorized officer or employee more senior than the Grantee or a majority of the Board of Directors of the Company; or (iv) deliberate misconduct which could be materially damaging to the Company or any of its business operations without a reasonable good faith belief by the Grantee that such conduct was in the best interests of the Company. A Termination of Employment shall not be deemed for Cause hereunder unless the chief human resources officer of the Company shall confirm that any such Termination of Employment is for Cause; , , that the chief executive officer of the Company shall be required to confirm that a Termination of Employment of the chief human resources officer of the Company is for Cause. Any voluntary Termination of Employment by the Grantee in anticipation of an involuntary Termination of Employment for Cause shall be deemed to be a Termination of Employment for Cause.
provided
however
     6.  Other than as specifically provided in this Agreement with regard to the death of the Grantee, this Agreement and any benefit provided or accruing hereunder shall not be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or charge; and any attempt to do so shall be void. No such benefit shall, prior to receipt thereof by the Grantee, be in any manner liable for or subject to the debts, contracts, liabilities, engagements or torts of the Grantee.
Transferability.
     7.  Neither the execution and delivery of this Agreement nor the granting of the Performance Units evidenced by this Agreement shall constitute any agreement or understanding, express or implied, on the part of the Company or its subsidiaries to employ the Grantee for any specific period or in any specific capacity or shall prevent the Company or its subsidiaries from terminating the Grantee's employment at any time with or without Cause.
No Right to Employment.
 
     8. . The granting of Performance Units under this Agreement shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules and regulations and to such approvals of any governmental agencies as may be required.
Application of Laws
     9.  Any notices required to be given hereunder to the Company shall be addressed to The Secretary, Reynolds American Inc., Post Office Box 2990, Winston-Salem, NC 27102-2990, and any notice required to be given hereunder to the Grantee shall be sent to the Grantee's address as shown on the records of the Company.
Notices.
     10.  Any taxes required by federal, state or local laws to be withheld by the Company in respect of the grant of Performance Units or payment of the Payment Value hereunder shall be paid to the Company by the Grantee by the time such taxes are required to be paid or deposited by the Company. The Grantee hereby authorizes the necessary withholding by the Company to satisfy such tax withholding obligations prior to delivery of the Payment Value.
Taxes.
     11. . In consideration of the grant of Performance Units hereunder, the Grantee specifically agrees that the Compensation Committee shall have the exclusive power to interpret the Plan and this Agreement and to adopt such rules for the administration, interpretation and application of the Plan and Agreement as are consistent therewith and to interpret or revoke any such rules. All actions taken and all interpretation and determinations made by the Compensation Committee shall be final, conclusive, and binding upon the Grantee, the Company and all other interested persons. No member of the Compensation Committee shall be personally liable for any action, determination or interpretation made in good faith with respect to the Plan or the Agreement. The Compensation Committee may delegate its interpretive authority to an officer or officers of the Company.
Administration and Interpretation
     12.  To the extent applicable, it is intended that this Agreement and the Plan comply with the provisions of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), so that the income inclusion provisions of Section 409A(a)(1) do not apply to the Grantee. This Agreement and the Plan shall be administered in a manner consistent with this intent, and any provision of this Agreement that would cause the Agreement to fail to satisfy Section 409A of the Code shall have no force and effect until amended to comply with Section 409A of the Code (which amendment may be retroactive to the extent permitted by Section 409A of the Code and may be made by the Company without the consent of the Grantee). In particular, to the extent the Grantee's right to receive payment becomes nonforfeitable pursuant to Section 2(b) or (c) and the event causing the Grantee's right to become nonforfeitable either is the Grantee's Retirement or an event that does not constitute a permitted distribution event under Section 409A(a)(2) of the Code, then notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 4 above, payment will be made on the earlier of (a) the Grantee's "separation from service" with the Company (determined in accordance with Section 409A); , , that in the case the Grantee is a "specified employee" (within the meaning of Section 409A), the Grantee's date of payment shall be made on the date which is 6 months after the date of the Grantee's separation from service with the Company or (b) the Grantee's death.
Compliance with Section 409A of the Code.
provided
however
 
     13.  This Agreement is subject to the Plan, a copy of which is attached. The Board of Directors may amend the Plan and the Compensation Committee may amend this Agreement at any time and in any way, except that, other than for adjustments under Section 12 hereof and as otherwise provided by the Plan, any amendment of the Plan or this Agreement that would impair the Grantee's rights under this Agreement may not be made without the Grantee's written consent.
Amendment.
     14.  (a) In consideration of the grant of Performance Units hereunder, the Grantee, while both actively employed and in the event of Grantee's Termination of Employment for any reason, specifically agrees that within the term of this grant or within one year following the payment of any amounts pursuant to the grant, if later: (i) the Grantee will personally provide reasonable assistance and cooperation to the Company in activities related to the prosecution or defense of any pending or future lawsuits or claims involving the Company; (ii) the Grantee will promptly notify the Company upon receipt of any requests from anyone other than an employee or agent of the Company for information regarding the Company, or if the Grantee becomes aware of any potential claim or proposed litigation against the Company; (iii) the Grantee will refrain from providing any information related to any claim or potential litigation against the Company to any non-Company representatives without either the Company's written permission or being required to provide information pursuant to legal process; (iv) the Grantee will not disclose or misuse any confidential information or material concerning the Company; and (v) the Grantee will not engage in any activity contrary or harmful to the interests of the Company. In further consideration of the grant of Performance Units hereunder, the Grantee specifically agrees that if required by law to provide sworn testimony regarding any Company-related matter: the Grantee will consult with and have Company designated legal counsel present for such testimony (the Company will be responsible for the costs of such designated counsel); the Grantee will confine his testimony to items about which the Grantee has knowledge rather than speculation, unless otherwise directed by legal process; and the Grantee will cooperate with the Company's attorneys to assist their efforts, especially on matters the Grantee has been privy to, holding all privileged attorney-client matters in strictest confidence.
Obligations of Grantee.
     (b) If the Company reasonably determines that the Grantee has materially violated any of the Grantee's obligations under this Agreement, then this Grant shall terminate, effective the date on which such violation began (unless otherwise terminated sooner), and the Company may demand the return of any amount paid to the Grantee hereunder and the Grantee hereby agrees to return such amounts upon such demand. If after such demand the Grantee fails to return such amounts, the Grantee acknowledges that the Company has the right to deduct from any amounts the Company owes to the Grantee (including, but not limited to, wages or other compensation), or to commence judicial proceedings against the Grantee, to recover such amounts and any and all of its attorney's fees and costs.
 
     15.  THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA SHALL GOVERN THE INTERPRETATION, VALIDITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT, REGARDLESS OF THE LAW THAT MIGHT BE APPLIED UNDER PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAWS.
GOVERNING LAW.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company, by its duly authorized officer, and the Grantee have executed this Agreement as of the Date of Grant first above written.

 
Exhibit 10.2
Performance Share 3-Yr Vest
     1. . Pursuant to the provisions of the Reynolds American Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), Reynolds American Inc. (the "Company") on the date set forth above has granted to
Grant
subject to the terms and conditions which follow and the terms and conditions of the Plan, a grant of
A copy of the Plan is attached and made a part of this Agreement with the same effect as if set forth in the Agreement itself. All capitalized terms used below shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan, unless otherwise defined in this Agreement.
     2. . Each Performance Share shall be equal in value to one share of Common Stock.
Valuation of Performance Shares
     3.  (a) Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Performance Shares shall vest on March 2, 2008. For the Performance Shares to vest, the Company must pay to its shareholders a dividend of at least $.95 per share in each fiscal quarter during the period commencing on the Date of Grant and ending on December 31, 2007 (the "Threshold Requirement"), unless the Company's Board of Directors specifically approves the noncancellation of the Performance Shares upon the declaration of a quarterly dividend of less than $.95 per share. In the event the Company fails to pay its shareholders a dividend of at least $.95 per share in any fiscal quarter during the period from the Date of Grant and ending on December 31, 2007, and the Company's Board of Directors does not approve the noncancellation of the Performance Shares, the Performance Shares shall be cancelled.
Vesting.
     (b) Notwithstanding anything in Section 3(a) of this Agreement to the contrary,
 
in the event of (i) the Grantee's death, (ii) the Grantee's Permanent Disability (as such term is defined in the Company's Long-Term Disability Plan), or (iii) a Change of Control, 100% of the Performance Shares not previously cancelled due to the Company's failure to meet the Threshold Requirement, shall vest.
     (c) Notwithstanding anything in Section 3(a) of this Agreement to the contrary, in the event of (i) the Grantee's involuntary Termination of Employment without Cause (as such terms are defined in Section 4 of this Agreement), or (ii) the Grantee's Retirement (as such term is defined below), the number of Performance Shares that will vest, if not previously cancelled due to the Company's failure to meet the Threshold Requirement, shall be equal to the product of (x) the original number of Performance Shares granted to the Grantee under this Agreement and (y) a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the number of whole or partial months between the Date of Grant and the date of the Grantee's Termination of Employment, and the denominator of which shall be 36. For purposes of this Agreement, the term "Retirement" shall mean an employee's voluntary Termination of Employment on or after his or her 65 birthday, or on or after his or her 55 birthday with 10 or more years of service with the Company or a subsidiary of the Company.
th
th
     (d) Notwithstanding anything in Section 3(a) of this Agreement to the contrary, in the event of the Grantee's voluntary Termination of Employment (other than at Retirement) or Termination of Employment for Cause (as such terms are defined in Section 4 of this Agreement), the Performance Shares shall be cancelled.
     4.  (a) For purposes of this Agreement, the term "Termination of Employment" shall mean termination from active employment with the Company or a subsidiary of the Company; it does not mean the termination of pay and benefits at the end of a period of salary continuation (or other form of severance pay or pay in lieu of salary).
Termination of Employment.
     (b) For purposes of this Agreement, if the Grantee has an employment or severance agreement, employment shall be deemed to have been terminated for "Cause" only as such term is defined in the employment or severance agreement. For purposes of this Agreement, if the Grantee does not have an employment or severance agreement that defines the term "Cause," the Grantee's employment shall be deemed to have been terminated for "Cause" if the Termination of Employment results from the Grantee's: (i) criminal conduct; (ii) deliberate and continual refusal to perform employment duties on substantially a full time basis; (iii) deliberate and continual refusal to act in accordance with any specific lawful instructions of an authorized officer or employee more senior than the Grantee or a majority of the Board of Directors of the Company; or (iv) deliberate misconduct which could be materially damaging to the Company or any of its business operations without a reasonable good faith belief by the Grantee that such conduct was in the best interests of the Company. A Termination of Employment shall not be deemed for Cause hereunder unless the chief human resources officer of the Company shall confirm that any such Termination of Employment is for Cause; , , that the chief executive officer of the Company shall be required to confirm that a Termination of Employment of the chief human resources officer of the Company is for Cause. Any voluntary Termination of Employment by the Grantee in anticipation of an involuntary Termination of Employment for Cause shall be deemed to be a Termination of Employment for Cause.
provided
however
 
     5.  As of the date any dividend is paid to shareholders of Common Stock, the Grantee shall be paid an amount equal to the product of (a) the number of Performance Shares held by the Grantee that have not yet been cancelled pursuant to Section 3 of this Agreement, and (b) the dividend per share of Common Stock paid to shareholders of Common Stock on such date. In the case of dividends paid in property, the dividend shall be deemed to be the fair market value of the property at the time of distribution of the dividend, as determined by the Committee.
Dividends.
     6.  (a) Except as otherwise provided by this Agreement, payment of vested Performance Shares shall be made only in cash as soon as practicable following the date of vesting, and in any event, no later than the March 15 after the end of the year in which the payment of Performance Shares vests. The amount of payment shall be determined by multiplying (i) the number of vested Performance Shares by (ii) the Fair Market Value at which the Common Stock is traded at the close of business on the vesting date.
Payment.
     (b) In the event of the death of a Grantee, any payment to which such Grantee is entitled under the Plan shall be made to the beneficiary designated by the Grantee to receive the proceeds of any noncontributory group life insurance coverage provided for the Grantee by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company ("Group Life Insurance Coverage"). If the Grantee has not designated such beneficiary, or desires to designate a different beneficiary, the Grantee may file with the Company a written designation of a beneficiary under the Plan, which designation may be changed or revoked only by the Grantee, in writing. If no designation of beneficiary has been made by a Grantee under the Group Life Insurance Coverage or filed with the Company under the Plan, distribution upon such Grantee's death shall be made in accordance with the provisions of the Group Life Insurance Coverage. If a Grantee is no longer an employee of the Company at the time of death, no longer has any Group Life Insurance Coverage and has not filed a designation of beneficiary with the Company under the Plan, distribution upon such Grantee's death shall be made to the Grantee's estate.
     7.  Other than as specifically provided in this Agreement with regard to the death of the Grantee, this Agreement and any benefit provided or accruing hereunder shall not be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or charge; and any attempt to do so shall be void. No such benefit shall, prior to receipt thereof by the Grantee, be in any manner liable for or subject to the debts, contracts, liabilities, engagements or torts of the Grantee.
Transferability.
     8.  Neither the execution and delivery of this Agreement nor the granting of the Performance Shares evidenced by this Agreement shall constitute any agreement or understanding, express or implied, on the part of the Company or its subsidiaries to employ the Grantee for any specific period or in any specific capacity or shall prevent the Company or its subsidiaries from terminating the Grantee's employment at any time with or without Cause.
No Right to Employment.
 
     9.  The Grant and the obligations of the Company hereunder shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules and regulations and to such approvals of any governmental agencies as may be required.
Application of Laws.
     10.  Any taxes required by federal, state or local laws to be withheld by the Company on the grant or payment of Performance Shares shall be paid to the Company by the Grantee by the time such taxes are required to be paid or deposited by the Company. The Grantee hereby authorizes the necessary withholding by the Company to satisfy such tax withholding obligations prior to delivery of the payment of the Performance Shares.
Taxes.
     11.  Any notices required to be given hereunder to the Company shall be addressed to The Secretary, Reynolds American Inc., Post Office Box 2990, Winston-Salem, NC 27102-2990, and any notice required to be given hereunder to the Grantee shall be sent to the Grantee's address as shown on the records of the Company.
Notices.
     12. . In consideration of the grant of Performance Shares hereunder, the Grantee specifically agrees that the Compensation Committee shall have the exclusive power to interpret the Plan and this Agreement and to adopt such rules for the administration, interpretation and application of the Plan and this Agreement as are consistent therewith and to interpret or revoke any such rules. All actions taken and all interpretation and determinations made by the Compensation Committee shall be final, conclusive and binding upon the Grantee, the Company and all other interested persons. No member of the Compensation Committee shall be personally liable for any action, determination or interpretation made in good faith with respect to the Plan or this Agreement. The Compensation Committee may delegate its interpretive authority to an officer or officers of the Company.
Administration and Interpretation
     13. . To the extent applicable, it is intended that this Agreement and the Plan comply with the provisions of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), so that the income inclusion provisions of Section 409A(a)(1) do not apply to the Grantee. This Agreement and the Plan shall be administered in a manner consistent with this intent, and any provision of this Agreement that would cause the Agreement to fail to satisfy Section 409A of the Code shall have no force and effect until amended to comply with Section 409A of the Code (which amendment may be retroactive to the extent permitted by Section 409A of the Code and may be made by the Company without the consent of the Grantee). In particular, to the extent the Grantee's right to receive payment becomes nonforfeitable pursuant to Section 3(b) or (c) and the event causing the Grantee's right to become nonforfeitable either is the Grantee's Retirement or an event that does not constitute a permitted distribution event under Section 409A(a)(2) of the Code, then notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 6 above, payment will be made on the earlier of (a) the Grantee's "separation from service" with the Company (determined in accordance with Section 409A); , , that in the case the Grantee is a "specified employee" (within the meaning of Section 409A), the Grantee's date of payment shall be made on the date which is 6 months after the date of the Grantee's separation from service with the Company or (b) the Grantee's death.
Compliance with Section 409A of the Code
provided
however
     14.  This Agreement is subject to the Plan, a copy of which is
Amendment.
 
attached. The Board of Directors may amend the Plan and the Compensation Committee may amend this Agreement at any time and in any way, except that, other than for adjustments under Section 13 hereof and as otherwise provided by the Plan, any amendment of the Plan or this Agreement that would impair the Grantee's rights under this Agreement may not be made without the Grantee's written consent.
     15.  (a) In consideration of the grant of Performance Shares hereunder, the Grantee, both while actively employed and in the event of Grantee's Termination of Employment for any reason, specifically agrees that within the term of this Grant or within one year following the payment of any amounts pursuant to the Grant, if later: (i) the Grantee will personally provide reasonable assistance and cooperation to the Company in activities related to the prosecution or defense of any pending or future lawsuits or claims involving the Company; (ii) the Grantee will promptly notify the Company upon receipt of any requests from anyone other than an employee or agent of the Company for information regarding the Company, or if the Grantee becomes aware of any potential claim or proposed litigation against the Company; (iii) the Grantee will refrain from providing any information related to any claim or potential litigation against the Company to any non-Company representatives without either the Company's written permission or being required to provide information pursuant to legal process; (iv) the Grantee will not disclose or misuse any confidential information or material concerning the Company; and (v) the Grantee will not engage in any activity contrary or harmful to the interests of the Company. In further consideration of the grant of Performance Shares hereunder, the Grantee specifically agrees that if required by law to provide sworn testimony regarding any Company-related matter: the Grantee will consult with and have Company designated legal counsel present for such testimony (the Company will be responsible for the costs of such designated counsel); the Grantee will confine his or her testimony to items about which the Grantee has knowledge rather than speculation, unless otherwise directed by legal process; and the Grantee will cooperate with the Company's attorneys to assist their efforts, especially on matters the Grantee has been privy to, holding all privileged attorney-client matters in strictest confidence.
Obligations of Grantee.
     (b) If the Company reasonably determines that the Grantee has materially violated any of the Grantee's obligations under this Agreement, then this Grant shall terminate, effective the date on which such violation began (unless otherwise terminated sooner), and the Company may demand the return of any amount paid to the Grantee hereunder, and the Grantee hereby agrees to return such amounts upon such demand. If after such demand the Grantee fails to return such amounts, the Grantee acknowledges that the Company has the right to deduct from any amounts the Company owes to the Grantee (including, but not limited to, wages or other compensation), or to commence judicial proceedings against the Grantee, to recover such amounts and any and all of its attorney's fees and costs.
 
     16.  THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA SHALL GOVERN THE INTERPRETATION, VALIDITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT, REGARDLESS OF THE LAW THAT MIGHT BE APPLIED UNDER PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAWS.
GOVERNING LAW.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company, by its duly authorized officer, and the Grantee have executed this Agreement as of the Date of Grant first above written.


