FILE:RAI/RAI-8K-20050727084412.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
ITEM 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     The information in this Current Report is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subjected to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
     On July 27, 2005, Reynolds American Inc. issued an earnings release announcing its financial results for the second quarter and six months ended June 30, 2005. A copy of the earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibit.
     The following is furnished as an Exhibit to this Report.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 27, 2005
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
Reynolds American Inc. P.O. Box 2990 Winston-Salem, NC 27102-2990
Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI) today reported solid second-quarter and first-half results. The company also increased its full-year 2005 guidance on net income and diluted earnings per share, reflecting effective tax rate favorability.
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.  July 27, 2005 
"As we approach the first anniversary of the merger, we are pleased with the progress we have made," said Susan M. Ivey, RAI's chief executive officer and president. "Our second-quarter results place us squarely on track to reach our financial objectives for the year. R.J. Reynolds' business model, launched just six months ago and targeted for full implementation by year-end, established the roadmap necessary to improve its performance and ensure we meet our objective of sustainable earnings growth. Merger-related synergies are being realized as we expected. Our integration is coming together smoothly and on schedule.
"During the second quarter, we further enhanced our financial flexibility going forward through a very successful $500 million debt offering," Ivey said. "We also delivered on our commitment to return value to our shareholders by increasing our dividend by nearly 11 percent in July.
"Overall, Reynolds American's first year has been one of tremendous opportunity and progress," she said.
RAI's second quarter and first half results follow in two sections: one that presents measurements reported in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP); and a second section that provides certain GAAP measurements, to provide additional perspective on the company's performance.
pro forma
 
 
On July 13, the RAI board of directors declared a 10.5 percent increase in the company's quarterly cash dividend, increasing it to $1.05 per common share quarterly, or $4.20 on an annualized basis. The new dividend is payable Oct. 3, 2005, to shareholders of record Sept. 9, 2005.
Second Quarter Financial Results (GAAP)
For the second quarter 2005, net sales were $2.1 billion, up 55.5 percent compared with $1.4 billion in 2004. The increase was due primarily to incremental revenues resulting from the July 2004 business combination of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company and the U.S. operations of Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation (B&W), as well as improved pricing.
Operating income was $417 million, up 56.8 percent from the prior year period, due primarily to the business combination, improved pricing, merger-related synergies and a benefit related to the MSA Phase II growers' trust. These were partially offset by merger-related expenses. In addition, operating income was negatively impacted by $25 million in net charges related to the sale of R.J. Reynolds' packaging business.
Net income was $251 million, up 66.2 percent compared with the prior-year quarter, reflecting the impact of the factors cited above as well as a lower effective tax rate. Earnings per diluted share of $1.70 reflect the increased number of shares outstanding as a result of the business combination.
A table that details significant items that were included in GAAP earnings during the second-quarter periods of 2004 and 2005 is attached.
For the first six months of 2005, net sales were $4.1 billion, up 58.0 percent compared with the first half of 2004, due primarily to incremental revenues resulting from the business combination and improved pricing.
Six-Month Financial Results (GAAP)
First-half operating income was $884 million, up 81.5 percent from the year-ago period, reflecting the impact of the same factors cited in the second quarter financial results.
Net income of $532 million was up 94.9 percent from the first six months of 2004, reflecting increased operating income as well as a lower effective tax rate. Earnings per diluted share were $3.60, compared with $3.20 in the prior-year period.
 
Operating Company Volume
The following table summarizes second-quarter and first-half 2005 U.S. cigarette shipment volume for RAI's operating companies, compared with 2004 pre-merger volumes for R.J. Reynolds, Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Inc., and Puerto Rico and other U.S. territories. Volume increases for the second quarter and first half 2005 were driven by the addition of former B&W brands.
 
Industry Volume and Mix
Based on information from Management Science Associates, Inc. (MSAi), industry volume for the second quarter of 2005 was 99.8 billion units, down 2.6 percent from the prior-year period. The industry's full-price mix was 71.6 percent for the second quarter of 2005, up 2.1 percentage points from the year-ago quarter.
For the first six months of 2005, industry volume was 187.7 billion units, down 3.4 percent from the prior-year period. Industry full-price mix was 71.5, up 2.0 percentage points, compared with the first half of 2004.
The following results are presented as if the business combination had been completed as of Jan. 1, 2004 (GAAP basis). A table that reconciles GAAP to GAAP is attached. This table also details significant adjustments that were included in GAAP earnings during the second-quarter and first-half periods of 2004 and 2005.
pro forma
pro forma
 
 
On a GAAP basis, Reynolds American's second-quarter 2005 operating earnings increased 16.8 percent to $417 million compared with the prior-year quarter. For the first six months, RAI's GAAP operating earnings increased 35.4 percent to $884 million. During both 2005 periods, operating earnings were positively impacted by improved pricing, merger-related synergies and other cost reductions, and a benefit related to the MSA Phase II growers' trust. These factors were partially offset by lower volume, merger-related costs, expenses from the quota buyout program and charges related to the sale of R.J. Reynolds' packaging business.
pro forma
pro forma
GAAP net income in the second quarter rose 20.7 percent, to $251 million. For the first half, GAAP net income rose 42.6 percent to $532 million. Net income for both periods was impacted by the factors cited above, as well as by a lower effective tax rate.
Pro forma
pro forma
 
R.J. Reynolds' Shipment Volume (
Pro Forma
)
R.J. Reynolds' 2005 second-quarter shipment volume of 27.6 billion units was down 7.2 percent, in line with the company's prior estimates of a 6-to-8 percent full-year 2005 volume decline. For the first half, shipment volume declined 7.0 percent to 52.5 billion units. For the quarter, full-price mix improved to 60.3 percent, up 1.1 percentage points from the year-ago quarter. For the first half of 2005, full-price mix improved 0.9 percentage points to 60.1 percent.
pro forma
pro forma
R.J. Reynolds' Retail Share (
Pro Forma
)
The following share information is reported as if all brands were part of R.J. Reynolds beginning Jan. 1, 2004.
The company's brand-portfolio strategy announced in February focuses on its two highest potential brands: Camel and Kool. Over the next five to seven years, the goal is for accelerated growth on these two full-price, investment brands to more than offset the expected share declines on other brands.
 
R.J. Reynolds' second-quarter 2005 share of U.S. retail cigarette sales was 29.88 percent, down 1.09 percentage points from the prior-year period. As expected under the new brand portfolio strategy discussed above, investment-brand growth partially offset declines on the company's selective support and non-support brands.
On a combined basis, Camel's filtered styles and Kool gained 0.48 share points, to 9.50 share points, in the second quarter compared with the year-ago quarter. Camel continued its growth trend, gaining 0.28 share points over the prior-year period. Kool also gained share of market in the quarter, increasing 0.20 share points versus the year-ago period. R.J. Reynolds' selective support and non-support brands were down 1.56 share points in the quarter.
"We are performing well against our plans and are on track to deliver our previous estimate for full-year operating income," said Dianne M. Neal, Reynolds American's chief financial officer. "As a result of favorability in our effective annual tax rate, we are increasing our outlook for net income and earnings per share for the year."
Specifically, Reynolds American expects the following for 2005:
Among the factors contributing to operating results are:
As the company has previously noted, the 2005 forecast does not include the impact of a final ruling concerning a refund of 2004 Phase II payments.
Reynolds American expects merger-related cash costs of $200 million to $250 million in 2005.
In June, RAI's wholly owned subsidiary R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Holdings, Inc. (RJR) successfully completed a $500 million debt offering. RJR used the proceeds to purchase, through a tender offer, approximately 62 percent of its 7.75% notes due May 2006 (2006 Notes). RJR will use the balance of the proceeds to pay at maturity any 2006 Notes not tendered, or redeem the 2006 Notes.
The company expects to end the year with cash and short-term investments of approximately $2.7 billion and $1.8 billion in debt.
 
Reynolds American will webcast a conference call to discuss second-quarter and first-half 2005 financial results at 9:30 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time on Wednesday, July 27. The call will be available live online on a listen-only basis. To register for the call, please visit the "Investors" section of . A replay of the call will be available on the site for seven days. Remarks made during the conference call will be current at the time of the call and will not be updated to reflect subsequent material developments. Although news media representatives will not be permitted to ask questions during the call, they are welcome to monitor the remarks on a listen-only basis. Following the call, media representatives may direct inquiries to Maura Payne at (336) 741-6996.
www.ReynoldsAmerican.com
Cautionary Information Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
Statements included in this news release that are not historical in nature are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements regarding RAI's future performance and financial results inherently are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include the substantial and increasing regulation and taxation of the cigarette industry; various legal actions, proceedings and claims relating to the sale, distribution, manufacture, development, advertising, marketing and claimed health effects of cigarettes that are pending or may be instituted against RAI or its subsidiaries; the substantial payment obligations and limitations on the advertising and marketing of cigarettes under various litigation settlement agreements; the continuing decline in volume in the domestic cigarette industry; competition from other cigarette manufacturers, including increased promotional activities and the growth of deep-discount brands; the success or failure of new product innovations and acquisitions; the responsiveness of both the trade and consumers to new products and marketing and promotional programs; the ability to realize the benefits and synergies arising from the combination of R.J. Reynolds and the U.S. cigarette and tobacco business of B&W; any potential costs or savings associated with realigning the cost structure of RAI and its subsidiaries; the ability to achieve efficiencies in manufacturing and distribution operations without negatively affecting sales; the cost of tobacco leaf and other raw materials and commodities used in products; the effect of market conditions on the performance of pension assets, foreign currency exchange rate risk, interest rate risk and the return on corporate cash; the ratings of RAI securities; any adverse impacts from the transition of the packaging operations formerly conducted by RJR Packaging, LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of RJR Tobacco, to the buyers of RJR Packaging, LLC's businesses; and the potential existence of significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting that may be identified during the performance of testing required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Due to these risks and uncertainties, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this news release. Except as provided by federal securities laws, RAI is not required to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Reynolds American Inc.
is the parent company of
R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
,
Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Inc.
, Lane Limited and R.J. Reynolds Global Products, Inc. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, the second-largest U.S. tobacco company, manufactures about one of every three cigarettes sold in the United States, including five of the nation's 10 best-selling brands: Camel, Winston, Kool, Salem and Doral. Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Inc. manufactures Natural American Spirit cigarettes and other tobacco products, and markets them both nationally and internationally. Lane Limited manufactures several roll-your-own, pipe tobacco and little cigar brands, and distributes Dunhill tobacco products. R.J. Reynolds Global Products, Inc. manufactures, sells and distributes American-blend cigarettes and other tobacco products to a variety of customers worldwide. Copies of RAI's news releases, annual reports, SEC filings and other financial materials are available on the company's Web site,
www.ReynoldsAmerican.com
.
 
(1) The 1999 gain on the sale of the international tobacco business was adjusted as a result of a favorable resolution of prior-year tax matters.
 
 
The pro-forma GAAP results for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2004, are presented as if the merger had been completed on January 1, 2004.


