FILE:RAI/RAI-8K-20051205164517.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17CF 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
ITEM 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
(a) On November 30, 2005, the Board of Directors of Reynolds American Inc., referred to as RAI, based upon a recommendation from its Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, approved certain modifications to the compensation program for RAI's non-employee directors. Such modifications, which will be effective January 1, 2006, consist of (1) an increase in the amount of annual retainers paid for service as a chairman of a Board Committee as follows  from $10,000 to $20,000 for the chairman of the Audit Committee, from $7,500 to $10,000 for the chairman of the Compensation Committee and from $5,000 to $10,000 for the chairman of the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, (2) the establishment of an annual retainer of $20,000 for the Lead Director, (3) a decrease in the benefits under RAI's matching grants program and (4) a provision for the reimbursement of expenses incurred by non-employee directors in connection with attending one director education program per year. A summary of the benefits payable to RAI's non-employee directors, reflecting the foregoing modifications, is attached to this report as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
(b) On November 30, 2005, the Board, based upon a recommendation from its Compensation Committee, approved certain amendments to the Reynolds American Inc. Annual Incentive Award Plan, referred to as the Plan. Such amendments consist of (1) changes to provisions regarding eligibility to participate in the Plan, (2) modifications to the formula for determining a participant's cash award under the Plan (including the establishment of a participant multiplier, assigned to each Plan participant (at the level of Vice President and below) based upon the performance rating given to the participant in connection with RAI's annual employee performance review process, which multiplier may decrease or increase (depending upon the performance rating) a participant's actual award under the Plan relative to his target Plan award) and (3) certain other non-material changes. A copy of the amended and restated Plan is attached to this report as Exhibit 10.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
On November 30, 2005, the Board elected Martin D. Feinstein to serve on RAI's Board as a Class III director. The Class III directors of RAI have a term of service ending on the date of RAI's 2007 annual meeting of shareholders. Also on November 30, 2005, the Board elected Mr. Feinstein to serve on the Board's Audit and Compensation Committees.
In connection with the business combination transactions consummated on July 30, 2004, pursuant to which the U.S. cigarette and tobacco business of Brown & Williamson Holdings, Inc. (formerly known as Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation), referred to as B&W, was combined with the business of R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, RAI, B&W and British American Tobacco p.l.c., the parent corporation of B&W, entered into a governance agreement, which sets forth the parties' agreement regarding various aspects of the governance of RAI, including the nomination of RAI directors. Under the terms of such governance agreement, based upon the amount of RAI common stock B&W currently owns, B&W has the right to designate for nomination five directors, at least three of whom are required to be independent. B&W designated Mr. Feinstein for nomination to the Board as an independent director pursuant to the terms of the governance agreement. A copy of the press release announcing Mr. Feinstein's election to the Board and to the Board's Audit and Compensation Committees is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 8.01. Other Events.
On November 30, 2005, the Board approved an amendment to RAI's Corporate Governance Guidelines, allowing the independent members of the Board to elect an independent director to serve as Lead Director, if the positions of Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer are held by the same person. At the same meeting, the independent members of the Board elected General (Retired) John T. Chain, Jr. to serve as the Lead Director, commencing January 1, 2006. As previously announced, Susan M. Ivey, RAI's Chief Executive Officer and President, will assume the additional position of Chairman of the Board effective January 1, 2006, following Andrew J. Schindler's retirement, effective December 31, 2005, as Non-Executive Chairman of the Board. General Chain, a Class III director, also is Chairman of the Board's Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee and a member of the Board's Compensation Committee. The responsibilities of a Lead Director are set forth in RAI's Corporate Governance Guidelines, which can be found in the "Governance" section of the web site. A copy of the press release announcing General Chain's election to the position of Lead Director is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
<www.reynoldsamerican.com>
ITEM 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 10.1
1.     
Fees/Expense Reimbursement
2.     
Deferred Stock Units
3.     
Life Insurance
4.     
Excess Liability Insurance
5.     
Business Travel Accident Insurance
6.     
Matching Grants
7.     
Director Education Programs

 
Exhibit 10.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
Reynolds American Inc. P.O. Box 2990 Winston-Salem, NC 27102-2990
 Martin D. Feinstein, retired chairman of Farmers Group, Inc. and its Farmers New World Life Insurance subsidiary, has been elected to the board of directors of Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI), effective immediately. Retired U.S. Air Force Gen. John T. Chain was elected by the board's independent directors to be the lead director of the board.
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.  Nov. 30, 2005
Feinstein served as chairman of Farmers Group, Inc. and of Farmers New World Life Insurance from April 2005 through July 2005. Prior to that, Feinstein was also CEO of Farmers Group, Inc. and a member of the Group Executive Committee of the Management Board of Zurich Financial Services, Farmers' parent company.
Farmers Insurance Group is the third-largest property and casualty insurance group in the United States, with more than $14 billion in premium revenue and 18 million policyholders.
Feinstein joined Farmers Insurance in 1970, and held a series of key management positions in their United States business, as well as overseas assignments with Zurich Financial Services. He currently sits on the boards of Openwork  UK, a financial advisory firm, and Clear Technology, a privately held software company.
Under terms of the July 2004 agreement through which Reynolds American Inc. was established and which combined the U.S. business of Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp. and R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., British American Tobacco plc (BAT) received the right to designate for nomination up to five RAI board members. Two of those directors can be affiliated with or employed by BAT, and three of them must be independent. Feinstein is an independent board designee of BAT. He will serve on the audit and compensation committees of Reynolds American's board.
Feinstein, a native of Cleveland, Ohio, holds a bachelor's degree from California State University at Los Angeles.
 
Chain has been the chairman of Thomas Group, Inc., an international management consulting firm, since May 1998 and has been a member of the board of directors of Thomas Group, Inc. since May 1995. He served as the president of Quarterdeck Equity Partners, Inc., an investor in the aerospace industry, from 1996 to January 2003. He also served as special assistant to the chairman of Burlington Northern Santa Fe Corporation, a major U.S. freight railroad, from November 1995 to March 1996, and as an executive vice president of Burlington Northern from 1991 to November 1995. For more than five years prior to that time, he served as a General (Commander-in-Chief, the Strategic Air Command) in the U.S. Air Force. General Chain is a member of the boards of directors of ConAgra Foods, Inc., Northrup Grumman Corporation, Kemper Insurance and Thomas Group, Inc. He also was a member of the board of directors of RJR Nabisco, Inc. (which became R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Holdings, Inc., or RJR, in 1999) from 1994 until June 14, 1999, a member of the board of directors of Nabisco Group Holdings Corp., the former parent of RJR, from 1994 to December 2000, and a member of the RJR board of directors from June 1999 through July 2004.
As lead director, Chain will call and preside over meetings of the non-management directors, serve as liaison between the non-management directors and the board's chairman, and provide other assistance to the chairman and other board members.
Reynolds American Inc.
(NYSE: RAI) is the parent company of
R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
,
Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Inc.
, Lane Limited and R.J. Reynolds Global Products, Inc. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, the second-largest U.S. tobacco company, manufactures about one of every three cigarettes sold in the country. The company's brands include five of the 10 best-selling U.S. brands: Camel, Kool, Winston, Salem and Doral. Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Inc. manufactures Natural American Spirit cigarettes and other tobacco products for U.S. and international markets. Lane Limited manufactures several roll-your-own, pipe tobacco and little cigar brands, and distributes Dunhill tobacco products. R.J. Reynolds Global Products, Inc. manufactures, sells and distributes American-blend cigarettes and other tobacco products to a variety of customers worldwide. Copies of RAI's news releases, annual reports, SEC filings and other financial materials are available at
www.ReynoldsAmerican.com
.


