FILE:RAI/RAI-8K-20051003165035.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17CF 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
ITEM 5.04 Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans.
On October 3, 2005, Reynolds American Inc. ("RAI") received a notice, pursuant to Section 101(i)(2)(E) of the Employment Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, from the plan administrator of the Reynolds American Inc. Capital Investment Plan ("CIP") relating to a blackout period during which CIP participants will be unable to effect certain plan transactions. Information regarding such blackout period is set forth in the notice provided to RAI's Directors and Executive Officers, which notice is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
October 3, 2005
     Pursuant to Regulation BTR (Blackout Trading Restriction), promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), and subject to certain exceptions, it is unlawful under Section 306(a)(1) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ("SOX") for any director or executive officer of an issuer of an equity security, directly or indirectly, to purchase, sell or otherwise acquire or transfer any equity security of the issuer during any blackout period with respect to such equity security, if such director or executive officer acquires or previously acquired such equity security in connection with his or her service or employment as a director or executive officer. In the event of such a blackout period, pursuant to Rule 104 of Regulation BTR, the issuer is required to timely notify its directors and executive officers and the SEC of the blackout period. This letter constitutes a Rule 104 notice of a blackout period.
     Effective as of November 1, 2005, (i) the Fighting for Growth Plan for Employees of Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation (the "FFG") will merge with and into the Reynolds American Capital Investment Plan (the "CIP") and (ii) Fidelity Investments Institutional Services Company, Inc. ("Fidelity") will become the service provider and record keeper for the CIP. In connection with the foregoing changes, participants in the FFG and CIP will be unable to effect certain transactions with respect to their respective 401(k) plan accounts during a period (the "CIP Blackout Period") which will commence at 4:00 p.m. Eastern time on October 20, 2005 and is scheduled to end by November 10, 2005 (though the CIP Blackout period may end earlier or later depending upon the transfer of certain data to Fidelity).
     During all or part of the CIP Blackout Period, certain transactions in the CIP's RAI Common Stock Fund (a fund which invests in shares of Reynolds American Inc. common stock) will be suspended. A description of the CIP transactions (including transactions in the RAI Common Stock Fund) that will be suspended by virtue of the CIP Blackout Period, and the length of such suspension, is set forth on attached to this Notice.
Exhibit A
     Please note that, even though you may not participate in the CIP or invest in the CIP's RAI Common Stock Fund, you will be restricted, pursuant to Section 306(a)(1) of SOX, from engaging in transactions involving RAI common stock during the upcoming CIP Blackout Period. In light of the foregoing, .
during the CIP Blackout Period, you are required to refrain from engaging in any transaction involving Reynolds American Inc. common stock, even a transaction outside of the CIP and even if you are not a participant in the CIP, unless you have first obtained confirmation from me or Chuck Blixt that the proposed transaction would satisfy one of the designated exceptions under Regulation BTR
     If you have any questions regarding this matter, please do not hesitate to contact me at the above address or telephone number. Thank you in advance for your patience and cooperation.
 
EXHIBIT A
Note: The CIP Blackout Period is scheduled to end by November 10, 2005 (though such period may end earlier or later depending upon the transfer of certain data to Fidelity).


