FILE:RAI/RAI-8K-20060427084026.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     The information in this Current Report is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subjected to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
     On April 27, 2006, Reynolds American Inc. issued an earnings release announcing its financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2006. A copy of the earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibit.
     The following is furnished as an Exhibit to this Report.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 27, 2006
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
Reynolds American Inc. P.O. Box 2990 Winston-Salem, NC 27102-2990
 
All references in this release to "reported" numbers refer to GAAP measurements; all "adjusted" numbers are non-GAAP. See Schedule 3 of this release for reconciliations of reported to adjusted results for first-quarter 2006.
Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI) today announced increased first-quarter 2006 diluted EPS  on both a reported and an adjusted basis  on the strength of the new business model the company launched last year. Adjusted EPS climbed 8.6 percent from the prior-year period, as the company continued to improve productivity and pricing. The company said its first-quarter results were in line with the full-year guidance it issued on Feb. 7. RAI expects reported EPS for 2006 of $8.00 to $8.40.
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.  April 27, 2006 
 
Overview
"Reynolds American's first-quarter results reflect the progress that our operating companies continue to make in containing costs, improving brand performance and increasing profits," said Susan M. Ivey, RAI's chairman, president and chief executive officer. "To sum up the quarter: progress continues; profits climb."
Ivey noted that a $65 million benefit from the resolution of prior year's tax matters contributed to RAI's 22.8 percent increase in first-quarter reported net income. On an adjusted basis, she said, profit improvements of 8.6 percent were the result of increased pricing and productivity, as well as some non-operating cost benefits.
 
"On an adjusted basis, all of our operating companies increased quarterly profits," she said, "and our strategies for investment-brand growth and productivity improvements remain right on track."
Ivey said that the company's first-quarter performance was marked by dynamics that demonstrate Reynolds American's ability to strengthen its businesses and deliver sustainable earnings growth.
"For example," she said, "R.J. Reynolds' full-price mix improved a full percentage point from the prior-year quarter  which means that higher-priced, more profitable brands are becoming a bigger part of the business, even as they have continued to increase in price.
"That is especially notable when you consider that adult smokers are displaying an increased preference for premium brands at the same time they face inflationary pressures, as well as higher tax rates," she said. "The fact that full-price performance improved speaks to the strength of our business model, as well as favorable industry marketplace dynamics."
Ivey also noted that RAI's $3.5 billion acquisition of Conwood, announced this week, marks another important milestone in Reynolds American's drive to further strengthen its position as a leader in the tobacco industry.
"Conwood has an impressive performance record. It is the nation's second-largest manufacturer of moist snuff. It has the No. 1 or No. 2 position in every smokeless category. And its brands deliver superior margins," Ivey said.
"Conwood has been the growth leader in the moist snuff category, where it has built a 23 percent share of market. And the moist snuff category itself has been growing at an annual rate of 4 percent to 5 percent for the past five years," she said.
"So this acquisition provides us with an important and significant platform that would have taken years to build. We are excited by this unique opportunity to gain immediate scale and strength in the growing moist snuff category."
Brand Performance
Summing up R.J. Reynolds' brand performance for the first quarter, Lynn J. Beasley, R.J. Reynolds' president and chief operating officer, said, "Our key goal is to grow share on our two investment brands, Camel and Kool, while we profitably manage the remainder of our portfolio. And that's happening. By all measures, we are doing well."
Beasley said that during the quarter, Information Resources, Inc. (IRI), the company that provides R.J. Reynolds with retail share of market data, refined its methodology to provide better information upon which to base comparisons. IRI has restated the 2005 share performance of R.J. Reynolds brands based on the new criteria, so 2006 performance can be compared with 2005. Based on those comparisons, the combined first-quarter share of the company's investment brands was 10.29 points, up 0.78 percentage points from the first quarter of 2005.
"Overall, industry fundamentals are good," Beasley said. "We are, however, seeing increased activity in the menthol category in the form of free-product promotions. Nonetheless, Kool gained 0.21 share points during the quarter, as it continued to benefit from the enhanced retail presence and focus it receives as one of our two investment brands."
 
Beasley said that Camel also continued its growth momentum, as well as its heritage of innovation with the first-quarter introduction of Camel Wides tattoo packs. Camel also initiated new efforts to enhance the performance of the brand's menthol styles, including product and packaging upgrades, as well as increases in marketing support and retail presence. These efforts have already generated growth in Camel menthol's distribution and share of market. The first-quarter share for Camel's filtered styles was 7.20 percent, a 0.56 point increase from the prior-year period.
Later in the second quarter, Camel plans to begin a test market of Camel Snus (pronounced "snoose"), a smokeless, spitless tobacco product that will come in a small pouch that is placed between the lip and gum. Camel Snus is different from most moist snuff sold in the United States: its tobacco is pasteurized, not fermented, and it contains less moisture and salt than moist snuff. As a result, Camel Snus does not require the consumer to spit, making it a convenient option for adult tobacco consumers. Test markets will be conducted in Portland, Ore., and Austin, Texas.
"The test markets will provide an opportunity to generate valuable learning regarding the potential business opportunity for snus," Beasley said. "This test is consistent with our desire to offer a variety of differentiated products to adult tobacco consumers."
Other Dynamics
RAI's chief financial officer, Dianne M. Neal, said that the company's first-quarter performance "fully met all of our expectations." She noted that R.J. Reynolds' first-quarter volume, which declined 1.6 percent, benefited from a favorable comparison to the first quarter of 2005, which had weak volume, due to retailers accumulating inventory in late 2004. Neal said the company continues to expect R.J. Reynolds' full-year volume to decline by about 5 percent in 2006.
Neal also said that the second quarter may be marked by increased volume due to trade inventory adjustments associated with the upcoming implementation of R.J. Reynolds' new SAP systems platform. She noted that any inventory increases in the second quarter would likely be balanced by corresponding decreases in the third quarter.
Neal said that RAI remains on track to reach its goal of achieving $600 million in annualized merger synergies by the end of 2006. In addition, she said, the company has already begun to make progress against its goal of $325 million in new productivity gains over the next five years.
"Like 2005," Neal said, "we expect 2006 to be another dynamic year of profitable growth  and we're already off to a solid start."
Reynolds American has reaffirmed its full-year 2006 forecast. The company continues to expect reported EPS of $8.00 to $8.40.
The reported EPS estimate includes the after-tax effect of:
 
The company expects its year-end balance sheet to remain strong, with cash and short-term investments of about $2.7 billion (which includes merger-related cash costs of about $150 million), and year-end debt of $1.6 billion.
This forecast excludes any impact from the Conwood acquisition, which was announced this week.
Reynolds American will webcast a conference call to discuss first-quarter 2006 results at 9:30 a.mEastern Time on Thursday, April 27, 2006. The call will be available live online on a listen-only basis. To register for the call, please visit the "Investors" section of . A replay of the call will be available on the site for 30 days. Remarks made during the conference call will be current at the time of the call and will not be updated to reflect subsequent material developments. Although news media representatives will not be permitted to ask questions during the call, they are welcome to monitor the remarks on a listen-only basis. Following the call, media representatives may direct inquiries to Seth Moskowitz at (336) 741-7698.
.
www.ReynoldsAmerican.com
Statements included in this news release that are not historical in nature are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements regarding RAI's future performance and financial results inherently are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include:
 
Due to these risks and uncertainties, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this news release. Except as provided by federal securities laws, RAI is not required to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
(NYSE: RAI) is the parent company of , Lane Limited and R.J. Reynolds Global Products, Inc. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, the second-largest U.S. tobacco company, manufactures about one of every three cigarettes sold in the country. The company's brands include five of the 10 best-selling U.S. brands: Camel, Kool, Winston, Salem and Doral. Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Inc. manufactures Natural American Spirit cigarettes and other tobacco products for U.S. and international markets. Lane Limited manufactures several roll-your-own, pipe tobacco and little cigar brands, and distributes Dunhill tobacco products. R.J. Reynolds Global Products, Inc. manufactures, sells and distributes American-blend cigarettes and other tobacco products to a variety of customers worldwide. Copies of RAI's news releases, annual reports, SEC filings and other financial materials are available at .
Reynolds American Inc.
R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Inc.
www.ReynoldsAmerican.com
 
Schedule 1
 
 
Schedule 2
 
Schedule 3
RAI management uses "adjusted" (non-GAAP) measurements to set performance goals and to measure the performance of the overall company, and believes that investors' understanding of the underlying performance of the company's continuing operations is enhanced through the disclosure of these metrics. "Adjusted" (non-GAAP) results are not, and should not be viewed as, substitutes for "reported" (GAAP) results.
First Quarter:
 
Schedule 4
Numbers may not add due to rounding
Other RAI Companies include U.S. volume for Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Co. and Lane Limited, as well as volume for Puerto Rico and other U.S. territories.
 
Schedule 5
Numbers may not add due to rounding
Retail shares of market are as reported by Information Resources Inc.


