FILE:RAI/RAI-8K-20060425075523.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
Purchase Agreement
     On April 25, 2006, Reynolds American Inc. (the "Company") announced that it and its direct, wholly owned acquisition subsidiary, Pinch Acquisition Corporation, had entered into a definitive agreement (the "Purchase Agreement"), dated as of April 24, 2006, with Karl J. Breyer, Marshall E. Eisenberg and Thomas J. Pritzker, not individually, but solely as co-trustees of those certain separate and distinct trusts listed therein, and GP Investor, L.L.C. (collectively with the co-trustees, the "Sellers"), to acquire 100% of the capital stock of a newly-formed holding company owning Conwood Company, LP, Conwood Sales Co., LP, Rosswil LLC and Scott Tobacco LLC (collectively, the "Conwood Companies"), which are engaged in the business of developing, manufacturing and marketing smokeless tobacco products.
     The purchase price for the acquisition of the Conwood Companies is $3.5 billion. A portion of the purchase price will be placed into escrow at the closing to support certain indemnification obligations of the Sellers to the Company under the terms of the Purchase Agreement. Prior to the closing, the Sellers will also form a new Delaware corporation owning certain assets now controlled by the Sellers to provide certain indemnification obligations under the terms of the Purchase Agreement.
     In addition to customary conditions, the closing of the acquisition is subject to the completion of satisfactory environmental site assessments and the receipt by Sellers of a favorable tax ruling. The acquisition is expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2006.
     The Purchase Agreement is filed as Exhibit 2.1 to this Current Report and is incorporated herein by reference. This summary of the provisions of the Purchase Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Purchase Agreement.
Commitment Letter
     In connection with the execution of the Purchase Agreement, on April 24, 2006, the Company entered into a commitment letter with Lehman Brothers Commercial Bank, Lehman Brothers Inc., JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. (the "Commitment Letter"). Under the Commitment Letter, which expires on September 24, 2006, Lehman Brothers Commercial Bank and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. have committed to provide the Company credit facilities of up to $3.5 billion, the full amount of the purchase price. These committed credit facilities consist of a six-year senior secured term loan facility of up to $1.7 billion, and a 364-day secured capital markets term loan facility of up to $1.8 billion. Indebtedness under these facilities will be guaranteed by material domestic subsidiaries of the Company. The financing commitments are subject to the conditions set forth in the Commitment Letter, including the exhibits thereto. The committed 364-day secured capital markets term loan facility is available solely to fund amounts which are not obtained pursuant to the Company's planned offering of senior secured notes (the "Notes") of up to $1.8 billion. The Company currently intends to finance its acquisition of the Conwood Companies with $300 million of available cash, borrowings under the secured term loan facility, proceeds from the issuance of the Notes and, to the extent necessary, borrowings under the secured capital markets term loan facility.
     The Commitment Letter also provides for a new $500 million five-year revolving credit facility for the Company for post-closing working capital needs. The Company will not use any borrowings under this facility in connection with the acquisition of the Conwood Companies. Upon the Company's entry into its new revolving credit facility, the existing revolving credit facility of the Company's wholly owned subsidiary, R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Holdings, Inc. ("RJR"), will be terminated.
 
     The foregoing description of the Commitment Letter is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Commitment Letter, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
     Lehman Brothers Inc. is serving as financial advisor to the Company in connection with the acquisition. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Lehman Commercial Paper Inc. participate as lenders in the current revolving credit facility of RJR. In addition, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A serves as administrative agent, and Lehman Commercial Paper, Inc. serves as documentation agent, under this facility.
     The Notes will not be registered under the Securities Act of 1933 and may not be offered or sold in the United States without registration or an applicable exemption from registration.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
     On April 25, 2006, the Company issued a press release announcing its entry into a definitive agreement to acquire the Conwood Companies. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1. Exhibit 99.1 is being "furnished" and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (referred to as the Exchange Act), nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 2.1
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
 
 
 
 
     THIS PURCHASE AGREEMENT, dated as of April 24, 2006, is made by and among (i) Karl J. Breyer, Marshall E. Eisenberg and Thomas J. Pritzker, not individually, but solely as co-trustees (the "Trust Sellers") of those certain separate and distinct trusts listed on (the ""), (ii) GP Investor, L.L.C., a Delaware limited liability company (the "" and, together with the Trust Sellers, ""), (iii) solely for the purposes of , , and , Reynolds American Inc., a North Carolina corporation (""), and (iv) Pinch Acquisition Corporation, a Delaware corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary of Parent (the ""). Parent and the Purchaser, on the one hand, and Sellers collectively (together with Remainco (as defined below) from and after the Closing, where the context would so require), on the other hand, are each referred to herein as a "" and collectively as the "." Certain capitalized terms used herein are defined in below.
Schedule 1
Trusts
LLC Seller
Sellers
Sections 7.1
7.2
7.9
Parent
Purchaser
Party
Parties
Article I
     WHEREAS, Sellers together own 100% of the outstanding Capital Interests of Asworth Corporation, a Nevada corporation ("");
Old Asworth
     WHEREAS, a new Delaware corporation will be formed immediately prior to the Closing Date ("");
New Asworth
     WHEREAS, New Asworth shall be the sole owner of a Delaware limited liability company to be formed prior to the Closing Date ("");
Remainco
     WHEREAS, Sellers intend to cause Old Asworth, New Asworth and Remainco to engage in certain transactions set forth on (the "") pursuant to which, among other things, (i) Old Asworth shall merge with and into Remainco, with Remainco surviving the merger (the ""), (ii) all of the outstanding Capital Interests of Old Asworth shall be converted in the Merger into the right to receive Capital Interests of New Asworth (all Capital Interests of New Asworth, the ""), (iii) Remainco shall transfer or cause to be transferred all of the Capital Interests in the entities listed on (the "") to New Asworth, and (iv) New Asworth shall distribute all of the Capital Interests in Remainco to Sellers;
Schedule 2
Preliminary Transactions
Merger
Shares
Schedule 3
Acquired Companies
     WHEREAS, upon consummation of the Preliminary Transactions, New Asworth shall own, directly or indirectly, all of the
 
Capital Interests in the Acquired Companies, which, in turn, own all of the entities and assets related to the Business and are responsible for all of the Liabilities primarily related to the Business;
     WHEREAS, upon consummation of the Preliminary Transactions, Remainco (directly and through certain of its subsidiaries) shall own and be responsible for the various businesses and investments, and shall be subject to certain Liabilities, related to the Non-Tobacco Business; and
     WHEREAS, the Purchaser desires, following the effectuation of the Preliminary Transactions, to acquire from Sellers, and Sellers desire to sell to the Purchaser, all of the Shares.
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and of the mutual representations, warranties, and covenants contained herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the Parties hereby covenant and agree as follows:
     When used in this Agreement, the following terms have the meanings set forth below:
Section 1.1
Definitions
.
     "" of any particular Person means any other Person or Persons controlling, controlled by, or under common control with such particular Person, where "" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct the management and policies of a Person whether through the ownership of voting securities, contract, or otherwise.
Affiliate" or "Affiliates
control
     "" means this Purchase Agreement, including all Exhibits and Schedules hereto, as amended from time to time in accordance with its terms.
Agreement
     "" means any applicable decree, final determination, injunction, judgment, law, order, ordinance, regulation, rule, statute, or writ of any Governmental Authority.
Applicable Law
     "" means the accounting procedures used in preparing the sample statement of Net Working Capital, which are described on hereto.
Asworth Accounting Procedures
Exhibit A
     "" means the business, as conducted by the Acquired Companies and their respective predecessor entities, if any, of
Business
 
researching, developing, manufacturing, selling, advertising, distributing and marketing smokeless tobacco products.
     "" means any day other than a Saturday or a Sunday or a day on which banks located in New York, New York generally are authorized or required by Applicable Law to close.
Business Day
     "" means (i) in the case of a corporation, any and all shares (however designated) of capital stock, (ii) in the case of an association or business entity, any and all shares, interests, participations, rights or other equivalents (however designated), (iii) in the case of a partnership or limited liability company, any and all partnership interests (whether general or limited) or limited liability company, membership or other interests, (iv) in any case, any other interest or participation that confers on a Person the right to receive a share of the profits and losses of, or distributions of assets of, the issuing Person, or to vote in the election of directors or other matters, and (v) in any case, any right to acquire by whatever means any of the foregoing; , , that "" shall not include any right to receive a share of the profits of an Acquired Company pursuant to a Plan.
Capital Interests
provided
however
Capital Interests
     "" means cash, cash equivalents or any credit balance in any Deposit Account.
Cash
     "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the regulations and interpretations thereunder.
Code
     "" means Old Asworth prior to consummation of the Preliminary Transactions and New Asworth thereafter.
Company
     "" means that certain Confidentiality Agreement, dated November 23, 2005, between Old Asworth and an Affiliate of the Purchaser.
Confidentiality Agreement
     "" means any consent, approval, license, permit, waiver, order or authorization of, or registration, declaration or filing with, any Person, including any Governmental Consent.
Consent
     "" means any written or oral contract, commitment, agreement, arrangement (excluding any regulatory tariff), note, bond, mortgage, lease or other agreement legally binding on any Party.
Contract
     "" means a demand, time, savings, passbook or like account, including deposits and other intracompany
Deposit Account
 
accounts with related Persons, with a bank, savings and loan association, credit union or like organization, other than an account evidenced by a negotiable certificate of deposit.
     "" means any written claim, action, demand, investigation or notice by any Person alleging Liability (including, without limitation, Liability for investigatory costs, cleanup costs, governmental response costs, natural resources damages, property damages, personal injuries, remedial actions or activities or penalties) arising out of, based on or resulting from (i) the presence, Release or threatened Release of any Hazardous Substances at any location, whether or not owned or operated by the Company or the Acquired Companies, or (ii) any Environmental and Safety Requirements; , , that any product Liability arising from the research, development, manufacture, sale, advertising, distribution, consuming, marketing or use of smokeless tobacco products shall not be deemed to be an Environmental Claim.
Environmental Claim
provided
however
     "" means all Applicable Laws relating to pollution or protection of human health or the environment, in each case enacted and in force at the date of this Agreement, applicable to the current or former operations of the Company or the Acquired Companies, including, without limitation, laws relating to Releases or threatened Releases of Hazardous Substances or otherwise relating to the manufacture, processing, distribution, use, treatment, storage, Release, transport or handling of Hazardous Substances and all laws and regulations with regard to recordkeeping, notification, disclosure and reporting requirements respecting Hazardous Substances; , , that any applicable product Liability laws governing the research, development, manufacture, sale, advertising, distribution, consuming, marketing or use of smokeless tobacco products shall not be deemed to be an Environmental and Safety Requirement.
Environmental and Safety Requirements
provided
however
     "" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and the regulations and interpretations issued thereunder.
ERISA
     "" means each corporation, trade or business which is treated as a single employer with the Company and the Acquired Companies under Sections 414(b), 414(c) and 414(m) of the Code.
ERISA Affiliate
     "" means an escrow agent to be jointly selected by Sellers and the Purchaser.
Escrow Agent
 
     "" means that certain Escrow Agreement, by and among the Purchaser, Sellers and the Escrow Agent, to be entered into in connection with the Closing, substantially in the form of attached hereto.
Escrow Agreement
Exhibit B
     "" means $150,000,000, which will be held in a separate account pursuant to the terms of the Escrow Agreement.
Escrow Amount
     "" means all assets to be held by Remainco and its subsidiaries after consummation of the Preliminary Transactions not primarily used or held for use in the Business, including (i) the Capital Interests of D Training, L.P., H Investments, LLC, D Aviation Services, LLC, Investors Forum I, LP and HTF LLC and all of the assets, property, rights and interests of such Persons, (ii) all Cash of the Company and its subsidiaries, including any Cash used as collateral for letters of credit, except to the extent taken into account in the determination of Net Working Capital pursuant to , (iii) all original books and records of Remainco, D Training, L.P., H Investments, LLC, D Aviation Services, LLC, Investors Forum I, LP and HTF LLC and copies of any books and records that relate to the operation of the Business or are necessary for the preparation of Tax Returns of the Business, the Company or the Acquired Companies after the Closing, (iv) all refunds of Taxes to which Sellers are entitled under whether before, on or after the Closing(v) all accounts receivable, notes receivable or similar claims or rights (whether or not billed or accrued) of the Non-Tobacco Business, (vi) all current and prior insurance policies to the extent such policies cover the Non-Tobacco Business, and all insurance proceeds arising out of or related to any damage, destruction or loss of any property or asset used to the extent such property or asset is used in the Non-Tobacco Business or to the extent otherwise related to any Excluded Liability or Excluded Asset, and the rights to assert claims with respect to any such insurance proceeds, (vii) all composite Taxes payable by Sellers to the Company for any Pre-Closing Tax Periods, and (viii) the assets of New Asworth and the Acquired Companies set forth on (but only to the extent the Excluded Assets do not relate to the Business).
Excluded Assets
Section 7.7
Section 9.4
,
Schedule 1.1(i)
     "" means all Liabilities which arise, whether before, on or after the Closing, out of or in connection with the Non-Tobacco Business or the consummation of the Preliminary Transactions (but only to the extent they do not relate to the Business and only to the extent not taken into account in the determination of Net Working Capital pursuant to ), including, (i) any Liabilities for Taxes for Pre-Closing Tax Periods, (ii) any Liabilities under Environmental
Excluded Liabilities
Section 7.7
 
and Safety Requirements not primarily related to the Business, including, without limitation, any such Liabilities related to leasing or operation of any business or facility at Love Field in Texas, operations at Phoenix-Goodyear Airport, and any arrangement for the disposal of Hazardous Substances from the operations at Love Field to the Compass Industries Superfund Site, Tulsa County, Tulsa, Oklahoma, (iii) any Liabilities under ERISA to the extent that such Liabilities relate to Non-Tobacco Employees, (iv) any Liabilities under the Promissory Note, dated December 10, 2001, issued by Old Asworth to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, (v) any Liabilities to former shareholders of Dalfort Corporation with respect to any outstanding share certificates thereof not previously redeemed and (vi) any Liabilities of New Asworth and the Acquired Companies set forth on .
Schedule 1.1(ii)
     "" means generally accepted accounting principles of the United States, consistently applied.
GAAP
     "" means any federal, state or local administrative agency, or any court of competent jurisdiction, department, political subdivision or other governmental authority or instrumentality, in each case, whether domestic or foreign.
Governmental Authority
     "" means any consent, approval, license, permit, waiver, order or authorization of, or registration, declaration or filing with, any Governmental Authority.
Governmental Consent
     "" means any hazardous materials, substances or wastes, chemical substances or mixtures, pesticides, pollutants, contaminants, toxic chemicals, petroleum products or by-products, asbestos, polychlorinated biphenyls (or PCBs), noise or radiation, in each case, defined, listed, or regulated as hazardous or toxic under any Environmental and Safety Requirements; , , that smokeless tobacco products shall not be deemed to be Hazardous Substances.
Hazardous Substances
provided
however
     " means, with respect to the Company and the Acquired Companies, as of the Closing Date, without duplication, (i) all indebtedness for borrowed money to third parties, including, without limitation, all obligations evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or similar instruments, or upon which interest payments are customarily made, (ii) all purchase money indebtedness, including, without limitation, the principal portion of all obligations under capital leases, (iii) all guaranty obligations of any of the Company or the Acquired
Indebtedness"
 
Companies with respect to the indebtedness of any other Person for borrowed money to third parties, including, without limitation, the indebtedness for borrowed money of any of the Company or the Acquired Companies, (iv) all obligations issued or assumed as the deferred purchase price of property purchased by the Company or any Acquired Company that should appear as liabilities on a balance sheet prepared in accordance with GAAP (other than trade payables and other similar obligations incurred in the Ordinary Course of Business), (v) the principal balance outstanding under any synthetic lease, tax retention operating lease or similar off-balance sheet financing where such transaction is considered borrowed money indebtedness for tax purposes but is classified as an operating lease in accordance with GAAP, (vi) all obligations in respect of interest rate protection agreements, foreign currency exchange agreements, commodity purchase agreements or other similar exchange, swap or hedging agreements, and (vii) the maximum amount of any standby letters of credit or acceptances issued or created for the account of the Company or any Acquired Company, including, in each case, the current maturities thereof and any and all interest accrued but unpaid as of the Closing Date.
     "" means the United States Internal Revenue Service.
IRS
     "K" and terms of similar import mean the actual knowledge of the persons identified on , after making a reasonable inquiry.
nowledge of the Purchaser
Schedule 1.1(iii)
     "K" and terms of similar import mean the actual knowledge of the persons identified on , after making a reasonable inquiry.
nowledge of Sellers
Schedule 1.1(iv)
     "" means all land, building, fixtures or other real property used in the Business subject to a leasehold, subleasehold, license, concession or other real property right or interest under a Real Property Lease.
Leased Real Property
     "" means any direct or indirect Indebtedness, liability, commitment or other obligation, whether fixed or unfixed, known or unknown, asserted or unasserted, secured or unsecured, matured or unmatured, accrued, incurred, absolute, contingent or otherwise.
Liability" or "Liabilities
     "" means any mortgage, pledge, security interest, encumbrance, claim, lien (including any lien for Taxes other than Taxes not yet due and payable or being disputed in good faith), or charge of any kind (including, any conditional sale
Liens
 
or other title retention agreement or lease in the nature thereof).
     " means, with respect to any Person, any Liability, demand, claim, action, cause of action, cost, damage, deficiency, Tax, penalty, fine or other loss or expense, whether or not arising out of a Third Party Claim, including, without limitation, all interest, penalties, reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses and reasonable amounts paid or incurred in connection with any action, demand, Proceeding, investigation or claim, including, without limitation, any amounts paid in settlement thereof, against or affecting such Person.
Loss" or "Losses"
     "" means any material adverse effect on the assets, condition (financial or otherwise) or operations of the Business; , in no event shall any of the following, alone or in combination, be deemed to constitute, nor shall any of the following be taken into account in determining whether there has been or shall be, a Material Adverse Effect: (i) any effect resulting from compliance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby; (ii) any effect (including any response or reaction of any competitor of the Business) related to the announcement or pendency of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; (iii) any effect that results from events, circumstances or situations affecting the tobacco industry and/or the smokeless tobacco segment thereof or the United States economy generally; (iv) any effect that results from events, circumstances or situations affecting general worldwide economic or capital market conditions; (v) any product Liability arising from the research, development, manufacture, sale, advertising, distribution, consuming, marketing or use of smokeless tobacco products generally; (vi) any effect of any proposed or actual institution of any new or interpretation of any existing Applicable Laws affecting the Business or the tobacco industry generally; and (vii) any effect of any proposed or actual increase of any Taxes upon the Company and/or any Acquired Company or upon any of the products or assets of the Business resulting from changes in Tax laws or as a result of the termination of the S Election with respect to Post-Closing Tax Periods.
Material Adverse Effect
provided
     "" means the net working capital of the Business determined in accordance with the sample statement of net working capital, which is as of the date thereof, and prepared in a manner consistent with, the Asworth Accounting Procedures and which sample statement of net working capital is attached hereto as .
Net Working Capital
Exhibit A
 
     "" means the businesses, operations, assets, investments and Liabilities of Remainco and its subsidiaries after giving effect to the Preliminary Transactions(comprised of the Excluded Assets and the Excluded Liabilities).
Non-Tobacco Business
     "" means those employees of New Asworth and its subsidiaries set forth on .
Non-Tobacco Employees
Schedule 1.1(v)
     "" means an action taken by a Person if: (i) such action is consistent with the past practices of such Person (or Persons performing similar functions) and is taken in the ordinary course of the normal day-to-day operations of such Person; and/or (ii) such action is similar in nature to actions customarily taken in the ordinary course of the normal day-to-day operations of other Persons that are in a similar line of business.
Ordinary Course of Business
     "" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation or any successor thereto.
PBGC
     "" means all permits, licenses, franchises, certificates, approvals, and other authorizations issued by any Governmental Authority.
Permits
     "" means (i) real estate Taxes, assessments and other governmental fees or other charges not yet due and payable or being disputed in good faith as of the Closing Date; (ii) mechanics and similar statutory Liens arising or incurred in the Ordinary Course of Business for amounts which are not delinquent or which are being disputed in good faith; (iii) zoning, entitlement, building and other land use and similar laws or regulations imposed by any Governmental Authority having jurisdiction over such parcel which are not violated by the current use and operation thereof; (iv) easements, covenants, conditions, restrictions and other similar matters of record which would not materially impair the use or occupancy of such parcel in the operation of the Business; v) statutory landlord Liens and other Liens of lessors under the Real Property Leases; and (vi) any Liens that would not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Permitted Liens
     "" means and includes an individual, a partnership, a joint venture, a limited liability company, a corporation, a trust, an unincorporated organization, a group, or a government or other department or agency thereof, or any other entity.
Person
 
     "" means any Tax Period beginning on or after the Closing Date and that portion of any Straddle Period beginning on or after the Closing Date.
Post-Closing Tax Period
     "" means any Tax Period ending prior to the Closing Date and that portion of any Straddle Period ending prior to the Closing Date.
Pre-Closing Tax Period
     "" means any and all of the following in any jurisdiction throughout the world: (i) patents, patent applications, patent disclosures, and any reissues, continuations, continuations-in-part, divisions, extensions or reexaminations thereof, (ii) trademarks, service marks, trade names, logos, and corporate names and registrations and applications for registration thereof, (iii) internet domain names, (iv) copyrights (registered or unregistered) and copyrightable works and registrations and applications for registration thereof, (v) mask works and registrations and applications for registration thereof, (vi) computer software (including source code and executable code), data, databases, and documentation thereof, (vii) trade secrets and other confidential information, including ideas, list of ingredients, formulas, recipes, compositions, inventions (whether patentable or unpatentable and whether or not reduced to practice), know-how, manufacturing and production processes and techniques, if any, research and development information, drawings, specifications, designs, plans, proposals, technical data, financial and marketing plans, and customer and supplier lists and information, and (viii) other intellectual property rights.
Proprietary Rights
     "" individually, or "" collectively, means HTF LLC; Conwood LLC; Conwood Company, L.P.; Conwood Sales Co., L.P.; and/or H Investments LLC.
QSSS Company
QSSS Companies
     "" means all leases, subleases, licenses, concessions and other agreements (whether written or oral), including all amendments, extensions, renewals, guaranties and other agreements with respect thereto, together with all security deposits thereunder, relating to the use and occupancy by one or more of the Company and/or any Acquired Company in the Business of any real property or interests therein (including all buildings and fixtures).
Real Property Leases
     "" means any release, spill, emission, leaking, pumping, pouring, dumping, emptying, injection, deposit, disposal, discharge, dispersal, leaching, exhausting or migration on or into the environment or into, on, under or from any property.
Release
 
     "" means (a) action to clean up soil, surface water, groundwater, pollution or sediments in response to a Release or threatened Release of Hazardous Substances, including associated action taken to investigate, monitor, assess and evaluate the extent and severity of any such Release; post-remediation monitoring of any such Release; and preparation of all reports, studies, analyses or other documents relating to the above and (b) any judicial, administrative or other Proceeding relating to any of the above, including the negotiation and execution of judicial or administrative consent decrees; responding to governmental information requests; or defending claims brought by any governmental authority or any other Person, whether such claims are equitable or legal in nature, relating to the cleanup of soil, surface water, groundwater or sediments in response to a Release of Hazardous Substances and associated actions.
Remedial Action
     "" means, with respect to any Tax Period, a corporation for which an S Election is in effect for that Tax Period.
S Corporation
     "" means the election to be treated as a small business corporation under Section 1361 and Section 1362 of the Code.
S Election
     "" means each of the LLC Seller and the Trusts, and "" means all of them collectively.
Shareholder
Shareholders
     "" means any Tax Period commencing prior to the Closing Date and ending after the Closing Date.
Straddle Period
     "" or "" means any federal, state, local or foreign taxes, unclaimed property remittances, assessments, duties, fees, levies, or other governmental charges including, without limitation, taxes based on or measured by value, worth, capital, income, receipts, profits, sales or other business activity, or a tax imposed in lieu thereof, including withholding of any of the foregoing and collection of sales taxes, and including any interest, penalty, or addition to any of the foregoing, whether disputed or not.
Tax
Taxes
     "" means any net operating loss, net capital loss, investment tax credit, tax basis in any asset, foreign tax credit, charitable deduction or any other credit or tax attribute of the Business that could be carried forward or back to reduce Taxes, including, without limitation, deductions and credits relating to alternative minimum Taxes.
Tax Asset
 
     "" means any period prescribed by any Tax authority for which a Tax Return is required to be filed or a Tax is required to be paid.
Tax Period
     "" means returns, declarations, reports, claims for refund, information returns, remittances or elections (including any related or supporting forms, schedules, statements or information) filed or required to be filed in connection with the determination, assessment, or collection of Taxes of the Company and/or its direct or indirect subsidiaries, including without limitation any Acquired Company, or the administration of any Applicable Laws relating to any Taxes, whether in paper or electronic format.
Tax Return
     "" means this Agreement, the Escrow Agreement and any other certificates, agreements, and other documents and instruments required to be delivered hereunder or thereunder.
Transaction Documents
     The following terms are defined in the following Sections of this Agreement:
Section 1.2
Cross Reference
.
 
 
     On the basis of the representations, warranties, covenants and agreements herein, and subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the conditions set forth herein and the terms hereof, at the Closing, the Purchaser shall purchase from Sellers, and Sellers shall sell and transfer to the Purchaser, the Shares set forth opposite each Shareholder's name on , free and clear of any Liens. The aggregate purchase price equal to $3,500,000,000.00 (Three billion, five hundred million dollars)(the "")is payable by the Purchaser at the Closing, which Purchase Price shall be allocated and payable to the Shareholders in the individual amounts set forth on , subject to any amount to be delivered to the Escrow Agent in accordance with the terms of the Escrow Agreement. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, prior to the Closing, Sellers shall cooperate with and agree to any reasonable changes requested by the Purchaser regarding the structure of the transaction as set forth in this (such cooperation shall include entering into appropriate amendments to this Agreement) in order to enable the Purchaser to effect the acquisition of the Shares by having a subsidiary of the Purchaser merge with and into New Asworth; provided that (i) such changes do not adversely impact Sellers or Remainco; (ii) the Purchaser shall not be relieved of any of its obligations hereunder and (iii) the Purchaser shall guarantee (in form and substance reasonably acceptable to Sellers) performance of the obligations of the party to be merged with and into New Asworth.
Section 2.1
Purchase of Shares
.
Schedule 2.1
Purchase Price
Schedule 2.1
Section 2.1
     Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, at least one Business Day prior to the Closing Date, Sellers shall cause the consummation of the Preliminary Transactions, including the distribution of all of the Cash of the Company and its Affiliates in accordance with in a manner consistent with the closing of the S Corporation Tax Period one day prior to the Closing Date and in accordance with the closing of the books, as required by Treasury Regulation  1.1502-76(b)(1)(ii)(A)(2) and 1.1502-76(b)(2)(v). After the Closing, the Purchaser shall (or shall cause New Asworth or the Acquired Companies to) promptly transfer or deliver to the Shareholders or their designee(s) any cash or other property that the Purchaser, New Asworth or any Acquired Company may receive that constitutes an Excluded Asset (to the extent not previously transferred in the Preliminary Transactions) reduced by any additional Taxes incurred by New Asworth or any Acquired Company
Section 2.2
Preliminary Transactions
.
Schedule 2
 
resulting from the receipt and/or transfer of such Excluded Assets.
     
Section 2.3
Closing Transactions
.
 
     The obligations of the Purchaser to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement are subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions as of the Closing Date:
Section 3.1
Conditions to the Purchaser's Obligations
.
 
 
Any condition specified in this may be waived by the Purchaser in its sole discretion.
Section 3.1
 
     The obligations of Sellers to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement are subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions as of the Closing Date:
Section 3.2
Conditions to Sellers' Obligations
.
 
Any condition specified in this may be waived by Sellers in their sole discretion.
Section 3.2
     Sellers, jointly and severally, represent and warrant to the Purchaser that the statements contained in this are true and correct as of the date hereof, except as set forth in the schedules provided by Sellers to the Purchaser on the date hereof (the ""). As respects this Agreement, the disclosure in any section or subsection of the Disclosure Schedules shall qualify other sections and subsections of this as to which its relevance is reasonably apparent. The inclusion of any information in the Disclosure Schedules (as the same may be modified as herein provided) shall not be deemed to be an admission or acknowledgment, in and of itself, that such information (i) is required by the terms hereof to be disclosed, (ii) is material to the Company, any Acquired Company and/or the Business, (iii) has resulted in or would result in a Material Adverse Effect, or (iv) is outside the Ordinary Course of Business. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, and for the avoidance of doubt, the Purchaser acknowledges and agrees that Sellers are not making any representations or warranties in this Agreement with respect to (a) the existence of any product Liability arising from the research, development, manufacture, sale, advertising, distribution, consuming, marketing or use of smokeless tobacco products generally or (b)
Article IV
Disclosure Schedules
Article IV
 
that certain Master Settlement Agreement, dated as of November 23, 1998, among the 46 states and five United States territories listed on the signature pages thereto, the District of Columbia, Philip Morris Incorporated, R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation and Lorillard Tobacco Company, as amended, supplemented or replaced (the "").
MSA
     Sellers at the Closing will be the owners, of record (in the case of the Trust Sellers, in their capacity as trustees of the Trusts) of all of the Shares, free and clear of any Liens. Assuming the Purchaser has the requisite power and authority to be the lawful owner of the Shares, upon payment of the Purchase Price pursuant to , at the Closing, Sellers will transfer title to all of the Shares to the Purchaser free and clear of any Liens.
Section 4.1
Ownership of Shares
.
Section 2.1
     Sellers have all requisite trust or limited liability company, as the case may be, power and authority to execute and deliver this Agreement and the other Transaction Documents to be executed and delivered by, or on behalf of, Sellers, and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby. The execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and the other Transaction Documents have been duly and validly authorized by all necessary trust or limited liability company, as the case may be, action on the part of Sellers and no additional authorization on the part of Sellers is necessary in connection with the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement or the other Transaction Documents. This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by Sellers and this Agreement is (and the other Transaction Documents when executed and delivered will be) a legal, valid and binding obligation of Sellers enforceable against Sellers in accordance with their respective terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium and similar laws affecting creditors' rights and remedies generally and to general principles of equity.
Section 4.2
Authority and Binding Effect
.
     
Section 4.3
Organization of the Company
.
 
     
Section 4.4
Capitalization; Ownership of Company Shares
.
 
      sets forth a true and complete list of each of the Acquired Companies, including the jurisdiction of formation of each Acquired Company, any jurisdictions in which each Acquired Company is qualified to do business as a foreign entity, and the authorized (if applicable) and issued and outstanding Capital Interests of each Acquired Company. Each Acquired Company (a) is either a corporation duly incorporated or a limited liability company or partnership duly organized, and is validly existing under the laws of its jurisdiction of formation, as the case may be, (b) has all necessary corporate, limited liability company or partnership power and authority to own the properties now owned by it and to carry on the Business as currently conducted by it, and (c) is duly qualified to do business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction where the nature of the Business or ownership of its properties makes such qualification necessary, except where the failure to have such power or authority, to be in good standing or to be duly qualified to transact business, would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. All of the outstanding Capital Interests of each Acquired Company are duly and validly issued and are owned as
Section 4.5
Acquired Companies
.
Schedule 4.5
 
set forth on , free and clear of any Liens (other than as identified on ) and, if applicable, are fully paid and nonassessable. Except as set forth on , there are no outstanding options, warrants, purchase rights, subscription rights, conversion rights, exchange rights, or other contracts or commitments that could require any Acquired Company to issue, sell, or otherwise cause to become outstanding any Capital Interests. Except as set forth on , there are no outstanding or authorized stock appreciation, phantom stock, profit participation, or similar rights with respect to any Acquired Company. New Asworth and the Acquired Companies will not at the Closing and immediately following the effectuation of the Preliminary Transactions own or have any right or obligation to purchase or otherwise acquire, directly or indirectly, any Capital Interest in any Person other than the Acquired Companies.
Schedule 4.5
Schedule 4.5
Schedule 4.5
Schedule 4.5
     Except as set forth on , and subject to obtaining the Scheduled Consents, the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the other Transaction Documents by Sellers and the performance and consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby by Sellers do not and will not (a) conflict with or violate any provision of the organizational documents of the Shareholders, New Asworth or any Acquired Company, (b) conflict with, or result in the breach of, or constitute a violation of or default under, or result in the termination, cancellation or acceleration (whether after the giving of notice or the lapse of time or both) of any right or obligation of the Shareholders, New Asworth or any Acquired Company or the Business under, any Scheduled Contract or the loss of any benefit to which New Asworth or any Acquired Company is entitled under any Scheduled Contract, (c) violate or result in a breach of or constitute a default under any Applicable Law to which the Sellers, New Asworth, any Acquired Company or the operation of the Business is subject, or (d) result in, or require, the creation or imposition of any Lien of any nature upon or with respect to any of the property or other assets now or hereafter owned by New Asworth or any of the Acquired Companies, except, in the cases of , , and , for any conflict, breach, default, termination, cancellation, acceleration, loss of benefit, violation or creation of a Lien, which would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Section 4.6
No Violations
.
Schedule 4.6
clauses (b)
(c)
(d)
     Except for any Governmental Consent required under the HSR Act and for Consents set forth on (the ""), no Consent
Section 4.7
Consents and Approvals
.
Schedule 4.7
Scheduled Consents
 
is required to be obtained by Sellers, the Company or any Acquired Company in connection with the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and the other Transaction Documents by Sellers or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby by Sellers, except for any Consent the failure to seek or obtain would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
     .
Section 4.8
Financial Statements; Books and Records
 
 
     Except for the effectuation of the Preliminary Transactions in the manner set forth in and on , and except as disclosed on , between the date of the Latest Balance Sheet and the date hereof, the Acquired Companies have conducted the Business only in the Ordinary Course of Business, and during such period there has not been any event or occurrence in the Business that would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, except for the effectuation of the Preliminary Transactions in the manner set forth on and except as disclosed on , between the date of the Latest Balance Sheet and the date hereof, other than in the Ordinary Course of Business, no Acquired Company has (except with regard to Excluded Assets or Excluded Liabilities):
Section 4.9
Absence of Changes
.
Section 2.2
Schedule 2
Schedule 4.9
Schedule 2
Schedule 4.9
 
 
 
     .
Section 4.10
Title to Assets; Real Property and Related Matters
 
 
     
Section 4.11
Litigation.
 
     Except for matters that are the subject of the representations or warranties in , , , , and , the conduct of the Business has been and is in compliance with all Applicable Laws, except for such failures to comply that would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. Except as would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect and except for Permits relating to matters that are the subject of the representations or warranties in , , , , and , each of the Company and each Acquired Company holds, owns or possesses all Permits, required to conduct the Business as currently conducted, which Permits are valid and in full force and effect and, to the Knowledge of Sellers, no threat has been made to revoke or fail to renew any such Permit. sets forth a list of all material Permits reasonably necessary to conduct the Business as currently conducted. Except as would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, the Company and each of the Acquired Companies is in compliance with its obligations under such Permits.
Section 4.12
Compliance With Law; Permits
.
Sections 4.10
4.13
4.16
4.17
4.18
4.22
Sections 4.10
4.13
4.16
4.17
4.18
4.22
Schedule 4.12
     Except as set forth on and except for Excluded Liabilities:
Section 4.13
Environmental Matters
.
Schedule 4.13
 
     Other than The Pritzker Organization, LLC, whose fees shall be paid by Sellers, there is no investment banker, broker, finder or other intermediary which has been retained by or is authorized to act on behalf of, or is entitled to any fee or commission from Sellers, the Company and/or any Acquired Company in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
Section 4.14
Brokers and Finders
.
     
Section 4.15
Contracts
.
 
 
 
     
Section 4.16
Intellectual Property
.
 
 
     . Except as set forth on :
Section 4.17
Tax Matters
Schedule 4.17
 
 
     
Section 4.18
Employee Benefit Plans
.
 
 
 
 
 
 
     The Company and the Acquired Companies maintain policies of fire and casualty, liability and other forms of insurance in such amounts, with such deductibles and against such risks and losses, as set forth on . No notice of cancellation or threat thereof with respect to any such policy has been received prior to the date hereof, and, within the past three (3) years, no insurer has denied coverage to Sellers, the Company or any Acquired Company on a material insurance policy of any type. All policies described or required to be described on are in full force and effect, and none of the Sellers, the Company or any Acquired Company is in default, whether as to payment of premium or otherwise, in any material respect under the terms of any such policy. Sellers make no representation or warranty that such insurance will be continued or is continuable after the Closing.
Section 4.19
Insurance
.
Schedule 4.19
Schedule 4.19
     Except as set forth on , neither New Asworth nor any Acquired Company is a party to any Contract, engaged in any transaction with or otherwise has any Liability to any of the Sellers or the directors, officers, managers or Affiliates of New Asworth, any Acquired Company or any Seller.
Section 4.20
Transactions with Directors, Officers and Affiliates
.
Schedule 4.20
     . The values at which inventories related to the Business are shown on the Latest Balance Sheet have been determined in accordance with GAAP. The inventories related to the Business (and items of inventory related to the Business acquired or manufactured subsequent to the date of the Latest Balance Sheet) consist only of items of quality, grade, blend and quantity, to the extent applicable, commercially usable and salable in the Ordinary Course of Business, except for any items of obsolete material or material below standard quality, all of which have been written down to realizable market value, or for which adequate reserves have been provided, and the quantities, grade, blend and quality, to the extent applicable, of all inventories are reasonably sufficient to conduct the Business as presently contemplated, including, taking into account any current planned expansion or projected growth of the Business as set forth in the Budget.
Section 4.21
Inventory
     There are no collective bargaining or other labor union agreements to which
Section 4.22
Labor and Employment
.
 
the Company or any Acquired Company is a party or by which any of them is bound. Since January 1, 2002, neither the Company nor any Acquired Company has encountered any labor union organizing activity or had any actual or, to the Knowledge of Sellers, threatened employee strikes, work stoppages, slowdowns or lockouts. The Company and each Acquired Company (a) is, and since January 1, 2002, has been in compliance with all Applicable Laws relating to employment and employment practices, occupational safety and health standards, terms and conditions of employment and wages and hours, and (b) is not, and since January 1, 2002, has not engaged in any unfair labor practice that would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. During the three years preceding the date of this Agreement, none of the Company nor any Acquired Company has received written notice of any unfair labor practice charge which is pending.
     . None of the Acquired Companies is involved in any material controversy with any of the material customers or suppliers to the Business. sets forth a true, correct and complete list of the 10 largest customers in terms of sales of the Business during the twelve-month period ended on December 31, 2005, and all suppliers of the Business which, during the 12 months ended on December 31, 2005, individually accounted for $1,000,000 or more of any Acquired Company's orders for the purchase of raw materials, supplies, equipment or parts.
Section 4.23
Customers and Suppliers
Schedule 4.23
     Parent and the Purchaser represent and warrant to Sellers that the statements contained in this are true and correct as of the date hereof.
Article V
     Parent is a duly organized, valid existing corporation and is in good standing under the laws of the State of North Carolina and has all requisite corporate power and authority to own its properties and to carry on its business as it is now being conducted. The Purchaser is a duly organized, validly existing corporation and is in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware and has all requisite corporate power and authority to own its properties and to carry on its business as it is now being conducted. The Purchaser was formed by Parent solely for the purpose of engaging in the transactions contemplated hereby. As of the date hereof and at the Effective Time, all of the capital stock of the Purchaser is and will be owned by Parent.
Section 5.1
Organization
.
 
     Each of Parent and the Purchaser has all requisite corporate power and authority to execute and deliver this Agreement and the other Transaction Documents to be executed and delivered by Parent or the Purchaser and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby. The execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and the other Transaction Documents have been duly and validly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of Parent or the Purchaser and no additional authorization on the part of Parent and the Purchaser is necessary in connection with the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement or the other Transaction Documents. This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by each of Parent and the Purchaser and this Agreement is (and the other Transaction Documents when executed and delivered by Sellers will be) a legal, valid and binding obligation of each of Parent and the Purchaser enforceable against each of Parent and the Purchaser in accordance with their respective terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium and similar laws affecting creditors' rights and remedies generally and to general principles of equity.
Section 5.2
Authority and Binding Effect
.
     The execution and delivery of this Agreement and the other Transaction Documents and the performance and consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby by each of Parent and the Purchaser do not and will not (a) conflict with or violate any provision of the certificate of incorporation, by-laws or other organizational documents of Parent or the Purchaser, (b) conflict with, or result in the breach of, or constitute a violation of or default under, or result in the termination, cancellation or acceleration (whether after the giving of notice or the lapse of time or both) of any right or obligation of Parent or the Purchaser under, any material Contract to which Parent or the Purchaser is party or to which any of its assets is subject, or (c) to the Knowledge of the Purchaser, violate or result in a breach of or constitute a default under any Applicable Law to which Parent or the Purchaser is subject or by which Parent or the Purchaser or any of its assets is bound or affected, except, in the cases of clauses (b) and (c), for any conflict, breach, default, termination, cancellation, acceleration, loss or violation which, individually or in the aggregate, would not materially impair Parent's or the Purchaser's ability to perform its obligations hereunder and is not reasonably likely to prohibit or materially delay the performance of this Agreement by Parent or the Purchaser.
Section 5.3
No Violations
.
 
     Except for any Governmental Consent required under the HSR Act, no Consent is required to be obtained by Parent or the Purchaser or any Affiliate of Parent or the Purchaser in connection with the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and the other Transaction Documents by Parent or the Purchaser or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby, other than in all cases where the failure to obtain such Consent would not materially impair Parent's or the Purchaser's ability to perform its obligations hereunder and is not reasonably likely to prohibit or materially delay the performance of this Agreement by Parent or the Purchaser.
Section 5.4
Consents and Approvals
.
     Other than Lehman Brothers, whose fees shall be paid by Parent or the Purchaser, there is no investment banker, broker, finder or other intermediary which has been retained by, is authorized to act on behalf of, or is entitled to any fee or commission from Parent or the Purchaser in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
Section 5.5
Brokers and Finders
.
     There is no Proceeding pending or, to the Knowledge of Purchaser, threatened, whether by or before any Governmental Authority, against Parent or the Purchaser or any Affiliate of Parent or the Purchaser that would reasonably be expected to materially impair Parent's or the Purchaser's ability to perform its obligations hereunder or be reasonably likely to prohibit or materially delay the performance of this Agreement by the Purchaser.
Section 5.6
Absence of Proceedings
.
     The Purchaser at the Closing will have on an unconditional basis cash on hand sufficient to fund the performance of the Purchaser's obligations hereunder to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and to satisfy all other costs and expenses of the Purchaser and its Affiliates (including the Company and each Acquired Company after the Closing) arising in connection therewith. Prior to the execution of this Agreement, the Purchaser has delivered to Sellers correct and complete copies of an executed commitment letter (the "") from Lehman Brothers Commercial Bank and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. to provide financing in an aggregate amount sufficient to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement (the "") upon the terms set forth therein. As of the date of this Agreement, the Commitment Letter is in full force and effect and is a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Purchaser and, to the Knowledge of the
Section 5.7
Capital Resources
.
Commitment Letter
Debt Financing
 
Purchaser, the other parties thereto. As of the date of this Agreement, no event has occurred which, with or without notice, lapse of time or both, would constitute a default on the part of the Purchaser under the Commitment Letter. As of the date of this Agreement, nothing has caused the Purchaser to believe that it will be unable to satisfy on a timely basis any term or condition of closing required to be satisfied by it contained in the Commitment Letter. The Purchaser has fully paid any and all commitment fees and other fees required by the Commitment Letter to be paid by the Purchaser as of the date of this Agreement.
     The Purchaser acknowledges that the representations and warranties set forth in , including the related Disclosure Schedules, constitute the sole and exclusive representations and warranties of Sellers to the Purchaser in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby, and the Purchaser acknowledges and agrees that Sellers are not making any representation or warranty whatsoever, express or implied, beyond those expressly given in this Agreement, including any implied warranty as to condition, merchantability, or suitability as to any of the assets associated with the Business and it is understood that the Purchaser takes such assets and the assets related thereto as is and where is (subject to the benefit of the representations and warranties set forth in ). The Purchaser further acknowledges and agrees that any estimates, budgets, projections, forecasts or other predictions that may have been provided to the Purchaser or any of its representatives are not representations or warranties of Sellers or guarantees of performance and that actual results may vary substantially from any such estimates, budgets, projections, forecasts or other predictions. The Purchaser further acknowledges and agrees that (a) except and solely to the extent of the representations and warranties in , Sellers have made no representation or warranty either express or implied as to the accuracy or completeness of any information regarding the Company or any of the Acquired Companies and related to the Business furnished or made available to the Purchaser and/or its representatives, and (b) except with respect to the representations and warranties in , the Purchaser shall have no claim or right to indemnification pursuant to or with respect to any information, documents or materials furnished by Sellers, any of their Affiliates or any of their respective representatives to the Purchaser, including the Confidential Information Memorandum dated November 2005 or in any management presentation, information memorandum, supplemental information, data rooms or
Section 5.8
Non-Reliance
.
Article IV
Article IV
Article IV
Article IV
Articles IX
X
 
other materials or information furnished in expectation of the transactions contemplated hereby.
      Except as otherwise contemplated by this Agreement, as set forth on or required to implement the Preliminary Transactions in the manner set forth in and on , between the date hereof and the Closing, unless the Purchaser otherwise agrees in writing (which agreement shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed), Sellers shall cause the Company and each Acquired Company to:
Section 6.1
Affirmative Pre-Closing Covenants of Sellers.
Schedule 6.1
Section 2.2
Schedule 2
     . Except as otherwise expressly contemplated by this Agreement, as set forth on or in connection with the Preliminary Transactions, between the date hereof and the Closing, unless the Purchaser otherwise agrees in writing (which agreement shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed), Sellers shall cause the Company and each Acquired Company not to take any action that would be required to be disclosed on if such action were to occur between the date hereof and the Closing Date.
Section 6.2
Negative Pre-Closing Covenants of Sellers
Schedule 6.2
Schedule 4.9
     Sellers and the Purchaser shall do all things reasonably practicable and, except
Section 6.3
Cooperation; Consents
.
 
as otherwise provided herein, use commercially reasonable efforts to fulfill the conditions precedent to the other applicable Party's obligations under this Agreement; that Sellers shall not be required to make or cause to be made any payment to any third party to secure any Consents. Without limiting the foregoing, the Parties shall cooperate with, and do all things reasonably requested to assist, one another: (i) in the prompt preparation and filing (which filing shall occur no later than ten (10) days after the date hereof) of any filings required under the HSR Act and by any governmental authority, including in connection with the making of such filings and, upon entering into a joint defense agreement reasonably acceptable to each Party's counsel, providing copies of all documents to the non-filing Party's advisors prior to filing and, if requested, accepting all reasonable additions, deletions, or changes suggested in connection therewith; (ii) in determining whether action by or in respect of, or filing with, any governmental authority is required, proper or advisable or any actions, Consents or waivers are required to be obtained from parties to any Contracts, in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; and (iii) in seeking timely to obtain any such actions, Consents or waivers or to make any such filings. The Parties shall keep each other apprised of the status of any communications with, and any inquiries or requests for additional information from, the United States Federal Trade Commission, the United States Department of Justice and any other applicable governmental authority and shall comply promptly with any such inquiry or request and shall promptly provide any supplemental information requested in connection with the filings made hereunder pursuant to the HSR Act or such other Applicable Law. Any such supplemental information shall be in substantial compliance, with the requirements of the HSR Act or such other Applicable Law. Each Party shall use commercially reasonable efforts to obtain expiration or termination of the waiting period under the HSR Act or any clearance required under such other Applicable Law for the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; that the Purchaser acknowledges and agrees that "" shall include the sale of assets or divestitures not amounting to a material adverse effect on the business of the Purchaser following the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby. Filing fees required in connection with any filings under the HSR Act or with any other governmental authority shall be borne by the Purchaser. All other fees, expenses and disbursements incurred in connection with the matters referred to in this shall be borne by the Purchaser if incurred by or on its behalf
provided
provided
commercially reasonable efforts
Section 6.3
 
and by Sellers if incurred by or on behalf of the Sellers, the Company or any Acquired Company.
     Subject to the terms of the Confidentiality Agreement, Sellers shall afford the Purchaser reasonable access, at reasonable times during normal business hours, to the personnel, premises, properties, books and records, and other documents and financing, operating and other data of the Company and the Acquired Companies that the Purchaser may reasonably request, including, without limitation, access to the premises and properties for purposes of conducting Phase I Environmental Site Assessments for each location listed on performed in a manner consistent with the ASTM standards specified below; that the Purchaser shall not engage in any Phase II or invasive environmental testing with respect to any Leased Real Property or Owned Real Property without the prior written consent of Sellers, which consent will not be withheld if the ASTM Phase I Environmental Assessments performed by Purchaser, as referenced above, disclose one or more Recognized Environmental Conditions, as defined in the ASTM Standard Practice for Environmental Site Assessment: Phase I Environmental Site Assessment Process, E 1527-00 that could reasonably be expected to impact the Purchaser's determination of whether the Phase I and Phase II Environmental Site Assessments are "reasonably satisfactory" as set forth in ; , , that such consent will not be withheld with respect to the Recognized Environmental Conditions described in . The foregoing shall not require Sellers, the Company or any Acquired Company to permit any inspection, or to disclose any information, that in their reasonable judgment is reasonably likely to (i) result in the waiver of any attorney-client privilege, the disclosure of any trade secrets or the violation of any Applicable Law or (ii) violate any of their obligations owed to any third party with respect to confidentiality if Sellers, the Company or any Acquired Company, as the case may be, shall have used commercially reasonable efforts to obtain the consent of such third party to such inspection or disclosure. Sellers shall not be required, nor shall Sellers be required to cause the Company or any Acquired Company, to take any action pursuant to this beyond commercially reasonable efforts or that would unreasonably disrupt their respective normal operations. The confidentiality of all such documents and information furnished in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement shall be governed by the terms of the Confidentiality Agreement. In the event any Phase II or invasive environmental testing is required by this
Section 6.4
Access
.
Schedule 3.1(j)
provided
Section 3.1(j)
provided
however
Section 3.1(j)(ii)
Section 6.4
 
Section, the Purchaser shall provide Sellers with satisfactory proof of insurance and shall make split samples available to Sellers at Sellers' discretion.
     Except as set forth on , Sellers shall cause the Company and the Acquired Companies to (i) cause all intercompany accounts receivable or payable (whether or not currently due or payable) between (x) the Company and the Acquired Companies, on the one hand, and (y) Sellers or any of their Affiliates (other than the Company and the Acquired Companies), on the other hand, to be settled in full at or prior to the Closing and (ii) otherwise terminate any agreements set forth on or satisfy Liabilities related thereto or arising therefrom.
Section 6.5
Intercompany Accounts, Affiliate Agreements
.
Schedule 6.5
Schedule 4.20
     Sellers, the Company and the Acquired Companies will:
Section 6.6
Financing
.
 
advisors to deliver reliance and/or comfort letters in connection with the Financial Statements, and (v) providing and executing documents as may be reasonably requested by the Purchaser (including any pledge and security documents, other definitive financing documents, and other certificates (including solvency certificates), or documents as may be reasonably or customarily requested by the banks and lenders); , , that nothing herein shall require Sellers, the Company or the Acquired Companies in connection with such Debt Financing to (i) execute any documents that would be effective prior to the Closing or (ii) deliver or cause their attorneys to deliver any legal opinions. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, failure by Sellers to comply with their obligations under this will under no circumstances be or be deemed to be a breach by Sellers of a covenant hereof or constitute a failure of a condition set forth in .
provided
however
Section 6.6(b)
Section 3.1
     
Section 6.7
Confidentiality Matters.
     . Sellers shall use their commercially reasonable efforts to obtain the Letter Ruling. Sellers agree to keep the Purchaser apprised of all matters relating to seeking and obtaining the Letter Ruling.
Section 6.8
Letter Ruling
 
     
Section 7.1
.
Employee Benefits
 
 
 
in connection with payments made under the Sales Incentive Plan after the Closing Date shall be the sole responsibility of Parent.
 
     .
Section 7.2
Directors', Managers' and Officers' Indemnification; Release from Liability
 
indemnification of directors, managers, and officers shall not be amended in any manner that would adversely affect the rights thereunder of any Person that is as of the date hereof or the Closing Date a current or former officer, manager or director of the Company and/or any Acquired Company. From and after the Closing Date for a period of six years, New Asworth and/or any Acquired Company (the "") shall indemnify and hold harmless each Person who is, or at the Closing Date will be, a current or former officer, manager or director of the Company and/or any Acquired Company (the "") against all Losses arising out of or pertaining to acts or omissions (or alleged acts or omissions) of the D&O Indemnitees, or any of them, in their capacities as such to the maximum extent permitted by Applicable Law, subject to the D&O Indemnitors' receipt of an undertaking by such D&O Indemnitee to repay such Losses paid in advance if it is ultimately determined that such D&O Indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified under Applicable Law; , , that the D&O Indemnitors will not be liable for any settlement effected without the D&O Indemnitors' prior written consent and will not be obligated to pay the fees and expenses of more than one counsel (selected by a plurality of the D&O Indemnitees) for all D&O Indemnitees in any jurisdiction with respect to a single Proceeding, except to the extent that two or more of such D&O Indemnitees shall have conflicting interests in the outcome of, or differing defenses available with respect to, such claim, action, suit, Proceeding or investigation. To the maximum extent permitted by Applicable Law, the indemnification and related rights hereunder shall be mandatory rather than permissive, and New Asworth and/or any Acquired Company, as applicable, shall promptly advance expenses in connection with such indemnification to the extent permitted under Applicable Law. Parent shall not cause New Asworth or any of the Acquired Companies to engage in any business combination, reorganization or other extraordinary transaction which, immediately after the consummation thereof, has the effect, or could reasonably be expected to have the effect, of reducing the aggregate consolidated net worth of New Asworth and the Acquired Companies below that set forth in the Latest Capital Balance Sheet.
D&O Indemnitors
D&O Indemnitees
provided
however
 
As of the Closing Date, Parent, on behalf of each of the Releasing Parties, expressly acknowledges that it has had, or has had and waived, the opportunity to be advised by independent legal counsel and hereby waives and relinquishes all rights and benefits afforded by Section 1542 of the California Civil Code (and any analogous law of any other state, locality or other jurisdiction) and does so understanding and acknowledging the significance and consequence of such specific waiver of Section 1542 which provides:
A GENERAL RELEASE DOES NOT EXTEND TO CLAIMS WHICH THE CREDITOR DOES NOT KNOW OR SUSPECT TO EXIST IN HIS OR HER FAVOR AT THE TIME OF EXECUTING THE RELEASE, WHICH IF KNOWN BY HIM OR HER MUST HAVE MATERIALLY AFFECTED HIS OR HER SETTLEMENT WITH THE DEBTOR.
 
 
Company to execute and deliver such other documents and instruments and take such other actions as may be reasonably requested by Sellers or any D&O Released Party or D&O Indemnitee to implement the provisions of this including to confirm New Asworth's or any Acquired Company's release and agreement to provide indemnification as described herein.
Section 7.2
     From the date hereof through the Closing, each applicable Party, upon obtaining knowledge of such matter, shall give notice to the other Parties of (a) the occurrence, or failure to occur, after the date hereof of any event which occurrence or failure would be likely to cause any representation or warranty contained in this Agreement or in any Exhibit or Schedule hereto to be materially untrue or inaccurate, as it relates to such Party, and (b) any failure of the Party to materially comply with or satisfy any covenant, condition or agreement to be complied with or satisfied by it under this Agreement or any Exhibit or Schedule hereto. From the date hereof through the Closing, Sellers, upon obtaining knowledge of such matter, will promptly notify the Purchaser of any material Proceeding threatened or commenced against or otherwise affecting the Company or any Acquired Company. From time to time prior to the Closing, Sellers shall have the right to supplement or amend the Disclosure Schedules with respect to any matter hereafter arising or discovered after the delivery of the Disclosure Schedules pursuant to this Agreement; , , that no such supplement or amendment shall be deemed to have cured any breach of a representation or warranty that otherwise might have existed hereunder by reason of such development either for purposes of determining whether any condition of Closing set forth in has been satisfied or whether the Purchaser is entitled to indemnification hereunder.
Section 7.3
Notice of Certain Matters
.
provided
however
Article III
     The Parties shall consult with each other before issuing any press release or otherwise making any public statements with respect to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and, except as may be required by Applicable Law or any securities exchange on which the securities of a Party or an Affiliate are listed, neither Party shall issue any such press release or make any such public statement without the prior written approval of the other Party.
Section 7.4
Publicity
.
     a. . Except as otherwise provided in Section 9.5(a)(iv), following the Closing Date, the Purchaser shall (i) allow Sellers, upon reasonable prior notice
Section 7.5
Post-Closing Access
 
and during regular business hours, through their employees and representatives, the right to examine and make copies of the books and records transferred to the Purchaser at the Closing for any reasonable business purpose relating to their respective businesses, including the preparation or examination of Tax Returns, regulatory filings and financial statements and the conduct of any litigation or the conduct of any regulatory, contract holder, participant or other dispute resolution whether pending or threatened, and (ii) maintain such books and records for examination and copying by Sellers for a period of not less than five years following the Closing Date; that after such five-year period the Purchaser shall provide Sellers with at least twenty (20) Business Days' written notice prior to destroying or disposing of any such books and records at which time and at the option and expense of Sellers, the Purchaser shall deliver such books and records to Sellers, rather than destroying the same. Access to such books and records shall be at Sellers' expense, and may not unreasonably interfere with the Purchaser's or any successor company's business operations. Sellers may retain (a) one copy of the materials included in the data room organized by Sellers in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, together with a copy of all documents referred to in such materials, (b) all internal correspondence and memoranda, valuations, investment banking presentations and bids received from others in connection with the sale of the Shares, and (c) a copy of all consolidating and consolidated financial information and all other accounting records prepared or used in connection with the preparation of the Financial Statements.
provided
     .
Section 7.6
Agreement Not to Compete
 
 
are reasonable. If a court determines, however, that any provision of this is unreasonable, either in period of time, geographical area or otherwise, then the Parties hereto agree that the provisions of this should be interpreted and enforced to the maximum extent which such court deems reasonable.
Section 7.6
Section 7.6
Section 7.6
     . No less than ten (10) days prior to the Closing Date, Sellers shall deliver to the Purchaser a statement, certified by the chief financial officer of the Company, of the Net Working Capital as of the Closing Date. Sellers covenant and agree that the Net Working Capital as of the Closing Date shall be no less than $130,000,000. Following receipt of such statement, Sellers shall, and shall cause their advisors to, consult with the Purchaser and its advisors on the calculation of Net Working Capital and shall provide or cause to be provided to the Purchaser, information reasonably requested to support the basis on which the statement was prepared. Sellers shall cooperate with the Purchaser to resolve any disputes as to such calculation prior to Closing.
Section 7.7
Closing Net Working Capital
     . Sellers agree that in the event of any insurance recovery related to property, casualty, or business interruption insurance relating to the Business, they will cause such recovery to remain in or be transferred to an Acquired Company. In addition, Sellers will use their commercially reasonable efforts to pursue any claims arising under such policies with respect to events occurring prior to Closing.
Section 7.8
Insurance Proceeds
     Parent hereby guarantees the due and punctual performance of all of the obligations of the Purchaser under this Agreement.
Section 7.9
Performance Guarantee
.
     . This Agreement may be terminated and the transactions contemplated by this Agreement may be abandoned at any time prior to the Closing:
Section 8.1
Termination
 
     . If this Agreement is terminated as permitted under , such termination shall be without Liability to either Party or their respective Affiliates, and following such termination neither Party shall have any Liability under this Agreement or relating to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; that no
Section 8.2
Effect of Termination
Section 8.1
provided
 
such termination shall relieve any Party that has willfully breached any provision of this Agreement from Liability for such breach, and any such breaching Party shall remain fully liable for any and all Losses incurred or suffered by the other Party as a result of such breach. The provisions of , and the Confidentiality Agreement shall survive any termination of this Agreement and shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 7.4
Article XI
     It is agreed and understood that the Parties shall not make an election under Section 338(h)(10) of the Code in respect of the purchase and sale of the Shares pursuant to this Agreement. In addition, none of the Purchaser, the Company, the Acquired Companies or any of their Affiliates shall make any other election, file any amended return or take any other action with respect to a Pre-Closing Tax Period (other than a Straddle Period) which could adversely affect the Tax liability of Sellers or any of their Affiliates (affiliation being measured following Closing), including any indemnification obligation of Sellers under or any rights of Sellers to receive amounts under , without the prior written consent of Sellers.
Section 9.1
Prohibited Tax Election
.
Section 9.4
Section 9.5(a)(iii)
     Sellers shall prepare and file (or cause to be prepared and filed) all Tax Returns with the appropriate Governmental Authorities relating to the Company and/or the Acquired Companies for all Pre-Closing Tax Periods (other than a Pre-Closing Tax Period included in a Straddle Period) and shall pay or cause to be paid all Taxes due with respect to such Tax Returns. The Purchaser shall prepare and file, or cause to be prepared and filed, all Tax Returns required to be filed by the Company and/or the Acquired Companies for all Post-Closing Tax Periods and Straddle Periods, and shall cause the Company and/or the Acquired Companies to pay or cause to be paid the Taxes shown to be due thereon; , , Sellers shall pay or cause to be paid the portion of any Taxes due with respect to such returns attributable to a Pre-Closing Tax Period, calculated in accordance with Section 9.4(c). Sellers shall furnish to the Purchaser all information and records in their possession and reasonably requested by the Purchaser for use in preparation of any Tax Returns relating to a Straddle Period. The Purchaser shall allow Sellers to review, comment upon and reasonably approve without undue delay any Straddle Period Tax Returns beginning at least forty-five (45) days before the filing of Straddle Period Tax Returns. To the
Section 9.2
Tax Returns
.
provided
however
 
extent that a Straddle Period could be eliminated for such period by the filing of separate Tax Returns by Purchaser, Sellers, the Company, or any Acquired Company, such separate Tax Returns shall be filed. The Purchaser shall not be entitled to file a Tax Return for the Company or any Acquired Company for any Pre-Closing Tax Period (other than a Straddle Period) in any jurisdiction in which the Sellers have not filed a Tax Return.
     Sellers and the Purchaser shall reasonably cooperate, and shall cause their respective Affiliates, officers, employees, agents, auditors and representatives reasonably to cooperate, in preparing and filing all Tax Returns and in resolving all inquiries, disputes and audits (including any Tax Claim) with respect to Taxes of the Company and the Acquired Companies for any Pre-Closing Tax Period and for any Straddle Period. Such cooperation and assistance shall include the retention and (upon the other Party's request) the provision of records and information which are reasonably relevant to any such inquiry, audit, dispute, litigation or other Proceeding and making employees available on a mutually convenient basis to execute Tax Returns, provide additional information and explanation of any material provided hereunder or to testify at any Proceeding. Each Party agrees, and Purchaser agrees to cause the Company and each Acquired Company, (i) to retain all books and records with respect to Tax matters relating to any Pre-Closing Tax Period or Straddle Period until the expiration of the statute of limitations (and, to the extent notified by the other Party, any extensions thereof), and to abide by all record retention agreements entered into with any Governmental Authority, and (ii) to give the other Party reasonable written notice prior to transferring, destroying or discarding any such books and records; that, in the event of such notice, if a Party so requests, the other Party shall, and Purchaser shall cause the Company and each Acquired Company to, allow the other Party to take possession of such books and records. Sellers shall be entitled to retain copies of all Tax Returns filed by the Company or the Acquired Companies for all Pre-Closing Tax Periods. The Parties further agree to use their best efforts to obtain any certificate or other document from any Governmental Authority or any other Person as may be necessary to mitigate, reduce or eliminate any Tax that could be imposed (including, but not limited to, with respect to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement). In the event of a determination for any Pre-Closing Tax Period that the S Election of the Company is invalid or that the status of the Company as an S Corporation is otherwise subject, for any reason, to
Section 9.3
Tax Cooperation
.
provided
further
 
termination for such Pre-Closing Tax Period, the Parties shall cooperate in seeking approval from the IRS pursuant to Code Sections 1362(b)(5) or 1362(f) to retain the Company's S Corporation status for any such Pre-Closing Tax Period.
     
Section 9.4
Tax Indemnification
.
 
 
     
Section 9.5
Procedures Relating to Indemnification of Tax Claims
.
 
     Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, the recourse of any Purchaser Indemnitee for any and all Losses relating to or
Section 9.6
Coordination With Article X
.
 
arising from Tax matters, including those set forth in and or this shall be controlled by this rather than . In the event the provisions of or and the provisions of conflict or otherwise each apply by their terms, or , as applicable, shall exclusively govern all matters concerning Taxes; that the survival periods, limitations on any indemnification obligations, procedures and other terms set forth in , , and shall apply in any event.
Sections 4.9(k)
4.17
Article IX
Article IX
Article X
Sections 9.4
9.5
Article X
Sections 9.4
9.5
provided
Sections 10.1,
10.2
10.5
10.6
     All transfer, documentary, sales, use, stamp, registration and other such Taxes, and any conveyance fees or recording charges (collectively, "") incurred in connection with the Preliminary Transactions will be paid by Sellers when due. All Transfer Taxes incurred in connection with the purchase of the Shares as provided in of this Agreement shall be shared equally by the Purchaser and Sellers. Sellers and Purchasers shall cooperate in the filing of all necessary Tax Returns and other documentation with respect to all such Transfer Taxes.
Section 9.7
Transfer Taxes
.
Transfer Taxes
Section 2.1
     . The representations, warranties and covenants of the Parties contained in this Agreement shall survive the Closing for the applicable period set forth in this , and any and all claims and causes of action for indemnification under (whether or not arising out of an inaccuracy or breach of any representation, warranty or covenant of the Party) and this arising out of the inaccuracy or breach of any representation, warranty or covenant of a Party must be made prior to the termination of the applicable Survival Period. The Parties agree that all of the representations, warranties and covenants of the Parties contained in this Agreement and any and all claims and causes of action for indemnification under and this shall survive as follows:
Section 10.1
Survival of Representations and Warranties and Covenants
Section 10.1
Article IX
Article X
Article IX
Article X
 
     Notwithstanding the foregoing: (i) any obligations to indemnify, defend and hold harmless pursuant to and shall not terminate with respect to any item as to which the Indemnified Party shall have, before the expiration of the applicable Survival Period, previously made a claim by delivering a notice of such claim (stating in reasonable detail the basis of such claim) to the Indemnifying Party in accordance with ; and (ii) this shall not limit any covenant or agreement of the Parties which contemplates performance after the Closing.
Sections
10.2(a), (b)
(c)
Section 10.3
Section 10.1
     .
Section 10.2
Obligation to Indemnify
 
 
 
 
 
     In the event that either a Purchaser Indemnitee or a Seller Indemnitee wishes to assert a claim for indemnification hereunder (other than indemnification for a Tax Claim under which shall be governed by ), such Party seeking indemnification (the
Section 10.3
Claims Notice
.
Article IX
Article IX
 
"") shall deliver written notice (a "") to the other Party (the "") no later than fifteen (15) Business Days after written notice of such claim is delivered to the Indemnified Party, specifying in reasonable detail (to the extent known) the facts constituting the basis for, and the amount (if known) of, the claim asserted. Failure to deliver a Claims Notice with respect to a claim in a timely manner as specified in the preceding sentence shall not be deemed a waiver of the Indemnified Party's right to indemnification hereunder for Losses in connection with such claim except to the extent the Indemnifying Party shall have been actually and materially prejudiced as a result of such failure.
Indemnified Party
Claims Notice
Indemnifying Party
     
Section 10.4
Right to Contest Claims of Third Parties
.
 
     Any payment under or or shall be treated as an adjustment to the Purchase Price for Tax purposes and shall be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds to such account or accounts as the Indemnified Party shall designate to the Indemnifying Party in writing or as set forth in the Escrow Agreement.
Section 10.5
Indemnification Payments
.
Sections 9.4
9.5
Article X
     Remainco shall, subject to the terms of , provide for the indemnification set forth in and .
Section 10.6
Satisfaction of Remainco Indemnification Obligations
.
Schedule 10.6
Sections 9.4
10.2(b)
     . In the absence of fraud, following the Closing, the indemnities provided for in Article IX and Article X shall be the exclusive remedies of the Parties and their respective officers, directors, employees, Affiliates, agents, representatives, successors and assigns for any breach of or inaccuracy in any representation or warranty, any breach, non-fulfillment or default in the performance of any of the covenants or agreements contained in this Agreement and any
Section 10.7
Exclusivity
 
Excluded Liabilities, and the Parties shall not be entitled to rescission of this Agreement or to any further contract, tort or indemnification rights or claims of any nature whatsoever in respect thereof.
     Any notice or other communication required or permitted hereunder shall be in writing and shall be delivered personally (by courier or otherwise), telegraphed, telexed, emailed, sent by facsimile transmission or sent by certified or registered mail, postage prepaid and return receipt requested, or by express mail. Any such notice shall be deemed given when so delivered personally, telegraphed, telexed, emailed or sent by facsimile transmission or, if mailed, three days after the date of deposit in the United States mails, as follows:
Section 11.1
Notices
.
 
Jones Day 222 East 41st Street New York, NY 10017 Attn: Jere R. Thomson, Esq. Telecopier No.: (212) 755-7306 email: jrthomson@jonesday.com
     Any Party may, by notice given in accordance with this to the other Party, designate another address or person for receipt of notices hereunder; that notice of such a change shall be effective upon receipt.
Section 11.1
provided
     This Agreement shall be governed by and construed and enforced in accordance with the internal laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to its conflict of laws principles.
Section 11.2
Applicable Law
.
     Each Party to this Agreement irrevocably submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of and venue in the courts of the State of Delaware and of the United States sitting in the County of New Castle, Delaware for the purposes of any suit, action or other Proceeding arising out of this Agreement, the other Transaction Documents or any transaction contemplated hereby or thereby, and waives any objection based on . Each Party further agrees that service of any process, summons, notice or document by certified or registered mail to such Party's respective address set forth above shall be effective service of process for any action, suit or Proceeding in Delaware with respect to any matters to which it has submitted to jurisdiction in this .
Section 11.3
Consent to Jurisdiction; Venue
.
forum non conveniens
Section 11.3
     EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATED TO THIS AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY.
Section 11.4
Waiver of Jury Trial
.
     If any Proceeding is brought by one Party against another Party, the party succeeding or prevailing in whole shall be entitled to recover its reasonable attorneys fees and other costs incurred in that action or Proceeding, in addition to any other relief to which it may be entitled. In all other Proceedings each Party shall pay its own fees and expenses.
Section 11.5
Attorneys' Fees
.
     Whether or not the transactions contemplated by this Agreement are consummated,
Section 11.6
Transaction Expenses
.
 
each Party shall pay its own fees and expenses incident to the negotiation, preparation, execution, delivery and performance hereof, including the fees and expenses of its counsel, accountants and other representatives.
     This Agreement and the other Transaction Documents (including any additional agreements contemplated hereby or thereby and the Disclosure Schedules) contain the entire agreement among the Parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersede all prior agreements, written or oral, with respect thereto other than the Confidentiality Agreement, which shall survive and remain in full force and effect according to its terms.
Section 11.7
Entire Agreement
.
     This Agreement may be amended, superseded, canceled, renewed or extended, and the terms hereof may be waived, only by a written instrument signed by each of the Parties or, in the case of a waiver, by the Party waiving compliance. Except as provided in , no delay on the part of any Party in exercising any right, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any waiver on the part of any Party of any right, power or privilege, or any single or partial exercise of any such right, power or privilege, preclude any further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other such right, power or privilege. The rights and remedies herein provided are cumulative and are not exclusive of any rights or remedies that any Party may otherwise have at law or in equity.
Section 11.8
Waivers and Amendments; Non Contractual Remedies; Preservation of Remedies
.
Article X
     If any provision of this Agreement (or any portion thereof) or the application of any such provision (or any portion thereof) to any Person or circumstance shall be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect by a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability shall not affect any other provision hereof (or the remaining portion thereof) or the application of such provision to any other Persons or circumstances. Upon such determination that any provision of this Agreement (or any portion thereof) or the application of any such provision (or any portion thereof) to any Person or circumstance is invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the Parties shall negotiate in good faith to modify this Agreement so as to effect the original intent of the Parties as closely as possible in an acceptable manner to the end that the transactions contemplated hereby are fulfilled to the extent possible.
Section 11.9
Severability
.
 
     This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Parties and their respective successors, permitted assigns and legal representatives. Neither this Agreement, nor any right hereunder, may be assigned by any Party (in whole or in part) without the prior written consent of the other Party.
Section 11.10
Binding Effect; Assignment
.
     .
Section 11.11
Interpretation
 
     Except as set forth in and , nothing in this Agreement is intended or shall be construed to give any Person, other than the Parties, their successors and permitted assigns, any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or in respect of this Agreement or any provision contained herein.
Section 11.12
No Third Party Beneficiaries
.
Section 7.2
Section 10.2
     Each trustee executing this Agreement is executing the same solely in his capacity as a trustee of one or more of the Trusts. All obligations and liabilities of any trustee executing this Agreement shall be satisfied solely out of the assets of the trust or trusts on whose behalf such trustee is executing this Agreement, and such trustee shall not be personally liable for the satisfaction of any of such obligations or liabilities as a result of his execution of this Agreement.
Section 11.13
Trustee Exculpation
.
     This Agreement may be executed by the Parties in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed and delivered shall be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute one and the same instrument.
Section 11.14
Counterparts
.
     The headings in this Agreement are for reference only, and shall not affect the interpretation of this Agreement.
Section 11.15
Headings
.
     . Each Party expressly agrees that, consistent with its intention and agreement to be bound by the terms of this Agreement and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby, subject only to the performance or satisfaction of the conditions precedent, the remedy of specific performance shall be available to a non-breaching and non-defaulting Party to enforce performance of this Agreement by a breaching or defaulting Party, including, without limitation, to require the consummation of the Closing pursuant to . It is understood and agreed that injury and damages incurred by any non-breaching and non-defaulting Party due to the breach or default of the other Party would be irreparable and not adequately compensable by monetary damages. Consequently, the non-breaching and non-defaulting Party will not have an adequate remedy at law for any failure by a breaching or defaulting Party to perform its obligations hereunder to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby.
Section 11.16
Available Remedies
Section 2.3
 
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
 
 

 
Exhibit 10.1
EXECUTION COPY
PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL
Reynolds American Inc. 401 North Main Street Winston-Salem, NC 27102-2990 Attention: Daniel A. Fawley, SVP & Treasurer
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     This commitment letter agreement (together with all exhibits and schedules hereto, the ) will confirm the understanding and agreement among Lehman Brothers Commercial Bank () and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (), as initial committing lenders (together in such capacity, the ), Lehman Brothers Inc. () and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. (, as joint lead arrangers and joint book-runners (in such capacity, the ), and Reynolds American Inc., a North Carolina corporation (together with each of its subsidiaries, the ), in connection with the proposed financing for the acquisition of all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of a newly-formed holding company code-named "Pinch" (and together with each of its subsidiaries, the ). We understand that the Company proposes to sign a Purchase Agreement among Karl J. Breyer, Marshall E. Eisenberg, Thomas J. Pritzker, G.P. Investor L.L.C., and the Company, dated as of the date hereof (the ) to acquire all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of Target after giving effect to certain preliminary restructuring transactions described in the Acquisition Agreement (the ). The date on which the Acquisition is consummated is referred to herein as the .As used below, the defined term "Company" will mean both the Company prior to the Acquisition and the Company, together with the Acquired Business, after giving effect to the Acquisition.
"Commitment Letter"
"LBCB"
"JPM"
"Initial Lenders"
"Lehman Brothers"
"JPMS"
)
"Lead Arrangers"
"Company"
"Target",
"Acquired Business"
"Acquisition Agreement"
"Acquisition"
"Closing Date
"
     You have advised us that the total funds needed to finance the Acquisition (excluding fees and expenses) will be provided from a combination of the following sources:
 
Apart from the Acquisition financing, you have requested a $500.0 million Revolving Credit Facility that, other than for undrawn exposure under existing letters of credit issued under the Company's existing credit agreement (which will be reissued or otherwise covered under this new Revolving Credit Facility) will remain undrawn on the Closing Date and be available for general corporate purposes thereafter (the ; and together with the Tranche B Term Loan Facility and the Capital Markets Term Loan Facility, the ).
"Revolving Credit Facility"
"Credit Facilities"
     The approximate amounts of the sources and uses for the aforementioned transactions are set forth in the Sources and Uses Table annexed as to the Summary of Terms of Credit Facilities attached hereto as Exhibit A (the ).
Schedule I
"Credit Facilities Term Sheet"
     1. .
The Commitments
          (a) You have requested that the Initial Lenders (collectively with each other entity that becomes a lender under the Credit Facilities, the ) commit to provide the entire amount of the Credit Facilities upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth or referred to in this Commitment Letter and in the Credit Facilities Term Sheet.
"Lenders"
          (b) Based on the foregoing, each Initial Lender, severally and not jointly, is pleased to confirm by this Commitment Letter its commitment to you (the ) to provide or cause one or more of its affiliates to provide 50% of the total amount of the Credit Facilities.
"Commitments"
          (c) It is agreed that the Lead Arrangers will act as the exclusive joint book-runners and exclusive joint lead arrangers for the Credit Facilities (in each case with Lehman Brothers appearing lead left on any offering document) and that JPM will act as the sole and exclusive Administrative Agent (acting in such role, the ) and LBCB will act as Syndication Agent (acting in such role, the ) for the Credit Facilities. Each of the Lead Arrangers, the Administrative Agent and the Syndication Agent will have the rights and authority customarily given to financial institutions in such roles, but will have no duties other than those expressly set forth herein. You agree that no other agents, co-agents, arrangers or book-runners will be appointed, no other titles will be awarded and no compensation (other than that expressly contemplated by this Commitment Letter, the Fee Letter (defined below) and the Agency Letter (defined below) will be paid in connection with the Credit Facilities unless you and we so agree.
"Administrative Agent"
"Syndication Agent"
          (d) The commitments and agreements of the Initial Lenders and the Lead Arrangers described herein are subject to:
          (i) there not having occurred since December 31, 2005 (or if such has occurred since December 31, 2005, the Lead Arrangers and Initial Lenders had no knowledge thereof prior to the date hereof) any event, development or circumstance that has caused or could reasonably be expected to cause a material adverse condition or material adverse change in or affecting the business, financial condition, results of operations, assets or liabilities of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, after giving effect to the Acquisition; , that any adverse event, development or circumstance attributable to the following shall, in each case, be excluded from such determination to the extent any
provided, however
 
such event, development or circumstance does not have a disproportionate adverse effect on the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, after giving effect to the Acquisition, as compared to other entities engaged in the industry in which the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, after giving effect to the Acquisition, operates in general: (1) any adoption, implementation, promulgation, repeal, modification, reinterpretation or proposal of any rule, regulation, ordinance, order, guidance, protocol or any other law of or by any governmental authority; and (2) any change or development in financial or securities markets or the economy in general or relating to the industry in which the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, after giving effect to the Acquisition, operates in general (including any legal action against any entities (other than the Company and its affiliates) engaged in the industry in which the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, after giving effect to the Acquisition, operates in general); and
          (ii) the other conditions set forth in the Funding Conditions attached hereto as Exhibit B.
     2. . In consideration of the execution and delivery of this Commitment Letter by the Initial Lenders, you agree to pay the fees and expenses set forth in Annex A-I to the Credit Facilities Term Sheet and in the Fee Letter (the "") and the Agency Letter (the ""), both dated the date hereof as and when payable in accordance with the terms thereof.
Fees and Expenses
Fee Letter
Agency Letter
     3. .
Indemnification
          (a) The Company hereby agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each of the Lead Arrangers, each of the Lenders and each of their respective affiliates and all their respective officers, directors, partners, trustees, employees, shareholders, advisors, agents, attorneys and controlling persons and each of their respective heirs, successors and assigns (each, an ) from and against any and all losses, claims, damages and liabilities to which any Indemnified Person may become subject arising out of or in connection with this Commitment Letter, the Credit Facilities, the use of the proceeds therefrom, the Acquisition, any of the other transactions contemplated by this Commitment Letter or the Fee Letter, any other transaction related thereto or any claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, regardless of whether any Indemnified Person is a party thereto, and to reimburse each Indemnified Person promptly upon demand for all documented (in a reasonable, customary manner), reasonable out-of-pocket legal and other expenses reasonably incurred by it in connection with investigating, preparing to defend or defending, or providing evidence in or preparing to serve or serving as a witness with respect to, any lawsuit, investigation, claim or other proceeding relating to any of the foregoing (including, without limitation, in connection with the enforcement of the indemnification obligations set forth herein); , that no Indemnified Person will be entitled to indemnity hereunder in respect of any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense to the extent that it is found by a final, non-appealable judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction that such loss, claim, damage, liability or expense resulted directly from the gross negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct of such Indemnified Person. In no event will any Indemnified Person be liable on any theory of liability for indirect, special or consequential damages, lost profits or punitive damages as a result of any failure to fund any of the Credit Facilities contemplated hereby or otherwise in connection with the Credit Facilities. No Indemnified Person will be liable for any damages arising from the use by unauthorized persons of information, projections or other materials sent from reasonably secure electronic, telecommunications or other information transmission systems that are intercepted by unauthorized persons.
"Indemnified Person"
provided, however
          (b) The Company further agrees that, without the prior written consent of each of the Initial Lenders and Lead Arrangers, which consents will not be unreasonably withheld, it will not enter into any settlement of a lawsuit, claim or other proceeding arising out of this Commitment Letter or the transactions contemplated by this Commitment Letter unless such settlement includes an explicit and
 
unconditional release from the party bringing such lawsuit, claim or other proceeding of all Indemnified Persons in form and substance satisfactory to such Indemnified Persons from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such lawsuit, claim or other proceeding and does not include any statement as to or any admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any Indemnified Person. The Company shall not be liable for any settlement effected without its written consent, which consent will not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.
          (c) In case any action or proceeding is instituted involving any Indemnified Person for which indemnification is to be sought hereunder by such Indemnified Person, then such Indemnified Person will promptly notify the Company in writing of the commencement of any action or proceeding; provided, however, that the failure so to notify the Company will not relieve the Company from any liability that it may have to such Indemnified Person pursuant to this Section 3 or from any liability that it may have to such Indemnified Person other than pursuant to this Section 3, except to the extent the Company has been materially prejudiced by such failure. Notwithstanding the above, following such notification, the Company may elect in writing to assume the defense of such action or proceeding, and, upon such election, it will not be liable for any legal costs subsequently incurred by such Indemnified Person (other than reasonable costs of investigation and providing evidence) in connection therewith, unless (i) it has failed to provide counsel reasonably satisfactory to such Indemnified Person in a timely manner, (ii) either the Indemnified Person or counsel provided by the Company reasonably determines that its representation of such Indemnified Person would present it with a conflict of interest or (iii) the Indemnified Person reasonably determines that there may be legal defenses available to it which are different from or in addition to those available to the Company. In connection with any one action or proceeding, the Company will not be responsible for the fees and expenses of more than one separate law firm (in addition to local counsel) for all Indemnified Persons.
          (d) The Company, the Initial Lenders and the Lead Arrangers agree that if any indemnification or reimbursement sought pursuant to this Section 3 is judicially determined to be unavailable for a reason other than the gross negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct of such Indemnified Person, then the Company will contribute to the amount paid or payable by any of the Initial Lenders or Lead Arrangers, as the case may be, as a result of such losses, claims, damages, liabilities and expenses for which such indemnification or reimbursement is held unavailable (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits to the Company, on the one hand, and each of the Initial Lenders and Lead Arrangers, on the other hand, in connection with the transactions to which such indemnification or reimbursement relates, or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) above is judicially determined not to be permitted, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) but also the relative faults of the Company, on the one hand, and each of the Initial Lenders and Lead Arrangers, on the other hand, as well as any other equitable considerations.
     4. . The Commitments will expire at 11:59 p.m., New York City time, on April 24, 2006 unless on or prior to such time you have executed and returned to the Lead Arrangers a copy of this Commitment Letter and the Fee Letter. If you do so execute and deliver to the Lead Arrangers this Commitment Letter and the Fee Letter, the Initial Lenders agree to hold their Commitments available for you until the earliest of (i) the termination of the Acquisition Agreement, (ii) the consummation of the Acquisition with or without the funding of the Credit Facilities and (iii) 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on September 24, 2006. The Commitments will terminate on the Closing Date, and you agree to rely exclusively on your rights and the commitments set forth in the Credit Documentation in respect of all loans and extensions of credit to be made after the Closing Date.
Expiration of Commitments
 
     5. .
Confidentiality
          (a) This Commitment Letter and the terms and conditions contained herein and therein may not be disclosed by the Company to any person or entity (other than the Acquired Business and such of your and their agents and advisors as need to know and agree to be bound by the provisions of this paragraph and as required by law) without the prior written consent of each of the Initial Lenders and Lead Arrangers, except to the extent required by applicable law or under the rules of the New York Stock Exchange. The Fee Letter and the terms and conditions contained therein may not be disclosed by the Company to any person or entity (other than such of your agents and advisors as need to know and agree to be bound by the provisions of this paragraph and as required by law) without the prior written consent of each of the Initial Lenders and Lead Arrangers.
          (b) You acknowledge that the Initial Lenders, the Lead Arrangers and their respective affiliates may be providing debt financing, equity capital or other services (including financial advisory services) to other companies in respect of which you may have conflicting interests regarding the transactions described herein and otherwise. None of the Initial Lenders, the Lead Arrangers and their respective affiliates will use confidential information obtained from you by virtue of the transactions contemplated by this Commitment Letter or their other relationships with you in connection with the performance by the Initial Lenders, the Lead Arrangers and their respective affiliates of services for other companies, and none of the Initial Lenders, the Lead Arrangers and their respective affiliates will furnish any such information to other companies. You also acknowledge that none of the Initial Lenders, the Lead Arrangers and their respective affiliates have any obligation to use in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Commitment Letter, or to furnish to you, confidential information obtained from other companies.
     6. .
Assignment and Syndication
          (a) The parties hereto agree that the Lead Arrangers will have the right to syndicate the Credit Facilities and the Commitments to one or more groups of financial institutions or other investors, identified either by you or us and which are reasonably acceptable to you and us. Subject to the immediately preceding sentence, the Lead Arrangers will have the right to manage all aspects of any such syndication, including decisions as to the selection of institutions to be approached and when they will be approached, the acceptance of commitments, the amounts offered, the amounts allocated and the allocation of compensation provided. The Commitments are subject to the Company using all commercially reasonable efforts to assist the Lead Arrangers in such syndication process by: (i) ensuring that the syndication efforts benefit from the existing lending relationships of the Company; (ii) arranging for direct contact between senior management and other representatives and advisors of (A) the Company and (B) to the extent the Company is entitled to arrange such access pursuant to the terms of the Acquisition Agreement (if at all), the Acquired Business; and (iii) as more particularly set forth in Sections 6(b) and 6(c), assisting in the preparation of materials to be used in connection with the syndication (collectively with the Credit Facilities Term Sheet, the ""); and (iv) hosting, with the Initial Lenders and Lead Arrangers, one or more meetings of prospective Lenders, and, in connection with any such Lender meeting, consulting with the Lead Arrangers with respect to the presentations to be made at such meeting, and making available appropriate officers and representatives to rehearse such presentations prior to such meetings, as reasonably requested by the Lead Arrangers.
Information Materials
          (b) You agree to assist us in preparing the Information Materials, including a Confidential Information Memorandum, for distribution to prospective Lenders. You also agree to assist us in preparing an additional version of the Information Materials (the "") to be used by prospective Lenders' public-side employees and representatives ("") who do not wish to receive material non-public information (within the meaning of United States federal securities laws) with
Public-Side Version
Public-Siders
 
respect to the Company, its affiliates and any of their respective securities ("") and who may be engaged in investment and other market-related activities with respect to the Company's or its affiliates' securities or loans. Before distribution of any Information Materials, you agree to execute and deliver to us (i) a letter in which you authorize distribution of the Information Materials to a prospective Lender's employees willing to receive MNPI ("") and (ii) a separate letter in which you authorize distribution of the Public-Side Version to Public-Siders and represent that no MNPI is contained therein. The Company agrees that the following documents may be distributed to both Private-Siders and Public-Siders, unless the Company advises the Lead Arrangers in writing (including by e-mail) within a reasonable time prior to their intended distribution that such materials should be distributed only to Private-Siders: (i) administrative materials prepared by the Lead Arrangers for prospective Lenders (such as a lender meeting invitation, bank allocation, if any, and funding and closing memoranda), (ii) notification of changes in the terms of the Credit Facilities and (iii) other materials intended for prospective Lenders after the initial distribution of Information Materials. If you advise us that any of the foregoing should be distributed only to Private-Siders, then Public-Siders will not receive such materials without further discussions with you. Drafts of definitive documentation with respect to the Credit Facilities will be distributed only to Private-Siders, unless the Company hereafter authorizes their distribution to the Public-Siders in writing (including by e-mail).
MNPI
Private-Siders
          (c) To assist the Lead Arrangers in their syndication efforts, you agree to promptly prepare and provide the Lead Arrangers such information with respect to the Company, the Acquired Business, the Acquisition and the other transactions contemplated hereby as they may reasonably request, including all financial information and projections (including information and projections prepared on a pro forma basis) as they may reasonably request, including a business plan for fiscal 2006 through fiscal 2010 and a written analysis of the business and prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries for such period, all in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Lead Arrangers (the ). You hereby represent and covenant that (i) all information other than the Projections (the ) that has been or will be made available to the Lead Arrangers by you or any of your representatives in connection with the financing transactions contemplated hereby is or will be, when furnished, when taken as a whole, complete and correct in all material respects and does not or will not, when furnished, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements contained therein not materially misleading in light of the circumstances under which such statements are made and (ii) the Projections that have been or will be made available to the Lead Arrangers by you or any of your representatives have been or will be prepared in good faith based upon assumptions believed by the Company to be reasonable at the time made (it being understood that such Projections as to future events are not to be viewed as facts and that actual results during the period or periods covered by the Projections may differ from projected results and that the difference may be material). You understand that in arranging and syndicating the Credit Facilities and the Commitments we may use and rely on the Information and Projections without independent verification thereof and that you will promptly notify us of any changes in circumstances that could reasonably be expected to call into question the continued reasonableness of any assumption underlying the Projections.
"Projections"
"Information"
          (d) To ensure an orderly and effective syndication of the Credit Facilities and the Commitments, you agree that, from the date hereof until the earlier of the termination of the syndication as determined by the Lead Arrangers and 90 days following the Closing Date, you will not, and will not permit any of your affiliates to, syndicate or issue, attempt to syndicate or issue, announce or authorize the announcement of the syndication or issuance of, or engage in discussions concerning the syndication or issuance of, any debt facility or debt security of the Company or any of its respective subsidiaries (other than the syndication of the Credit Facilities and the offering of the Notes, in each case, as contemplated hereby, and the offering by the Company of debt securities pursuant to an exchange offer (the ) for all of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Holdings, Inc.'s existing debt securities (the
"Exchange Offer"
 
)), including any renewals or refinancings of any existing debt facility, without the prior written consent of the Lead Arrangers.
"Existing Notes"
     7. . The provisions of Sections 2 (Fees and Expenses), 3 (Indemnification), 5 (Confidentiality), 6 (Assignment and Syndication), and 8 (Choice of Law; Jurisdiction; Waivers) of this Commitment Letter will survive the expiration or termination of this Commitment Letter; , upon execution of the Credit Documentation only Sections 2 (Fees and Expenses), 5 (Confidentiality) (as to the Fee Letter), and 8 (Choice of Law; Jurisdiction; Waivers) will survive the expiration or termination of this Commitment Letter.
Survival
provided, however
     8. .
Choice of Law; Jurisdiction; Waivers
          (a) This Commitment Letter will be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York. The Company hereby irrevocably submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of any New York State court or Federal court sitting in the County of New York in respect of any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to the provisions of this Commitment Letter or the Fee Letter and irrevocably agrees that all claims in respect of any such suit, action or proceeding may be heard and determined in any such court. The parties hereto hereby waive any objection that they may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any such suit, action or proceeding brought in any such court, and any claim that any such suit, action or proceeding brought in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum.
The parties hereto hereby waive, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any right to trial by jury with respect to any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Commitment Letter or the Fee Letter.
          (b) Except as provided in Section 9(b) hereof, no Lender will be liable in any respect for any of the obligations or liabilities of any other Lender under this letter or arising from or relating to the transactions contemplated hereby.
     9. .
Miscellaneous
          (a) This Commitment Letter may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which will be deemed an original, but all of which when taken together will constitute one and the same instrument. Delivery of an executed signature page of this Commitment Letter by facsimile transmission will be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart hereof. This Commitment Letter may not be amended or waived except by an instrument in writing signed by the Initial Lenders, the Lead Arrangers and you.
          (b) The Company may not assign any of its rights, or be relieved of any of its obligations, without the prior written consent of each of the Lenders (and any purported assignment without such consent will be null and void). In connection with any syndication of all or a portion of the Commitments in accordance with Section 6 above, the rights and obligations of each Lender hereunder may be assigned, in whole or in part, and upon such assignment and assumption by the assignee of all obligations of such Lender in respect of the portion of the Commitments so assigned on the terms set forth in this Commitment Letter or on the terms set forth in the definitive financing documents, such Lender will be relieved and novated hereunder from its obligations with respect to such portion of the Commitments; , in connection with the initial syndication of the Commitments as contemplated in Section 6 hereof, if an assignee Lender defaults in its commitment to fund on the Closing Date, the Initial Lenders agree to fund such defaulting Lender's commitment.
provided, however
          (c) This Commitment Letter and the attached Exhibits and Annexes set forth the entire understanding of the parties hereto as to the scope of the Commitments and the obligations of the
 
Lenders and the Lead Arrangers hereunder. This Commitment Letter supersedes all prior understandings and proposals, whether written or oral, between any of the Lenders and you relating to any financing or the transactions contemplated hereby. This Commitment Letter is in addition to the agreements of the parties contained in the Fee Letter.
          (d) This Commitment Letter has been and is made solely for the benefit of the parties signatory hereto, the Indemnified Persons, and their respective heirs, successors and assigns, and nothing in this Commitment Letter, expressed or implied, is intended to confer or does confer on any other person or entity any rights or remedies under or by reason of this Commitment Letter or the agreements of the parties contained herein.
          (e) The Company acknowledges that it has engaged one or more investment banks satisfactory to the Lead Arrangers to publicly sell or privately place the Notes (or in lieu thereof, any debt, convertible debt or equity securities issued by the Company or any of its affiliates, the proceeds of which will be applied in full or in part to finance any portion of the purchase price to be paid in connection with the Acquisition or to refinance Capital Markets Term Loans or any other indebtedness (other than the Tranche B Term Loans) or equity securities incurred or issued in connection with the Acquisition).
          (f) You acknowledge that the Lenders and the Lead Arrangers may be (or may be affiliated with) full service financial firms and as such from time to time may effect transactions for their own account or the account of customers, and hold long or short positions in debt or equity securities or loans of companies that may be the subject of the transactions contemplated by this Commitment Letter. You hereby waive and release, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims you have with respect to any conflict of interest arising from such transactions, activities, investments or holdings, or arising from the failure of the Lead Arrangers or one or more Lenders or any of their respective affiliates to bring such transactions, activities, investments or holdings to your attention.
          (g) The Company agrees that the Lead Arrangers have the right to place advertisements in financial and other newspapers and journals at their own expense describing their services to the Company; that the Lead Arrangers will submit a copy of any such advertisements to the Company for its approval, which approval will not be unreasonably withheld.
provided
          (h) You acknowledge that in connection with the financing transactions contemplated under this Commitment Letter: (i) the Initial Lenders, the Lead Arrangers and their respective affiliates have acted at arm's length from, are not agents of or advisors to, and owe no fiduciary duties to, you or any other person, (ii) the Initial Lenders, the Lead Arrangers and their respective affiliates owe you only those contractual duties and obligations set forth in this Commitment Letter and any definitive financing documentation entered into in connection with the Credit Facilities or the Notes and (iii) the Initial Lenders, the Lead Arrangers and their respective affiliates may have interests that differ from your interests. You agree you will not claim that the Initial Lenders, the Lead Arrangers and their respective affiliates, or any of them, have or has rendered advisory services of any nature or respect, or owed or owes a fiduciary or similar duty to you, in connection with the financing transactions under this Commitment Letter.
          (i) You agree to provide us, prior to the Closing Date, with all documentation and other information required by bank regulatory authorities under applicable "know your customer" and anti-money laundering rules and regulations, including, without limitation, the U.S.A. Patriot Act.
 
     If you are in agreement with the foregoing, kindly sign and return to us the enclosed copy of this Commitment Letter.
Commitment Letter
 
     
Set forth below is a summary of certain of the terms of the Credit Facilities and the documentation related thereto. Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein have the meanings set forth in the Commitment Letter to which this Summary of Terms is attached and of which it forms a part.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex A-I
 
 
 
 
Capitalized terms used but not defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in the Commitment Letter to which this Exhibit B is attached and of which it forms a part. The availability of the Credit Facilities is conditioned upon satisfaction of the conditions precedent summarized below.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
Reynolds American
Reynolds American Inc. P.O. Box 2990 Winston-Salem, NC 27102-2990
 Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI) has agreed to acquire a holding company that owns Conwood, the nation's second largest manufacturer of smokeless tobacco products, for $3.5 billion. The holding company is owned by business interests of the Pritzker family.
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.  April 25, 2006
"Conwood provides us with a significant, strategic platform within the growing moist snuff category that would have taken years to build," said Susan M. Ivey, chairman and chief executive officer of Reynolds American. "The moist snuff category has been growing at 4 percent to 5 percent for the past five years.
 
Clearly, we're excited by this unique opportunity to gain immediate scale and strength in the category."
Tom Pritzker, chairman and CEO of The Pritzker Organization said: "We are very proud of what our team has accomplished. Having achieved a strong position in the market, we felt that a strategic buyer would be in the best position to continue the growth of the company. In Reynolds American, we found a management team that is both compatible with our management team and, in our view, has the vision and capabilities to capitalize on what we have achieved."
Conwood, headquartered in Memphis, Tenn., had 2005 annual net sales of more than $450 million and operating income of nearly $250 million, which represents an operating margin of about 55 percent. Over the past five years, Conwood has delivered very strong compound annual growth in net sales and operating income of approximately 8 percent and 10 percent, respectively.
"This transaction is expected to be accretive to earnings in both the short and long term, and enhances shareholder value," said Dianne M. Neal, RAI's executive vice president of finance and chief financial officer. "Conwood's strong growth and high margins should make it an important driver of RAI's future profitability."
Conwood is the only company to compete in all five segments of the U.S. smokeless tobacco industry, manufacturing moist and dry snuff; and loose leaf, plug and twist chewing tobaccos. Conwood holds the No. 1 or No. 2 position in every segment of the smokeless tobacco market. Moist snuff accounts for more than 70 percent of Conwood's sales, led by both its premium-priced Kodiak brand and its rapidly growing value-priced Grizzly brand.
Conwood, which traces its roots back to the 1782 founding of the Garrett Snuff Company, operates seven facilities and employs about 900 people in Tennessee, Kentucky and North Carolina.
Reynolds American is also the parent company of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company; Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Inc.; R.J. Reynolds Global Products, Inc.; and Lane Limited. Conwood will operate as a subsidiary of Reynolds American. Bill Rosson, Conwood's chief executive officer, will report to Jeffrey A. Eckmann, Reynolds American's executive vice president of strategy and business development. Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Co., R.J. Reynolds Global Products and Lane Limited also report to Eckmann.
"Conwood's management team has an excellent record of delivering growth and building strong brands," said Eckmann. "They have doubled their share of the moist snuff market over the last five years. Their commitment to product
 
innovation and brand building is an excellent fit with the strategic direction of all of RAI's operating companies," he said.
Reynolds American will combine its Lane Limited subsidiary with Conwood in order to consolidate and drive the companies' portfolio of other tobacco products (OTP). Lane markets a wide range of specialty tobacco products, including cigars and little cigars; roll-your-own and pipe tobaccos; and Dunhill and other premium international cigarettes. The headquarters of the newly combined companies will be located in Memphis, and full integration is expected to be completed by the end of 2007.
The transaction will require regulatory approval by the Federal Trade Commission. The acquisition is expected to close by the end of the second quarter.
The transaction provides Reynolds American with the opportunity to leverage its strong balance sheet to create shareholder value. RAI will fund the acquisition with $3.2 billion in new debt and $300 million in cash. The company has received financing commitments from Lehman Brothers Inc. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. for the debt necessary to complete the transaction.
Reynolds American said it does not plan to revise its 2006 earnings guidance or its year-end balance sheet forecast until the transaction has closed and the company has had a period of time to gain additional clarity on Conwood's potential contribution to RAI current-year earnings.
Reynolds American was advised on the Conwood transaction by Lehman Brothers Inc.
Reynolds American will webcast a conference call to discuss the acquisition of Conwood at 10 a.m. Eastern Time today (Tuesday, April 25, 2006). The call will be available live online on a listen-only basis. To register for the call, please visit the "Investors" section of A replay of the call will be available on the site for 30 days. Remarks made during the conference call will be current at the time of the call and will not be updated to reflect subsequent material developments. Although news media representatives will not be permitted to ask questions during the call, they are welcome to monitor the remarks on a listen-only basis. Following the call, media representatives may direct inquiries to Maura Payne at (336) 741-6996 or Jan Smith at (336) 741-6995.
www.ReynoldsAmerican.com.
Statements included in this news release that are not historical in nature are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although RAI believes that these expectations are based
 
on reasonable assumptions, it can give no assurance that the acquisition, if consummated, will be successful or that other expectations will be realized. The consummation of the transaction is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of all conditions to the acquisition. Factors that could affect the future performance of RAI following completion of the transaction, include:
 
Due to these risks and uncertainties, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this news release. Except as provided by federal securities laws, RAI is not required to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Reynolds American Inc.
(NYSE: RAI) is the parent company of Lane Limited and R.J. Reynolds Global Products, Inc. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, the second-largest U.S. tobacco company, manufactures about one of every three cigarettes sold in the country. The company's brands include five of the 10 best-selling U.S. brands: Camel, Kool, Winston, Salem and Doral. Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Inc. manufactures Natural American Spirit cigarettes and other tobacco products for U.S. and international markets. Lane Limited manufactures several roll-your-own, pipe tobacco and little cigar brands, and distributes Dunhill tobacco products. R.J. Reynolds Global Products, Inc. manufactures, sells and distributes American-blend cigarettes and other tobacco products to a variety of customers worldwide. Copies of RAI's news releases, annual reports, SEC filings and other financial materials are available at
R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Inc.,
www.ReynoldsAmerican.com.


