FILE:RAI/RAI-8K-20060215170333.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
ITEM 1.01  Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On February 9, 2006, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Reynolds American Inc., referred to as RAI, approved the performance factors which will be used to determine the extent to which bonuses will be payable for the 2006 fiscal year under the Reynolds American Inc. Annual Incentive Award Plan, referred to as the AIAP, RAI's annual cash bonus plan for employees. The AIAP performance factors, which vary from participant to participant depending upon the entity that employs the participant, are as follows: for participants employed by RAI  net income and market share; for participants employed by R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, referred to as RJR Tobacco  operating income and market share; for participants employed by Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Inc.  operating income and volume; and for participants employed by R. J. Reynolds Global Products, Inc.  operating income and market share.
In addition, on February 9, 2006, the Compensation Committee approved the grant, under the Amended and Restated Reynolds American Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan, of performance units to the following five executive officers, with such grants being made in lieu of such persons' participation in the AIAP: Susan M. Ivey, Lynn J. Beasley, Charles A. Blixt, Dianne M. Neal and Jeffrey A. Eckmann. Each performance unit has an initial value on the date of grant of $1,000, but, except as noted below, the value of each unit upon vesting will be based upon, in the case of Mmes. Ivey and Neal and Messrs. Blixt and Eckmann, the 2006 AIAP performance factors for employees of RAI, and, in the case of Ms. Beasley, the 2006 AIAP performance factors for employees of RJR Tobacco. The Compensation Committee has the discretion to reduce the valuation of the performance units that otherwise would result from the application of the designated performance factors.
Generally, the performance units will vest in full on December 31, 2006, and payment of such units will be made in the first quarter of fiscal 2007. In the event of a grantee's death, permanent disability or retirement, the grantee's performance units will vest pro rata, the value of the vested units will be equal to their initial grant date value and payment will be made as soon as practicable after such event. Upon a grantee's involuntary termination of employment without cause, the grantee's performance units will vest pro rata, the value of the vested units will be based upon the applicable performance factors described above and payment will be made in the first quarter of fiscal 2007. Upon a grantee's voluntary termination of employment or termination of employment for cause, all of the grantee's performance units will be cancelled. The foregoing vesting provisions will be subject to the terms of any employment contract between a grantee and RAI or one of its subsidiaries.
The number of performance units granted to the above named executive officers are as follows: Ms. Ivey  1,419; Ms. Beasley  733; Mr. Blixt  436; Ms. Neal  403; and Mr. Eckmann  370.
A copy of the form of performance unit agreement is attached as Exhibit 10.1 to this Report.
 
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 10.1
Performance Unit One-Year Vest
     1. . Pursuant to the provisions of the Long-Term Incentive Plan (collectively, the "Plan"), Reynolds American Inc. (the "Company") on the above date has granted to
Grant
subject to the terms and conditions which follow and the terms and conditions of the Plan, a target of
A copy of the Plan is attached and made a part of this Agreement with the same effect as if set forth in the Agreement itself. All capitalized terms used in this Agreement shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan, unless otherwise indicated.
     2. . Each Performance Unit shall have an initial value of $1,000 (the "Initial Grant Value"). The Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors (the "Compensation Committee") shall value each Performance Unit at the end of 2006 using the performance measures set forth in the grid attached as , but the Compensation Committee shall have the discretion to reduce the resulting valuation (the "Payment Value"). The Grantee agrees that the Performance Units granted hereunder are in lieu of an award under the Company's Annual Incentive Award Plan for 2006.
Valuation of Performance Units
Exhibit A
     3.  (a) The Performance Units shall fully vest on December 31, 2006.
Vesting.
     (b) Notwithstanding anything in Section 3(a) to the contrary, in the event of (i) the Grantee's death, (ii) the Grantee's Permanent Disability (as defined in the Company's Long Term Disability Plan), (iii) the Grantee's Retirement (as defined below) or (iv) the Grantee's involuntary Termination of Employment without Cause (as such terms are defined in Section 5 of this Agreement), the number of Performance Units which shall vest shall be equal to the product of (i) the original number of Performance Units granted to the Grantee under this Agreement and (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the number of whole or partial months between January 1, 2006, and the date of the Grantee's Termination of Employment,
 
and the denominator of which shall be 12. For purposes of this Agreement, the term "Retirement" shall mean the Grantee's voluntary Termination of Employment (as such term is defined in Section 5 of this Agreement) on or after his or her 65 birthday, or on or after his or her 55 birthday with 10 or more years of service with the Company or a subsidiary of the Company.
th
th
     (c) Upon the Grantee's voluntary Termination of Employment or Termination of Employment for Cause (as such terms are defined in Section 5 of this Agreement) prior to the end of December 31, 2006, all of the Grantee's Performance Units shall be cancelled.
     (d) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Section 3 or in any other Section of this Agreement, if the Grantee has a written employment or severance agreement with the Company or one of its subsidiaries, and such other agreement contains provisions relating to the vesting by the Grantee in the Performance Units or the right of the Grantee to receive the Payment Value (including, without limitation, vesting provisions upon the termination of employment of the Grantee), and such provisions are different than the comparable provisions of this Agreement, then the provisions of such other agreement shall govern and control.
     4.  (a) Payment of Performance Units shall be made only in Cash.
Payment.
     (b) Payment of Performance Units vesting on December 31, 2006, shall be made in the amount of the Payment Value as soon as practicable following the close of the Company books at the end of 2006, and in any event no later than March 15, 2007.
     (c) In the event of the Grantee's death, Permanent Disability or Retirement, the Payment Value of each vested Performance Unit shall be equal to the Initial Grant Value. Payment of such vested Performance Units shall be made as soon as practicable following the Grantee's death, Permanent Disability or Retirement, as the case may be.
     (d) In the event of the Grantee's involuntary Termination of Employment without Cause, the Payment Value of each vested Performance Unit shall be determined using the performance measures set forth in the grid attached as . Payment of such vested Performance Units shall be made as soon as practicable following the close of the Company books at the end of 2006, and in any event no later than March 15, 2007.
Exhibit A
     (e) In the event of the death of a Grantee, any payment to which such Grantee is entitled under the Plan shall be made to the beneficiary designated by the Grantee to receive the proceeds of any noncontributory group life insurance coverage provided for the Grantee by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company ("Group Life Insurance Coverage"). If the Grantee has not designated such beneficiary, or desires to designate a different beneficiary, the Grantee may file with the Company a written designation of a beneficiary under the Plan, which designation may be changed or revoked only by the Grantee, in writing. If no designation of beneficiary has been made by a Grantee under the Group Life Insurance Coverage or filed with the Company under the Plan, distribution upon such Grantee's death shall be made in accordance with the provisions of the Group Life Insurance Coverage. If a Grantee is no longer an employee of the Company at the time of death, no longer has any Group Life Insurance Coverage and has not filed a designation of beneficiary with the Company under the Plan, distribution upon such Grantee's death shall be made to the Grantee's estate.
 
     5.  (a) For purposes of this Agreement, the term "Termination of Employment" shall mean termination from active employment with the Company or a subsidiary of the Company; it does not mean the termination of pay and benefits at the end of a period of salary continuation (or other form of severance pay or pay in lieu of salary).
Termination of Employment.
     (b) For purposes of this Agreement, if the Grantee has an employment or severance agreement, employment shall be deemed to have been terminated for "Cause" only as such term is defined in the employment or severance agreement. For purposes of this Agreement, if the Grantee does not have an employment or severance agreement that defines the term "Cause," the Grantee's employment shall be deemed to have been terminated for "Cause" if the Termination of Employment results from the Grantee's: (i) criminal conduct; (ii) deliberate and continual refusal to perform employment duties on substantially a full time basis; (iii) deliberate and continual refusal to act in accordance with any specific lawful instructions of an authorized officer or employee more senior than the Grantee or a majority of the Board of Directors of the Company; or (iv) deliberate misconduct which could be materially damaging to the Company or any of its business operations without a reasonable good faith belief by the Grantee that such conduct was in the best interests of the Company. A Termination of Employment shall not be deemed for Cause hereunder unless the chief human resources officer of the Company shall confirm that any such Termination of Employment is for Cause; , , that the chief executive officer of the Company shall be required to confirm that a Termination of Employment of the chief human resources officer of the Company is for Cause. Any voluntary Termination of Employment by the Grantee in anticipation of an involuntary Termination of Employment for Cause shall be deemed to be a Termination of Employment for Cause.
provided
however
     6.  Other than as specifically provided in this Agreement with regard to the death of the Grantee, this Agreement and any benefit provided or accruing hereunder shall not be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or change; and any attempt to do so shall be void. No such benefit shall, prior to receipt thereof by the Grantee, be in any manner liable for or subject to the debts, contracts, liabilities, engagements or torts of the Grantee.
Transferability.
     7.  Neither the execution and delivery of this Agreement nor the granting of the Performance Units evidenced by this Agreement shall constitute any agreement or understanding, express or implied, on the part of the Company or its subsidiaries to employ the Grantee for any specific period or in any specific capacity or shall prevent the Company or its subsidiaries from terminating the Grantee's employment at any time with or without Cause.
No Right to Employment.
     8. . The granting of Performance Units under this Agreement shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules and regulations and to such approvals of any governmental agencies as may be required.
Application of Laws
     9.  Any notices required to be given hereunder to the Company shall be addressed to The Secretary, Reynolds American Inc., Post Office Box 2990, Winston-Salem, NC 27102-2990, and any notice required to be given hereunder to the Grantee shall be sent to the Grantee's address as shown on the records of the Company.
Notices.
 
     10.  Any taxes required by federal, state or local laws to be withheld by the Company in respect of the grant of Performance Units or payment of the Payment Value hereunder shall be paid to the Company by the Grantee by the time such taxes are required to be paid or deposited by the Company. The Grantee hereby authorizes the necessary withholding by the Company to satisfy such tax withholding obligations prior to delivery of the Payment Value.
Taxes.
     11. . (a) In consideration of the grant of Performance Units hereunder, the Grantee specifically agrees that the Compensation Committee shall have the exclusive power to interpret the Plan and this Agreement and to adopt such rules for the administration, interpretation and application of the Plan and Agreement as are consistent therewith and to interpret or revoke any such rules. All actions taken and all interpretation and determinations made by the Compensation Committee shall be final, conclusive, and binding upon the Grantee, the Company and all other interested persons. No member of the Compensation Committee shall be personally liable for any action, determination or interpretation made in good faith with respect to the Plan or the Agreement. The Compensation Committee may delegate its interpretive authority to an officer or officers of the Company.
Administration and Interpretation
     (b) This Agreement is intended to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), and shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with such intent. The Performance Units shall be subject to Section 409A of the Code and shall be paid in a manner that will comply with Section 409A of the Code, including proposed, temporary or final regulations or any other guidance issued by the Secretary of Treasury and the Internal Revenue Service with respect thereto (the "Guidance"). Any provision of this Agreement that would cause the Performance Units to fail to satisfy Section 409A of the Code shall have no force and effect until amended to comply with Code Section 409A (which amendment may be retroactive to the extent permitted by the Guidance).
     12.  This Agreement is subject to the Plan, a copy of which is attached. The Board of Directors may amend the Plan and the Compensation Committee may amend this Agreement at any time and in any way, except that, other than for adjustments under Section 11(b) hereof and as otherwise provided by the Plan, any amendment of the Plan or this Agreement that would impair the Grantee's rights under this Agreement may not be made without the Grantee's written consent.
Amendment.
     13.  (a) In consideration of the grant of Performance Units hereunder, the Grantee, while both actively employed and in the event of Grantee's Termination of Employment for any reason, specifically agrees that within the term of this grant or within one year following the payment of any amounts pursuant to the grant, if later: (i) the Grantee will personally provide reasonable assistance and cooperation to the Company in activities related to the prosecution or defense of any pending or future lawsuits or claims involving the Company; (ii) the Grantee will promptly notify the Company upon receipt of any requests from anyone other than an employee or agent of the Company for information regarding the Company, or if the Grantee becomes aware of any potential claim or proposed litigation against the Company; (iii) the Grantee will refrain from providing any information related to any claim or potential litigation against the Company to any non-Company representatives without either the Company's written permission or being required to provide
Obligations of Grantee.
 
information pursuant to legal process; (iv) the Grantee will not disclose or misuse any confidential information or material concerning the Company; and (v) the Grantee will not engage in any activity contrary or harmful to the interests of the Company. In further consideration of the grant of Performance Units hereunder, the Grantee specifically agrees that if required by law to provide sworn testimony regarding any Company-related matter: the Grantee will consult with and have Company designated legal counsel present for such testimony (the Company will be responsible for the costs of such designated counsel); the Grantee will confine his or her testimony to items about which the Grantee has knowledge rather than speculation, unless otherwise directed by legal process; and the Grantee will cooperate with the Company's attorneys to assist their efforts, especially on matters the Grantee has been privy to, holding all privileged attorney-client matters in strictest confidence.
     (b) If the Company reasonably determines that the Grantee has materially violated any of the Grantee's obligations under this Agreement, then this Grant shall terminate, effective the date on which such violation began (unless otherwise terminated sooner), and the Company may demand the return of any amount paid to the Grantee hereunder and the Grantee hereby agrees to return such amounts upon such demand. If after such demand the Grantee fails to return such amounts, the Grantee acknowledges that the Company has the right to deduct from any amounts the Company owes to the Grantee (including, but not limited to, wages or other compensation), or to commence judicial proceedings against the Grantee, to recover such amounts and any and all of its attorney's fees and costs.
 
     14.  THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA SHALL GOVERN THE INTERPRETATION, VALIDITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT, REGARDLESS OF THE LAW THAT MIGHT BE APPLIED UNDER PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAWS.
GOVERNING LAW.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company, by its duly authorized officer, and the Grantee have executed this Agreement as of the Date of Grant first above written.


