FILE:RAI/RAI-8K-20060824170435.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
Table of Contents
ITEM 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
     On August 24, 2006, Reynolds American Inc. ("RAI") announced that, commencing September 2006, Ms. E. Julia (Judy) Lambeth will join RAI as its Executive Vice President and General Counsel. Ms. Lambeth will succeed Mr. Charles A. Blixt who, as previously announced, will be retiring from RAI.
     Subject to the terms of her employment offer letter entered into with RAI as of August 19, 2006, Ms. Lambeth will receive a sign-on bonus of $100,000, have an annual base salary of $482,000 and be eligible to receive a potential annual bonus targeted at 75% of her annual base salary under RAI's Annual Incentive Award Plan. For 2006, any bonus will be prorated based upon the total number of months Ms. Lambeth is employed by RAI. Under RAI's Long-Term Incentive Plan, and subject to approval by RAI's Board of Directors, Ms. Lambeth will receive a 2006 grant with an estimated target value upon vesting in 2009 of $1.2 million. Ms. Lambeth is also eligible for coverage under RAI's relocation and benefits plans and programs, including RAI's executive severance and change in control program which is currently under review. If, prior to the adoption of a new executive severance program, Ms. Lambeth is terminated without cause, she will be entitled to receive continued pay and benefits for six months, subject to the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code.
     A copy of Ms. Lambeth's employment offer letter is attached as Exhibit 10.1 to this Report and is incorporated herein by reference. A copy of RAI's press release dated August 24, 2006, is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: August 24, 2006
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 10.1
REYNOLDS AMERICAN INC. [Letterhead]
August 18, 2006
Mrs. E. Julia (Judy) Lambeth
Dear Judy:
It is my pleasure to confirm our offer to you to join Reynolds American, Inc. ("RAI") as Executive Vice President & General Counsel. We would like for you to begin work as soon as practical. Following your acceptance of this offer, a starting date will be quickly confirmed. Your job level will be executive Job Level 13.
As Executive Vice President & General Counsel, your new base salary will be $482,000 (or $40,166.67 per month). Your target bonus under our Annual Incentive Award Plan (AIAP) will be 75%. For 2006, your bonus will be prorated based upon your total number of months employed by RAI.
In addition, as soon as practical following your employment, you will be paid a "sign-on" bonus totaling $100,000 (less applicable withholding amounts). In the event that you voluntarily resign before completing two years of employment with RAI, you agree to provide RAI a prorated reimbursement of this "sign-on" bonus amount.
Under our Company's Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP), you will be eligible for a 2006 grant with an estimated target value of $1.2 million (3 times your base salary and prorated for 30 of 36 months of employment during the 3-year cliff vesting which will occur in 2009). You will receive this grant following your employment date, contingent upon approval by the Board of Directors. In the future, you will be eligible to receive LTIP grants under the same circumstances and LTIP provisions as other senior executives at your same level in the company. LTIP grants typically include a 3-year cliff vesting requirement among its provisions. The multiple of base salary may change in 2007.
 
Mrs. E. Julia (Judy) Lambeth August 18, 2006 Page 2
Upon employment, you will be eligible for immediate coverage under our Company's Benefits Plans (waiting periods are waived). Also, as a senior executive, you are eligible to receive one Company-sponsored club membership. This involves a one-time payment of initiation fees up to $30,000. Our Company will provide you substantial support under the provisions of our relocation program (see attachment). You will be eligible for 4 weeks (20 days) of paid vacation each year under the terms of our current vacation plan. For 2006, you will have a prorated amount of 7 vacation days.
In consideration of this offer of employment, you will be expected to sign a Non-Compete, Non-Disclosure of Confidential Information, and Commitment to Provide Assistance Agreement.
The Company's current executive severance and change of control program is currently under review. You will be eligible for coverage under the executive severance and change of control program that is adopted by the Company following this review on the same conditions as other senior executives at your same level in the Company. If you are involuntarily terminated without cause prior to the effective date of the adoption of this new executive severance program, you will receive 6 months of continued pay and benefits consistent with Section 409A regulatory requirements.
This offer of employment is contingent upon successful completion of our customary background check and a post-offer, pre-employment medical examination, which includes testing for substance abuse.
The role that you have been offered represents a unique and significant opportunity for you to positively impact the future of Reynolds American, Inc. We have great confidence that you are well suited for this role and that you will make an outstanding contribution to our business.
Acknowledged and Accepted:
cc: Ms. Susan M. Ivey (w/o attachments)

 
Exhibit 99.1
Reynolds American Inc. P.O. Box 2990 Winston-Salem, NC 27102-2990
Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI) today announced that E. Julia "Judy" Lambeth will join the company as executive vice president and general counsel effective Sept. 18, 2006. Lambeth, 55, will also serve as executive vice president and general counsel of RAI's largest subsidiary, R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company. She succeeds Charles A. Blixt, who announced in January that he would retire this year, after 21 years with the company.
Winston-Salem, N.C.  Aug. 24, 2006 
"Reynolds American is extremely fortunate to attract a legal executive of Judy's caliber," said Susan M. Ivey, RAI's chairman, chief executive officer and president. "Judy has a broad scope of expertise and demonstrated leadership abilities. Her distinguished career with DuPont and ConocoPhillips, both domestically and internationally, make Judy an ideal choice to join Reynolds American's leadership team as our new general counsel.
"Chuck Blixt's many contributions to our company's success during the past two decades, and his leadership during a particularly turbulent period of tobacco litigation, have helped to shape the greatly improved legal environment within which R.J. Reynolds operates today," Ivey said. "We wish him a most enjoyable retirement."
Lambeth's career with DuPont, its Conoco energy subsidiary and Conoco's successor, ConocoPhillips, included a wide range of assignments in corporate, commercial and environmental law, and litigation. She joined DuPont as an attorney in 1977 and focused primarily on environmental issues until 1992, when she moved to Houston and subsequently became assistant general counsel for Conoco.
From 1993 to 1997, Lambeth led the group that provided environmental, safety and health regulatory and litigation counsel to all of Conoco's operations and to DuPont facilities in Texas and Louisiana. In 1997, she moved to Hong Kong, where she served as associate general counsel of DuPont's business in the Asia-Pacific region, which included more than 30 joint ventures.
Lambeth returned to the United States in 2001 and served as Conoco's corporate secretary and deputy general counsel through Conoco's 2002 merger with Phillips Petroleum. At Conoco, Lambeth led two legal groups, one advising on major mergers and acquisitions, corporate finance and securities; and the other supporting the company's businesses in Africa, Asia, the Middle East and South America.
 
Lambeth led the integration planning team responsible for corporate governance and structure following the ConocoPhillips merger and served as ConocoPhillips' corporate secretary and deputy general counsel, corporate services, from 2002 to 2006.
A native of Winston-Salem, Lambeth earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in English from Hollins University in 1973 and a Juris Doctor degree from Wake Forest University in 1977.
Lambeth is a member of the N.C. Bar and is a board member of Child Advocates, a Houston organization that fights child abuse. She has served as a member of the Wake Forest Law School Board of Visitors since 2004. She and her husband, Jerry L. McAfee, a retired DuPont executive, plan to live in Winston-Salem.
Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI) is the parent company of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company; Conwood Company, LLC; Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Inc.; Lane Limited; and R.J. Reynolds Global Products, Inc. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, the second-largest U.S. tobacco company, manufactures about one of every three cigarettes sold in the country. The company's brands include five of the 10 best-selling U.S. brands: Camel, Kool, Winston, Salem and Doral. Conwood Company, LLC is the nation's second-largest manufacturer of smokeless tobacco products. Its leading brands are Kodiak, Grizzly and Levi Garrett. Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Inc. manufactures Natural American Spirit cigarettes and other tobacco products for U.S. and international markets. Lane Limited manufactures several roll-your-own, pipe tobacco and little cigar brands, and distributes Dunhill tobacco products. R.J. Reynolds Global Products, Inc. manufactures, sells and distributes American-blend cigarettes and other tobacco products to a variety of customers worldwide. Copies of RAI's news releases, annual reports, SEC filings and other financial materials are available at .
www.ReynoldsAmerican.com


