FILE:RAI/RAI-8K-20061205124457.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On November 30, 2006, Lynn J. Beasley announced her plans to retire, effective January 1, 2007, as a Director and as President of R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company ("RJRT"). (RJRT is an indirect, wholly owned (and the principal operating) subsidiary of Reynolds American Inc. ("RAI").) Also on November 30, 2006, RJRT announced that Daniel (Daan) M. Delen will succeed Ms. Beasley as President of RJRT effective January 1, 2007. A copy of the press release announcing the foregoing RJRT management changes is attached to this Report as Exhibit 99.1.
Ms. Beasley will remain employed with RJRT for a transition period during the first quarter of 2007. Pursuant to an agreement with RAI, Ms. Beasley will be entitled to receive certain salary continuation payments and other benefits during a three-year period after the cessation of her employment with RJRT. The amount and type of such payments and benefits are set forth in a form of letter agreement, which was filed as exhibit 10.6 to RAI's Form 8-K dated February 1, 2005, and which is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
On November 29, 2006, RAI's Board of Directors approved amendments to the Bylaws of RAI making explicit that (i) Board action may be taken without a meeting by unanimous written consent, (ii) a Director's consent to Board or Board Committee action taken without a meeting may be delivered in electronic form and (iii) any Director may participate in a Board meeting through any means of communication by which all Directors participating in the meeting may hear one another. A copy of RAI's Amended and Restated Bylaws are attached to this Report as Exhibit 3.1.
Item 8.01 Other Events
Filed as Exhibit 4.1 to this Report is RAI's form of its 6.500% Senior Secured Notes due 2007, 7.875% Senior Secured Notes due 2009, 6.500% Senior Secured Notes due 2010, 7.250% Senior Secured Notes due 2012 and 7.300% Senior Secured Notes due 2015 registered pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. This exhibit supersedes Exhibit 4.30 to RAI's Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed on October 3, 2006 (File No. 333-137773) and Exhibit 4.26 to RAI's Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed on October 25, 2006 (File No. 333-138215).
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)     Exhibits
 
      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: December 5, 2006

 
Exhibit 3.1
     . Meetings of shareholders of the Corporation shall be held at such time and place either within or without the State of North Carolina as shall be fixed by the Corporation's Board of Directors (the "Board") and designated in the notice or waiver thereof. The Board may postpone and reschedule any previously scheduled annual or special meeting of shareholders.
Section 1.01 Place of Meetings
     . Annual meetings of shareholders shall be held at a place, if any, date and hour fixed by the Board to elect directors to the Board and to transact such other business as may properly come before the meeting. Special meetings of shareholders may be called by the persons permitted to call such meetings by the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation.
Section 1.02 Annual and Special Meetings
     . Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Articles of Incorporation, written notice shall be given to each shareholder entitled to vote at such meeting not fewer than 10 nor more than 60 days before the date of each meeting of shareholders, such notice to include the place, if any, date and hour of the meeting, the means of remote communications, if any, by which shareholders and proxy holders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at such meeting and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called. When a meeting is adjourned to a different date, time or place, notice need not be given of the new date, time or place if (i) the new date, time or place is announced at the meeting before adjournment, and (ii) a new record date is not fixed for the adjourned meeting. If a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting (which must be done if the new meeting date is more than 120 days after the date of the original meeting), notice of the adjourned meeting must be given as provided in this section to persons who are shareholders as of the new record date.
Section 1.03 Notice
     . Shares entitled to vote as a separate voting group may take action in a matter only if a quorum of those shares exists with respect to that matter. A majority of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter by the voting group constitutes a quorum of the voting group for action on that matter. Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Articles of Incorporation, at the opening of any meeting, such meeting may be adjourned from time to time by the vote of a majority of the votes cast on the motion to adjourn or by any officer entitled to preside at or to act as secretary of the meeting. Once a share is represented for any purpose at a meeting, it is deemed present for quorum purposes for the remainder of the meeting and for any adjournment of that meeting unless a new record date is or must be set for that adjourned meeting. Subject to the provisions of the North Carolina Business Corporation Act, at any adjourned meeting any business may be transacted that might have been transacted at the original meeting if a quorum exists with respect to the matter proposed.
Section 1.04 Quorum; Adjournment
1
 
     . The Chairman or, at the Chairman's request or in the absence of the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, or, in the absence of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer, such person as shall be selected by the Board, shall act as chairman at all meetings of shareholders. The Secretary of the Corporation or, in his or her absence, an Assistant Secretary shall act as secretary at all meetings of shareholders. The chairman of the meeting shall have the right and authority to determine and maintain the rules, regulations and procedures for the proper conduct of the meeting, including but not limited to restricting entry to the meeting after it has commenced, maintaining order and the safety of those in attendance, opening and closing the polls for voting, dismissing business not properly submitted, and limiting time allowed for discussion of the business of the meeting.
Section 1.05 Conduct of Meeting and Order of Business
     Business to be conducted at annual meetings of shareholders shall be limited to that properly submitted to the meeting either by or at the direction of the Board or by any shareholder of the Corporation who shall be entitled to vote at such meeting and who complies with the notice requirements set forth in Section 1.06. If the chairman of the meeting shall determine that any business was not properly submitted in accordance with the terms of Section 1.06, he or she shall so declare to the meeting and the business that was not properly submitted shall not be transacted at that meeting.
     . In addition to any other applicable requirements, in order to properly submit any business to an annual meeting of shareholders, a shareholder must give timely notice in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation. To be timely, such notice must be delivered either in person or by United States certified mail, postage prepaid, and received prior to the close of business at the principal executive offices of the Corporation (a) not less than 120 days nor more than 150 days before the first anniversary of the date of the Corporation's proxy statement released to shareholders in connection with the most recent annual meeting of shareholders or (b) if no annual meeting was held in the previous year or the date of the applicable annual meeting has been changed by more than 30 days from the date contemplated at the time of the previous year's proxy statement, not later than the close of business on the later of the tenth calendar day following the day on which the first public announcement of the date of the annual meeting was made and the date that is 90 days before the date of the applicable annual meeting; (provided, however, that, for the 2005 annual meeting of shareholders, such notice by a shareholder must be so delivered no earlier than October 22, 2004 and no later than the close of business on November 21, 2004). In no event shall the public announcement of a postponement or adjournment of an annual meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a shareholder's notice as described above.
Section 1.06 Advance Notice of Shareholder Proposals
     Nomination of persons for election to the Board may be made by the Board or any committee designated by the Board or, in the case of an annual meeting, by any shareholder entitled to vote for the election of directors at the annual meeting of shareholders. However, nominations other than those made by the Board or its designated committee must be made in accordance with the procedures for submitting business at an annual meeting of the shareholders as set forth in this Section 1.06, and no person shall be eligible to serve as a director unless such procedures have been followed. A shareholder may nominate a person or persons for election to
2
 
the Board only if written notice of such shareholder's intent to make such nomination is given to the Secretary of the Corporation in accordance with the procedures set forth above.
     A shareholder's notice to submit business to an annual meeting of shareholders shall set forth (a) the name and address of the shareholder, (b) the class and number of shares of stock beneficially owned by such shareholder, (c) the name in which such shares are registered on the stock transfer books of the Corporation, (d) a representation that the shareholder intends to appear at the meeting in person or by proxy to submit the business specified in such notice, (e) any material interest of the shareholder in the business to be submitted and (f) a brief description of the business desired to be submitted to the annual meeting, including the complete text of any resolutions to be presented at the annual meeting, and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting. In addition, the shareholder making such proposal shall promptly provide any other information reasonably requested by the Corporation.
     In addition to the information required above to be given by a shareholder who intends to submit business to a meeting of shareholders, if the business to be submitted is the nomination of a person or persons for election to the Board then such shareholder's notice must also set forth, as to each person whom the shareholder proposes to nominate for election as a director, (a) the name, age, business address and, if known, residence address of such person, (b) the principal occupation or employment of such person, (c) the class and number of shares of stock of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by such person, (d) any other information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors or is otherwise required by the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (e) the written consent of such person to be named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serve as a director if elected and (f) a description of all arrangements or understandings between such shareholder and each nominee and any other person or persons (naming such person or persons) pursuant to which the nomination or nominations are to be made by such shareholder.
     Any person nominated for election as a director by the Board or any committee designated by the Board shall, upon the request of the Board or such committee, furnish to the Secretary of the Corporation all such information pertaining to such person that is required to be set forth in a shareholder's notice of nomination.
     In addition to the foregoing provision of this Section 1.06, a shareholder who seeks to have any proposal included in the Corporation's proxy statement shall comply with the requirements of Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
     For purposes of this Section 1.06, "public announcement" means announcement in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
     . If a quorum exists, in all actions of shareholders other than the election of directors or as otherwise required by law, the Articles of Incorporation or these Bylaws, action on a matter by a voting group is approved if the votes cast within the voting group favoring the action exceed the votes cast opposing the action. If a quorum exists, at all
Section 1.07 Voting
3
 
meetings of shareholders at which directors are to be elected, subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors, directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast by the shares entitled to vote on the election of directors.
     A shareholder may appoint one or more proxies to vote or otherwise act for the shareholder in accordance with the North Carolina Business Corporation Act. A proxy shall be submitted to the secretary of the meeting at or prior to the time designated by the chairman of the meeting.
     . Prior to any meeting of shareholders, the Board may appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting and make a written report thereof. The Board may designate one or more persons as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act. Each inspector, before entering upon the discharge of his or her duties, shall take and sign an oath to execute faithfully the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his or her ability. If any inspector previously appointed shall fail to attend or refuse or be unable to serve, a substitute shall be appointed by the presiding officer.
Section 1.08 Inspectors of Election
     . Regular meetings of the Board shall be held at such times and places within or without the State of North Carolina as may from time to time be fixed by the Board or as may be specified in a notice of meeting. Special meetings of the Board may be held at any time upon the call of the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer or the President and shall be called by the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or the Secretary if directed by the Board or at least two or more Directors. A meeting of the Board may be held without notice immediately after the annual meeting of shareholders. No notice shall be required for any regular meeting of the Board. Notice of the date, time and place of holding of each special meeting shall be given by delivering such notice at least two business days before the date of the meeting to each director by telecopy or telegraph, personally or by telephone.
Section 2.01 Meetings
     Any director unable to participate in person at any meeting shall be given the opportunity to participate by any means of communication by which all directors participating may simultaneously hear each other during the meeting. In addition, notwithstanding the foregoing, action may be taken by the Board without a meeting if it is taken by unanimous written consent. A director's consent to action taken without a meeting may be in electronic form and delivered by electronic means.
     . Except as otherwise provided in the Articles of Incorporation, a majority of the total number of directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. If a quorum is not present at any meeting of the Board, the directors present may adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until such a quorum is present.
Section 2.02 Quorum
4
 
     . The Board may, by resolution adopted by a majority of the Board, designate one or more committees to have and exercise such power and authority as the Board shall specify.
Section 2.03 Committees of Directors
     No action by any committee of the Board shall be valid unless taken at a meeting for which notice has been duly given in accordance with the last sentence of the first paragraph of Section 2.01 of these Bylaws or waived by the members of such committee. Such notice shall include a description of the general nature of the business to be transacted at the meeting, and no other business may be transacted at such meeting unless all members of the committee are present and consent to the consideration of such other business.
     Any committee member unable to participate in person at any meeting shall be given the opportunity to participate by any means of communication by which all committee members participating may simultaneously hear each other during the meeting. In addition, notwithstanding the foregoing, action may be taken by a committee of the Board without a meeting if it is taken by unanimous written consent. A committee member's consent to action taken without a meeting may be in electronic form and delivered by electronic means.
     Each of the committees established by the Board pursuant to this Section 2.03 shall establish such other rules and procedures for its operation and governance (consistent with the North Carolina Business Corporation Act) as it shall see fit and may seek such consultation and advice as to matters within its purview as it shall require.
     . The Board shall elect a Chairman of the Board from among the members of the Board. The Board shall designate the Chairman as either a Non-Executive Chairman of the Board or, in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.01 of these Bylaws, an Executive Chairman of the Board. (References in these Bylaws to the "Chairman" shall mean the Non-Executive Chairman or Executive Chairman, as designated by the Board.) The Chairman shall preside at all meetings of the Board and shall perform such other duties as may be directed by the Board or as otherwise set forth in these Bylaws.
Section 2.04 Chairman of the Board
     The Board may elect a Vice Chairman of the Board from among the members of the Board. If the Board has elected a Vice Chairman of the Board, the Vice Chairman shall perform such duties as may be designated by the Chairman, subject to the direction of the Board.
Section 2.05 Vice Chairman of the Board.
     . The officers of the Corporation shall be, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, a Treasurer and a Secretary, who shall have the duty, among other things, to record the proceedings of the meetings of shareholders and directors in a book kept for that purpose, and such other additional officers with such titles as the Board shall determine, all of whom shall be chosen by and serve at the pleasure of the Board; provided that
Section 3.01 Description and Terms
5
 
the Chief Executive Officer may appoint Senior Vice Presidents, Vice Presidents or Assistant Officers at his or her discretion. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Board may designate the Chairman as an Executive Chairman, in which case such person shall be an officer of the Corporation and shall have, in addition to the duties set forth in these Bylaws, such powers and authority as determined by the Board. Subject to such limitations as may be imposed by the Board, the Chief Executive Officer shall have full executive power and authority with respect to the Corporation. The President, if separate from the Chief Executive Officer, shall have such powers and authority as the Chief Executive Officer may determine. If the Chief Executive Officer is absent or incapacitated, the Board or any committee designated by the Board for such purpose shall determine the person who shall have all the power and authority of the Chief Executive Officer. Other officers shall have the usual powers and shall perform all the usual duties incident to their respective offices. All officers shall be subject to the supervision and direction of the Board. The authority, duties or responsibilities of any officer (other than an Executive Chairman, if the Chairman has been so designated) of the Corporation may be suspended by the Chief Executive Officer with or without cause. Any officer may be removed by the Board with or without cause; provided that an Executive Chairman who is removed as an officer pursuant to the foregoing shall, subject to and in accordance with the provisions and limitations of the Articles of Incorporation, these Bylaws and applicable law, retain his position as a director. Subject to such limitations as the Board and the North Carolina Business Corporation Act may provide, each officer may further delegate to any other officer or any employee or agent of the Corporation such portions of his or her authority as the officer shall deem appropriate, subject to such limitations as the officer shall specify, and may revoke such authority at any time.
     . The Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Secretary and the Treasurer, or any one of them, shall have the power and authority on behalf of the Corporation to execute any shareholders' consents or proxies and to attend and act and vote in person or by proxy at any meetings of shareholders of any corporation in which the Corporation may own stock, and at any such meetings shall possess and may exercise any and all of the rights and powers incident to the ownership of such stock which as the owner thereof the Corporation might have possessed and executed if present. The Board by resolution from time to time may confer like powers upon any officer.
Section 3.02 Shareholder Consents and Proxies
     . Whenever any statute, the Articles of Incorporation or these Bylaws require notice to be given to any shareholder, such notice is to be given in writing by mail, addressed to such shareholder at his or her address as it appears on the current shareholder records of the Corporation, with postage thereon prepaid. Such notice shall be deemed to have been given when it is deposited in the United States mail. Notice to directors may be given by telegram or facsimile transmission or be delivered personally or by telephone.
Section 4.01 Notices
     . If a claim under Section 1 or 2 of Article Ninth of the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation is not paid in full by the Corporation within 60 calendar days after a written claim has been received by the Corporation, the person claiming
Section 4.02 Indemnification
6
 
indemnification may at any time thereafter bring suit against the Corporation to recover the unpaid amount of the claim. If successful in whole or in part in any such suit, such claimant shall be entitled to be paid also the expense of prosecuting or defending such suit. In any case, it shall be a defense to such claims that, and the Corporation shall not be obliged to advance any such expense if, the claimant has not met any applicable standard for indemnification set forth in the North Carolina Business Corporation Act or the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation. The Corporation shall not advance any such expenses to a claimant, unless the Corporation has previously received from such claimant an undertaking to repay the amount of such expenses in the event it is determined such claimant was not entitled to indemnification. A determination by the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel or stockholders) to the effect that indemnification of the claimant is proper in the circumstances because the claimant has met the applicable standard of conduct or that the claimant has not met such applicable standard of conduct, or the failure by the Corporation to make any such determination, shall not create a presumption that the claimant has or has not met the applicable standard of conduct or be a defense to such suit.
     . The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be fixed by the Board.
Section 4.03 Fiscal Year
     . Any certificates which represent shares of the Corporation shall be signed by the Chairman or the Chief Executive Officer and by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary. Any and all signatures on any such certificates, including signature of officers, transfer agents and registrars, may be facsimile.
Section 4.04 Certificates of Stock
Adopted July 28, 2004 Amended February 2, 2005 Amended November 29, 2006
7

 
Exhibit 4.1
[FORM OF REGISTERED 6.500 % SENIOR SECURED NOTES DUE 2007, 7.875 % SENIOR SECURED NOTES DUE 2009, 6.500 % SENIOR SECURED NOTES DUE 2010, 7.250 % SENIOR SECURED NOTES DUE 2012 AND 7.300 % SENIOR SECURED NOTES DUE 2015]
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), TO ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE, OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENTS ARE MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH ANY OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE, OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
     Reynolds American Inc., a North Carolina corporation (the "Company," which term includes any successor corporation under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, promises to pay to Cede & Co., or its registered assigns, the principal sum of ______________________________ ($____________) on [2007 Notes: June 1, 2007][2009 Notes: May 15, 2009][2010 Notes: July 15, 2010][2012 Notes: June 1, 2012][2015 Notes: July 15, 2015].
 
     Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Note set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall have the same effect for all purposes as if set forth at this place.
     Unless the certificate of authentication hereof has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
     Each of the undersigned hereby acknowledges its obligation as a Guarantor under the Indenture.
[2007][2009][2010][2012][2015] Note Signature Page
 
[2007][2009][2010][2012][2015] Note Signature Page
 
[2007][2009][2010][2012][2015] Note Signature Page
 
[2007][2009][2010][2012][2015] Note Signature Page
 
     This is one of the Notes of the series designated herein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
[2007][2009][2010][2012][2015] Note Signature Page
 
     References herein to the "Notes" mean the [6.500% Senior Secured Notes due 2007][7.875% Senior Secured Notes due 2009][6.500% Senior Secured Notes due 2010][7.250% Senior Secured Notes due 2012][7.300% Senior Secured Notes due 2015]. Other capitalized terms used herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture referred to below unless otherwise indicated.
     1. . Reynolds American Inc., a North Carolina corporation (the "Company"), promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this Note at [6.500%][7.875%][7.250%][7.300%] per annum from the date provided below until maturity and shall pay the additional interest, if any, payable pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of June 20, 2006, between the Company and each of the parties named on the signature pages thereof ("Additional Interest"). The Company shall pay interest and Additional Interest, if any, semi-annually on [2007 and 2012 Notes: June 1 and December 1][2009 Notes: May 15 and November 15][2010 and 2015 Notes: January 15 and July 15] of each year, or if any such day is not a Business Day, on the next succeeding Business Day (each an "Interest Payment Date"). The first Interest Payment Date shall be           , 200_. This Note has been issued in exchange for $         in aggregate principal amount of the [6.500% Senior Secured Notes due 2007][7.875% Senior Secured Notes due 2009][6.500% Senior Secured Notes due 2010][7.250% Senior Secured Notes due 2012][7.300% Senior Secured Notes due 2015] issued by the Company which have not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Initial RAI Notes"), and $        in aggregate principal amount of the [6.500% Notes due 2007][7.875% Notes due 2009][6.500% Secured Notes due 2010][7.250% Notes due 2012][7.300% Secured Notes due 2015] issued by R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "RJR Notes," and collectively with the Initial RAI Notes, the "Initial Notes"). Interest on the Notes shall accrue from: the most recent date on which interest has been paid on the Initial Notes; or, if no interest has been paid on the Initial Notes, from the most recent date on which interest has been paid on the RJR Notes; or, if no interest has been paid on the RJR Notes, from the date of issuance of the RJR Notes; that if there is no existing Default in the payment of interest, and if this Note is authenticated between a record date referred to on the face hereof and the next succeeding Interest Payment Date, interest shall accrue from such next succeeding Interest Payment Date. Interest shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
Interest
provided
     2. . The Company shall pay interest on the Notes (except defaulted interest) and Additional Interest, if any, to the Persons who are registered Holders of Notes at the close of business on the [2007 and 2012 Notes: May 15 and November 15][2009 Notes: May 1 and November 1][2010 and 2015 Notes: January 1 and July 1] immediately preceding the Interest Payment Date, even if such Notes are canceled after such record date and on or before such Interest Payment Date, except as provided in Section 2.13 of the Indenture with respect to defaulted interest. The Notes shall be payable as to principal, premium and
Method of Payment
 
Additional Interest, if any, and interest at the office or agency of the Company maintained for such purpose within or without the City and State of New York, or, at the option of the Company, payment of interest and Additional Interest may be made by check mailed to the Holders at their addresses set forth in the register of Holders, and provided that payment by wire transfer of immediately available funds shall be required with respect to principal of and interest, premium and Additional Interest on, all Global Notes and all other Notes the Holders of which shall have provided wire transfer instructions to the Company or the Paying Agent. Such payment shall be in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts.
     3. . Initially, The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., the Trustee under the Indenture, shall act as Paying Agent and Registrar. The Company may change any Paying Agent or Registrar without notice to any Holder. The Company or any of its Subsidiaries may act in any such capacity.
Paying Agent and Registrar
     4. . The Company issued the Notes under an Indenture dated as of May 31, 2006, as supplemented, among the Company, as issuer, certain direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Company, as guarantors, and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the "Indenture"). The terms of the Notes include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended. The Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Indenture and such Act for a statement of such terms. To the extent any provision of this Note conflicts with the express provisions of the Indenture, the provisions of the Indenture shall govern and be controlling.
Indenture
     5. . The Company may redeem all or a part of the Notes from time to time in accordance with Article 5 of the Indenture at a redemption price equal to the greater of (a) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes and (b) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Notes, discounted to the redemption date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the applicable Treasury Rate plus [2007 Notes: 25][2009 Notes: 37.5][2010 and 2015 Notes: 50][2012 Notes: 30] basis points plus with respect to each of the Notes, accrued and unpaid interest, including Additional Interest, if any, on the principal amount being redeemed to the date of redemption.
Optional Redemption
     "Treasury Rate" means, with respect to any redemption date, (1) the yield, under the heading which represents the average for the immediate preceding week, appearing in the most recently published statistical release designated "H.15(519)" or any successor publication which is published weekly by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and which establishes yields on actively traded U.S. Treasury securities adjusted to constant maturity under the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities," for the maturity corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue (if no maturity is within three months before or after the Remaining Life, yields for the two published maturities most closely corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue will be determined and the Treasury Rate will be interpolated or extrapolated from such yields on a straight line basis, rounding to the nearest month) or (2) if such release (or any successor release) is not published during the week preceding the calculation date or does not contain such yields, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using a price for the Comparable Treasury Price for such
 
redemption date. The Treasury Rate will be calculated on the third business day preceding the redemption date.
     "Comparable Treasury Issue" means the U.S. Treasury security selected by an Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term ("Remaining Life") of the notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of such notes.
     "Independent Investment Banker" means any of Lehman Brothers Securities Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. or Citigroup Global Markets Inc. or, if all such firms are unwilling or unable to select the Comparable Treasury Issue, an independent investment banking institution of national standing appointed by the trustee after consultation with the Company.
     "Comparable Treasury Price" means (1) the average of five Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (2) if the Independent Investment Banker obtains fewer than five such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations.
     "Reference Treasury Dealer" means (1) Lehman Brothers Securities Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and their respective successors; provided, however, that if either of the foregoing shall cease to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer in New York City (a "Primary Treasury Dealer"), the Company will substitute for such firm another Primary Treasury Dealer and (2) any other Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Independent Investment Banker after consultation with the Company.
     "Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date, the average, as determined by the Independent Investment Banker, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Independent Investment Banker at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third business day preceding such redemption date.
     6. . The Company shall not be required to make sinking fund payments with respect to the Notes.
No Sinking Fund
     7. . Notice of redemption shall be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the redemption date to each Holder whose Notes are to be redeemed at its registered address. Notes in denominations equal to or larger than $2,000 may be redeemed in part but only in whole multiples of $1,000, unless all of the Notes held by a Holder are to be redeemed. On and after the redemption date interest ceases to accrue on Notes or portions thereof called for redemption.
Notice of Redemption
     8. . The Notes are in registered form without coupons in minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000. The transfer of Notes may be registered and Notes may be exchanged as provided in the Indenture. The Registrar and the Trustee may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate
Denominations, Transfer, Exchange
 
endorsements and transfer documents and the Company may require a Holder to pay any taxes and fees required by law or permitted by the Indenture. The Company need not exchange or register the transfer of any Note or portion of a Note selected for redemption, except for the unredeemed portion of any Note being redeemed in part. Also, the Company need not exchange or register the transfer of any Notes for a period of 15 days before a selection of Notes to be redeemed or during the period between a record date and the corresponding Interest Payment Date.
     9. . The registered Holder of a Note may be treated as its owner for all purposes.
Persons Deemed Owners
     10. . Subject to certain exceptions, the Indenture or the Notes may be amended or supplemented with the consent of the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time outstanding of all series affected by such amendment or supplement, voting as a single class, and any existing Default or compliance with any provision of the Indenture or the Notes may be waived with the consent of the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time outstanding of all series affected by such Default, voting as a single class. Without the consent of any Holder of a Note, the Indenture or the Notes may be amended or supplemented to convey, transfer, assign, mortgage or pledge to the Trustee as security for the Notes any property or assets; to evidence the succession of another corporation to the Company, or successive successions, and the assumption by the successor corporation of the covenants, agreements and obligations of the Company; to add to the covenants of the Company such further covenants, restrictions, conditions or provisions as its Board of Directors and the Trustee shall consider to be for the protection or benefit of the Holders of the Notes, and to make the occurrence, or the occurrence and continuance, of a Default in any such additional covenants, restrictions, conditions or provisions an Event of Default permitting the enforcement of all or any of the several remedies provided in the Indenture as therein set forth; provided, that in respect of any such additional covenant, restriction, condition or provision such amendment or supplement may provide for a particular period of grace after Default (which period may be shorter or longer than that allowed in the case of other Defaults) or may provide for an immediate enforcement upon such an Event of Default or may limit the remedies available to the Trustee upon such an Event of Default or may limit the right of the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes to waive such an Event of Default; to cure any ambiguity or to correct or supplement any provision contained in the Indenture or in any indenture supplemental thereto which may be defective or inconsistent with any other provision contained in the Indenture or in any indenture supplemental thereto; or to make such other provisions in regard to matters or questions arising under the Indenture or under any indenture supplemental thereto as the Board of Directors may deem necessary or desirable and which shall not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of the Notes in any material respect; to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment under the Indenture by a successor trustee with respect to the Notes and to add to or change any of the provisions of the Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts thereunder by more than one trustee; to comply with the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended; and to add additional Guarantors with respect to the Notes.
Amendment, Supplement and Waiver
     11. . Any of the following events constitutes an "Event of Default" under the Indenture: (a) default in the payment of any installment of interest upon
Defaults and Remedies
 
Securities of any series as and when the same shall become due and payable, and continuance of such default for a period of 30 days; or (b) default in the payment of all or any part of the principal on Securities of any series as and when the same shall become due and payable either at maturity, upon any redemption, by declaration or otherwise; or (c) default in the payment of any sinking fund installment as and when the same shall become due and payable by the terms of Securities of any series; or (d) default in the performance, or breach, of any covenant or agreement of the Company or the Guarantors in respect of Securities of any series (other than a covenant or agreement in respect of such Securities a default in whose performance or whose breach is elsewhere in this Section specifically dealt with), and continuance of such default or breach for a period of 90 days after there has been given to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the outstanding Securities of all series affected thereby, a written notice specifying such default or breach and requiring it to be remedied and stating that such notice is a "Notice of Default" hereunder; or (e) a court having jurisdiction in the premises shall enter a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company or the Guarantors in an involuntary case under any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law now or hereafter in effect, or appointing a receiver, liquidator, assignee, custodian, trustee or sequestrator (or similar official) of the Company or for any substantial part of its property or ordering the winding up or liquidation of its affairs, and such decree or order shall remain unstayed and in effect for a period of 60 consecutive days; or (f) the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary shall commence a voluntary case under any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law now or hereafter in effect, or consent to the entry of an order for relief in an involuntary case under any such law, or consent to the appointment of or taking possession by a receiver, liquidator, assignee, custodian, trustee or sequestrator (or similar official) of the Company or for any substantial part of its property, or make any general assignment for the benefit of creditors; or (g) any Guarantee ceases to be in full force and effect (except as contemplated by the terms of the Indenture), or any Guarantee is declared in a judicial proceeding to be null and void, or any Guarantor denies or disaffirms in writing its obligations under the terms of the Indenture or its Guarantee; or (h) at any time as such security is required by the terms of the Indenture, any Security Document shall cease to be in full force and effect or shall cease to give the Collateral Agent the liens or any of the material rights, powers and privileges purported to be created thereby in favor of the Collateral Agent and such default shall continue unremedied for a period of at least 30 days after written notice to the Company by the Collateral Agent; or (i) any other Event of Default provided in the supplemental indenture or Board Resolution under which Securities of any series are issued or in this Note.
     If an Event of Default described in clauses (a), (b), (c), (d) or (i) above (if the Event of Default under clause (d) or (i) is with respect to less than all series of Securities then outstanding) occurs and is continuing, then, and in each and every such case, except for any series of Securities the principal of which shall have already become due and payable, either the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of each such affected series then outstanding under the Indenture (voting as a single class) by notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by Securityholders), may declare the entire principal of all Securities of all such affected series, and the interest accrued thereon, if any, to be due and payable immediately, and upon any such declaration the same shall become immediately due and payable. If an Event of Default described in clause (d) or (i) (if the Event of Default under clauses (d) or (i), as the case may be, is with respect to all series of Securities then outstanding), (e), (f) or (g) occurs and is continuing, then and in each and every such case,
 
unless the principal of all the Securities shall have already become due and payable, either the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of all the Securities then outstanding hereunder (treated as one class), by notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by Securityholders), may declare the entire principal of all the Securities then outstanding and interest accrued thereon, if any, to be due and payable immediately, and upon any such declaration the same shall become immediately due and payable.
     12. . The Trustee, in its individual or any other capacity, may make loans to, accept deposits from, and perform services for the Company or its Affiliates, and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates, as if it were not the Trustee.
Trustee Dealings with Company
     13. . No director, officer, employee, incorporator or shareholder of the Company or the Trustee, as such, shall have any liability for any obligations of the Company or the Trustee, respectively, under the Notes or the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder of Notes by accepting a Note waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for issuance of the Notes. Such waiver may not be effective to waive liabilities under the federal securities laws and it is the view of the SEC that such a waiver is against public policy.
No Recourse Against Others
     14. . This Note shall not be valid until authenticated by the manual signature of the Trustee or an authenticating agent.
Authentication
     15. . This Note will be entitled to the benefits of certain Guarantees made for the benefit of the Holders. Subject to the terms of the Indenture, each Guarantor of the Indenture fully, unconditionally and irrevocably guarantees, as primary obligor and not merely as surety, jointly and severally, to each Holder of the Notes and the Trustee the full and punctual payment when due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, by redemption, by repurchase, or otherwise, of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Notes and all other obligations of the Company under the Indenture, as provided in the Indenture. Reference is made to the Indenture for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and obligations thereunder of the Guarantors, the Trustee and the Holders.
Guarantees
     16. . Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as: TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian), and U/G/M/A (=Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).
Abbreviations
     17. . Pursuant to a recommendation promulgated by the Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures, the Company has caused CUSIP or ISIN numbers or both numbers to be printed on the Notes and the Trustee may use CUSIP or ISIN numbers or both numbers in notices to the Holders of the Notes as a convenience to Holders. No representation is made as to the accuracy of such numbers either as printed on the Notes or as contained in any notice to the Holders of the Notes and reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers placed thereon.
CUSIP and ISIN Numbers
 
     18. . This Note shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law
     The Company shall furnish to any Holder upon written request and without charge a copy of the Indenture. Requests may be made to:
Reynolds American Inc. 401 North Main Street Winston-Salem, North Carolina 27101-3818 Facsimile: 336-741-2998 Attention: Treasurer

 
Exhibit 99.1
R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company P.O. Box 2959 Winston-Salem, NC 27102
 Lynn J. Beasley, 49, president of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, today announced her plans to retire in 2007. Effective Jan. 1, 2007, Daniel (Daan) M. Delen, 41, currently president of British American Tobacco Ltd.  Japan, will replace Beasley as president of R.J. Reynolds.
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.  Nov. 30, 2006
"Lynn's 25-year career with R.J. Reynolds has been nothing short of extraordinary," said Susan M. Ivey, chairman and chief executive officer of Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI), the parent company of R.J. Reynolds. "Her many contributions to R.J. Reynolds will continue to impact the company's performance for years to come. We extend our heartfelt thanks to her, and warmest wishes for a happy retirement," Ivey said.
Beasley will stay with the company for a transition period through mid-February 2007.
"We are also excited by the prospect of Daan joining R.J. Reynolds," Ivey said. "Daan's broad and deep experience in the global tobacco industry and his past experience in the U.S. market will bring valuable insight and expertise to the business from Day One."
Delen joined British American Tobacco's (BAT) family of companies in 1989 as a brand manager in Guatemala. He subsequently held a number of marketing and sales management positions for BAT in England, Singapore, Chile and Argentina. In 2001, Delen was named senior vice president of marketing and sales for Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp. Since August 2004, he has served as president of BAT's Japan business unit.
A native of the Netherlands, Delen is a graduate of Washington State University.
, an indirect subsidiary of (NYSE: RAI), is the second-largest tobacco company in the United States, manufacturing about one of every three cigarettes sold in the country. The company's brands include five of the 10 best-selling U.S. cigarette brands: Camel, Kool, Winston, Salem and Doral. For more information, visit www.RJRT.com.
R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
Reynolds American Inc.


