FILE:RAI/RAI-8K-20060804144327.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a) Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired; (b) Pro Forma Financial Information
     On May 31, 2006, Reynolds American Inc., through a wholly owned subsidiary, completed the acquisition of Conwood Company, L.P., Conwood Sales Co., L.P., Rosswil LLC, Scott Tobacco LLC, Conwood LLC, Conwood-1 LLC, and Conwood-2 LLC pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, dated April 24, 2006, and amended on May 31, 2006. This amendment to the Reynolds American Inc. Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on May 31, 2006, is being filed to provide the financial statements required by Item 9.01(a) of Form 8-K (which financial statements are filed as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this Report and are incorporated herein by reference) and the pro forma financial information required by Item 9.01(b) of Form 8-K (which financial information is filed as Exhibit 99.3 to this Report and is incorporated herein by reference).
(c) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: August 4, 2006
 

 
Exhibit 23.1
The Members: Conwood Company, L.P., Conwood Sales Co., L.P., Scott Tobacco LLC, Rosswil LLC, Conwood LLC, Conwood-1 LLC, and Conwood-2 LLC
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statements on Form S-8 (Nos. 333-117813, 333-117814, and 333-117815) and in the registration statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-132419) of Reynolds American, Inc. of our report dated April 18, 2006, except for note 12, which is dated April 25, 2006, with respect to the combined balance sheet of Conwood Company, L.P., Conwood Sales Co., L.P., Scott Tobacco LLC, Rosswil LLC, Conwood LLC, Conwood-1 LLC, and Conwood-2 LLC as of December 31, 2005 and the related combined statements of income, members' capital and comprehensive income and cash flows for the year then ended, which report appears in the Form 8-K/A of Reynolds American, Inc. dated August 4, 2006.
/s/ KPMG LLP
Memphis, Tennessee August 3, 2006

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
The Members      Conwood Company, L.P., Conwood Sales Co., L. P.,      Scott Tobacco LLC, Rosswil LLC, Conwood LLC,      Conwood1 LLC, and Conwood2 LLC:
We have audited the combined balance sheet of Conwood Company, L.P., Conwood Sales Co., L.P., Scott Tobacco LLC, Rosswil LLC, Conwood LLC, Conwood1 LLC, and Conwood2 LLC (collectively the Company) as of December 31, 2005, and the related combined statements of income, members' capital and comprehensive income and cash flows for the year then ended. These combined financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these combined financial statements based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the combined financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the combined financial position of Conwood Company, L.P., Conwood Sales Co., L.P., Scott Tobacco LLC, Rosswil LLC, Conwood LLC, Conwood1 LLC, and Conwood2 LLC as of December 31, 2005, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for the year then ended, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
KPMG LLP
April 18, 2006, except for note 12, which is dated April 25, 2006
 
See accompanying notes to combined financial statements.
 
See accompanying notes to combined financial statements.
 
See accompanying notes to combined financial statements.
 
See accompanying notes to combined financial statements.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition to the pension plans, the Company sponsors an unfunded defined benefit health care and life insurance plan that provides post-retirement medical and life insurance benefits to full-time employees (who meet minimum age and service requirements for retirement) and their dependents. The plan is contributory, with retiree contributions adjusted annually, and contains other cost-sharing features such as deductibles and coinsurance. The Company's policy is to pay the cost of medical and life insurance benefits in amounts determined at the discretion of management. The retiree contribution rate will be allocated consistently with the premium rates and costs that have emerged from health care and life insurance expenses and plan experience. The measurement date used to determine pension and other post-retirement benefit measures for the pension plans and the post-retirement plan is December 31.
The following table sets forth the plans' benefit obligations, fair value of plan assets, and funded status at December 31, 2005:
The accumulated benefit obligation for the pension plans was $33,707 at December 31, 2005.
The following information is for the Taylor Brothers Plan, which had plan assets less than the accumulated benefit obligation.
(Continued)
 
Weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations at December 31, 2005 were as follows:
Weighted average assumptions used to determine net cost for the year ended December 31, 2005 were as follows:
The Company's overall expected long-term rate of return on assets is 7.99%. The expected long-term rate of return is based on the portfolio as a whole and not on the sum of the returns on individual asset categories. The return is based exclusively on historical returns, without adjustments.
For measurement purposes, an 11.0% annual rate of increase in the per capita cost of covered benefits (i.e., health care cost trend rate) was assumed for December 31, 2005; the rate was assumed to decrease gradually to 5.50% by the year 2011 and remain at that level thereafter. The health care cost trend rate assumption has a significant effect on the amounts reported. For example, increasing the assumed health care cost trend rates by one percentage point in each year would increase the accumulated post-retirement benefit obligation at December 31, 2005 by $6,019 and the aggregate of the service and interest cost components of net periodic post-retirement benefit cost for 2005 by $612.
(Continued)
 
Other amounts for the year ended December 31, 2005 are as follows:
Plan Assets
The weighted average asset allocation of the Company's pension plans' assets at December 31, 2005 were as follows:
The Company's investment policies and strategies for the pension plans do not use target allocations for the individual asset categories. The Company's investment goals are to maximize returns subject to specific risk management policies. Its risk management policies permit investments in mutual funds, and prohibit direct investments in debt and equity securities and derivative financial instruments. The Company addresses diversification by the use of mutual fund investments whose underlying investments are in domestic and international fixed income securities and domestic and international equity securities. These mutual funds are readily marketable and can be sold to fund benefit payment obligations as they become payable.
Cash Flows
The Company expects to contribute $1,360 to its pension plans in 2006.
The benefits expected to be paid in each year 2006-2010 are $2,219, $2,431, $2,707, $2,988, and $3,233, respectively. The aggregate benefits expected to be paid in the five years from 2011-2015 are $22,480. The expected benefits are based on the same assumptions used to measure the Company's benefit obligation at December 31 and include estimated future employee service.
(Continued)
 
(Continued)
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
See accompanying notes to combined financial statements (unaudited).
 
See accompanying notes to combined financial statements (unaudited).
 
See accompanying notes to combined financial statements (unaudited).
 
(Continued)
 
Depreciation expense totaled $984 and $921 for the quarters ended March 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
(Continued)
 
(Continued)
 

 
Exhibit 99.3
     The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information gives effect to the acquisition of Conwood Company, L.P., Conwood Sales Co., L.P., Rosswil LLC, Scott Tobacco LLC, Conwood LLC, Conwood-1 LLC, and Conwood-2 LLC, collectively referred to as Conwood, by Reynolds American Inc., referred to as RAI, as if the acquisition transactions had been completed at the beginning of each period presented.
     This unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto in RAI's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, RAI's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarterly periods ended March 31, 2006 and June 30, 2006, and the historical financial statements of the Conwood companies included in this Current Report on Form 8-K/A.
     This unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information has been prepared using the purchase method of accounting for business combinations and is based upon the historical financial statements of RAI and Conwood, which have been prepared in accordance with Regulation S-X promulgated by the SEC. The pro forma financial information is based on certain assumptions and adjustments as discussed in the accompanying notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Financial Statements. The Conwood acquisition occurred on May 31, 2006, and the combined condensed consolidated balance sheet (unaudited) as of June 30, 2006, is included in RAI's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2006, with the purchase price allocated to certain assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their historical book values as of the acquisition date. Due to the limited amount of information concerning Conwood's operations prior to the completion of the acquisition, the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including trademarks and other intangibles, has not yet been determined. Accordingly, the excess of the amount paid over net assets acquired has been allocated to goodwill in RAI's condensed consolidated balance sheet (unaudited) as of June 30, 2006.
     The adjustments in this unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information reflect adjustments necessary to account for the Conwood transactions as described herein. The unaudited pro forma financial information will require further adjustment pending allocation of the purchase price resulting from the determination of fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The final determination of the fair market value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed and the final allocation of the consideration will be finalized when all information is received, but not later than one year from the date of the completion of the Conwood transactions, and will be reflected in SEC filings for periods presented after the completion of the Conwood transactions.
     This unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information does not reflect operating efficiencies, if any, that may result from the completion of the Conwood acquisition and does not include any transition costs. Therefore, this unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is not necessarily indicative of results of operations or financial position that would have been achieved if the businesses had been combined as of the beginning of each period presented, or the results of operations or financial position that RAI will experience after the Conwood transactions are completed. In addition, the preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles, in the United State of America (GAAP), requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions are preliminary and have been made solely for the purpose of developing this unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates and assumptions.
 
 
 
Note A  Elimination of Historical Conwood items
          Pro-forma adjustments include the elimination of Conwood's historical amortization expense due to applying the purchase method of accounting for the Conwood transactions, Conwood's historical interest income due to the exclusion of the historical cash balances, and Conwood's historical provision for income taxes due to the application of the new expected effective rate. Prior to the acquisition, Conwood was an S-Corporation for federal income tax purposes.
Note B  Increase in Interest and Debt Expense
          Interest expense increased based on the assumed $3.2 billion of additional debt at interest rates ranging from 7.1875% to 7.750%. An additional debt expense relates to the $52 million of debt issuance costs to be amortized over five to twelve years.
Note C  Reduction in Interest Income due to Acquisition
          Interest income has been reduced to reflect an average cash balance reduced by $370 million, which is the amount of cash paid in connection with the Conwood acquisition.
Note D  Income taxes
          The pro forma adjustment to provision for income taxes represents the application of the expected effective rate of 39.0% to the Conwood historical earnings and pro forma adjustments.


