FILE:RAI/RAI-8K-20061025085958.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
      The information in this Current Report is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subjected to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
      On October 25, 2006, Reynolds American Inc. issued an earnings release announcing its financial results for the third quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2006. A copy of the earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibit.
      The following is furnished as an Exhibit to this Report.
 
      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: October 25, 2006
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
Reynolds American Inc. P.O. Box 2990 Winston-Salem, NC 27102-2990
RAI CEO:
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.  Oct. 25, 2006 
All references in this release to "reported" numbers refer to GAAP measurements; all "adjusted" numbers are non-GAAP, as defined in schedules 3 and 4 of this release, which reconcile reported to adjusted results for the third-quarter and nine-month periods.
Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI) today announced gains in third-quarter and nine-month 2006 diluted GAAP EPS compared with the prior-year periods. Adjusted EPS of $3.29 for the nine-month period was up 13.8 percent from pricing, costs reductions and timing of promotional spending. Third-quarter adjusted EPS of $1.09, up 0.9 percent, was impacted by quarterly fluctuations at R.J. Reynolds. RAI increased its full-year reported EPS forecast to $4.20 to $4.30, adjusted for the August stock split.
 
Overview
"Reynolds American's year-to-date results underscore the power of our business model and our operating companies' inherent strength," said Susan M. Ivey, RAI's chairman and chief executive officer. "Nine-month profit gains from each of our operating units contributed to RAI's continued growth momentum. Our performance continues to validate that our strategy is solid, and it's driving results."
Ivey said that continued total share-trend improvements at R.J. Reynolds are in line with those expected from the brand-portfolio strategy the company put in place in early 2005. She also said that the third quarter was marked by the continued strong growth momentum of Conwood, the smokeless tobacco business RAI acquired in May.
"Our performance is on track for RAI to again deliver strong full-year results," Ivey said, "and we are increasing our full-year forecast based on additional gains at R.J. Reynolds and Conwood."
 
R.J. Reynolds
"Our year-to-date market-share results confirm the ongoing strength of R.J. Reynolds' brand-portfolio strategy," said Lynn J. Beasley, R.J. Reynolds' president and chief operating officer. "Our overall share decline continued to moderate during the first nine months of 2006, as accelerated investment-brand growth increasingly offset share declines on other brands."
During the third quarter, R.J. Reynolds' two investment brands, Camel and Kool, continued to post strong share gains, with a combined increase of 1.07 share points. On a nine-month combined basis, the company's two investment brands were up 0.91 share points compared with the prior-year period.
This investment-brand growth contributed to the continued moderation of R.J. Reynolds' overall share declines. The company's total retail market share for the nine-month period was 29.87 percent, down 0.35 points.
Beasley said that recent disruptions in the shipment of some R.J. Reynolds brand styles has not materially affected the company's share of market or shipment volume.
R.J. Reynolds' nine-month adjusted operating income was up 8.2 percent at $1,412 million. However, the company's third-quarter adjusted operating income of $455 million was down 5.4 percent. Two factors contributing to this decline were spending to combat state ballot initiatives and an 8 percent volume decline that was partially driven by trade-inventory movements.
During the first half, the trade increased its wholesale inventory of R.J. Reynolds' brands by about 1 billion units in anticipation of the July 4 holiday and the company's implementation of an SAP systems platform.
th
This first-half volume imbalance affects second-half performance in two ways. First, it decreases second-half sales. Second, it boosts second-half costs, since manufacturers' discounting is not applied until product is shipped to retail. So discounts are being paid in the second half for volume that was sold earlier in the year.
"We expected trade-inventory levels to return to normal in the third quarter," Beasley said, "but half of the excess inventory remained at the end of the quarter. As a result, our year-to-date volume is down 2.8 percent. We now expect inventory levels to return to normal in the fourth quarter. That should result in a full-year decline of 4 percent in shipment volume.
"In addition," she said, "there were some third-quarter favorabilities in the timing of marketing expenses, which will decrease fourth-quarter margins.
"Looking beyond the quarterly fluctuations, our performance continues to propel us toward strong full-year results," Beasley said. "We are delivering productivity gains ahead of schedule, our year-to-date profits are up and it's increasingly clear that our brand strategy is producing solid results."
 
Conwood
Conwood continued to deliver strong growth for the third quarter and the first nine months. The company's accelerated performance helped drive today's increase in RAI's full-year forecast.
To enhance understanding of Conwood's underlying performance, RAI is providing adjusted results, computed as if Conwood had been owned by RAI since the beginning of 2005. On this basis, Conwood again delivered strong gains in volume, share and operating income for both the third quarter and the first nine months of 2006, compared with the same periods in 2005.
pro-forma
Conwood's third-quarter adjusted operating income rose 7.4 percent to $73 million. For the nine-month period, adjusted operating income climbed 13.3 percent to $213 million. Nine-month margins of 58.7 percent are up 1.6 percentage points from the prior-year period.
pro-forma
pro-forma
During the quarter and year-to-date, Conwood continued to show its strength as the growth leader in the moist-snuff category. Conwood's nine-month moist-snuff share of shipments was 25.4 percent, up 2.8 points from the prior-year period.
Driving Conwood's performance is Grizzly, a price-value brand that now commands 20 percent of the moist-snuff market. Grizzly continued to display strong growth, with a 3.7 share-point gain for the first nine months compared with the same period of 2005.
Conwood, the nation's second-largest smokeless tobacco company, is the only company that competes in all five smokeless tobacco categories. Conwood holds the No. 1 or No. 2 position in every category, and it has more than doubled its total share of the moist-snuff market in the past six years.
"Based on additional strength from our largest operating units, we are increasing Reynolds American's full-year forecast. We now expect to report EPS of $4.20 to $4.30, on a post-split basis. That forecast anticipates a soft fourth quarter, which will balance prior quarterly distortions," said Dianne M. Neal, RAI's chief financial officer.
Neal noted that Conwood will be more accretive to earnings in 2006 than previously forecasted, as Conwood's operating profit contributions will more than offset acquisition financing expenses.
She said that the revised reported EPS estimate includes the pre-tax effect of approximately:
 
It also includes a $74 million extraordinary gain in the first half resulting from the favorable resolution of prior years' tax matters.
Neal said that the company's full-year forecast does not include:
Neal said that RAI expects to end the year with a strong balance sheet, with cash and short-term investments of about $2.3 billion, and debt of about $4.7 billion.
She noted that the year-end cash forecast does not include $100 million of cash collateral for the appellate bond in the Engle class-action lawsuit because, "It is still difficult to accurately predict when these funds will be returned."
Reynolds American will webcast a conference call to discuss third-quarter 2006 results at 9:30 a.m. Eastern Time on Wednesday, Oct. 25, 2006. The call will be available live online on a listen-only basis. To register for the call, please visit the "Investors" section of . A replay of the call will be available on the site for 30 days. Remarks made during the conference call will be current at the time of the call and will not be updated to reflect subsequent material developments. Although news media representatives will not be permitted to ask questions during the call, they are welcome to monitor the remarks on a listen-only basis. Following the call, media representatives may direct inquiries to Seth Moskowitz at (336) 741-7698.
www.ReynoldsAmerican.com
Statements included in this news release that are not historical in nature are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe-harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements regarding RAI's future performance and financial results inherently are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements.
These risks and uncertainties include:
 
Due to these risks and uncertainties, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this news release. Except as provided by federal securities laws, RAI is not required to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI) is the parent company of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company; Conwood Company, LLC; Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Inc.; Lane, Limited; and R.J. Reynolds Global Products, Inc.
 
Copies of RAI's news releases, annual reports, SEC filings and other financial materials are available at www.ReynoldsAmerican.com.
 
Schedule 1
 
 
Schedule 2
On a preliminary basis, the $3.5 billion cost of the acquisition of Conwood has been allocated on the basis of historical net book value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date. The excess purchase price over the net book value was included in goodwill. The fair values of acquired tangible and intangible assets have not yet been finalized. The allocation of purchase price to the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed is expected to reduce goodwill in the fourth quarter of 2006.
 
Schedule 3
Results include the acquired operations of Conwood since May 31, 2006. The fair values of acquired assets and liabilities assumed have not yet been finalized.
RAI management uses "adjusted" (non-GAAP) measurements to set performance goals and to measure the performance of the overall company, and believes that investors' understanding of the underlying performance of the company's continuing operations is enhanced through the disclosure of these metrics. "Adjusted" (non-GAAP) results are not, and should not be viewed as, substitutes for "reported" (GAAP) results.
 
Schedule 4
R.J. Reynolds is the second largest cigarette manufacturer in the United States and manages a contract manufacturing business. Conwood is the second largest smokeless tobacco products manufacturer in the United States.
Conwood's GAAP operating income includes the operations acquired by RAI since May 31, 2006. Proforma operating income includes Conwood's pre-acquisition operating income. The fair values of acquired assets and liabilities assumed have not yet been finalized, and therefore, no resulting proforma adjustments have been made in the proforma adjusted operating income.
Management uses "adjusted" (non-GAAP) measurements to set performance goals and to measure the performance of the company, and believes that investors' understanding of the underlying performance of the company's continuing operations is enhanced through the disclosure of these metrics.
 
Schedule 5
Amounts are rounded on an individual basis and, accordingly, may not sum in the aggregate.
Other RAI Companies include U.S. volume for Lane Limited and Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Co., as well as volume for Puerto Rico and other U.S. territories.
Industry data based on information from Management Science Associates, Inc.
 
Schedule 6
Amounts are rounded on an individual basis and, accordingly, may not sum in the aggregate.
Retail shares of market are as reported by Information Resources Inc.
 
Schedule 7
UNIT VOLUME
Volumes reported include pre-acquisition amounts.
Amounts are rounded on an individual basis and, accordingly, may not sum in the aggregate.
MARKET SHARE
Share data for total moist snuff based on distributor reported data processed by Management Science Assoicates, Inc.


