FILE:RAI/RAI-8K-20060726082101.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     The information in this Current Report is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subjected to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
     On July 26, 2006, Reynolds American Inc. issued an earnings release announcing its financial results for the second quarter and six months ended June 30, 2006. A copy of the earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibit.
     The following is furnished as an Exhibit to this Report.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 26, 2006
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
     
RAI CEO:
All references in this release to "reported" numbers refer to GAAP measurements; all "adjusted" numbers are non-GAAP, as defined in schedules 3 and 4 of this release, which reconcile reported to adjusted results for second-quarter and first-half 2006.
 Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI) today announced strong gains in second-quarter and first-half 2006 diluted EPS  on both a reported and an adjusted basis. Adjusted EPS of $2.51 for the quarter and $4.39 for the half was up 32.8 percent and 20.9 percent respectively, benefiting from improved pricing, productivity and strong R.J. Reynolds volume. The company revised its forecast and now expects full-year 2006 reported EPS of $8.30 to $8.50.
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.  July 26, 2006
 
Overview
"Reynolds American's first-half results clearly demonstrate the company's ongoing progress in delivering against its business plan and building long-term shareholder value," said Susan M. Ivey, RAI's chairman, president and chief executive officer.
During the first half of 2006, the company expanded the scope of its business by entering the smokeless tobacco category with the acquisition of Conwood. RAI achieved additional merger synergies and met productivity objectives, and the company's largest operating subsidiary, R.J. Reynolds, further increased the strength of its investment brands.
"In addition," Ivey said, "Reynolds American continues to enjoy a more favorable industry environment, which was further enhanced by a recent ruling that eliminated the $145 billion judgment against the industry in the class-action lawsuit.
Engle
"Our year-to-date performance and our ability to deliver sustainable earnings growth drove our decision, announced last week, to increase RAI's dividend by 20 percent and split our stock on a two-for-one basis," Ivey said. "It is clear that Reynolds American continues to build strength."
 
R.J. Reynolds
"R.J. Reynolds' performance during the first half of 2006 again demonstrated the company's operational and marketplace strength," said Lynn J. Beasley, R.J. Reynolds' president and chief operating officer.
R.J. Reynolds' adjusted operating income of $554 million for the second quarter and $957 million for the first half was up 29.7 percent and 16.0 percent respectively. That performance was primarily the result of pricing gains and productivity improvements, coupled with strong shipment volume.
R.J. Reynolds' shipment volume was essentially flat for the first half of the year. "However," Beasley noted, "we estimate that our retail consumption was down about 4 percent."
First-half volume reflected an extra shipping day and was also impacted by a wholesale-inventory build-up prior to the July 4 holiday and the company's successful implementation of a new SAP systems platform in early July. These dynamics inflated first-half volume and enhanced operating income and margins.
th
"Full-year shipment volumes should be down approximately 4 percent, consistent with the consumption decline during the first half," Beasley said. "We expect second-half volume to be adversely impacted as the trade brings inventories back in line with consumption. In addition, R.J. Reynolds' second-half operating earnings will be affected by incremental investments of about $40 million to address state ballot initiatives on cigarette taxes and smoking bans."
First-half marketplace performance reflects the continued success of R.J. Reynolds' brand portfolio strategy. Total retail market share was 29.92 percent, down 0.42 points for the first half, as expected declines of the company's selective support and non-investment brand categories offset the continued strong performance of the company's two investment brands, Camel and Kool.
Camel and Kool continued to build strength with a combined first-half share of 10.38 percent, up 0.83 share points from the first half of 2005. The 2006 first-half share for Camel's filtered styles was 7.28 percent, up 0.66 points from the prior-year period. Kool delivered a 0.17 share-point gain, boosting its first-half share to 3.10 percent.
"This momentum reflects the focus that Camel and Kool are receiving as investment brands, as well as the strong positioning of the core brand-styles and continuing innovations on both brands," Beasley said. "In the second quarter, Camel's innovations included the launch of a two-market test of Camel Snus, a smokeless tobacco option that has the advantage of being spitless."
Conwood
Reynolds American acquired Conwood Company, L.P., the nation's second-largest smokeless-tobacco manufacturer, on May 31, 2006. Consequently, only Conwood's June operating income of $27 million is included in RAI's consolidated results for the second quarter and first half of 2006.
 
To enhance understanding of Conwood's underlying performance, RAI is providing adjusted results, computed as if Conwood had been owned by RAI since the beginning of 2005. On this basis, Conwood delivered strong gains in volume, share and operating income for both the second quarter and the first half of 2006, compared with the same periods in 2005.
pro-forma
On an adjusted basis, Conwood's second-quarter adjusted operating income climbed 12.3 percent to $73 million. First-half adjusted operating income rose 16.7 percent to $140 million.
pro-forma
During both periods, the company continued to show its strength as the growth leader in the moist-snuff category. Conwood finished the first half of 2006 with a moist-snuff share of shipments of 24.9 percent, up 2.7 points from the prior-year period.
Driving Conwood's results is Grizzly, a price-value brand that continued its strong growth, posting a 3.7 share-point gain from the prior-year first half. Grizzly was introduced only five years ago, but it already commands about 19 percent of the moist-snuff market.
Conwood is the only smokeless tobacco company that competes in all five smokeless tobacco categories. The company holds the No. 1 or No. 2 position in every category, and it has more than doubled its total share of the moist-snuff market in the past six years.
"We are pleased with Reynolds American's performance in the first half. For the year, we now expect reported EPS of $8.30 to $8.50 on a pre-split basis," said Dianne M. Neal, RAI's chief financial officer. "This reflects some additional upside that is primarily due to incremental tax gains, as well as the impact from the Conwood acquisition."
Neal said that Conwood promises to continue delivering strong results during the second half of the year. "However," she said, "their earnings will be only slightly accretive in 2006, as the interest expense associated with financing the acquisition largely offsets the operating income that Conwood will generate during the remainder of the year."
Neal noted that the company's particularly strong first half has put it ahead of its full-year projection on a pro-rata basis. "The second half of the year  the third quarter in particularwill be significantly impacted by the R.J. Reynolds first-half shipping imbalance," Neal said. "The second half will also be adversely affected by an investment of approximately $40 million that R.J. Reynolds is making to combat state ballot initiatives on cigarette excise tax increases and smoking restrictions."
Neal said that the reported EPS estimate also includes the after-tax effect of:
 
Neal said that the company's full-year forecast does not include:
In addition, she noted that the revised year-end cash forecast does not include $ 100 million of cash collateral for the appellate bond in the class-action lawsuit. "At this time it is difficult to accurately predict when these funds will be returned," she said, "so we have excluded them from our year-end cash forecast.
Engle
"We expect our balance sheet to remain strong," Neal said. "We should end the year with cash and short-term investments of about 2.4 billion dollars. We expect debt at year-end of about 4.7 billion dollars."
Reynolds American will webcast a conference call to discuss first-quarter 2006 results at 9:30 a.m. Eastern Time on Wednesday, July 26, 2006. The call will be available live online on a listen-only basis. To register for the call, please visit the "Investors" section of A replay of the call will be available on the site for 30 days. Remarks made during the conference call will be current at the time of the call and will not be updated to reflect subsequent material developments. Although news media representatives will not be permitted to ask questions during the call, they are welcome to monitor the remarks on a listen-only basis. Following the call, media representatives may direct inquiries to Seth Moskowitz at (336) 741-7698.
www.ReynoldsAmerican.com.
Statements included in this news release that are not historical in nature are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe-harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements regarding RAI's future performance and financial results inherently are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements.
These risks and uncertainties include:
 
Due to these risks and uncertainties, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this news release. Except as provided by federal securities laws, RAI is not required to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI) is the parent company of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company; Conwood Company, L.P.; Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Inc.; Lane Limited; and R.J. Reynolds Global Products, Inc.
 
Copies of RAI's news releases, annual reports, SEC filings and other financial materials are available at www.ReynoldsAmerican.com.
 
Schedule 1
 
 
Schedule 2
On a preliminary basis, the $3.5 billion cost of the acquisition of Conwood has been allocated on the basis of historical net book value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date. The excess purchase price over the net book value was included in goodwill. The fair value of acquired tangible and intangible assets has not yet been determined. The allocation of purchase price to the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed is expected to reduce goodwill in the second half of 2006.
 
Schedule 3
Results include the acquired operations of Conwood since May 31, 2006. The fair value of acquired assets and liabilities assumed has not yet been determined. However, any adjustments resulting from such determination is not expected to have a significant impact on RAI's results of operations.
RAI management uses "adjusted" (non-GAAP) measurements to set performance goals and to measure the performance of the overall company, and believes that investors' understanding of the underlying performance of the company's continuing operations is enhanced through the disclosure of these metrics. "Adjusted" (non-GAAP) results are not, and should not be viewed as, substitutes for "reported" (GAAP) results.
 
Schedule 4
R.J. Reynolds is the second-largest cigarette manufacturer in the United States and manages a contract manufacturing business. Conwood is the second largest smokeless tobacco products manufacturer in the United States.
Conwood's GAAP operating income includes the operations acquired by RAI since May 31, 2006. Proforma operating income includes Conwood's pre-acquisition operating income. The fair value of acquired assets and liabilities assumed has not yet been determined, and therefore, no resulting proforma adjustments have been made in the proforma adjusted operating income.
Management uses "adjusted" (non-GAAP) measurements to set performance goals and to measure the performance of the company, and believes that investors' understanding of the underlying performance of the company's continuing operations is enhanced through the disclosure of these metrics.
 
Schedule 5
Amounts are rounded on an individual basis and, accordingly, may not sum in the aggregate.
Other RAI Companies include U.S. volume for Lane Limited and Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Co., as well as volume for Puerto Rico and other U.S. territories.
 
Schedule 6
Amounts are rounded on an individual basis and, accordingly, may not sum in the aggregate.
Retail shares of market are as reported by Information Resources Inc.
 
Schedule 7
UNIT VOLUME
Volumes reported include pre-acquisition amounts.
Amounts are rounded on an individual basis and, accordingly, may not sum in the aggregate.
MARKET SHARE
Share data based on MSAi data for total moist snuff industry distributor shipments to retail.


