FILE:RAI/RAI-8K-20071025092503.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     The information in this Current Report is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subjected to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
     On October 25, 2007, Reynolds American Inc. issued an earnings release announcing its financial results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2007. A copy of the earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     The following is furnished as an Exhibit to this Report.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: October 25, 2007
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
Reynolds American Inc. P.O. Box 2990 Winston-Salem, NC 27102-2990
 
     
RAI CEO:
All references in this release to "reported" numbers refer to GAAP measurements; all "adjusted" numbers are non-GAAP, as defined in schedules 3 and 4 of this release, which reconcile reported to adjusted third-quarter and nine-month results.
 
Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI) today announced third-quarter EPS of $1.21, which represents solid gains on both a reported and adjusted basis compared with the prior-year period. The company also raised its full-year earnings guidance based upon the strength of improved pricing.
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.  Oct. 25, 2007 
For the nine-month period, EPS of $3.43 was down 1.7 percent on a reported basis. Driving this decrease was a prior-year tax favorability of $74 million. On an adjusted basis, EPS was up 5.5 percent at $3.43 for the first nine months, with pricing and productivity gains at R.J. Reynolds and the inclusion of Conwood's strong results.
RAI expects strong EPS growth in the fourth quarter and has increased its full-year guidance to a range of $4.55 to $4.65. That represents year-over-year growth of 11 percent to 13 percent. The guidance increase was driven by a cigarette price increase announced late in the third quarter.
 
Overview
"Reynolds American's third-quarter and nine-month 2007 earnings demonstrate our commitment to deliver responsible growth through innovation," said Susan M. Ivey, RAI's chairman and chief executive officer. "With operating companies that compete in virtually every tobacco category, Reynolds American is well positioned to drive and benefit from evolving consumer trends."
During the quarter, R.J. Reynolds continued to strengthen its operating profits and deliver gains in total growth-brand market share. Conwood again delivered significant volume, profit and margin improvement on the strength of its Grizzly brand.
"We're seeing solid performance from all of our operating companies, and we're building momentum for strong earnings growth," Ivey said. "While regulatory and competitive challenges remain, recent pricing improvement will help us achieve double-digit earnings growth for the year."
R.J. Reynolds
"R.J. Reynolds' continued gains in total growth-brand share and operating income reflect the strength of our business model," said Daniel M. Delen, R.J. Reynolds' president and chief executive officer. "The sustained momentum of our brand-portfolio strategy, coupled with improved pricing and productivity gains, puts R.J. Reynolds on pace to deliver strong full-year results."
The company's third-quarter operating income of $497 million was up 4.9 percent from the year-ago quarter on an adjusted basis, as increased pricing, productivity gains and a better price mix offset the effect of volume declines and higher settlement expense. Operating income for the first nine months was $1.48 billion.
R.J. Reynolds' third-quarter premium-to-value mix was 62.6 percent, up almost half of a percentage point from the prior-year period. The company's third-quarter shipment volume of 25.0 billion units was down 4.0 percent from the prior-year quarter. Among the factors driving volume declines were higher prices and lower wholesale inventory levels. The increased pricing will, however, contribute to year-over-year margin and operating-income gains, Delen said.
R.J. Reynolds' total third-quarter market share was 29.00 percent, down 0.76 share points from the prior-year period driven by declines in the company's non-support brands that were in line with the brand-portfolio strategy.
"Camel continued to deliver solid share gains in the third quarter, up more than four-tenths of a share point from the prior year," Delen said. "Kool maintained its position in the highly competitive menthol category, and Pall Mall continued to add market share."
Camel, Kool and Pall Mall, the company's three growth brands, posted a combined third-quarter market-share of 13.22 percent, up 0.59 share points from the prior-year period.
"Camel's growth continues to be driven by innovations as well as the increasing popularity of menthol styles," Delen said.
 
Delen said that Camel No. 9 also contributed to Camel's strength. "We've just introduced two new Camel No. 9 styles into national distribution  regular and menthol 100's," he said. "These styles further extend the brand's appeal to adult smokers who prefer a cigarette with a longer length." Delen noted that 100 mm cigarettes represent about one-third of all U.S. cigarette sales.
Another innovation, Camel Snus, continues to pioneer the development of a new category of smokeless and spitless tobacco products. Delen said that R.J. Reynolds has expanded its initial Camel Snus two-market test into six additional markets. The company is seeing significant interest in this product, which provides adult tobacco users with "Pleasure for Wherever."
Turning to Kool, Delen said that the brand's market share has remained relatively stable over the past year. "As a growth brand, we expected somewhat stronger performance from Kool this year," Delen said. "Going forward we will continue to focus on building Kool's appeal and relevance in the highly-competitive menthol market. We're doing that through innovative programs and products  like Kool XL, a smoother, wider cigarette that we expanded nationally in the third quarter."
Pall Mall, the company's third growth brand, continued to attract competitive smokers and gained 0.20 share points from the prior-year period. "Given Pall Mall's strength and momentum, we are pursuing opportunities to increase margins as we move forward," Delen said.
In addition to growth-brand gains, the company is also focused on improving earnings and margins through a variety of initiatives to increase productivity and reduce complexity. Consistent with these efforts  and with state legislative trends  Delen announced that R.J. Reynolds plans to voluntarily convert all of its cigarette brands to paper that is fire-standards compliant by the end of 2009.
Conwood
"Conwood continues to deliver strong results with an 18 percent earnings gain in the third quarter," said William M. Rosson, Conwood's president and chief executive officer. "Higher volume and pricing are driving us toward another record year."
Compared with the prior-year period, Conwood's adjusted third-quarter operating income of $90 million was up 18.4 percent. Conwood's third-quarter moist-snuff volume of 75.8 million cans was 12.3 percent higher than the prior-year period.
pro-forma
To provide meaningful period-over-period comparisons, Reynolds American uses adjusted results. These assume that Conwood with its current line of products had been an RAI subsidiary since the beginning of 2006.
pro-forma
Rosson said that the company's 25.95 percent share of shipments in the third quarter was up a third of a share point as Grizzly's gains more than offset Kodiak's declines. For the nine-month period, Conwood's share of 25.80 was more than a full share point higher than the prior-year period.
Kodiak, Conwood's premium brand, saw a third-quarter share-of-shipment decline of 0.72 share points from the prior-year quarter.
 
Rosson said that pressure from heavily-promoted competitive premium brands has hurt Kodiak's performance. "Kodiak remains a strong and profitable entry in the moist-snuff market," Rosson said. "We're working hard to make Kodiak more competitive and compelling while maintaining strong margins. We're also continuing to evaluate additional opportunities to strengthen our position in the premium segment."
Grizzly, the growth leader in the moist-snuff category, had a 21.23 percent share of shipments in the third quarter. That was up 1.39 share points from the prior-year period. "Grizzly's volume grew more than 18 percent during the third quarter in a category that is showing strong growth of about 7 percent," Rosson said.
To further build on Grizzly's momentum, the company is testing two new styles: Grizzly Pouches and an ultra-fine-cut natural style called Grizzly Snuff. "Both of these products offer considerable opportunities to increase growth on the Grizzly brand," Rosson said.
"We're certainly pleased with Conwood's performance," he said. "And we're working hard to further build on the company's already strong profitability and marketplace presence."
"RAI has delivered solid third-quarter and nine-month results, and we're looking forward to a strong full year," said Dianne M. Neal, RAI's chief financial officer. "Our operating companies continue to drive profitable growth and RAI's ability to deliver long-term shareholder value."
Neal said RAI is raising its full-year earnings guidance on the strength of a cigarette price increase announced late in the third quarter. "We now expect to deliver full-year reported earnings of $4.55 to $4.65 per diluted share," she said. "That's an increase of 11-to-13 percent compared with last year's results."
She said that the full-year forecast does not include any potential impact of the annual assessment of intangible asset valuations.
"Higher pricing this year and heavy promotional spending in the fourth quarter of 2006 will contribute to an especially strong fourth-quarter comparison," Neal said. "In addition, we remain on track to achieve full-year productivity gains of about $85 million against a total goal of $500 million through 2011."
"The strength we are building this year," Neal said, "positions us well to deliver mid-single digit EPS growth for the next several years."
 
Reynolds American will webcast a conference call to discuss third-quarter and nine-month 2007 results at 10:30 a.m. Eastern Time on Thursday, Oct. 25, 2007. The call will be available live online on a listen-only basis. To register for the call, please visit the "Investors" section of . A replay of the call will be available on the site for 30 days. Remarks made during the conference call will be current at the time of the call and will not be updated to reflect subsequent material developments. Although news media representatives will not be permitted to ask questions during the call, they are welcome to monitor the remarks on a listen-only basis. Following the call, media representatives may direct inquiries to Seth Moskowitz (336) 741-7698.
www.ReynoldsAmerican.com
Statements included in this news release that are not historical in nature are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe-harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements regarding RAI's future performance and financial results inherently are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements.
These risks and uncertainties include:
 
Due to these risks and uncertainties, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this news release. Except as provided by federal securities laws, RAI is not required to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI) is the parent company of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company; Conwood Company, LLC; Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Inc.; and R.J. Reynolds Global Products, Inc.
Copies of RAI's news releases, annual reports, SEC filings and other financial materials are available at .
www.ReynoldsAmerican.com
 
Schedule 1
 
 
Schedule 2
 
Schedule 3
GAAP results include the acquired operations of Conwood since May 31, 2006.
RAI management uses "adjusted" (non-GAAP) measurements to set performance goals and to measure the performance of the overall company, and believes that investors' understanding of the underlying performance of the company's continuing operations is enhanced through the disclosure of these metrics. "Adjusted" (non-GAAP) results are not, and should not be viewed as, substitutes for "reported" (GAAP) results.
 
Schedule 4
R.J. Reynolds is the second largest cigarette manufacturer in the United States and manages a contract manufacturing business. R.J. Reynolds' segment results include the 2007 transfer of the Dunhill and State Express cigarette brands from Lane, Limited, previously reported as All Other.
Conwood is the second largest smokeless tobacco products manufacturer in the United States. Conwood's GAAP operating income includes the operations acquired by RAI since May 31, 2006. GAAP proforma adjustments reflect the impact of fair values of acquired assets and liabilities assumed as if the acquisition had been completed on January 1, 2006. Conwood's segment results include the 2007 transfer of Lane, Limited's remaining products, previously reported as All Other.
Beginning January 1, 2007, certain corporate expenses are no longer allocated to the operating segments. The segment amounts presented for prior periods have been reclassified to reflect the current composition of the reportable segments.
Management uses "adjusted" (non-GAAP) measurements to set performance goals and to measure the performance of the company, and believes that investors' understanding of the underlying performance of the company's continuing operations is enhanced through the disclosure of these metrics.
 
Schedule 5
UNIT VOLUME (in billions):
RETAIL SHARE OF MARKET:
Amounts are rounded on an individual basis and, accordingly, may not sum in the aggregate.
R.J. Reynolds' support brands include Winston, Salem, Doral, Capri and Misty.
Industry data based on information from Management Science Associates, Inc.
Retail shares of market are as reported by Information Resources Inc.
 
Schedule 6
UNIT VOLUME (in millions of cans):
SHARE OF SHIPMENTS:
2006 volumes include pre-acquisition amounts.
Amounts are rounded on an individual basis and, accordingly, may not sum in the aggregate.
Share data for total moist snuff based on distributor reported data processed by Management Science Associates, Inc.


