FILE:RAI/RAI-8K-20070425080856.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     The information in this Current Report is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subjected to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
     On April 25, 2007, Reynolds American Inc. issued an earnings release announcing its financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2007. A copy of the earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibit.
     The following is furnished as an Exhibit to this Report.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 25, 2007
 

 
Reynolds American Inc. P.O. Box 2990 Winston-Salem, NC 27102-2990
 
RAI CEO:
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.  April 25, 2007 
All references in this release to "reported" numbers refer to GAAP measurements; all "adjusted" numbers are non-GAAP, as defined in schedule 3 of this release, which reconciles reported to adjusted results for the first quarter.
Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI) today announced a 5 percent decline in reported EPS for the first quarter of 2007, driven by an unfavorable comparison to the year-ago quarter when the company recorded a $65 million tax benefit. On an adjusted basis, however, Reynolds American's EPS was up 17 percent, due to unusually strong margins for R.J. Reynolds and the inclusion of Conwood. RAI also said it has raised its forecast range by 15 cents, and now expects to deliver full-year reported EPS of $4.40 to $4.60. That increase is driven by a reduction of approximately $60 million in 2007 pension expense.
 
 
Overview
"The first-quarter performance of each of our reportable segments  R.J. Reynolds and Conwood  reflects Reynolds American's ongoing success in building financial and marketplace strength," said Susan M. Ivey, RAI's chairman and chief executive officer.
"During the quarter, total growth-brand share gains at R.J. Reynolds continued to drive improvements in the company's overall share trend. Conwood's additional share and volume gains further solidified that company's position as the growth leader in the growing moist-snuff category," she said. "Both segments delivered double-digit profit growth compared with the prior-year quarter."
Ivey said that R.J. Reynolds' and Conwood's current marketing initiatives, coupled with a continuing focus on delivering innovations with strong consumer appeal, position both companies well for long-term share and profit growth.
She also said that ongoing productivity initiatives continue to add to RAI's earnings, and the company is on track to meet its goal of $500 million in savings by the end of 2011.
 
"RAI continues to strengthen its foundation," said Ivey, "and it's clear from our ongoing results that core fundamentals are building the bottom line."
For comparative purposes, 2006 results in this release have been adjusted to reflect the transfer of the Dunhill and State Express 555 cigarette brands to R.J. Reynolds, and the distribution of Lane, Limited's other products shifting to Conwood, effective Jan. 1, 2007. In addition, certain corporate expenses are no longer allocated to the business segments. All of these changes are reflected in both year's results.
R.J. Reynolds
R.J. Reynolds delivered first-quarter adjusted operating income of $488 million, a 16.5 percent gain, as margins of almost 26 percent were bolstered by improvements in pricing and operating costs, as well as favorabilities in the timing of promotions and pension expense. The combined effect of these factors significantly offset a rise in MSA expense, as well as a 4 percent volume decline.
Daniel M. Delen, R.J. Reynolds' president and chief executive officer, noted that the timing of promotional spending decreased R.J. Reynolds' margins in the fourth quarter of 2006  but helped drive margins higher in the first quarter. He said the company expects a difficult comparison in the second quarter due to a build in trade inventory levels during the prior-year period. For the year, R.J. Reynolds expects shipment volume to be down 3-to-4 percent, with a decline in industry consumption of approximately 3 percent.
In addition to the company's strong first-quarter financial performance, R.J. Reynolds also continued to enhance its marketplace strength, with a combined growth-brand market share of 12.63 percent  up 0.69 share points from the first quarter of last year.
"Those growth-brand gains, moderate declines on our support brands, and consistency in the performance of our non-support brands keep us solidly on track toward our long-term strategic goals," said Delen.
Camel's total share of 7.39 percent was 0.19 share points higher than the prior-year quarter, based on the brand's continuing innovation and its increased focus on the growing menthol cigarette category.
Camel's mid-February introduction of Camel No. 9 should further strengthen Camel's results going forward. Camel No. 9's regular and menthol styles each feature a "light and luscious" blend in a pack that is "dressed to the nines."
"Adult female smokers told us they didn't feel that Camel offered a style that was relevant to them," Delen said. "But now it does."
Delen noted that 47 percent of all adult smokers are women. "That's a big segment  and it's one in which Camel has traditionally been under-represented," he said. "So there's a tremendous opportunity here for Camel No. 9 to provide additional strength to the Camel brand family."
 
The Kool brand is also making additional inroads through innovation, Delen said. Kool's gain of 0.12 market-share points over the prior-year quarter puts Kool at its highest share level since 1999, with a first-quarter share of 3.20 percent. "That performance reflects Kool's continuing success in providing innovative products, packaging and programs."
Kool XL, a smoother and wider cigarette that was introduced in the fourth quarter of 2006, is adding fuel to Kool's growth, and the company will expand distribution of this new Kool style later this year.
Pall Mall, R.J. Reynolds' third growth brand, delivered a strong gain of 0.38 share points over the prior-year period, giving Pall Mall a 2.04 share of market for the first quarter.
"Pall Mall is a great product at a great price," Delen said. "It's a longer-lasting cigarette that offers more puffs than its competitors, along with a premium heritage and packaging  at a less-than-premium price." He noted that Pall Mall Ultra Lights received a new look in February  a unique orange pack that brings more visibility to the brand.
Delen said that R.J. Reynolds has a number of additional growth-brand innovations decked up for the year.
R.J. Reynolds' total retail cigarette market-share for the first quarter of 2007 was 29.41 percent, down 0.50 points from the prior-year quarter. The company's premium-to-value-brand mix of 62.1 percent was up a full percentage point from the prior-year quarter, compared with a slight decline in the industry mix for the same periods.
"During the first quarter," Delen said, "R.J. Reynolds continued to advance toward our goal of building a business that delivers sustained marketplace and profit growth in the years ahead."
Conwood
Conwood's first-quarter performance highlights the strength Conwood adds to the RAI family, as Conwood's volume, market share and profits continued to exceed year-ago results.
"With adjusted profits up 18 percent, volume up 14 percent and a 1.8 point share gain from the year-ago quarter, we're very pleased with Conwood's first-quarter performance," said William M. Rosson, Conwood's president and chief executive officer.
pro-forma
Conwood's 25.72 percent share of moist-snuff shipments was up 1.79 share points from the first quarter of 2006.
Grizzly, the nation's largest value brand, gained 2.45 share points from the prior-year period, as Grizzly continued to lead moist-snuff category growth. With a share of shipments exceeding 20 percent, Grizzly represents one out of every five cans of moist snuff sold in the United States.
Kodiak, the company's leading premium brand, was down 0.53 share points from the prior-year quarter. The brand's share of shipments was adversely impacted by competitive discounting and the timing of competitive promotional shipments.
Reynolds American acquired Conwood on May 31, 2006. Conwood's adjusted operating income of $80 million was significantly offset by debt expense associated with the acquisition. However, Conwood was still accretive to RAI's first-quarter results.
 
To better quantify Conwood's continued growth, Reynolds American uses adjusted results, as if Conwood had been owned by RAI since the beginning of 2006. On this adjusted basis, Conwood increased both its profits and its margins in the first quarter of 2007, compared with the first quarter of 2006.
pro-forma
pro-forma
As noted above, effective Jan. 1, 2007, Conwood began selling, distributing and marketing Lane, Limited's products excluding cigarette brands, which transferred to R.J. Reynolds. These shifts are reflected in the 2006 and 2007 results presented in this release and the schedules that are attached.
Conwood's adjusted operating income of $80 million for the first quarter was up 17.6 percent on the strength of higher volume and pricing. Conwood's first-quarter margin was 51.6 percent.
pro-forma
pro-forma
"Conwood is off to a great start in 2007," Rosson said. "We came out of the gate with significant strength, and we're well-positioned to continue building momentum."
"We are very pleased with Reynolds American's first-quarter results," said Dianne M. Neal, RAI's chief financial officer. "Our fundamentals are strong, our business model is working and it's clear that Reynolds American is making progress on all fronts."
Neal said the company is raising its full-year guidance range by 15 cents, primarily due to reductions in pension expense. "We now expect to deliver full-year 2007 reported earnings of $4.40 to $4.60 per diluted share," she said.
Full-year 2007 pension favorability of about $60 million was driven by a significant increase in investment returns during the fourth quarter of 2006. The company confirmed in March the full-year 2007 impact of the pension fund's 15 percent prior-year return. The pension expense benefit comes to 13 cents per share.
Neal said the company also continues to benefit from productivity initiatives. Reynolds American expects to deliver $75 million to $100 million in productivity savings this year, against a $500 million savings goal from 2006 through 2011.
 
Reynolds American will webcast a conference call to discuss first-quarter 2007 results at 9:30 a.m. Eastern Time on Wednesday, April 25, 2007. The call will be available live online on a listen-only basis. To register for the call, please visit the "Investors" section of . A replay of the call will be available on the site for 30 days. Remarks made during the conference call will be current at the time of the call and will not be updated to reflect subsequent material developments. Although news media representatives will not be permitted to ask questions during the call, they are welcome to monitor the remarks on a listen-only basis. Following the call, media representatives may direct inquiries to Seth Moskowitz at (336) 741-7698.
www.ReynoldsAmerican.com
Statements included in this news release that are not historical in nature are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe-harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements regarding RAI's future performance and financial results inherently are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements.
These risks and uncertainties include:
 
Due to these risks and uncertainties, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this news release. Except as provided by federal securities laws, RAI is not required to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI) is the parent company of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company; Conwood Company, LLC; Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Inc; and R.J. Reynolds Global Products, Inc.
Copies of RAI's news releases, annual reports, SEC filings and other financial materials are available at .
www.ReynoldsAmerican.com
 
Schedule 1
 
 
Schedule 2
 
Schedule 3
2007 GAAP results include the operations of Conwood that were acquired May 31, 2006.
RAI management uses "adjusted" (non-GAAP) measurements to set performance goals and to measure the performance of the overall company, and believes that investors' understanding of the underlying performance of the company's continuing operations is enhanced through the disclosure of these metrics. "Adjusted" (non-GAAP) results are not, and should not be viewed as, substitutes for "reported" (GAAP) results.
R.J. Reynolds is the second largest cigarette manufacturer in the United States and manages a contract manufacturing business. R. J. Reynolds' segment results include the 2007 transfer of the Dunhill and State Express cigarette brands from Lane, Limited, previously reported as All Other.
Conwood is the second largest smokeless tobacco products manufacturer in the United States. Conwood's GAAP operating income includes the operations acquired by RAI since May 31, 2006. GAAP proforma adjustments reflect the impact of fair values of acquired assets and liabilities assumed as if the acquisition had been completed on January 1, 2006. Conwood's segment results include the 2007 transfer of Lane, Limited's remaining products, previously reported as All Other.
Beginning January 1, 2007, certain corporate expenses are no longer allocated to the operating segments. The segment amounts presented for prior periods have been reclassified to reflect the current composition of the reportable segments.
Management uses "adjusted" (non-GAAP) measurements to set performance goals and to measure the performance of the company, and believes that investors' understanding of the underlying performance of the company's continuing operations is enhanced through the disclosure of these metrics.
 
Schedule 4
Amounts are rounded on an individual basis and, accordingly, may not sum in the aggregate.
Industry data based on information from Management Science Associates, Inc.
R. J. Reynolds' support brands include Winston, Salem, Doral, Capri and Misty.
 
Schedule 5
Amounts are rounded on an individual basis and, accordingly, may not sum in the aggregate.
Retail shares of market are as reported by Information Resources Inc.
R. J. Reynolds' support brands include Winston, Salem, Doral, Capri and Misty.
 
Schedule 6
Volumes reported include pre-acquisition amounts.
Amounts are rounded on an individual basis and, accordingly, may not sum in the aggregate.
Share data for total moist snuff based on distributor reported data processed by Management Science Associates, Inc.


