FILE:RAI/RAI-8K-20071001100621.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
ITEM 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(d) On September 26, 2007, the Board of Directors of Reynolds American Inc., referred to as RAI, elected Lionel L. Nowell III to serve on RAI's Board as a Class III Director. Also on September 26, 2007, RAI's Board appointed Mr. Nowell to serve on the Board's Audit Committee. A copy of the press release announcing Mr. Nowell's election to the Board and appointment to the Board's Audit Committee is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1.
Mr. Nowell is eligible to participate in the non-employee director compensation arrangements described in the Reynolds American Inc. Outside Directors' Compensation Summary, which summary was filed as Exhibit 10.1 to RAI's Form 8-K dated September 13, 2006 and which is incorporated herein by reference. At its September 26, 2007 meeting, RAI's Board also amended the definition of "Eligible Director" set forth in the Equity Incentive Award Plan for Directors of Reynolds American Inc., which amendment (i) provides that an Eligible Director shall mean, generally, a director who qualifies as "independent" within the meaning of applicable rules of the New York Stock Exchange, and (ii) allows Mr. Nowell to participate in such plan. Such amendment is attached to this Report as Exhibit 99.2.
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
     The following are furnished as Exhibits to this Report.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
Reynolds American Inc. P.O. Box 2990 Winston-Salem, NC 27102-2990
Lionel L. Nowell III, senior vice president and treasurer of PepsiCo, has been elected to the board of directors of Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI), effective immediately. He will serve on the board's audit committee.
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.  September 26, 2007 
With revenues of more than $35 billion, PepsiCo is the world's fourth-largest food and beverage company. Nowell has served as PepsiCo's senior vice president and treasurer since August 2001.
Prior to his current position, Nowell was the chief financial officer for The Pepsi Bottling Group (PBG) and was PepsiCo's controller prior to joining PBG. Nowell joined PepsiCo from RJR Nabisco, Inc., where he was senior vice president, strategy and business development. From 1991 to 1998, Nowell held a variety of senior financial roles at the Pillsbury division of Diageo PLC. Prior to joining Pillsbury, Nowell spent eight years as a finance executive at Pizza Hut, which at the time was a division of PepsiCo.
In addition to serving on the RAI board, Nowell is a member of the board of directors of American Electric Power Company, a $15 billion energy company based in Columbus, Ohio. He also serves on the Dean's Advisory Board at The Ohio State University Fisher College of Business, and is an active member of the Executive Leadership Council, Financial Executive Institute, American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and the Ohio Society of CPAs.
Nowell, 53, is a certified public accountant and holds a bachelor's degree in business administration from The Ohio State University.
Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI) is the parent company of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company; Conwood Company, LLC; Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Inc; and R.J. Reynolds Global Products, Inc.
 
Copies of RAI's news releases, annual reports, SEC filings and other financial materials are available at .
www.ReynoldsAmerican.com

 
Exhibit 99.2
     ("Amendment No. 1") to the Equity Incentive Award Plan for Directors of Reynolds American Inc. (Amended and Restated Effective July 12, 2007) (the "EIAP"), is dated as of the 26 day of September, 2007.
THIS AMENDMENT NO. 1
th
     , the Board of Directors of Reynolds American Inc. desires to amend the definition of "Eligible Director" set forth in the EIAP.
WHEREAS
     , the EIAP shall be amended as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE


