FILE:RAI/RAI-8K-20070725091452.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
          The information in this Current Report is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subjected to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
          On July 25, 2007, Reynolds American Inc. issued an earnings release announcing its financial results for the second quarter and first six months ended June 30, 2007. A copy of the earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibit.
     The following is furnished as an Exhibit to this Report.
Table of Contents
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 25, 2007
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
Reynolds American Inc. P.O. Box 2990 Winston-Salem, NC 27102-2990
RAI CEO:
All references in this release to "reported" numbers refer to GAAP measurements; all "adjusted" numbers are non-GAAP, as defined in schedules 3 and 4 of this release, which reconcile reported to adjusted results for the second quarter and first half.
 
Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI) today announced second-quarter and first-half 2007 results that were in line with the company's expectations. Reported EPS for both periods was down due to unusually high, undiscounted, volume at wholesale and extraordinary tax gains in the prior-year periods. Adjusted EPS was down for the quarter, but up 1.8 percent for the first half. Second-quarter reported and adjusted 2007 EPS included a charge of approximately $20 million, or about 4 cents per share, related to debt refinancing that smooths out maturities and reduces RAI's cost of debt.
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.  July 25, 2007
RAI expects to see substantial improvements in second-half earnings comparisons due to the significant quarterly fluctuations throughout 2006. RAI has raised the low end of its prior full-year 2007 guidance by 5 cents and now expects reported EPS of $4.45 to $4.60. The company remains on track to deliver year-over-year reported EPS growth of 9 percent to 12 percent.
 
Overview
"Reynolds American's first-half results position us well to deliver strong earnings growth for the full year," said Susan M. Ivey, RAI's chairman, president and chief executive officer. "The revised guidance range we announced today  and this morning's announcement that we're increasing our dividend by more than 13 percent  further demonstrate Reynolds American's growing strength and unwavering commitment to deliver value to shareholders."
Ivey said the first half of 2007 was highlighted by:
She noted that RAI's financial strength in the first half of 2007 is clouded by comparisons to a particularly strong prior-year period that benefited from an unusual wholesale inventory build and $74 million of extraordinary tax gains.
"Our guidance and dividend increases clearly demonstrate our confidence in RAI's 2007 performance," Ivey said. "We're solidly on track to deliver strong full-year results."
R.J. Reynolds
"Compared with our full-year 2006 performance, R.J. Reynolds delivered higher operating margins and total growth-brand share gains during the second quarter and first half of 2007," said Daniel M. Delen, R.J. Reynolds' president and chief executive officer. "Those gains are the result of our company's continued focus on profitable growth."
On an adjusted basis, R.J. Reynolds' second-quarter 2007 operating income of $496 million was down 12.8 percent from the prior-year quarter, as the effect of volume declines and higher settlement expenses more than offset margin improvements from pricing, product mix, productivity and pension expense. Operating income of $984 million for the first half was essentially flat compared with the year-ago period.
Delen said that due to unique dynamics in 2006, quarter-over-quarter comparisons don't fully reflect the progress R.J. Reynolds continues to make in strengthening its brands and its business.
 
"R.J. Reynolds' volume and earnings for the second quarter of 2006 were inflated by a build of about 1 billion units of undiscounted wholesale cigarette inventory, which sold through to retail during the second half," Delen said. "The significant quarterly fluctuations resulting from these dynamics inflated earnings during the first half of 2006 and had the opposite effect in the second half of the year."
Delen noted that R.J. Reynolds' operating margin of 24.1 percent in the second quarter of 2007 keeps the company on track for year-over-year margin growth. The company's second-quarter premium-to-value price mix was 62.6 percent, up more than a percentage point from the prior-year period.
While R.J. Reynolds' total second-quarter market share of 29.14 percent was down 0.64 share points from the prior-year period, the company's total growth-brand share continued to climb.
The total share of the company's growth brands  Camel, Kool and Pall Mall  was 12.99 percent in the second quarter, an increase of 0.63 share points from the prior-year period.
Leading that share gain was the continued strong performance of R.J. Reynolds' flagship Camel brand.
"Camel is all about pleasure and authenticity," Delen said, "so the brand is focused on creating innovations that reinforce those qualities.
"A great example is Camel No. 9, which offers regular and menthol styles with smooth blends and stylish packs," he said. "Camel No. 9 has been extremely well received. We introduced it in February, and its average share for the second quarter was almost half a point."
In addition, R.J. Reynolds has gained valuable learning and is making steady progress with its test market of Camel Snus  an innovative smokeless tobacco product that is also spitless. The company is now expanding the two-market test to six additional U.S. markets.
"Camel Snus allows adult smokers to enjoy tobacco pleasure in places and situations when they can't smoke," said Delen. "We're excited about the product's appeal and potential."
Kool's market share for the second quarter has been relatively stable compared with the prior-year period, despite increasing levels of promotion in the growing menthol category.
"Kool XL, a smoother, wider style, which we introduced in a green pack last year, is doing well," Delen said. "We've just added a milder style called XL Blue, and we're expanding to national distribution of both of these innovative styles."
Delen said that Pall Mall continues to grow on the strength of its great-product/great-price positioning, adding 0.18 share points during the second quarter of 2007, compared with the prior-year period.
He noted that R.J. Reynolds' "support" and "non-support" brands continue to perform in line with the goals of the company's integrated brand-portfolio strategy.
"We're pleased with our first-half performance," said Delen, "and we're on track to increase operating profit for the full year."
 
Conwood
Conwood marked its first anniversary as a member of the Reynolds American family during the second quarter. The company's first-half volume, market share and profit gains strengthen and enhance RAI's business model and bottom line.
RAI acquired Conwood on May 31, 2006. To provide meaningful year-over-year comparisons, Reynolds American uses adjusted results, as if Conwood had been owned by RAI since the beginning of 2006.
pro-forma
Compared with the prior-year period, Conwood's adjusted second-quarter operating income of $90 million was up 13.9 percent. For the first half, adjusted operating income of $170 million was up 15.6 percent. Those results were driven by higher volume, pricing and margins.
pro-forma
pro-forma
The company's second-quarter operating margin of 52.1 percent was up more than a percentage point from the prior-year period.
Conwood's gains were driven by the continuing success of the company's Grizzly brand. As the leading moist-snuff value brand and the growth leader in the moist-snuff category, Grizzly gained 1.90 share points during the second quarter compared with the prior-year period. Grizzly is the nation's third-largest moist-snuff brand, with a share of 20.64 percent in the second quarter.
"Grizzly's growing strength is built on the brand's powerful position as a premium product with an attractive price," said William M. Rosson, Conwood's president and chief executive officer. "And Grizzly's strong brand equity is continuing to fuel growth in the increasingly competitive moist-snuff market."
Conwood's total moist-snuff share of 25.73 percent for the second quarter was 1.15 points higher than the prior-year period. Grizzly's gains were partially offset by a 0.62 point second-quarter decline in the company's Kodiak brand.
"We're focused on managing Conwood's business for continued growth and profitability in a category that's growing at a rate of 6 to 7 percent," said Rosson, "and our performance through June puts us well on our way to another strong year."
"Our first-half results fully met our expectations and reflect a difficult prior-year comparison," said Dianne M. Neal, RAI's chief financial officer. "All of our businesses are producing solid results, we're continuing see growth on key brands, and we're on track to generate full-year productivity gains of $75-to-$100 million.
"Based on our first-half accomplishments and our full-year expectations, we've raised the low end of our prior guidance by 5 cents," Neal said. "We now expect to deliver full-year reported EPS of $4.45 to $4.60. That represents an increase of 9 percent to 12 percent, compared with RAI's prior-year earnings."
 
Neal said that RAI's first-half 2007 highlights also include:
Neal noted that the dividend increase RAI announced earlier this morning keeps the company in line with its policy of returning about 75 percent of current-year net income to shareholders in the form of dividends.
"We continue to face external challenges in terms of FDA regulation, and state and federal excise tax proposals," she said. "However, we continue to address these challenges, and we're confident that we will deliver strong financial results and continue to build value for our shareholders."
Reynolds American will webcast a conference call to discuss second-quarter and first-half 2007 results at 9:30 a.m. Eastern Time on Wednesday, July 25, 2007. The call will be available live online on a listen-only basis. To register for the call, please visit the "Investors" section of . A replay of the call will be available on the site for 30 days. Remarks made during the conference call will be current at the time of the call and will not be updated to reflect subsequent material developments. Although news media representatives will not be permitted to ask questions during the call, they are welcome to monitor the remarks on a listen-only basis. Following the call, media representatives may direct inquiries to Seth Moskowitz at (336) 741-7698.
www.ReynoldsAmerican.com
 
Statements included in this news release that are not historical in nature are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe-harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements regarding RAI's future performance and financial results inherently are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements.
These risks and uncertainties include:
 
Due to these risks and uncertainties, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this news release. Except as provided by federal securities laws, RAI is not required to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI) is the parent company of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company; Conwood Company, LLC; Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Inc; and R.J. Reynolds Global Products, Inc.
Copies of RAI's news releases, annual reports, SEC filings and other financial materials are available at .
www.ReynoldsAmerican.com
 
Schedule 1
 
 
Schedule 2
 
Schedule 3
GAAP results include the acquired operations of Conwood since May 31, 2006.
RAI management uses "adjusted" (non-GAAP) measurements to set performance goals and to measure the performance of the overall company, and believes that investors' understanding of the underlying performance of the company's continuing operations is enhanced through the disclosure of these metrics. "Adjusted" (non-GAAP) results are not, and should not be viewed as, substitutes for "reported" (GAAP) results.
 
Schedule 4
R.J. Reynolds is the second largest cigarette manufacturer in the United States and manages a contract manufacturing business. R.J. Reynolds' segment results include the 2007 transfer of the Dunhill and State Express cigarette brands from Lane, Limited, previously reported as All Other.
Conwood is the second largest smokeless tobacco products manufacturer in the United States. Conwood's GAAP operating income includes the operations acquired by RAI since May 31, 2006. GAAP proforma adjustments reflect the impact of fair values of acquired assets and liabilities assumed as if the acquisition had been completed on January 1, 2006. Conwood's segment results include the 2007 transfer of Lane, Limited's remaining products, previously reported as All Other.
Beginning January 1, 2007, certain corporate expenses are no longer allocated to the operating segments. The segment amounts presented for prior periods have been reclassified to reflect the current composition of the reportable segments.
Management uses "adjusted" (non-GAAP) measurements to set performance goals and to measure the performance of the company, and believes that investors' understanding of the underlying performance of the company's continuing operations is enhanced through the disclosure of these metrics.
 
Schedule 5
Amounts are rounded on an individual basis and, accordingly, may not sum in the aggregate.
Industry data based on information from Management Science Associates, Inc.
R. J. Reynolds' support brands include Winston, Salem, Doral, Capri and Misty.
 
Schedule 6
Amounts are rounded on an individual basis and, accordingly, may not sum in the aggregate.
Retail shares of market are as reported by Information Resources Inc.
R. J. Reynolds' support brands include Winston, Salem, Doral, Capri and Misty.
 
Schedule 7
UNIT VOLUME
Volumes reported include pre-acquisition amounts.
Amounts are rounded on an individual basis and, accordingly, may not sum in the aggregate.
MARKET SHARE
Share data for total moist snuff based on distributor reported data processed by Management Science Associates, Inc.


