FILE:RAI/RAI-8K-20070208085830.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     The information in this Current Report is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subjected to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
     On February 8, 2007, Reynolds American Inc. issued an earnings release announcing its financial results for the fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2006. A copy of the earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibit.
     The following is furnished as an Exhibit to this Report.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: February 8, 2007
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
ReynoldsAmerican
Reynolds American Inc. P.O. Box 2990 Winston-Salem, NC 27102-2990
RAI CEO:
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.  Feb. 8, 2007 
All references in this release to "reported" numbers refer to GAAP measurements; all "adjusted" numbers are non-GAAP, as defined in schedules 3 and 4 of this release, which reconcile reported to adjusted results for the fourth-quarter and full-year periods.
 
Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI) today announced full-year 2006 profit gains on both a reported and adjusted basis, with strong performances by all of its operating companies. As expected, fourth-quarter adjusted EPS was down from the prior-year quarter, due to quarterly volume and promotional fluctuations. Full-year 2006 adjusted EPS of $4.06 was 3.8 percent higher than the prior year from pricing and cost reductions, partially offset by lower volumes. For full-year 2007, RAI forecasts it will deliver reported EPS of $4.25 to $4.45.
Overview
"Reynolds American continued to build on its momentum in 2006, with all of our operating companies posting full-year profit gains," said Susan M. Ivey, RAI's chairman and chief executive officer. "Our companies' key brands performed extremely well. And our acquisition of Conwood, the nation's second-largest smokeless-tobacco company, significantly broadened our business and diversified our profit stream.
"Conwood is a powerful addition to the Reynolds American family," Ivey said. "Its performance has exceeded our expectations, and the acquisition added to earnings in its first seven months.
 
"Our largest subsidiary, R.J. Reynolds, continued to post strong growth-brand gains and remains on track to achieve overall share growth by the end of 2010," she continued. "In 2006, Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company again increased profit and share, and our Global Products subsidiary further strengthened its international businesses."
In addition, she said, in 2006:
RAI's reported earnings for the fourth-quarter included a non-cash charge of $90 million associated with a decrease in the trademark values of some of R.J. Reynolds' non-growth brands. Excluding that non-cash charge, Reynolds American's 2006 reported EPS of $4.10 would have been $4.29  near the top of the $4.20 to $4.30 EPS range RAI provided in its Oct. 25 forecast.
"Across all dimensions," Ivey said, "2006 was a year in which Reynolds American continued building on success and fortifying its foundation for growth."
R.J. Reynolds
"R.J. Reynolds posted significant achievements in 2006," said Daniel M. Delen, who joined the company as R.J. Reynolds' president on Jan. 1, 2007. "We continued to enhance our overall performance, and we further refined our marketing strategies to fuel additional gains on Camel, Kool and Pall Mall." On a combined basis, these three brands commanded 12.41 percent of the market in 2006  up 1.09 share points from the prior year.
"That's a tremendous accomplishment," said Delen, adding that it helped R.J. Reynolds continue to slow its overall share decline. The company's 2006 decline was 0.50 market-share points, compared with 0.84 points in 2005 and 1.27 points in 2004. "This steady progress puts us on track to begin overall share growth by the end of 2010."
Delen noted that Camel was the cigarette industry's fastest-growing brand in 2006. More than half of the brand's full-year gain of 0.68 share points came from the company's increased focus on the performance of Camel's menthol brand-styles. This focus, which included the introduction of Camel Wides Menthol, has strengthened the brand's position in the important and growing menthol category.
In addition, Delen pointed to the company's mid-year expansion of the Camel trademark to a new smokeless and "spitless" tobacco product called Camel Snus as one of the many ways that the Camel brand continues to build on its long heritage of innovation. He said he was pleased with the Camel Snus test market, which is providing valuable learning that will enhance the product's potential.
 
"This year, Camel will continue to provide innovative entries that satisfy unmet consumer desires," Delen said. "A good example is this month's launch of Camel No. 9, which we developed with feedback from adult female smokers. Camel No. 9's regular and menthol styles each offer a light and luscious' blend in a distinctive pack."
Turning to Kool, Delen said a highlight of 2006 was the introduction of a wide-gauge cigarette called Kool XL. "Because it is smoother' and wider,'" he said, "Kool XL provides a tangible point of difference from competing brands. And moving forward in 2007, Kool will continue to deliver consumer-relevant brand differentiation."
Delen noted that Pall Mall's demonstrated ability to grow market share with limited support prompted R.J. Reynolds to reclassify Pall Mall as a "growth brand." Like Camel and Kool, Pall Mall's growth comes primarily from competitive brands, so this move will complement the company's efforts to build market share and profits.
R.J. Reynolds' brand-portfolio strategy includes three brand categories, which are now named: growth, support and non-support. Each of these categories plays a specific role in returning the company to overall share growth.
R.J. Reynolds' total retail cigarette market-share for 2006 was 29.78 percent, down 0.50 points from the prior year. The company's premium-to-value-brand mix improved 1.1 percentage points to 61.5 percent for the full year.
The company's full-year adjusted operating income was up 2.1 percent at $1.74 billion. As the company had projected, fourth-quarter operating results were down considerably (18.2 percent) from the prior-year quarter. That decline was primarily driven by the timing of promotional expenses and by lower shipment volume, as trade-inventory imbalances from earlier in the year were brought back in line.
"R.J. Reynolds had a great year in 2006," Delen said, "and we have solid plans to continue that growth in 2007 and beyond."
Conwood
Conwood's performance in 2006 further solidified the company's position as the smokeless-tobacco growth leader, with the company delivering strong gains in volume, market share and profits.
In 2006, one of every four cans of moist snuff sold in the United States was manufactured by Conwood. The company's full-year share of moist-snuff shipments was 25.15 percent, up 2.48 points from the prior-year period.
That performance was largely driven by an exceptional 3.42 point market-share gain by Grizzly, the nation's leading moist-snuff value brand. "Grizzly is a great brand that is increasingly popular and profitable," said William M. Rosson, Conwood's president and chief executive officer. "In the five years since it was introduced, it's captured 20 percent of the moist-snuff market."
Conwood's 2006 achievements in the moist-snuff category also included stabilizing the share of Kodiak, the company's leading premium brand. Like competitive premium brands, Kodiak's performance had been soft, as the demand for value brands increased.
 
Reynolds American acquired Conwood on May 31, 2006, so RAI's full-year reported results include Conwood for only seven months. Conwood's contribution exceeded RAI's expectations and was accretive to RAI's bottom line.
To better quantify Conwood's continued growth, Reynolds American uses adjusted results, as if Conwood had been owned by RAI since the beginning of 2005. On this adjusted basis, Conwood increased both its profits and its margins in the fourth quarter and for the full year.
pro-forma
pro-forma
Conwood's adjusted operating income for the fourth quarter was up 20.0 percent to $72 million. Full-year adjusted operating income of $284 million was up 16.4 percent from 2005. Conwood's adjusted full-year margins of 57.9 percent were up 1.6 percentage points from the prior year.
pro-forma
pro-forma
In addition to its strong marketplace and financial performance in 2006, Conwood made significant progress in integrating its sales, marketing and distribution functions with those of RAI's Lane subsidiary. Effective Jan. 1, 2007, Conwood has handled the sales, distribution and marketing of Lane's products, except for Dunhill and State Express 555 cigarettes, which have moved to R.J. Reynolds.
"We're working hard to continue building our momentum," said Rosson. "We delivered excellent results in 2006, and 2007 should shape up as another very strong year."
"Based on the increased strength of Reynolds American, we now expect to deliver mid-single-digit EPS percentage growth for the next several years, with a forecast of $4.25 to $4.45 in 2007," said Dianne M. Neal, RAI's chief financial officer.
"This increase from last year's projection of low-single-digit gains reflects our continued focus on key growth drivers, the increasing strength of our companies' brands, and the addition of Conwood's climbing profits. We have also raised the five-year productivity goal we announced in 2006. Including the savings we captured in 2006, we now expect to deliver approximately $500 million in productivity savings by the end of 2011, with $75-to-$100 million of that in 2007."
"Since we announced the B&W/RJR merger in late 2003, our stock price has tripled, we've raised our dividend 60 percent and we've provided an annual average shareholder return of about 40 percent," Neal said. "It's clear that we're making tremendous progress enhancing shareholder value and building an organization that can generate sustainable earnings growth for the long term."
 
Reynolds American will webcast a conference call to discuss fourth-quarter and full-year 2006 results at 9:30 a.m. Eastern Time on Thursday, Feb. 8, 2007. The call will be available live online on a listen-only basis. To register for the call, please visit the "Investors" section of . A replay of the call will be available on the site for 30 days. Remarks made during the conference call will be current at the time of the call and will not be updated to reflect subsequent material developments. Although news media representatives will not be permitted to ask questions during the call, they are welcome to monitor the remarks on a listen-only basis. Following the call, media representatives may direct inquiries to Seth Moskowitz at (336) 741-7698.
www.ReynoldsAmerican.com
Statements included in this news release that are not historical in nature are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe-harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements regarding RAI's future performance and financial results inherently are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements.
These risks and uncertainties include:
 
Due to these risks and uncertainties, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this news release. Except as provided by federal securities laws, RAI is not required to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI) is the parent company of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company; Conwood Company, LLC; Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Inc; and R.J. Reynolds Global Products, Inc.
Copies of RAI's news releases, annual reports, SEC filings and other financial materials are available at .
www.ReynoldsAmerican.com
 
Schedule 1
 
 
Schedule 2
The $3.5 billion cost of the acquisition of Conwood has been allocated on the basis of the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date. The excess cost over the net fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed was recognized in goodwill.
 
Schedule 3
GAAP results include the acquired operations of Conwood since May 31, 2006.
RAI management uses "adjusted" (non-GAAP) measurements to set performance goals and to measure the performance of the overall company, and believes that investors' understanding of the underlying performance of the company's continuing operations is enhanced through the disclosure of these metrics. "Adjusted" (non-GAAP) results are not, and should not be viewed as, substitutes for "reported" (GAAP) results.
 
Schedule 4
R.J. Reynolds is the second largest cigarette manufacturer in the United States and manages a contract manufacturing business. Conwood is the second largest smokeless tobacco products manufacturer in the United States.
Conwood's GAAP operating income includes the operations acquired by RAI since May 31, 2006. GAAP proforma adjustments reflect the impact of fair values of acquired assets and liabilities assumed as if the acquisition had been completed on each of January 1, 2005 and January 1, 2006.
Management uses "adjusted" (non-GAAP) measurements to set performance goals and to measure the performance of the company, and believes that investors' understanding of the underlying performance of the company's continuing operations is enhanced through the disclosure of these metrics.
 
Schedule 5
 
 
Schedule 6
 
 
Schedule 7
 
 


