FILE:RAI/RAI-8K-20080430085134.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
     On April 30, 2008, Reynolds American Inc., referred to as RAI, announced that its Board of Directors had authorized RAI to repurchase, on or before April 30, 2009, up to $350 million of outstanding RAI shares, in open market or privately negotiated transactions or pursuant to the SRA described below under "Share Repurchase Agreement" (such share repurchase is referred to as the Repurchase Program). The execution of the Repurchase Program is subject to prevailing market and business conditions and may be terminated or suspended at any time. The Repurchase Program supersedes the $30 million share repurchase program that RAI's Board had authorized in February 2008, the purpose of which had been to offset the dilutive effect of shares issued under certain benefit plans.
     
Share Repurchase Agreement
     In connection with the Repurchase Program, RAI and Brown & Williamson Holdings, Inc., referred to as B&W, a wholly owned subsidiary of British American Tobacco p.l.c., referred to as BAT, entered into a Share Repurchase Agreement, dated April 29, 2008, referred to as the SRA. The material terms of the SRA are summarized below, with this summary qualified in its entirety by the full text of the SRA, a copy of which is attached to this report as Exhibit 10.1.
     As of April 29, 2008, B&W was the record and beneficial owner of 123,905,524 shares of RAI's outstanding common stock, or approximately 42% of RAI's outstanding common stock. Subject to the terms of the SRA, B&W will participate in the Repurchase Program on a basis approximately proportionate with B&W's percentage ownership of RAI's equity, and in a manner designed to treat B&W's proceeds from its sales of RAI common stock pursuant to the Repurchase Program as dividends for tax purposes, such treatment referred to as the Intended Tax Treatment.
     Under the SRA, at the end of each week, referred to as a Buyback Week, during which RAI purchases shares of its common stock under the Repurchase Program from shareholders other than B&W, RAI will purchase from B&W shares of RAI common stock in an amount that is equal to the lowest of:
     (1) the number of shares such that, after giving effect to the purchase, the net total number of shares sold by B&W to RAI under the SRA will be equal to the total number of shares purchased by RAI from shareholders other than B&W for all periods through such Buyback Week pursuant to the Repurchase Program multiplied by the ratio, which is subject to certain adjustments as set forth in the SRA, of (x) B&W's percentage ownership of the equity of RAI on April 29, 2008, to (y) 1.0 minus B&W's percentage ownership of the equity of RAI on April 29, 2008;
     (2) the maximum number of shares that B&W can sell to RAI without decreasing B&W's percentage ownership of the equity of RAI from April 29, 2008 to the end of such Buyback Week; and
     (3) the maximum number of shares that B&W reasonably determines it can sell to RAI without putting at risk the Intended Tax Treatment.
     The per share price to be paid by RAI with respect to any such purchase of RAI common stock from B&W will be equal to the volume weighted average price paid by RAI for shares of RAI common stock purchased from shareholders other than B&W during the Buyback Week.
     The SRA provides that B&W may reduce the number of shares otherwise determined to be sold to RAI pursuant to clause (2) of the preceding paragraph in order to obtain the Intended Tax Treatment, to assure itself that its percentage ownership of RAI's equity will not decrease as a result of certain transactions (such as the exercise of employee stock options). Further, under the SRA, if B&W
Table of Contents
reasonably determines that (1) there is a reasonable risk of it not obtaining the Intended Tax Treatment because of equity issued or to be issued by RAI which reduces B&W's percentage ownership of RAI's equity, and (2) such risk cannot be avoided by reducing the number of shares to be sold to RAI in future Buyback Weeks, then B&W may elect to repurchase from RAI a number of shares of RAI common stock (up to the number of shares B&W had already sold to RAI under the Repurchase Program) sufficient to eliminate such risk. B&W may not exercise the foregoing reduction right or purchase right to the extent such exercise would cause B&W's percentage ownership of the voting stock of RAI to exceed 43.1783% (the Standstill Percentage, as defined in the Governance Agreement discussed below, plus 1%). In calculating B&W's percentage ownership of RAI in the preceding sentence, certain shares that are expected to be issued by RAI are treated as already outstanding. If B&W has exercised the foregoing reduction right or purchase right due to an expected issuance by RAI of additional shares of common stock and RAI subsequently determines that such issuance will not take place, or if B&W has reduced the number of shares to be sold to RAI in reliance upon certain facts or assumptions and RAI or B&W subsequently determines that such facts or assumptions are no longer correct or applicable, then RAI will in certain circumstances purchase from B&W a certain number of shares of RAI common stock as a result of such canceled issuance or subsequent determination, all as set forth in, and otherwise subject to the terms of, the SRA.
     RAI has agreed under the SRA, in certain circumstances, to indemnify B&W from loss or liability arising from B&W's failure to obtain the Intended Tax Treatment resulting from the inaccuracy of any information provided to B&W by RAI in certain periodic certificates delivered to B&W under the SRA.
     Subject to earlier termination by either party as set forth therein, the SRA will terminate on the earlier of April 29, 2009, and the expenditure of $350,000,000 pursuant to the Repurchase Program, including pursuant to the SRA.
     In connection with its approval of the SRA, RAI's Board of Directors determined, pursuant to the terms of RAI's shareholder rights plan adopted on July 30, 2004, that for the avoidance of doubt, neither BAT nor any of its subsidiaries will be deemed to be an "Acquiring Person" under the rights plan, no "Distribution Date" (as such term is defined in the rights plan) will be deemed to occur, and the rights thereunder will not become triggered or exercisable, in each case solely by reason of the execution or performance of the SRA or any increased ownership of RAI common stock by BAT or any of its subsidiaries pursuant to the SRA.
     
Amendment to Governance Agreement
     In connection with the business combination transactions consummated on July 30, 2004, pursuant to which, among other things, the U.S. cigarette and tobacco business of B&W was combined with the business of R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company (an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of RAI), B&W, BAT and RAI entered into a Governance Agreement, dated July 30, 2004, which, as amended on November 18, 2004, is referred to as the Governance Agreement. Subject to certain exceptions (none of which would apply to B&W's exercise of the purchase right under the SRA described above under "Share Repurchase Agreement"), the Governance Agreement prohibits BAT and its subsidiaries from acquiring beneficial ownership of additional shares of RAI common stock until the earliest of July 30, 2014, the date on which a significant transaction, as defined therein, is consummated and the date on which the Governance Agreement otherwise terminates. In connection with the entry into the SRA, RAI, BAT and B&W entered into Amendment No. 2, dated as of April 29, 2008, to the Governance Agreement, modifying the Governance Agreement so as to permit B&W's acquisition of shares of RAI common stock pursuant to and as contemplated by the SRA and to disregard the dispositions of shares of RAI common stock by B&W to RAI pursuant to the SRA in determining whether BAT and its subsidiaries are
Table of Contents
permitted to acquire beneficial ownership of additional shares of RAI common stock; a copy of such amendment is attached to this report as Exhibit 10.2.
ITEM 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     The information in Item 2.02 of this Current Report is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subjected to the liabilities of that Section. The information in Item 2.02 of this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
     On April 30, 2008, Reynolds American Inc. issued an earnings release announcing its financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2008. A copy of the earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
The following are filed as Exhibits to this Report.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 30, 2008
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 10.1 EXECUTION COPY
          THIS SHARE REPURCHASE AGREEMENT (this "Agreement"), is entered into on April 29, 2008 by REYNOLDS AMERICAN INC. (the "Company") and BROWN & WILLIAMSON HOLDINGS, INC. (f/k/a Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation) ("B&W").
          IN CONSIDERATION OF the mutual promises contained in this Agreement, the Company and B&W hereby agree:
     (i) a "Buyback Week" means a Calendar Week (as defined below) during which the Company repurchases any Shares pursuant to the Share Repurchase Program from any Person other than B&W;
     (ii) a "Calculation Period" means a period that begins on the day immediately after the end of the preceding Calculation Period (or in the case of the first Calculation Period, on the first day of the month that includes the date of this Agreement) and ends on the earlier of (i) the next Friday that is the last day of a Buyback Week or (ii) the next Friday that is the last Friday of a calendar month; and
     (iii) "Calendar Week" means each seven-day period ending on a Friday.
 
     (i) the number of Shares such that, after the purchase of such Shares from B&W by the Company, the net total number of Shares sold by B&W to the Company under this Agreement shall be equal to the total number of Shares purchased by the Company from shareholders other than B&W for all periods through such Buyback Week pursuant to the Share Repurchase Program multiplied by the ratio of (x) B&W's percentage ownership of the equity of the Company on the date of this Agreement, to (y) 1.0 minus B&W's percentage ownership of the equity of the Company on the date of this Agreement, provided that such ratio shall be appropriately adjusted to reflect changes from time to time in B&W's Percentage Interest that do not occur as part of the same plan as the purchases under the Share Repurchase Program or this Agreement;
     (ii) the maximum number of Shares that B&W can sell to the Company without decreasing B&W's percentage ownership of the equity of the Company from the date of this Agreement to the end of such Buyback Week; and
     (iii) the maximum number of Shares, reasonably determined by B&W upon advice of its outside tax counsel after consultation with the Company, that B&W can sell to the Company without putting at risk the Intended Tax Treatment.
     (i) any Sale (as defined below) of Shares to the Company under this Agreement with respect to any Buyback Week (current or prior) shall be treated as having occurred or as occurring on the last day of such Buyback Week,
     (ii) unless reasonably determined otherwise by B&W upon advice of its outside tax counsel and after consultation with the Company, such calculation shall take into account any increase or decrease in the outstanding equity of the Company since the date of this Agreement for any reason, and
     (iii) B&W shall be entitled to provide itself with assurance of the Intended Tax Treatment, based on advice of its outside tax counsel and after prior consultation with the Company, by reducing the number of Shares otherwise determined under Paragraph A.5(ii) so as to permit B&W to assure itself that B&W's percentage ownership of the equity of the Company does not decrease as a result of future events that may be considered to occur as part of the same plan as the purchases under the Share Repurchase Program or this Agreement, including, without
 
limitation, issuances of new equity by the Company pursuant to the exercise of stock options, the issuance or vesting of restricted stock, or the issuance of any other equity to any third party reasonably expected to occur after the end of the applicable Buyback Week.
 
 
 
 
(ii) If the Company properly delivers a Purchase Certificate, then B&W will be obligated to sell, and the Company shall be obligated to buy, a number of Shares equal to such Repurchase Number for such Repurchase Price at or before 12:00 p.m. Eastern Time on the second business day after the determination of the Repurchase Number and Repurchase Price in accordance with Paragraph L.2(i) above.
(ii)  If either the Company or B&W properly delivers a Modification Certificate, then B&W will be obligated to sell, and the Company shall be obligated to buy, a number of Shares equal to such Additional Number for such Modification Repurchase Price at or before 12:00 p.m. Eastern Time on the second business day after such determination of the Additional Number, if any, and Modification Repurchase Price in accordance with Paragraph L.3(i) above.
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.
 
Date: ________________
Calculation Period: beginning date___ending date___
Note: Unless otherwise indicated, all statements of outstanding shares, shares issued, shares acquired, percentage interest, etc. are to be based on the meaning of those terms for U.S. federal income tax purposes and otherwise will be calculated in accordance with the Share Repurchase Agreement.
Schedule 1: General information and calculation of B&W Buyback Number.
Schedule 2: Schedule of all outstanding restricted stock and employee stock options including grant, vesting and expiration dates as of the end of the Calculation Period.
Schedule 3: Details of purchases made under the Program from parties other than B&W during the Calculation Period.
[Other]
 
 
          The Company represents that, except as otherwise expressly noted below or elsewhere in this Exhibit A, (i) the Board of Directors of the Company has not been informed of and has not publicly announced or approved any intent, plan or arrangement directly or indirectly to issue or acquire any of its equity, other than the purchase of Shares pursuant to the Share Repurchase Program or pursuant to employee stock option or restricted stock plans, (ii) previously issued Calculation Certificates remain true, correct and complete as of their dates of issuance, (iii) if the Calculation Period includes a Buyback Week, it will have sufficient earnings and profits to permit the entire purchase price of all the Shares to be purchased pursuant to this Certificate to be treated as a dividend within the meaning of Section 316 of the Code and (iv) it does not have a Rabbi Trust or a similar arrangement holding shares.
Exceptions:
          The undersigned hereby certifies on behalf of Reynolds American Inc. that the statements contained herein and on schedules attached hereto are true, correct and complete.
 
          
Schedule 1: General Information and Calculation of B&W Buyback Number
 
Date: ________________
Calculation Period ending: ___
Date of Calculation Certificate___
___We agree with the B&W Buyback Number stated in such Calculation Certificate
___We agree with the B&W Buyback Number stated in such Calculation Certificate.
DO NOT
     B&W Buyback Number proposed by B&W:
     [Explanation]
 

 
Exhibit 10.2 EXECUTION COPY
     AMENDMENT No. 2, dated as of April 29, 2008, (this "") to the GOVERNANCE AGREEMENT, dated as of July 30, 2004 (the ""), among BRITISH AMERICAN TOBACCO p.l.c., a public limited company incorporated under the laws of England and Wales (""), BROWN & WILLIAMSON HOLDINGS, INC. (f/k/a Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation), a Delaware corporation (""), and REYNOLDS AMERICAN INC., a North Carolina corporation ("").
Amendment
Agreement
BAT
B&W
Reynolds American
          WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of Reynolds American has authorized a share repurchase program (the "") for the purchase of outstanding shares of common stock of Reynolds American, par value $0.0001 per share, pursuant to which Reynolds American may spend up to $350,000,000 over one year to repurchase shares;
Share Repurchase Program
          WHEREAS, B&W and Reynolds American have entered into a share repurchase agreement dated as of April 29, 2008 pursuant to which B&W shall participate in the Share Repurchase Program subject to the terms and conditions set forth therein;
          WHEREAS, the parties desire to enter into this Amendment in order to amend Sections 1.01, 4.01 and 4.03(a) of the Agreement;
          NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto agree as follows:
          SECTION 1.
Amendment to the Agreement.
          (a) Section 4.01 of the Agreement is hereby amended by replacing such 4.01 in its entirety with the following new Section 4.01:
           Except for the acquisition of shares of Common Stock pursuant to the Combination Agreement or pursuant to or as contemplated by the Share Repurchase Agreement and subject to the exceptions set forth in Section 4.03, during the Standstill Period, the Investor Parties shall not, directly or indirectly, acquire, agree to acquire or make a proposal to acquire beneficial ownership of any shares of Equity Securities. Equity Securities acquired pursuant to this Article IV shall be subject to all of the terms, covenants and conditions of this Agreement."
"Purchases of Equity Securities.
          (b) Section 4.03(a) of the Agreement is hereby amended by replacing such Section 4.03(a) in its entirety with the following new Section 4.03(a):
     "(a) during the Standstill Period, the Investor Parties may acquire beneficial ownership of additional Equity Securities if, after giving effect to any such acquisition (other than any acquisition pursuant to or as contemplated by the
 
Share Repurchase Agreement), B&W's Percentage Interest would not exceed the Standstill Percentage the percentage of Voting Power (calculated as of the date of disposition) associated with any Equity Securities disposed of by any Investor Party (other than to another Investor Party or to Reynolds American pursuant to the Share Repurchase Agreement) following the date of this Agreement;
less
     (c) Section 1.01 of the Agreement is hereby amended by inserting the following definitions in the appropriate alphabetical order:
          "Share Repurchase Program" means the share repurchase program for the repurchase of outstanding shares of common stock of Reynolds American, par value $0.0001 per share, pursuant to which Reynolds American may spend up to $350,000,000 over one year to repurchase shares;
          "Share Repurchase Agreement" means the Share Repurchase Agreement, dated as of April 29, 2008, between B&W and Reynolds American, pursuant to which B&W shall participate in the Share Repurchase Program subject to the terms and conditions set forth therein, and any other agreement entered into by B&W and Reynolds American which by its terms provides that it shall constitute a "Share Repurchase Agreement" within the meaning of this Agreement;
          SECTION 2. This Amendment shall be considered to be a part of the Agreement and shall be subject to the provisions thereof, including Article VI thereof (but excluding Section 6.10 thereof). Except as expressly set forth herein, the Agreement shall continue in full force and effect without waiver, modification or amendment.
Amendment Part of the Agreement.
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Amendment has been duly executed by the parties hereto as of the date first above written.

 
Exhibit 99.1
Reynolds American Inc. P.O. Box 2990 Winston-Salem, NC 27102-2990
RAI CEO:
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.  April 30, 2008
All references in this release to "reported" numbers refer to GAAP measurements; all "adjusted" numbers are non-GAAP, as defined in schedule 2 of this release, which reconciles reported to adjusted results for the first quarter.
 
Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI) today announced a 54.1 percent increase in reported EPS for the first quarter of 2008, driven by a $328 million pre-tax gain related to the termination of the Gallaher Joint Venture. Excluding that gain, first-quarter adjusted EPS was down 9.9 percent, as higher cigarette pricing was more than offset by a number of factors that lowered R.J. Reynolds' volume. Conwood continued to deliver strong moist-snuff volume and share gains. Continuing its focus on returning shareholder value, RAI also announced a $350 million share repurchase program. In light of a weaker-than-expected first quarter, RAI revised its full-year forecast and now expects 2008 earnings, excluding the JV gain, to be consistent with the prior year.
 
Overview
"Reynolds American's operating companies continued to post gains on key cigarette and smokeless tobacco brands in the first quarter, with R.J. Reynolds' growth brands gaining half a share point and Conwood continuing to post double-digit volume growth," said Susan M. Ivey, RAI's chairman and chief executive officer.
"However," she said, "above-average cigarette declines on R.J. Reynolds' non-growth brands and an adjustment to settlement expense were among the factors that drove first-quarter adjusted earnings lower than the prior-year period."
While adjusted earnings were down about 10 percent, reported EPS was about 54 percent higher, due to a $328 million pre-tax gain from the successful termination of the Gallaher Joint Venture. The payments from that transaction will provide a cash stream over the next several years.
Ivey also noted that the RAI board of directors has approved a share repurchase program of $350 million during the next 12 months. "This share repurchase reflects our commitment to our shareholders, and it demonstrates our continuing confidence in the long-term strength of our businesses," she said.
"As we work through the challenges of the current environment," Ivey said, "Reynolds American remains committed to returning value to our shareholders, and our operating companies remain focused on growth strategies to deliver long-term success.
"Reynolds American's operating companies manufacture and market a broad range of tobacco products," she said. "That product diversification provides flexibility to take advantage of shifting consumer preferences  as well as other emerging opportunities."
R.J. Reynolds
R.J. Reynolds' first-quarter operating income of $415 million fell 15.0 percent from the prior-year quarter as an 11.8 percent decline in the company's shipment volume and an adjustment to MSA expense more than offset the impact of higher pricing.
Total cigarette industry shipment volume was down 3.3 percent from the prior-year quarter when excess wholesale inventory resulted in lower industry shipments. Based on shipments to retail through traditional channels, it appears that cigarette consumption declined by about 5 percent. R.J. Reynolds believes that some of that consumption decline reflected shifts to other cigarette channels and other tobacco products.
R.J. Reynolds' growth-brand shipment volume was down 5.6 percent. Based on retail shipments, growth-brand consumption was down about 4 percent, in line with total industry performance. The company's first-quarter volume decline was primarily driven by a 16.3 percent decline in the company's lower-margin, non-growth brands.
 
R.J. Reynolds' growth brands continued to deliver market-share gains, with a combined first-quarter increase of 0.5 share points. Due to declines on non-growth brands, the company's total market share of 28.0 percent was down 1.4 share points from the prior-year quarter.
Several factors contributed to the company's overall share and volume declines.
R.J. Reynolds' older, more price-sensitive consumers were disproportionately affected by ongoing economic pressures that included higher cigarette prices. That contributed to higher-than-normal cigarette volume declines in the first quarter.
R.J. Reynolds' volume and share were also affected by:
"It's obvious that our first-quarter performance was weaker than expected and that our efforts to improve promotional efficiency and increase margins were not in sync with the economic and competitive environment," said Daniel M. Delen, R.J. Reynolds' president and chief executive officer.
"We are adjusting our programs to make sure that our brands are competitive in the marketplace," he said. "We will, however, continue to look for opportunities to increase promotional efficiencies going forward."
R.J. Reynolds' growth brands  Camel, Kool and Pall Mall  represented about 45 percent of the company's first-quarter volume. These brands posted a combined share gain of 0.5 percentage points from the prior-year period, with a first-quarter share of 13.2 percent. That performance was driven by continued growth of Camel and Pall Mall, and a slight decline on Kool.
During the first quarter, Camel launched updated packaging and smoother blends for its core styles. Camel's ongoing focus on providing adult smokers with relevant innovations like Camel No. 9 and Camel Signature continued to enhance the brand's marketplace performance. Camel gained 0.5 share points from the prior-year quarter.
Camel's latest innovation, Camel Crush, was introduced in test market in the first quarter. Camel Crush is a unique cigarette that uses R.J. Reynolds' technology to provide adult smokers with the option of changing each cigarette from regular to menthol by crushing a capsule in the filter. This technology has already been introduced in the Japanese market, where it has strong appeal.
Camel Snus, R.J. Reynolds' first effort to broaden Camel's appeal beyond cigarettes, is on track for a second-quarter expansion to nine additional major markets across the United States. Camel Snus, a smoke-free, spitless tobacco product that comes in a small pouch, is currently being tested in eight markets. With continued learning from this test, the company remains optimistic about the potential for this new product.
 
Kool, the company's second premium-priced growth brand, has remained relatively stable in the highly competitive menthol marketplace. Kool's first-quarter share of market was 3.1 percent.
Pall Mall, a value-priced brand, continued to benefit from its position as a great product that lasts longer. Pall Mall's first-quarter share was up 0.2 percentage points from the prior-year quarter. In the second quarter, Pall Mall plans to introduce more stylish, round-cornered packs.
During the first quarter, R.J. Reynolds' premium-to-value price mix was 63.2 percent, an improvement of 1.2 points from the prior-year period.
R.J. Reynolds' first-quarter operating margin of 23.2 percent was 2.4 percentage points lower than the year-ago quarter, when the timing of promotional expense resulted in an unusually high margin.
Delen said that R.J. Reynolds is intensely focused on getting its performance back on track. "It's clear that we had a difficult first quarter," he said, "and we're already taking steps to improve our marketplace results."
Conwood
Moist-snuff category growth continued in the first quarter with a total industry volume increase of 5.5 percent  or about 7 percent after adjusting for one less shipping day in the current-year quarter. Conwood grew at about twice the industry rate, with the company's Grizzly brand continuing to capture more than 40 percent of total category growth.
Gains on Grizzly, and Kodiak's improved performance, drove Conwood's total moist-snuff shipments up 1.2 share points to a first-quarter share of 26.9 percent. Grizzly's continued growth further strengthened the brand's position as the industry's third-largest and fastest-growing moist-snuff brand.
Introduced as a value brand in 2001, Grizzly posted a first-quarter share of 22.1 percent, up 1.6 share points from the prior-year period. That performance was aided by the recent launch of two new Grizzly styles  Snuff and Wintergreen Pouch  which are both being expanded nationally this year. Grizzly Snuff will be available nationwide in the second quarter, and Grizzly Wintergreen Pouch is scheduled to be national in the third quarter.
"We're exceptionally pleased with the performance of these new Grizzly styles," said William M. Rosson, Conwood's president and chief executive officer. "Their results to date confirm our belief that these products will further add to Grizzly's growth."
Rosson said he was also pleased with the performance of Kodiak, the company's leading premium brand.
 
"We've taken steps to make Kodiak more competitive in the marketplace, and that translated into volume growth of almost 2 percent compared with last year's first quarter," he said. "And upgrades to the packaging and blends of Kodiak's mint and straight styles that we rolled out last month should also enhance the brand's performance. We also began to distribute Kodiak Pouch, to extend the brand's appeal among competitive pouch consumers."
Even with one less shipping day than the prior-year period, Conwood's net sales were up 7.7 percent at $167 million. And after significant first-quarter investments to launch new styles and further drive Conwood's growth, the company's operating income of $81 million was up 1.9 percent from the year-ago quarter. Operating margins of 48.8 percent were down from the prior-year quarter, due to these investments.
"Our brands and our business continue to perform well," Rosson said. "With the continuing growth of Grizzly and the new styles we're launching nationally, we expect Conwood to post another year of strong growth."
"Clearly, the first quarter was marked by a number of challenges that hurt our performance and have caused us to reassess our outlook for the year," said Thomas R. Adams, Reynolds American's chief financial officer. "Given our results to date, we're reducing our full-year forecast. Excluding the gain from the joint venture, we now expect to deliver earnings in line with our 2007 adjusted results."
Adams said that R.J. Reynolds is taking steps to address factors that contributed to its weak volume in the first quarter and expects to improve its performance through the balance of the year. "R.J. Reynolds is making adjustments to ensure that its brands are more competitive, while also remaining focused on improving profits through increased efficiency," he said.
"The investments that Conwood is making to further strengthen brand performance are already beginning to pay off and position the company well for another year of solid growth," Adams said. "Conwood is a strong company with strong brands, and these investments will reinforce the company's ability to consistently deliver volume and earnings gains moving forward."
Resulting from the termination of the Gallaher Joint Venture, in April, the company received 40 percent of the total payment of 265 million. That payment was 106 million  or about $166 million. The balance will be paid in annual installments over the next six years.
Adams said that RAI's confidence in the future is evidenced by the $350 million share repurchase that the board has approved. He said the company plans to use cash generated from operations to opportunistically repurchase shares during the next 12 months. "This approach allows us to maintain financial flexibility while returning value to shareholders," he said.
"In the current economic environment," Adams said, "our strong balance sheet and financial flexibility position us well to take advantage of opportunities to further increase shareholder value."
 
Reynolds American will webcast a conference call to discuss first-quarter 2008 results at 9:30 a.m. Eastern Time on Wednesday, April 30, 2008. The call will be available live online on a listen-only basis. To register for the call, please visit the "Investors" section of . A replay of the call will be available on the site until May 30 at 5 p.m. Investors, analysts and members of the news media can also listen to the live call by phone, by dialing 888-715-1397. Remarks made during the conference call will be current at the time of the call and will not be updated to reflect subsequent material developments. Although news media representatives will not be permitted to ask questions during the call, they are welcome to monitor the remarks on a listen-only basis. Following the call, media representatives may direct inquiries to Seth Moskowitz at (336) 741-7698.
www.ReynoldsAmerican.com
Statements included in this news release that are not historical in nature are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements regarding RAI's future performance and financial results inherently are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, described in the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include:
 
Due to these uncertainties and risks, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this news release. Except as provided by federal securities laws, RAI is not required to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI) is the parent company of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company; Conwood Company, LLC; Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Inc; and R.J. Reynolds Global Products, Inc.
 
Copies of RAI's news releases, annual reports, SEC filings and other financial materials are available at .
www.ReynoldsAmerican.com
 
Schedule 1
 
 
Schedule 2
RAI management uses "adjusted" (non-GAAP) measurements to set performance goals and to measure the performance of the overall company, and believes that investors' understanding of the underlying performance of the company's continuing operations is enhanced through the disclosure of these metrics. "Adjusted" (non-GAAP) results are not, and should not be viewed as, substitutes for "reported" (GAAP) results.
 
Schedule 3
UNIT VOLUME (in billions):
RETAIL SHARE OF MARKET:
Amounts are rounded on an individual basis and, accordingly, may not sum in the aggregate. R.J. Reynolds' support brands include Winston, Salem, Doral, Capri and Misty. Industry data based on information from Management Science Associates, Inc. Retail shares of market are as reported by Information Resources Inc.
 
Schedule 4
UNIT VOLUME (in millions of cans):
SHARE OF SHIPMENTS:
Amounts are rounded on an individual basis and, accordingly, may not sum in the aggregate. Share data for total moist snuff based on distributor reported data processed by Management Science Associates, Inc.


