FILE:RAI/RAI-8K-20081210155756.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
     (b) and (d). On December 4, 2008, the Board of Directors, referred to as the Board, of Reynolds American Inc., referred to as RAI, accepted the resignation of Antonio Monteiro de Castro, who has served as a Class II Director on RAI's Board since July 2004, as a designee of Brown & Williamson Holdings, Inc., referred to as B&W, a subsidiary of British American Tobacco p.l.c., referred to as BAT. In addition, on December 4, 2008, RAI's Board elected Nicandro Durante to serve on RAI's Board as a Class II Director. A copy of the press release announcing the foregoing Board resignation and election is attached to this Report as Exhibit 99.1.
     Under the terms of a July 30, 2004 governance agreement, as amended, among RAI, B&W and BAT, B&W has the right, based on its current ownership of approximately 42% of RAI common stock, to designate five people for nomination to RAI's Board; after the December 4, 2008 election of Mr. Durante as a Director, RAI's Board is comprised of 13 Directors. In addition to Mr. Durante, the other current RAI Directors who have been designated by B&W as such pursuant to the foregoing governance agreement are: Betsy S. Atkins (a Class I Director), H.G.L. (Hugo) Powell (a Class II Director), and Martin D. Feinstein and Neil R. Withington (each a Class III Director). Each class of RAI Directors serves a staggered three-year term, with the term of the Class I, Class II and Class III Directors ending generally on the date of the RAI annual shareholders' meeting held in 2011, 2009 and 2010, respectively.
     In consideration for the RAI Board service of Mr. Durante, who is a full-time employee of BAT, RAI will pay BAT the amount of $237,500 per year; that amount is in lieu of any other compensation (other than the reimbursement of certain expenses) to which Mr. Durante otherwise would be entitled in his capacity as a member of RAI's Board. Mr. Durante has entered into an indemnification agreement with RAI, the same indemnification agreement which RAI offers to all of its executive officers and directors. Such indemnification agreement was filed as Exhibit 10.1 to RAI's Form 8-K dated February 1, 2005, and is incorporated by reference herein.
     (e). On December 4, 2008, RAI's Board, based upon a recommendation from its Compensation and Leadership Development Committee, approved certain amendments to RAI's Executive Severance Plan, referred to as the ESP. Such amendments consist of (1) modifications to benefits for notifications of termination after December 31, 2009, including the form of payouts, elimination of service accruals during the severance period, elimination of 401(k) make-whole payments, reduction of the medical coverage make-whole period and cessation of all other benefits at termination, (2) addition of a claw-back provision for breaches of non-competition, non-disclosure or similar obligations, (3) clarification of the change of control definition, (4) addition of an employer right to cure in the event of an alleged "good reason" termination and (5) certain other non-material changes. A copy of the amended and restated ESP is attached to this Report as Exhibit 10.1.
Item 5.03. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
     On December 4, 2008, RAI's Board approved certain amendments to the Bylaws of RAI. Such amendments consist of (1) clarification of the advance notice provisions for shareholder proposals and nominations for persons for election to the Board, (2) additions to the disclosure required in a shareholder's notice to submit business to an annual meeting, including the disclosure of: any shareholder related person, as such term is defined in RAI's Bylaws; shares beneficially owned by any such shareholder related person; any derivative securities, hedging or swap arrangements, proxy rights to vote, short interests, dividend rights, performance-related fees or arrangements giving notice to the shareholder related person relating to RAI; whether the shareholder or shareholder related person intends to deliver a proxy statement to the percentage of shareholders required to approve the proposal; and any other
 
material interest of the shareholder related person and (3) certain other non-material changes. A copy of RAI's amended and restated Bylaws is attached to this Report as Exhibit 3.1.
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
The following are filed as Exhibits to this Report.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 3.1
     . Meetings of shareholders of the Reynolds American Inc. (the "Corporation") shall be held at such time and place either within or without the State of North Carolina as shall be fixed by the Corporation's Board of Directors (the "Board") and designated in the notice or waiver thereof. The Board may postpone and reschedule any previously scheduled annual or special meeting of shareholders.
Section 1.01 Place of Meetings
     . Annual meetings of shareholders shall be held at a place, if any, date and hour fixed by the Board to elect directors to the Board and to transact such other business as may properly come before the meeting. Special meetings of shareholders may be called by the persons permitted to call such meetings by the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation.
Section 1.02 Annual and Special Meetings
     . Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Articles of Incorporation, written notice shall be given to each shareholder entitled to vote at such meeting not fewer than 10 nor more than 60 days before the date of each meeting of shareholders. Such notice shall include the place, if any, date and hour of the meeting, the means of remote communications, if any, by which shareholders and proxy holders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at such meeting and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called. When a meeting is adjourned to a different date, time or place, notice need not be given of the new date, time or place if (a) the new date, time or place is announced at the meeting before adjournment, and (b) a new record date is not fixed for the adjourned meeting. If a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting (which must be done if the new meeting date is more than 120 days after the date of the original meeting), notice of the adjourned meeting must be given as provided in this Section 1.03 to persons who are shareholders as of the new record date.
Section 1.03 Notice
     . Shares entitled to vote as a separate voting group may take action in a matter only if a quorum of those shares exists with respect to that matter. A majority of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter by the voting group constitutes a quorum of the voting group for action on that matter. Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Articles of Incorporation, at the opening of any meeting, such meeting may be adjourned from time to time by the vote of a majority of the votes cast on the motion to adjourn or by any officer entitled to preside at or to act as secretary of the meeting. Once a share is represented for any purpose at a meeting, it is deemed present for quorum purposes for the remainder of the
Section 1.04 Quorum; Adjournment
1
 
meeting and for any adjournment of that meeting unless a new record date is or must be set for that adjourned meeting. Subject to the provisions of the North Carolina Business Corporation Act, at any adjourned meeting any business may be transacted that might have been transacted at the original meeting if a quorum exists with respect to the matter proposed.
     . The Chairman or, at the Chairman's request or in the absence of the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, or, in the absence of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer, such person as shall be selected by the Board, shall act as chairman at all meetings of shareholders. The Secretary of the Corporation or, in his or her absence, an Assistant Secretary shall act as secretary at all meetings of shareholders. The chairman of the meeting shall have the right and authority to determine and maintain the rules, regulations and procedures for the proper conduct of the meeting, including but not limited to restricting entry to the meeting after it has commenced, maintaining order and the safety of those in attendance, opening and closing the polls for voting, dismissing business not properly submitted, and limiting time allowed for discussion of the business of the meeting.
Section 1.05 Conduct of Meeting and Order of Business
     Business to be conducted at annual meetings of shareholders shall be limited to that business properly submitted to the meeting either by or at the direction of the Board or by any shareholder of the Corporation who satisfies and complies with the notice requirements set forth in Section 1.06. If the chairman of the meeting shall determine that any business was not properly submitted in accordance with the terms of Section 1.06, he or she shall so declare to the meeting and the business that was not properly submitted shall not be transacted at that meeting.
     . In addition to any other applicable requirements under law or under this Section 1.06, in order to properly submit any business to an annual meeting of shareholders, a shareholder must (a) be a shareholder of record or beneficially own shares of the Corporation, at the time of the giving of notice provided for in this Section 1.06 and at the time of such annual meeting, (b) be entitled to vote at the annual meeting, and (c) give timely notice in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation, and include in such notice all of the information required by this Section 1.06 to be contained in such notice. The requirements of this Section 1.06 are separate from and in addition to the requirements under Rule 14a-8 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act").
Section 1.06 Advance Notice of Shareholder Proposals and Nominations
     To be timely, notice provided under this Section 1.06 must be delivered either in person or by United States certified mail, postage prepaid, and received prior to the close of business at the principal executive offices of the Corporation (a) not less than 120 days nor more than 150 days before the first anniversary of the date of the Corporation's proxy statement released to shareholders in connection with the most recent annual meeting of shareholders or (b) if no annual meeting was held in the previous year or the date of the applicable annual meeting has been changed by more than 30 days from the date contemplated at the time of the previous year's proxy statement, not later than the close of business on the later of (i) the tenth calendar day following the day on which the first public announcement of the date of the annual meeting was made and (ii) the date that is 90 days before the date of the applicable annual meeting In no event shall the public announcement of a postponement or adjournment of an annual meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a shareholder's notice as described above.
2
 
     Nomination of persons for election to the Board may be made by the Board or any committee designated by the Board or, in the case of an annual meeting, by any shareholder entitled to vote for the election of directors at the annual meeting of shareholders and who otherwise meets the requirements of this Section 1.06 (including, without limitation, the first sentence of Section 1.06). However, nominations other than those made by the Board or its designated committee must be made in accordance with the procedures for submitting business at an annual meeting of the shareholders as set forth in this Section 1.06, and no person shall be eligible to serve as a director unless such procedures have been followed. A shareholder may nominate a person or persons for election to the Board only if written notice of such shareholder's intent to make such nomination is given to the Secretary of the Corporation in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 1.06.
     A shareholder's notice to submit business to an annual meeting of shareholders shall set forth (a) the name and address of the shareholder and any Shareholder Related Person (as hereinafter defined) covered by clauses (b), (c) and (e) below, (b) the class and number of shares of stock of the Corporation beneficially owned by such shareholder and any Shareholder Related Person, and the name in which such shares are registered on the stock transfer books of the Corporation or, if such shares are held beneficially and not of record and the shareholder has not filed a Schedule 13D or Schedule 13G with the Securities and Exchange Commission that discloses such beneficial ownership, a written statement from the record holder of such securities verifying such beneficial ownership, c) a description of (i) any option, warrant, convertible security, stock appreciation right or similar right with an exercise or conversion privilege or settlement payment or mechanism at a price related to any class or series of securities of the Corporation or with a value derived in whole or in part from the value of any class or series of securities of the Corporation, whether or not such instrument or right shall be subject to settlement in the underlying class or series of securities of the Corporation or otherwise (each, a "Derivative Instrument"), directly or indirectly held of record or beneficially by the shareholder or any Shareholder Related Person, (ii) any hedging, swap or other transaction or series of transactions, agreement, arrangement or understanding entered into or made, the effect or intent of which is to increase or decrease the voting power of such shareholder or any Shareholder Related Person with respect to the Corporation's securities or to allow such shareholder or any Shareholder Related Person the opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from any increase or decrease in the value of the Corporation's securities, (iii) any proxy, transaction, agreement, arrangement, understanding or relationship pursuant to which such shareholder or any Shareholder Related Person has a right to vote any of the Corporation's securities, (iv) any short interest of such shareholder or any Shareholder Related Person in any security of the Corporation (for purposes of these Bylaws, a person shall be deemed to have a short interest in a security if such person, directly or indirectly, through any contract, arrangement, understanding or otherwise, has the opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from any decrease in the value of the subject security), (v) any rights, directly or indirectly, held of record or beneficially by the shareholder or any Shareholder Related Person to dividends on the Corporation's securities that are separated or separable from the underlying securities, (vi) any performance-related fees (other than an asset-based fee) that such shareholder or any Shareholder Related Person is entitled to based on any increase or decrease in the value of securities of the Corporation or Derivative Instruments as of the date of such notice, including, without limitation, any such interests held by members of such shareholder's immediate family sharing the same household and (vii) all arrangements or understandings between or among the shareholder giving
(
3
 
the notice, any Shareholder Related Person and any other person relating to the business specified in the notice, (d) whether either such shareholder or beneficial owner intends to deliver a proxy statement and form of proxy to the holders of at least the percentage of shares of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote that is required to approve the proposal, (e) a representation that the shareholder intends to appear at the meeting in person or by proxy to submit the business specified in such notice, and if intending to appear by proxy, the name and address of the proxy, (f) any other material interest of the shareholder or any Shareholder Related Person in the business to be submitted and (g) a brief description of the business desired to be submitted to the annual meeting, including the complete text of any resolutions to be presented at the annual meeting, and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting. In addition, the shareholder making such proposal shall promptly provide any other information reasonably requested by the Corporation. A "Shareholder Related Person" of any shareholder means (i) any person controlling, directly or indirectly, or acting in concert with, such shareholder, (ii) any beneficial owner of shares of stock of the Corporation owned of record or beneficially by such shareholder, and (iii) any person controlled by or under common control with such shareholder.
     In addition to the information required above to be given by a shareholder who intends to submit business to a meeting of shareholders, if the business to be submitted is the nomination of a person or persons for election to the Board then such shareholder's notice must also set forth, as to each person whom the shareholder proposes to nominate for election as a director, (a) the name, age, business address and, if known, residence address of such person, (b) the principal occupation or employment of such person, (c) the class and number of shares of stock of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by such person, (d) any other information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors or is otherwise required by the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission promulgated under the Exchange Act, (e) the written consent of such person to (i) be named in the proxy statement as a nominee, (ii) serve as a director if elected and (iii) provide information that the Board requests to determine whether such person qualifies as an independent director under applicable guidelines, and (f) a description of all arrangements or understandings between such shareholder or any Shareholder Related Person and each nominee and any other person or persons (naming such person or persons) pursuant to which the nomination or nominations are to be made by such shareholder.
     If any of the facts set forth in the notice provided pursuant to either of the two preceding paragraphs changes between the date that such notice is sent and the date of the annual meeting, the shareholder must deliver to the Secretary of the Corporation either in person or by United States certified mail, postage prepaid, and the Corporation must receive at its principal executive offices by the earlier of (a) the close of business within five (5) calendar days of the event giving rise to such change, or (b) the commencement of such annual meeting, a supplemental notice providing such revised information. Any person nominated for election as a director by the Board or any committee designated by the Board shall, upon the request of the Board or such committee, furnish to the Secretary of the Corporation all such information pertaining to such person that is required to be set forth in a shareholder's notice of nomination.
4
 
     In addition to the foregoing provisions of this Section 1.06, a shareholder who seeks to have any proposal included in the Corporation's proxy statement also shall comply with the requirements of the Exchange Act, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, including, without limitation, Regulation 14A.
     For purposes of this Section 1.06, "public announcement'' means announcement in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to the Exchange Act.
     . If a quorum exists, in all actions of shareholders other than the election of directors or as otherwise required by law, the Articles of Incorporation or these Bylaws, action on a matter by a voting group is approved if the votes cast within the voting group favoring the action exceed the votes cast opposing the action. If a quorum exists, at all meetings of shareholders at which directors are to be elected, subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors, directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast by the shares entitled to vote on the election of directors.
Section 1.07 Voting
     A shareholder may appoint one or more proxies to vote or otherwise act for the shareholder in accordance with the North Carolina Business Corporation Act. A proxy shall be submitted to the secretary of the meeting at or prior to the time designated by the chairman of the meeting.
     . Prior to any meeting of shareholders, the Board may appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting and make a written report thereof. The Board may designate one or more persons as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act. Each inspector, before entering upon the discharge of his or her duties, shall take and sign an oath to execute faithfully the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his or her ability. If any inspector previously appointed shall fail to attend or refuse or be unable to serve, a substitute shall be appointed by the presiding officer.
Section 1.08 Inspectors of Election
     . Regular meetings of the Board shall be held at such times and places within or without the State of North Carolina as may from time to time be fixed by the Board or as may be specified in a notice of meeting. Special meetings of the Board may be held at any time upon the call of the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer or the President and shall be called by the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or the Secretary if directed by the Board or at least two or more Directors. A meeting of the Board may be held without notice immediately after the annual meeting of shareholders. No notice shall be required for any regular meeting of the Board. Notice of the date, time and place of holding of each special meeting shall be given by delivering such notice at least two business days before the date of the meeting to each director by telecopy, telegraph or e-mail, personally or by telephone.
Section 2.01 Meetings
5
 
     Any director unable to participate in person at any meeting shall be given the opportunity to participate by any means of communication by which all directors participating may simultaneously hear each other during the meeting. In addition, notwithstanding the foregoing, action may be taken by the Board without a meeting if it is taken by unanimous written consent. A director's consent to action taken without a meeting may be in electronic form and delivered by electronic means.
     . Except as otherwise provided in the Articles of Incorporation, a majority of the total number of directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. If a quorum is not present at any meeting of the Board, the directors present may adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until such a quorum is present.
Section 2.02 Quorum
     . The Board may, by resolution adopted by a majority of the Board, designate one or more committees to have and exercise such power and authority as the Board shall specify.
Section 2.03 Committees of Directors
     No action by any committee of the Board shall be valid unless taken at a meeting for which notice has been duly given in accordance with the last sentence of the first paragraph of Section 2.01 of these Bylaws or waived by the members of such committee. Such notice shall include a description of the general nature of the business to be transacted at the meeting, and no other business may be transacted at such meeting unless all members of the committee are present and consent to the consideration of such other business.
     Any committee member unable to participate in person at any meeting shall be given the opportunity to participate by any means of communication by which all committee members participating may simultaneously hear each other during the meeting. In addition, notwithstanding the foregoing, action may be taken by a committee of the Board without a meeting if it is taken by unanimous written consent. A committee member's consent to action taken without a meeting may be in electronic form and delivered by electronic means.
     Each of the committees established by the Board pursuant to this Section 2.03 shall establish such other rules and procedures for its operation and governance (consistent with the North Carolina Business Corporation Act) as it shall see fit and may seek such consultation and advice as to matters within its purview as it shall require.
     . The Board shall elect a Chairman of the Board from among the members of the Board. The Board shall designate the Chairman as either a Non-Executive Chairman of the Board or, in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.01 of these Bylaws, an Executive Chairman of the Board. (References in these Bylaws to the "Chairman" shall mean the Non-Executive Chairman or Executive Chairman, as designated by the Board.) The Chairman shall preside at all meetings of the Board and shall perform such other duties as may be directed by the Board or as otherwise set forth in these Bylaws.
Section 2.04 Chairman of the Board
     The Board may elect a Vice Chairman of the Board from among the members of the Board. If the Board has elected a Vice Chairman of
Section 2.05 Vice Chairman of the Board.
6
 
the Board, the Vice Chairman shall perform such duties as may be designated by the Chairman, subject to the direction of the Board.
     . The officers of the Corporation shall be, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, a Treasurer and a Secretary, who shall have the duty, among other things, to record the proceedings of the meetings of shareholders and directors in a book kept for that purpose, and such other additional officers with such titles as the Board shall determine, all of whom shall be chosen by and serve at the pleasure of the Board; provided that the Chief Executive Officer may appoint Senior Vice Presidents, Vice Presidents or Assistant Officers at his or her discretion. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Board may designate the Chairman as an Executive Chairman, in which case such person shall be an officer of the Corporation and shall have, in addition to the duties set forth in these Bylaws, such powers and authority as determined by the Board. Subject to such limitations as may be imposed by the Board, the Chief Executive Officer shall have full executive power and authority with respect to the Corporation. The President, if separate from the Chief Executive Officer, shall have such powers and authority as the Chief Executive Officer may determine. If the Chief Executive Officer is absent or incapacitated, the Board or any committee designated by the Board for such purpose shall determine the person who shall have all the power and authority of the Chief Executive Officer. Other officers shall have the usual powers and shall perform all the usual duties incident to their respective offices. All officers shall be subject to the supervision and direction of the Board. The authority, duties or responsibilities of any officer (other than an Executive Chairman, if the Chairman has been so designated) of the Corporation may be suspended by the Chief Executive Officer with or without cause. Any officer may be removed by the Board with or without cause; provided that an Executive Chairman who is removed as an officer pursuant to the foregoing shall, subject to and in accordance with the provisions and limitations of the Articles of Incorporation, these Bylaws and applicable law, retain his position as a director. Subject to such limitations as the Board and the North Carolina Business Corporation Act may provide, each officer may further delegate to any other officer or any employee or agent of the Corporation such portions of his or her authority as the officer shall deem appropriate, subject to such limitations as the officer shall specify, and may revoke such authority at any time.
Section 3.01 Description and Terms
     . The Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Secretary and the Treasurer, or any one of them, shall have the power and authority on behalf of the Corporation to execute any shareholders' consents or proxies and to attend and act and vote in person or by proxy at any meetings of shareholders of any corporation in which the Corporation may own stock, and at any such meetings shall possess and may exercise any and all of the rights and powers incident to the ownership of such stock which as the owner thereof the Corporation might have possessed and executed if present. The Board by resolution from time to time may confer like powers upon any officer.
Section 3.02 Shareholder Consents and Proxies
7
 
     . Whenever any statute, the Articles of Incorporation or these Bylaws require notice to be given to any shareholder, such notice is to be given in writing by mail, addressed to such shareholder at his or her address as it appears on the current shareholder records of the Corporation, with postage thereon prepaid. Such notice shall be deemed to have been given when it is deposited in the United States mail. Notice to directors may be given by telegram or facsimile transmission or be delivered personally or by telephone.
Section 4.01 Notices
     . If a claim under Section 1 or 2 of Article Ninth of the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation is not paid in full by the Corporation within 60 calendar days after a written claim has been received by the Corporation, the person claiming indemnification may at any time thereafter bring suit against the Corporation to recover the unpaid amount of the claim. If successful in whole or in part in any such suit, such claimant shall be entitled to be paid also the expense of prosecuting or defending such suit. In any case, it shall be a defense to such claims that, and the Corporation shall not be obliged to advance any such expense if, the claimant has not met any applicable standard for indemnification set forth in the North Carolina Business Corporation Act or the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation. The Corporation shall not advance any such expenses to a claimant, unless the Corporation has previously received from such claimant an undertaking to repay the amount of such expenses in the event it is determined such claimant was not entitled to indemnification. A determination by the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel or shareholders) to the effect that indemnification of the claimant is proper in the circumstances because the claimant has met the applicable standard of conduct or that the claimant has not met such applicable standard of conduct, or the failure by the Corporation to make any such determination, shall not create a presumption that the claimant has or has not met the applicable standard of conduct or be a defense to such suit.
Section 4.02 Indemnification
     . The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be fixed by the Board.
Section 4.03 Fiscal Year
     . Any certificates which represent shares of the Corporation shall be signed by the Chairman or the Chief Executive Officer and by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary. Any and all signatures on any such certificates, including signature of officers, transfer agents and registrars, may be facsimile.
Section 4.04 Certificates of Stock
Adopted July 28, 2004 Amended February 2, 2005 Amended November 29, 2006 Amended December 4, 2008
8

Exhibit 10.1
Reynolds American Inc.
Executive Severance Plan
As Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 2009
 
 
 
Article 1. Establishment and Term of the Plan
     . Reynolds American Inc. hereby amends and restates the severance plan known as the "Reynolds American Inc. Executive Severance Plan" effective as of January 1, 2009. The Plan was originally effective January 1, 2007, and was subsequently amended and restated effective January 1, 2008. The Plan provides severance benefits to specified senior executives of the Company and any other entity that adopts this Plan in accordance with the provisions of Section 9.3 upon certain terminations of employment from a Participating Company.
1.1 Establishment of the Plan
     The Company considers the establishment and maintenance of a sound management to be essential to protecting and enhancing the best interests of the Company and its shareholders. In this connection, the Company recognizes that, as is the case with many publicly held corporations, the possibilities of a Change in Control or a termination of an Executive's employment by a Participating Company may arise and that such possibilities, and the uncertainty and questions which they may raise among management, may result in the departure or distraction of management personnel to the detriment of the Company and its shareholders.
     Accordingly, the Board has determined that appropriate steps should be taken to reinforce and encourage the continued attention and dedication of members of the Participating Companies' management to their assigned duties without distraction in circumstances arising from the possibility of a Change in Control of the Company or a termination of an Executive's employment by a Participating Company.
     . This Plan commenced on January 1, 2007, and shall continue in effect until terminated by the Company. The Company may terminate this Plan entirely or terminate any individual Executive's participation in the Plan at any time by: (a) giving all Executives twelve (12) months prior written notice of Plan termination if terminating the Plan in its entirety or (b) giving the affected Executive twelve (12) months prior written notice if terminating the affected Executive's participation in the Plan. Upon delivery of such notice by the Company, this Plan or the Executive's participation in the Plan, as the case may be, along with all corresponding rights, duties, and covenants, shall terminate on the date indicated in such notice, which date shall not be less than twelve (12) months from the date the Executive received such notice.
1.2 Plan Term
     . Notwithstanding Section 1.2, in the event of a Change in Control during the term of the Plan, the Company may not terminate the Plan or any individual Executive's participation in the Plan during the period beginning on the date of the Change in Control through the second anniversary of the Change in Control, whereupon the provisions of the Plan pertaining to Change in Control Severance Benefits shall automatically terminate; , , that such automatic termination shall not apply to the payment of any Change in Control Severance Benefits commenced prior to such automatic termination. The Company shall cause any successor entity in a Change in Control to expressly assume the Plan, as further provided in Article 8.
1.3 Change in Control and Plan Term
provided
however
 
Article 2. Definitions
     Wherever used in this Plan, the following capitalized terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
 
 
 
 
 
 
.
Article 3. Severance Eligibility/Conditions
     . The Participating Company shall pay Severance Benefits to the Executive, as such benefits are described under Article 4 or Article 5, as applicable, upon the occurrence of any one or more of the following events (a "Qualifying Termination"):
3.1 Qualifying Termination
 
     A "Separation from Service" shall be deemed to have occurred on the date on which the level of bona fide services reasonably anticipated to be performed by the Executive is forty-five percent (45%) or less of the average level of bona fide services performed by such Executive during the immediately preceding thirty-six (36) month period (or the full period of services if the Executive has been providing services for less than thirty-six (36) months).
     . Notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary, in the event that the Executive is deemed to be a "specified employee" on the date of the Qualifying Termination, determined pursuant to identification methodology adopted by the Company in compliance with Code Section 409A, and if any portion of the payments or benefits to be received by the Executive upon separation from service would constitute a "deferral of compensation" subject to Code Section 409A, then to the extent necessary to comply with Code Section 409A, amounts that would otherwise be payable pursuant to this Plan during the six (6) month period immediately following the date of the Executive's Qualifying Termination and benefits that would otherwise be provided pursuant to this Plan during the six (6) month period immediately following the date of the Executive's Qualifying Termination will instead be paid or made available on the earlier of (i) within ten (10) days following the first business day of the seventh month after the date of the Executive's Qualifying Termination, provided that the Executive shall not have the right to designate the payment date or (ii) the Executive's death.
3.2 Specified Employees
     . The Executive shall not be entitled to receive Severance Benefits if the Executive's employment with a Participating Company ends for reasons other than a Qualifying Termination.
3.3 No Severance Benefits
     . As a condition to receiving Severance Benefits under Article 4 or Article 5, as applicable, prior to the 60 day following the date of the Executive's Qualifying Termination, the Executive shall be obligated to execute (i) a general release of claims in favor of the Company, its current and former subsidiaries, affiliates and shareholders, and the current and former directors, officers, employees, and agents thereof in the form prescribed by the Company (a "General Release"), and any period for revocation will have expired and (ii) a Non-Competition, Non-Disclosure of Confidential Information and Commitment to Provide Assistance Agreement in the form prescribed by the Company (a "Non-Competition Agreement") or, with respect to an Executive who has previously executed a Non-Competition Agreement, and at the Company's option, a written affirmation of the Executive's obligations thereunder.
3.4 General Release and Non-Competition Agreement
th
 
     .
3.5 No Duplication of Severance Benefits
     . Any termination of the Executive's employment by a Participating Company or by the Executive shall be communicated by Notice of Termination to the other party. In the event an Executive provides written notice to the Participating Company of an alleged Change in Control Good Reason or General Good Reason and subsequently is deemed to have terminated his/her employment pursuant to Section 2(j) or 2(x), as applicable, then such notice shall constitute a Notice of Termination.
3.6 Notice of Termination
     . Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, if an Executive becomes Disabled after the date of the Executive's Qualifying Termination, such Executive shall not be entitled to benefits under any short-term or long-term disability plan of a Participating Company.
3.7 Disability
Article 4. Pre-2010 Severance Benefits
     .
4.1 Pre-2010 Change in Control Severance Benefits
 
 
 
 
     
4.2 Pre-2010 General Severance Benefits.
 
 
 
     . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan to the contrary, the provisions of this Article 4 shall not apply to any Executive who receives or delivers a Notice of Termination after December 31, 2009.
4.3 Expiration of Article 4
Article 5. Post-2009 Severance Benefits
     
5.1 Post-2009 Change in Control Severance Benefits.
 
 
     
5.2 Post-2009 General Severance Benefits.
 
 
.
Article 6. Excise Taxes
     .
6.1 Applicable Provisions if Excise Tax Applies
 
 
Article 7. Contractual Rights and Legal Remedies
     . Except as otherwise provided in Section 7.4 below, a Participating Company's obligation to make the payments and the arrangements provided for herein shall be absolute and unconditional, and shall not be affected by any circumstances, including, without limitation, any offset, counterclaim, recoupment, defense, or other right which the Participating Company may have against the Executive or anyone else. All amounts payable by a Participating Company hereunder shall be paid without notice or demand.
7.1 Payment Obligations Absolute
     The Executive shall not be obligated to seek other employment in mitigation of the amounts payable or arrangements made under any provision of this Plan, and the obtaining of any such other employment shall in no event effect any reduction of a Participating Company's obligations to make the payments and arrangements required to be made under this Plan, except to the extent provided in Section 4.1(b)(vi), 4.2(b)(vi), 5.1(b)(vi) or 5.2(b)(vi) herein, as applicable.
     . This Plan establishes and vests in the Executive a contractual right to the benefits to which he is entitled hereunder. However, nothing herein contained shall require or be deemed to require, or prohibit or be deemed to prohibit, a Participating Company to segregate, earmark, or otherwise set aside any funds or other assets, in trust or otherwise, to provide for any payments to be made or required hereunder.
7.2 Contractual Rights to Benefits
 
     . A Participating Company shall pay all reasonable legal fees, costs of litigation, prejudgment interest, and other expenses which are incurred in good faith by a Tier I or Tier II Executive as a result of the Participating Company's refusal to provide the Change in Control Severance Benefits to which the Tier I or Tier II Executive becomes entitled under this Plan, or as a result of the Participating Company's (or any third party's) contesting the validity, enforceability, or interpretation of the Plan with respect to the Change in Control Severance Benefits, or as a result of any conflict between the parties pertaining to the Change in Control Severance Benefits under this Plan; , , that if the court determines that a Tier I or Tier II Executive's claims were arbitrary and capricious, the Participating Company shall have no obligation hereunder and an Executive who claims to be entitled to Change in Control Severance Benefits pursuant to Section 5.1 shall be obligated to return to the Company any reimbursement made to the Executive by the Company pursuant to this Section 7.3. If such fees and expenses are initially paid by the Tier I or Tier II Executive, subject to Section 3.2, the Participating Company shall reimburse the Tier I or Tier II Executive the full amount of such fees and expenses after receipt from the Tier I or Tier II Executive of reasonable evidence of payment; , , that any such reimbursements shall be made no later than December 31 of the year following the year in the which the Tier I or Tier II Executive incurs the fees and expenses. In no event will the amount of expenses eligible for reimbursement in one year affect the amount of expenses to be reimbursed, or in-kind benefits to be provided, in any other taxable year.
7.3 Legal Fees and Expenses
provided
however
provided
however
     . With respect to Change in Control Severance Benefits or General Severance Benefits provided pursuant to Sections 4.1, 4.2, 5.1 or 5.2, if at any time the Executive breaches any provision of (i) the General Release or (ii) the Non-Competition Agreement (or, with respect to an Executive who has previously executed a Non-Competition Agreement, the written affirmation of the Executive's obligations thereunder), each as executed by the Executive in accordance with Section 3.4 of this Agreement, then in addition to all other rights and remedies available to it in law or equity, the Participating Company may cease to provide any further Severance Benefits under this Agreement, and upon the Participating Company's written demand, the Executive shall repay to the Participating Company the Severance Benefits and any other amount previously received under this Agreement. Any amount to be repaid pursuant to this Section 7.4 shall be (A) determined by the Participating Company in its sole and absolute discretion, (B) held by the Executive in constructive trust for the benefit of the Participating Company and (C) paid by the Executive to the Participating Company within ten (10) days of the Executive's receipt of written notice from the Participating Company. The Participating Company shall have the right to offset such amount against any amounts otherwise owed to the Executive by the Participating Company.
7.4 Return of Severance Benefits
Article 8. Successors
     . The Company shall require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, reorganization, consolidation, acquisition of property or stock, liquidation, or otherwise) of all or substantially all of the business or assets of the Company by agreement, to expressly assume and agree to perform this Plan in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform if no such succession had taken place. Regardless of whether such agreement is executed, this Plan shall be binding upon
8.1 Successors to the Company
 
any successor in accordance with the operation of law and such successor shall be deemed "the Company" for purposes of this Plan.
     . This Plan shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Executive's personal or legal representatives, executors, administrators, successors, heirs, distributees, devisees, and legatees. If the Executive dies while any amount would still be payable to him hereunder had he continued to live, all such amounts, unless otherwise provided herein, shall be paid in a single lump sum within ninety (90) days following the date of the Executive's death to the Executive's devisee, legatee, or other designee, or if there is no such designee, to the Executive's estate, provided that such devisee, legatee, other designee or estate shall not have the right to designate the payment date.
8.2 Assignment by the Executive
Article 9. Miscellaneous
     . This Plan is not, and nothing herein shall be deemed to create, an employment contract between the Executive and a Participating Company. The Executive acknowledges that the rights of a Participating Company remain wholly intact to change or reduce at any time and from time to time his compensation, title, responsibilities, location, and all other aspects of the employment relationship, or to discharge him (subject to Section 3.1).
9.1 Employment Status
     . This Plan contains the entire understanding of the Participating Company and the Executive with respect to the subject matter hereof. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, if the Executive is entitled to the payments provided for under this Plan in the event of the Executive's termination of employment and any other employment, retention, severance, or similar agreement with a Participating Company or any Subsidiary to which the Executive is a party or any severance pay plan or program of a Participating Company or any Subsidiary in which the Executive is a participant (an "Other Severance Arrangement"), the Executive will be entitled to severance benefits under either this Plan or the Other Severance Arrangement, whichever provides for greater benefits, but will not be entitled to benefits under both this Plan and the Other Severance Arrangement.
9.2 Entire Plan
     .
9.3 Adoption Procedure for a Participating Company
 
     . All notices, requests, demands, and other communications hereunder shall be sufficient if in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if delivered by hand or if sent by registered or certified mail to the Executive at the last address the Executive has filed in writing with the Participating Company or, in the case of the Participating Company, at its principal offices.
9.4 Notices
     . Change in Control Severance Benefits and General Severance Benefits provided hereunder shall not be considered "includable compensation" for purposes of determining the Executive's benefits under any other plan or program of a Participating Company unless otherwise provided by such other plan or program.
9.5 Includable Compensation
     . A Participating Company shall withhold from any amounts payable under this Plan all federal, state, city, or other taxes as legally required to be withheld.
9.6 Tax Withholding
     . To the extent applicable, it is intended that this Plan comply with the provisions of Code Section 409A. This Plan shall be administered in a manner consistent with this intent. References to Code Section 409A shall include any proposed, temporary or final regulation, or any other guidance, promulgated with respect to such section by the U.S. Department of Treasury or the Internal Revenue Service. Each payment and each provision of Severance Benefits pursuant to Article 4 or 5, as applicable, and each provision of reimbursements pursuant to Section 6.1 or Section 7.3, shall be considered a separate payment and not one of a series of payments for purposes of Code Section 409A. In addition, the Executive shall be solely responsible and liable for the satisfaction of all taxes and penalties that may be imposed on the Executive in connection with this Plan (including any taxes and penalties under Code Section 409A), and neither the Company nor any of its affiliates shall have any obligation to indemnify or otherwise hold the Executive harmless from any or all of such taxes or penalties.
9.7 Internal Revenue Code Section 409A
     . In the event any provision of this Plan shall be held illegal or invalid for any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of the Plan, and the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision had not been included. Further, the captions of this Plan are not part of the provisions hereof and shall have no force and effect.
9.8 Severability
     Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Plan to the contrary, a Participating Company shall have no obligation to make any payment to the Executive hereunder to the extent, but only to the extent, that such payment is prohibited by the terms of any final order of a federal or state court or regulatory agency of competent jurisdiction; , , that such an order shall not affect, impair, or invalidate any provision of this Plan not expressly subject to such order.
provided
however
     . Provisions of this Plan may be modified or waived by the Company without the Executive's consent, except any change that reduces the benefits of an
9.9 Modification
 
Executive who is already receiving benefits shall require the Executive's consent; , , that during the period beginning on the date of the Change in Control and ending on the second anniversary of such Change in Control, no provision of this Plan may be modified or waived unless such modification or waiver is agreed to in writing and signed by the affected Executives then covered by the Plan and by a member of the Committee, as applicable, or by the respective parties' legal representatives or successors; provided further that any modification or waiver occurring during the twelve (12) months immediately prior to the Change in Control shall be deemed null and void unless such modification or waiver is agreed to in writing and signed by the affected Executives then covered by the Plan and by a member of the Committee, as applicable, or by the respective parties' legal representatives or successors. Modifications or waivers agreed to in writing may affect only those Executives who have signed such modification or waiver.
provided
however
     . Except where otherwise indicated by the context, any masculine term used herein shall include the feminine; the plural shall include the singular and the singular shall include the plural.
9.10 Gender and Number
     . To the extent not preempted by the laws of the United States, the laws of North Carolina shall be the controlling law in all matters relating to this Plan, including the General Release and the Non-Competition Agreement, without giving effect to principles of conflicts of laws.
9.11 Applicable Law
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has executed this Plan on this 4th day of December, 2008.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Reynolds American Inc. P.O. Box 2990 Winston-Salem, NC 27102-2990
 The board of directors of Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI) today declared a quarterly cash dividend on the company's common stock of $0.85 per share ($3.40 per share annualized). The dividend will be payable on Jan. 2, 2009, to shareholders of record on Dec. 15, 2008.
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.  Dec. 4, 2008
This is the 18th consecutive quarterly cash dividend that Reynolds American has declared since it became a publicly traded company on July 30, 2004. RAI's policy is to return about 75 percent of the company's current-year net income to shareholders in the form of dividends.
Also during today's meeting, Nicandro Durante was elected to serve on the RAI board as a designee of Brown & Williamson Holdings, Inc. (B&W). Durante, the current chief operating officer of British American Tobacco p.l.c. (BAT), succeeds Antonio Monteiro de Castro, the recently retired chief operating officer of BAT, who resigned from the board today. Through its B&W indirect subsidiary, BAT is RAI's largest shareholder, with an ownership interest of about 42 percent. With Durante succeeding Monteiro de Castro, the RAI board will continue to have 13 members, including five B&W designees.
Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI) is the parent company of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company; Conwood Company, LLC; Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Inc; and R.J. Reynolds Global Products, Inc.
Copies of RAI's news releases, annual reports, SEC filings and other financial materials are available at .
www.ReynoldsAmerican.com


