FILE:RAI/RAI-8K-20080910143248.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
ITEM 8.01 Other Events.
     On September 9, 2008, Reynolds American Inc. ("RAI") announced restructuring charges and a workforce reduction related to changes planned in the organizational structures at RAI and its largest subsidiary, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company ("RJRT"). In August, the companies began a comprehensive business analysis to identify ways to simplify programs and processes, reduce complexity and improve productivity across their organizations. The companies will be streamlining non-core business processes and programs to allocate additional resources to strategic growth initiatives, and RJRT is making a modification to its brand-portfolio strategy. The majority of the workforce reduction will occur between third quarter 2008 and year-end 2009, with a few transitions extending into 2010.
     As a result of the restructuring and workforce reduction, RAI will record a pretax third quarter restructuring charge of approximately $90 million, or about $55 million after tax, representing severance, benefits and related costs. Estimated benefits from this restructuring and workforce reduction are expected to be approximately $100 million by year-end 2010, and annualized savings of about $55 million thereafter.
     A copy of the press release announcing the restructuring charges and workforce reduction is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
The following is furnished as an Exhibit to this Report.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: September 10, 2008
 

Exhibit 99.1
Reynolds American Inc. P.O. Box 2990 Winston-Salem, NC 27102-2990
 
Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI) announced restructuring charges today related to changes planned in the organizational structures at RAI and its largest subsidiary, R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company. The companies will be streamlining non-core business processes and programs to allocate additional resources to strategic growth initiatives, and Reynolds Tobacco is making a modification to its brand-portfolio strategy.
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.  Sept. 9, 2008 
"As we invest in growth to expand the business base of our operating companies to innovative new tobacco products, we continually review our plans to support that strategy and to strengthen performance in a changing marketplace," said Susan M. Ivey, RAI's chairman, president and chief executive officer. "We are intent on operating our businesses as efficiently as possible to focus our
 
resources on growth priorities, while aligning our plans, processes and cost structures with the competitive and external environment."
RAI will record a pretax third-quarter restructuring charge of approximately $90 million, or about $55 million after tax. The $90 million charge represents severance, benefits and related costs.
Reductions in the RAI and R.J. Reynolds Tobacco workforces will generate savings of about $100 million by year-end 2010, with annualized savings of about $55 million thereafter.
"In August, Reynolds American and R.J. Reynolds Tobacco began a comprehensive business analysis as the latest step in our ongoing process of evaluating the best ways to continue improving the performance, efficiency and competitive position of each company," said Ivey. "Both companies reviewed all their business plans and activities  with RAI focused on enhancing innovation and strategic insight across its operating companies, and R.J. Reynolds focused on freeing up additional resources to invest in growth by seizing opportunities to become faster, more flexible and efficient."
Through the business analysis, Reynolds American and Reynolds Tobacco identified various ways to simplify programs and processes, reduce complexity and improve productivity across their organizations.
"Continued success demands that we fully align our plans, programs and people behind the things that matter most to our future performance," said Daniel M. Delen, chairman, president and chief executive officer of R.J. Reynolds. "The steps we are taking support R.J. Reynolds' ongoing evolution to a total tobacco' business model that includes both cigarettes and innovative smokeless tobacco products.
"Simplifying and discontinuing activities results in significant job eliminations, and has involved many difficult and painful decisions. We deeply regret the personal impact on employees whose jobs are eliminated; and we are providing generous severance benefits to help with their transitions," Delen said.
The following changes are designed to enhance growth and efficiency at RAI operating companies, as well as the parent company's strategic oversight role:
 
R.J. Reynolds will continue to enhance the efficiency of its cigarette business while evolving its business base to include innovative smoke-free tobacco products. In addition:
Approximately 570 full-time jobs within RAI and R.J. Reynolds will be eliminated, which represents about 16 percent of those two companies' Winston-Salem-based workforce and about 10 percent of the two companies' U.S. workforce. About 44 percent of those job eliminations were matched with employees who had expressed interest in leaving the companies through a survey. The majority of the job eliminations will occur between third quarter 2008 and year-end 2009, with a few transitions extending into 2010.
Employees of Conwood and Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, as well as R.J. Reynolds' production associates and trade marketing personnel outside Winston-Salem, were not included in the business analysis or impacted by these job eliminations.
RAI and R.J. Reynolds employees whose jobs are eliminated will be eligible for outplacement assistance and severance benefits, which are based on salary and length of service. These salary and benefits continuation programs provide two weeks' base pay for every year of service, with a minimum of 13 weeks' pay and a maximum of 78 weeks.
In late July, RAI announced that it expected full-year 2008 earnings (excluding the gain from the termination of a joint venture) to be consistent with prior-year results. The company is evaluating the potential impact of the restructuring, as well as other changes in business programs and related potential cost savings, on 2008 performance and will provide an update when it issues third-quarter 2008 results. Reynolds Tobacco is also reviewing the value of its Kool trademark; if the analysis results in any impairment, RAI will include that impact in its third-quarter 2008 results.
 
Statements included in this news release that are not historical in nature are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements regarding RAI's future performance and financial results inherently are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, described in the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include:
 
Due to these uncertainties and risks, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this news release. Except as provided by federal securities laws, RAI is not required to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI) is the parent company of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company; Conwood Company, LLC; Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Inc; and R.J. Reynolds Global Products, Inc.
Copies of RAI's news releases, annual reports, SEC filings and other financial materials are available at .
www.ReynoldsAmerican.com


