FILE:RAI/RAI-8K-20080220185416.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
     In 2002, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco C.V., an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of RAI and referred to as RJRTCV, and an affiliate of Gallaher Group Plc, referred to as Gallaher, formed a joint venture, with each party owning a 50% membership interest. The joint venture, R. J. Reynolds-Gallaher International Sarl, marketed American-blend cigarettes primarily in Italy, France and Spain.
     On April 18, 2007, an affiliate of Japan Tobacco Inc. acquired Gallaher, and Gallaher subsequently notified RJRTCV that the acquisition constituted a change of control of Gallaher within the meaning of the joint venture agreement. Pursuant to the terms of the joint venture agreement, RJRTCV elected to terminate the joint venture prior to its expiration date. The joint venture terminated on December 31, 2007.
     The joint venture agreement provides that upon a termination of the joint venture, the value of all of the trademarks each joint venture member or its affiliate licensed to the joint venture (other than Natural American Spirit) would be calculated and that the party whose licensed trademarks were determined to be of greater value would be required to pay the other party an amount, referred to as the Termination Amount, equal to one-half of the difference between the values of the parties' respective trademarks. On February 20, 2008, following the parties' negotiations regarding the trademarks' values, RJRTCV and Gallaher Limited, an affiliate of Gallaher Group Plc, entered into a Valuation Payment Settlement Agreement, referred to as the Settlement Agreement, pursuant to which Gallaher Limited agreed to pay RJRTCV a Termination Amount equal to Euros 265,000,000 (approximately $387,562,500). The Settlement Agreement provides that 40% of the Termination Amount, Euros 106,000,000 (approximately $155,025,000), will be paid to RJRTCV on or before April 20, 2008, and the remaining 60% of the Termination Amount will be paid to RJRTCV in six equal annual installments of Euros 26,500,000 (approximately $38,756,250), commencing April 2009. Gallaher Limited's obligations under the Settlement Agreement have been guaranteed by JT International Holding B.V., an affiliate of Gallaher Limited, pursuant to a Guarantee dated February 20, 2008.
     The dollar values set forth above reflect a Euros-to-dollars exchange rate of 1.4625, calculated the morning of February 20, 2008. Copies of the Settlement Agreement and the Guarantee of JT International Holding B.V. are attached to this Report as Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2, respectively.
     (d) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: February 21, 2008

 
Exhibit 10.1
 
is made on 20 February 2008
This Agreement
Between
Recitals
(A) R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Holdings, Inc., the parent company of Reynolds, and Gallaher Group plc, the parent company of Gallaher, are parties to a Joint Venture Participation Agreement dated 19 June 2002 pursuant to which R.J. Reynolds  Gallaher International Srl (), a Swiss limited liability company, was formed to conduct the manufacturing, marketing, distribution and sale of American Blend cigarette products in specified territories.
RGI
(B) Pursuant to a Limited Liability Company Agreement dated 12 July 2002 (the ), Gallaher (Austria) GmbH and Reynolds agreed terms relating to the management and operation of RGI on the basis that each member of RGI or its affiliates would by 12 July 2002 have licensed or sub-licensed to RGI various trademarks and associated rights for use on American Blend cigarettes in specified territories.
LLC Agreement
(C) Under Trade Mark Licences dated 12 July 2002, the Parties licensed or sub-licensed various trademarks and associated rights owned by them to RGI (the ).
Trade Mark Licences
(D) The Parties entered into a License Buyout Agreement dated 12 July 2002, as subsequently amended on 1 March 2004, (the ), pursuant to which they agreed a mechanism for payment of an amount from one Party to the other calculated by reference to the relative aggregate Valuations of each Party's trademarks and associated rights licensed or sub-licensed to RGI under the Trade Mark Licences.
LBA
Page 2 of 9
 
(E) Reynolds served notice of termination of the LLC Agreement on 15 May 2007 specifying the effective date of termination as 30 November 2007, which became the Valuation Date under the LBA.
(F) Following exchange of the Valuations on 29 January 2008 and subsequent negotiations in accordance with the provisions of the LBA, the Parties have agreed on the amount of the Valuation Payment due under the LBA and on the identity of the paying Party and wish to record the terms of their agreement on a binding basis in this Agreement.
(G) The Parties have agreed to enter into this Agreement in consideration of the mutual covenants and other valuable consideration set out below.
1.
Definitions and interpretation
1.1 In this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meaning:
1.2 Terms used but not otherwise defined in this Agreement shall have the meanings given to them in the LBA and the LLC Agreement.
Page 3 of 9
 
1.3 For the purposes of clauses 2 and 5 of this Agreement, any reference to any Party includes any parents, subsidiaries, affiliates, assigns, successors, transferees, representatives, principals, agents, officers or directors of that Party.
1.4 Save where the context requires otherwise, clause headings are for convenience only and shall not be taken into account in the interpretation of this Agreement.
2.
Full and final settlement
2.1 Subject to the terms of this Agreement, Reynolds accepts payment of the Valuation Payment Sum in full and final settlement of Gallaher's obligations under the LBA.
2.2 Each Party releases and discharges the other Party from liability for any and all Claims arising out of or in any way relating to, whether contractual, tortious or other in respect of, the LBA, save in relation to enforcement of obligations arising under this Agreement.
3.
Payment Details
3.1 Subject to clause 3.4 below, by 4pm London time on 20 April 2008, Gallaher shall initiate the transmission of payment to Reynolds the sum of 106,000,000 (one hundred and six million Euros) representing 40% (forty per cent) of the Valuation Payment Sum.
3.2 Subject to clause 3.4 below, by the dates and times specified in (a)-(f) below, Gallaher shall initiate the transmission of payment to Reynolds the sum of 26,500,000 (twenty six million and five hundred thousand Euros), each payment representing 10% (ten per cent) of the Valuation Payment Sum.
Page 4 of 9
 
3.3 Payments under clauses 3.1 and 3.2 shall be made by bank transfer to the account nominated in writing by Reynolds (such notification to be provided to Gallaher by fax (attention: Lorenzo Pillinini) at fax number +44 1932 372 571 not later than 30 (thirty) days prior to the date by which transmission of the relevant payment is to be initiated by Gallaher in accordance with clause 3.1 or 3.2). In the absence of such notification, payments shall be made to the account to which payment was last made under this Agreement.
3.4 All sums payable under clauses 3.1 and 3.2 shall be paid free and clear of any deductions, withholdings, set offs or counterclaims whatsoever, except any deduction or withholding which may be required by law in relation to any tax, in which case Gallaher:
4.
Termination of the LBA
4.1 The Parties agree that the LBA will automatically terminate on the Effective Date.
5.
Confidentiality
5.1 Each Party agrees that it shall keep this Agreement confidential and shall not disclose this Agreement or otherwise make any announcement or disclosure in connection with the existence or subject matter of this Agreement or the substance of
Page 5 of 9
 
negotiations in connection with it (the ), without the prior written consent of the other Party, provided however that the obligation under this clause shall not apply if and to the extent that:
Confidential Information
5.2 The Parties hereby agree to take all reasonable steps to make their employees and agents aware of the terms of this clause and to ensure compliance with such terms.
6.
Conflicts between this Agreement and the License Buyout Agreement
6.1 In the case of any conflict between the terms of the LBA and the terms of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
7.
Successors and Assigns
7.1 This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure for the benefit of each Party's successors and assigns.
Page 6 of 9
 
8.
Representations and Warranties
8.1 Each Party represents and warrants that the person signing on its behalf has the authority to execute this Agreement and bind that Party.
8.2 Each Party represents and warrants that it has not previously assigned any Claim or cause of action belonging to it, or which it has had the right to assert on behalf of others or that could have been asserted which arose out of or in connection with the LBA or out of the subject matter of the LBA or this Agreement.
8.3 Neither Party makes any representation or warranty, express or implied, other than those made in this clause 8.
9.
No rights of rescission or termination
9.1 Neither Party shall be entitled to rescind or terminate this Agreement in any circumstances whatsoever (whether before or after termination of the LBA) for breach of any of the obligations under this Agreement, other than pursuant to any such rights which arise in respect of fraudulent misrepresentation.
10.
Entire Agreement
10.1 Each Party confirms that this Agreement constitutes the entire agreement and understanding between the Parties in connection with the settlement of any and all matters arising under or in connection with or out of the subject matter of the LBA or this Agreement.
10.2 Each Party confirms that it is not relying upon any statement or representation made by and on behalf of any of the other Parties, whether or not in writing, at any time prior to execution of this Agreement which is not expressly set out herein. Each Party expressly agrees that it will not have any right of action in relation to any statement or representation, whether oral or written, made by or on behalf of any of the other Parties in the course of any negotiations which preceded the execution hereof, unless such statements or representations were made fraudulently.
Page 7 of 9
 
11.
Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999
11.1 The Parties agree that the terms of this agreement are not enforceable by any third party under the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999.
12.
Variation
12.1 No amendment of this Agreement shall be valid unless it is in writing and duly executed by or on behalf of each of the Parties.
13.
Invalidity
13.1 Each of the provisions of this Agreement is severable. If any such provision is held to be or becomes invalid or unenforceable in any respect under the law of any jurisdiction, it shall have no effect in that respect and the Parties shall use all reasonable efforts to replace it in that respect with a valid and enforceable substitute provision the effect of which is as close to its intended effect as possible.
14.
Further assurances
14.1 The Parties shall perform (or procure the performance of) all further acts and things and execute and deliver (or procure the execution and delivery of) such further documents as may be required by law or as may be necessary or reasonably required to implement and give effect to this Agreement and to terminate the LBA.
15.
Counterparts
15.1 This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, and all of such counterparts taken together, shall be deemed to constitute one and the same instrument.
16.
Governing Law
16.1 This Agreement shall be governed by and be construed in accordance with English law. Any dispute arising out of or in connection with, or concerning the carrying into effect of, this Agreement shall be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the High Court of England, and the parties hereby submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of that court for these purposes.
Page 8 of 9
 
of which the Parties have executed this Agreement on the date first mentioned above.
IN WITNESS
R.J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO C.V.
By: R. J. REYNOLDS GLOBAL PRODUCTS, INC., Its General Partner
by
/s/ McDara P. Folan, III
Name: McDara P. Folan, III Position: Director and Secretary
by
/s/ Godefridus Vranken
Name: Godefridus Vranken Position: Director for and on behalf of GALLAHER LIMITED
Page 9 of 9

 
Exhibit 10.2
This Deed of Guarantee (this "Guarantee"), is made and entered into as of 20 February 2008 by JT International Holding B.V., a company organized under the laws of The Netherlands (the "Guarantor"), in favor of R. J. Reynolds Tobacco C.V., a limited partnership organized under the laws of The Netherlands (together with its successors and assigns, the "Guaranteed Party").
1. Guarantee.
2. Nature of Guarantee.
 
     . The Guarantor hereby represents and warrants that:
6. Representations and Warranties
 
If to Guarantor, to:
JT International Holding B.V. Vreelandsweg 46 1216 CH Hilversum The Netherlands Attention: Chief Financial Officer Fax: +31 35 622 2890
With a copy to:
JT International S.A. 1, Rue de la Gabelle 1211 Geneva 26 Switzerland Attention: Senior Vice President Legal Regulatory Affairs and Compliance Fax: +41 22 703 0604
If to Guaranteed Party, to:
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco C. V. Atrium Building 5 Floor Strawinskylaan 3501 1077 ZX Amsterdam The Netherlands Fax: +31 (20) 710 5001
th
With a copy to:
Reynolds American Inc. 401 N. Main Street Winston-Salem, NC 27101 Attention: General Counsel Fax: (336) 741-2998
 
this Guarantee has been duly executed and delivered by the Guarantor to the Guaranteed Party as of the date first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
JT INTERNATIONAL HOLDING B.V.
 
:
Accepted and Agreed
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO C.V.
By: R. J. REYNOLDS GLOBAL PRODUCTS, INC., Its General Partner


