FILE:RAI/RAI-8K-20080730084631.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
     The information in this Current Report is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subjected to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
     On July 30, 2008, Reynolds American Inc. issued an earnings release announcing its financial results for the second quarter and first six months ended June 30, 2008. A copy of the earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
(d) Exhibits.
The following is furnished as an Exhibit to this Report.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 30, 2008
 

Exhibit 99.1
Reynolds American Inc. P.O. Box 2990 Winston-Salem, NC 27102-2990
 
RAI CEO:
All references in this release to "reported" numbers refer to GAAP measurements; all "adjusted" numbers are non-GAAP, as defined in schedule 2 of this release, which reconciles reported to adjusted results for the second quarter and first half.
 
Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI) today announced higher second-quarter and first-half 2008 net income compared with the prior-year periods on both a reported and adjusted basis. Second-quarter results were driven by higher pricing and productivity at R.J. Reynolds, and continued volume and pricing gains at Conwood. These factors more than offset lower cigarette volume and higher settlement expense. For the first half, a 33.5 percent EPS increase was primarily the result of a $210 million after-tax first-quarter gain from the termination of the Gallaher joint venture. Reynolds American's solid second-quarter performance keeps the company on track to achieve the guidance announced on April 30, delivering full-year 2008 earnings (excluding the first-quarter JV gain) that are consistent with prior-year results.
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.  July 30, 2008 
 
Overview
"Reynolds American's solid second-quarter results keep us on track to deliver full-year earnings that are consistent with those we delivered last year," said Susan M. Ivey, RAI's chairman, president and chief executive officer. "On the cigarette side, R.J. Reynolds continues to increase total growth-brand market share, and the company is generating additional productivity and profit gains. The moist-snuff category continues to show robust growth, and Conwood's Grizzly brand's second-quarter growth was three times the rate of the category as a whole."
Ivey said that during the first half of 2008, the company also:
"I'm pleased with the progress our companies made during the second quarter, especially considering the challenges they faced in this year's first quarter," Ivey said. "With the improved dynamics in the cigarette marketplace, and the continued momentum of Conwood and the moist-snuff category, we are confident that we will achieve our forecast."
R.J. Reynolds
"R.J. Reynolds' performance improved in the second quarter, and cigarette industry dynamics did as well," said Daniel M. Delen, chairman, president and chief executive officer of R.J. Reynolds. "Our second-quarter profits and margins were up from the prior year due to higher pricing and continued productivity improvements, along with higher levels of undiscounted wholesale inventory."
Delen said that the impact of these factors more than offset a second-quarter cigarette volume decline of 7.9 percent from the prior-year period. More than 40 percent of that decline was due to lower volume from the company's non-support brands, including a number of lower-priced, lower-volume brands that R.J. Reynolds discontinued late last year. During the first quarter, the company also eliminated some non-core styles of its Camel brand as part of a consolidation that will increase retail visibility and enhance focus on Camel's leading styles.
R.J. Reynolds' second-quarter operating profits of $523 million were up 5.4 percent from the year-ago quarter. The company's operating margin was 25.7 percent, an improvement of 1.7 percentage points from the prior-year period. Total company market share of 28.1 was down 1.1 share points from the prior-year quarter; however, R.J. Reynolds continued to increase its total growth-brand share.
Combined growth-brand market share for the second quarter was 13.6 percent, up 0.6 share points from the year-ago quarter. That growth was driven by continued share gains on Camel and Pall Mall, with stability on Kool.
Camel grew 0.2 share points in the second quarter, for a total share of 8.0 percent. A variety of brand initiatives are contributing to this growth, including recent upgrades to Camel's core styles.
 
"The pack and blend upgrades we introduced late in the first quarter are renewing the vitality of Camel's core styles and Camel Wides," Delen said. "Fresh, new graphics and a smoother, more premium blend increase the brand's relevance and broaden Camel's appeal among competitive adult smokers, while maintaining the brand's rich heritage."
Camel's latest innovation, Camel Crush, uses R.J. Reynolds' technology to provide adult smokers with the option of changing each cigarette from regular to menthol by crushing a capsule in the filter. "Camel Crush is proving to have a great deal of appeal," Delen said. "We introduced it in test market in the first quarter, and we plan to expand nationally in September."
Camel Snus, a smoke-free, spitless tobacco product, is currently being expanded to major metropolitan markets across the country. R.J. Reynolds has been testing Camel Snus for the past two years and has continued to refine the product and its packaging based on test-market learning. "We're very pleased with the performance and potential of Camel Snus," Delen said. "We're continuing to expand distribution and evaluate the best ways to educate consumers about this exciting, new smoke-free tobacco category."
While Camel continued to grow share, its second-quarter volume was down 7.0 percent from the prior-year quarter. Almost two-thirds of that decline came from several non-core Camel styles that the company delisted in the first quarter. R.J. Reynolds expects Camel's overall volume performance to improve as the remaining retail inventory of these delisted styles is depleted and Camel smokers shift to other Camel styles.
Kool, the company's premium, menthol growth brand, remained relatively stable, with a 3.1 percent share of market for the second quarter. The company is focused on optimizing Kool's geographical strengths and continues to evaluate opportunities to improve the brand's overall performance.
Pall Mall, the company's value-priced growth brand, delivered strong volume and share gains in the second quarter, with volume up 18.4 percent and a share gain of 0.5 share points, bringing Pall Mall's total share to 2.6 percent. In the second quarter, the brand refined its promotional support to further strengthen awareness, trial and conversion. The company believes that Pall Mall's considerable gains are driven by the increasing relevance of the brand's position as a great product that offers a longer-lasting cigarette at a great price.
"As social, economic and legislative pressures continue to impact the cigarette industry, R.J. Reynolds is focused on preparing for the future by broadening its line of tobacco products while optimizing its existing cigarette portfolio," Delen said. "We're working hard to be the industry leader in anticipating and meeting emerging consumer preferences with a range of relevant, alternative tobacco products to which smokers can migrate."
Conwood
Conwood continued its powerful momentum as the growth leader in the rapidly growing moist-snuff category, with record profits, volume and share in the second quarter.
Conwood's second-quarter share of 27.8 percent was 2.0 share points higher than the year-ago period. Total company volume was up 18.4 percent, on the strength of Grizzly's 25.6 percent volume increase in the second quarter. Operating profit of $96 million dollars was up 5.5 percent from the prior-year period.
 
Second-quarter growth on Conwood's flagship Grizzly brand accounted for almost half of the industry's total moist-snuff volume growth of 7.7 percent compared with the prior-year quarter.
"We're extremely pleased with the growth we're seeing on the two Grizzly styles we introduced late last year, and the continued momentum of Grizzly's core styles," said William M. Rosson, president and chief executive officer of Conwood. "Both Grizzly Snuff and Grizzly Wintergreen Pouches are exceeding our high expectations."
Rosson said that Grizzly Snuff was available nationally in the second quarter and has already achieved a 0.8 percent share of the total moist-snuff market, even though it has not yet reached full distribution in most of its markets.
Grizzly Wintergreen Pouches expanded nationally in July and is rapidly gaining share in the growing moist-snuff pouch style. Both Grizzly Snuff and Grizzly Wintergreen Pouches are currently in about half of the outlets where they ultimately will be sold.
Rosson said that these new products strengthen Grizzly's stature and broaden its appeal by establishing strong positions in market segments where Grizzly previously did not compete.
"Grizzly Snuff and Grizzly Wintergreen Pouches are among the most successful new products in the moist-snuff category in the past several years," said Rosson, "and we believe we're only just beginning to see their true potential."
Grizzly's second-quarter gain of 2.7 share points gave Grizzly a total share of 23.4 percent.
The price-value segment of the moist-snuff category was 48.1 percent in the second-quarter. That was up 4.5 percentage points from the year-ago period  and 1.7 percentage points higher than the preceding quarter.
Conwood's premium Kodiak brand had a difficult second quarter with volume and share declines. That reflected increases in the relative level of competitive promotion and the fact that Kodiak's strength is concentrated in states with high tobacco taxes and tough economies. Conwood continues to focus on strengthening Kodiak's performance.
"We made a lot of progress moving our business forward in the first half," Rosson said. "We're already starting to see good returns from the investments we made in the first quarter to support Grizzly's two new styles. Given their performance and Grizzly's growing strength, we expect to deliver strong earnings and volume growth again this year."
"With a 12.7 percent increase in EPS, we're very pleased with our performance for the second quarter," said Thomas R. Adams, RAI's chief financial officer. "Our operating companies are continuing to deliver against their strategic objectives. And continued pricing improvements and share gains on key brands at both R.J. Reynolds and Conwood highlight the strength of those businesses.
"Those improvements are offsetting higher costs, including inflationary adjustments to settlement expense," said Adams, "and that keeps us on track to achieve the full-year forecast we announced last quarter."
 
Adams said that Reynolds American's fundamental strength is also reflected in the credit upgrades the company received in the second quarter from Standard and Poor's, and Moody's. "The fact that our credit is now investment grade provides us with added financial flexibility going forward," he said.
He also noted that the company initiated its previously announced $350 million share-repurchase program in the second quarter, with the purchase of 2.2 million RAI shares for about $118 million.
"R.J. Reynolds continues to streamline its operations and optimize its cost structure," Adams said, "and these efforts are contributing to the company's margin improvements. In addition, Conwood's growth momentum puts us in a very good position to achieve the goals that we have set."
Reynolds American will webcast a conference call to discuss second-quarter 2008 results at 9:30 a.m. Eastern Time on Wednesday, July 30, 2008. The call will be available live online on a listen-only basis. To register for the call, please visit the "Investors" section of . A replay of the call will be available on the site until August 29 at 5 p.m. Investors, analysts and members of the news media can also listen to the live call by phone, by dialing (888) 233-8128 (toll free) or (913) 312-0640 (international). Remarks made during the conference call will be current at the time of the call and will not be updated to reflect subsequent material developments. Although news media representatives will not be permitted to ask questions during the call, they are welcome to monitor the remarks on a listen-only basis. Following the call, media representatives may direct inquiries to Seth Moskowitz at (336) 741-7698.
www.ReynoldsAmerican.com
Statements included in this news release that are not historical in nature are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements regarding RAI's future performance and financial results inherently are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, described in the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include:
 
Due to these uncertainties and risks, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this news release. Except as provided by federal securities laws, RAI is not required to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI) is the parent company of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company; Conwood Company, LLC; Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Inc; and R.J. Reynolds Global Products, Inc.
Copies of RAI's news releases, annual reports, SEC filings and other financial materials are available at
www.ReynoldsAmerican.com.
 
Schedule 1
 
Schedule 2
RAI management uses "adjusted" (non-GAAP) measurements to set performance goals and to measure the performance of the overall company, and believes that investors' understanding of the underlying performance of the company's continuing operations is enhanced through the disclosure of these metrics. "Adjusted" (non-GAAP) results are not, and should not be viewed as, substitutes for "reported" (GAAP) results.
 
Schedule 3
UNIT VOLUME (in billions):
RETAIL SHARE OF MARKET:
Amounts are rounded on an individual basis and, accordingly, may not sum in the aggregate. R.J. Reynolds' support brands include Winston, Salem, Doral, Capri and Misty. Industry data based on information from Management Science Associates, Inc. Retail shares of market are as reported by Information Resources Inc.
 
Schedule 4
UNIT VOLUME (in millions of cans):
SHARE OF SHIPMENTS:
Amounts are rounded on an individual basis and, accordingly, may not sum in the aggregate. Share data for total moist snuff based on distributor reported data processed by Management Science Associates, Inc.


