FILE:RAI/RAI-8K-20081022091818.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     The information in this Current Report is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subjected to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
     On October 22, 2008, Reynolds American Inc. issued an earnings release announcing its financial results for the third quarter and first nine months ended September 30, 2008. A copy of the earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
The following is furnished as an Exhibit to this Report.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: October 22, 2008
 

Exhibit 99.1
Reynolds American Inc. P.O. Box 2990 Winston-Salem, NC 27102-2990
 
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.  Oct. 22, 2008 
All references in this release to "reported" numbers refer to GAAP measurements; all "adjusted" numbers are non-GAAP, as defined in schedules 2 and 3 of this release, which reconciles reported to adjusted results for the third quarter and first nine months.
 
Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI) today announced third-quarter results that prompted the company to increase its full-year guidance. The company now expects full-year 2008 earnings growth in the low single digits. Third-quarter reported EPS of $0.72 was down 40.5 percent from the prior-year period due to $0.57 in restructuring and trademark impairment charges. Adjusted EPS for the third quarter was $1.29, up 6.6 percent from the year-ago quarter. RAI's net earnings for the nine-month period were up on both a reported and adjusted basis as pricing and productivity improvements more than offset cigarette volume declines and higher settlement expense.
 
Overview
"Reynolds American's third-quarter results reflect continued improvement in the company's underlying business fundamentals and support the increased guidance we announced this morning," said Susan M. Ivey, RAI's chairman, president and chief executive officer.
The company had previously expected full-year 2008 earnings in line with the prior year. However, RAI now expects to deliver full-year earnings growth in the low single digits, excluding a first-quarter gain of $0.71 per share and third-quarter charges totaling $0.57 per share. The first-quarter gain was related to the termination of the company's European joint venture; the third-quarter charges were related to restructuring and trademark impairment.
"With improved performance and profitability at R.J. Reynolds, and strong volume, share and profit gains at Conwood," Ivey said, "Reynolds American is positioned to deliver solid full-year results."
She said that the restructuring that impacted third-quarter results at RAI and its largest subsidiary, R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, enhances both companies' ability to deliver innovation and growth.
"Reynolds American's total-tobacco business model puts us in a strong position to shape, and benefit from, continuing changes in the industry environment," Ivey said. "As leaders in tobacco industry innovation, our companies are particularly well-suited to identify and create new opportunities for long-term growth."
In addition, Ivey noted that RAI was recently recognized as a leader in corporate sustainability by being awarded membership in the 2008-2009 Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index.
R.J. Reynolds
"R.J. Reynolds continued to post margin and profit improvements, with adjusted third-quarter operating income almost 10 percent higher than the year-ago period," said Daniel M. Delen, the company's chairman, president and chief executive officer. "Pricing and productivity improvements again more than offset the effects of cigarette volume declines and higher settlement expense.
"While third-quarter cigarette volume declined 7.5 percent from the prior-year quarter, we did see continued improvements in our cigarette volume trend. About 45 percent of the third-quarter decline came from non-support brands, including some low-margin brands that were delisted. Third-quarter cigarette volume was also negatively impacted by a reduction that normalized wholesale inventory levels," Delen said.
During the third quarter, R.J. Reynolds continued to increase share on its two growth brands, Camel and Pall Mall. However, continuing declines on non-growth brands brought the company's total cigarette market share to 28.2 percent, down 0.8 share points from the prior-year quarter.
 
Pricing and productivity improvements drove R.J. Reynolds' third-quarter operating margin to 27.7 percent, a gain of 3.0 percentage points from the prior-year period, excluding restructuring and trademark-impairment charges. The company's third-quarter adjusted operating income was up 9.6 percent at $547 million.
"The restructuring we announced in September will make us faster, more flexible and efficient," said Delen. "It also frees up resources that will support innovation as R.J. Reynolds continues to transform itself as part of a total tobacco' business model."
As the company previously announced, along with the restructuring, R.J. Reynolds further refined its brand-portfolio strategy, reclassifying Kool as a "support" brand. That resulted in a non-cash trademark impairment charge of about $173 million.
"Kool will still play an important role as a support brand," Delen said, "but it will no longer receive the level of investment it did as a growth brand."
With this change, Delen said, R.J. Reynolds will focus on building Camel's overall volume and share, and strengthening its position in the growing menthol category by driving growth of Camel's menthol styles.
"Camel delivered modest third-quarter volume growth, with retail cigarette market share of 8.1 percent, up 0.1 share points from an especially strong prior-year quarter," said Delen, "and Camel continues to make progress with innovations both inside and outside of the cigarette category."
The most recent example of Camel's cigarette innovation is Camel Crush, which uses R.J. Reynolds' technology that gives adult smokers the option of changing each cigarette from regular to menthol by crushing a capsule in the filter. "We introduced Camel Crush in test market in the first quarter and it continues to exceed our expectations," Delen said. "We've just expanded it to national distribution, and we're excited by its potential."
Camel Snus, a smoke-free, spitless tobacco product, was expanded to major metropolitan markets across the country in the second quarter, and the company plans to take it national in early 2009. "Camel is playing a key role in creating awareness and educating smokers about this new category of smoke-free tobacco products," Delen said.
Camel is continuing to expand its innovations in "modern smoke-free tobacco" products with the introduction of Camel Orbs, Sticks and Strips, three new dissolvable products that will be available in lead markets early next year. "These Camel products are made from finely milled tobacco and dissolve completely in the mouth," Delen said. "They're designed to provide adult tobacco consumers with additional, convenient alternatives that provide tobacco pleasure."
R.J. Reynolds' other growth brand, Pall Mall, continued to see strong volume and share growth in the third quarter, with a retail share of 2.7 percent, up 0.5 percentage points from the prior-year quarter. Pall Mall's volume climbed 33.9 percent from the prior-year period, with refinements in promotional strategy that are delivering higher levels of both trial and conversion.
 
"We continue to face challenges in the cigarette category," said Delen, "but we remain pleased with the performance of Camel and with R.J. Reynolds' leadership in establishing the modern smoke-free tobacco category in the United States."
Conwood
"Conwood posted another record quarter, with $98 million in operating profits," said William M. Rosson, Conwood's president and chief executive officer. "That's a 10 percent increase over last year's quarter, with Grizzly continuing to deliver double-digit volume growth.
"The moist-snuff category is growing at an annual rate of more than 7 percent, and Grizzly continues to represent almost half of all category growth," said Rosson.
Grizzly's third-quarter share of shipments was 23.4 percent, up 2.1 percentage points from the prior-year period. Contributing to the growth of Conwood's flagship brand was the strong performance of Grizzly's two newest styles  Grizzly Snuff and Grizzly Wintergreen Pouches, which were both introduced nationally this year.
"These two products are showing exceptional strength," said Rosson. "They are among the most successful moist-snuff introductions in the past several years. Grizzly Snuff has already gained almost a full share point, and Grizzly Wintergreen Pouches has more than half a share point."
Rosson said that the success of those new styles contributed to a gain of more than half a percentage point in Conwood's already strong operating margins, which were 54.1 percent in the third quarter. In September, the company also took an 8 percent price increase on its Grizzly brand.
Share of shipments for Conwood's premium Kodiak brand declined 0.1 percentage points in the third quarter, to 4.2 percent. However, Kodiak's volume was up 5.5 percent from the prior-year period. Conwood continues to focus on strengthening its position in the premium segment of the moist-snuff market.
Conwood's total moist-snuff share of shipments for the third quarter was 28.0 percent, up 2.0 percentage points from the year-ago quarter. Total company volume was up 11.5 percent, on the strength of a 13.6 percent volume increase on Grizzly.
"We are very pleased with the rapid growth we're seeing on Grizzly's two new styles, as well as the strength of the brand's core styles," said Rosson. "With strong volume growth and back-to-back quarters with record profits, we anticipate another very strong year."
"Reynolds American had a solid third quarter, with both of our reportable operating segments delivering strong gains in operating income," said Thomas R. Adams, RAI's chief financial officer. "With that strength, we now expect full-year net earnings growth in the low single digits compared with 2007 adjusted results. That excludes the joint-venture gain, third-quarter charges and any charges from annual fourth-quarter assessments of intangible asset valuations."
 
Third-quarter charges included a pretax trademark impairment charge of $173 million on R.J. Reynolds' Kool brand and a pretax restructuring charge of $91 million for severance, benefits and related costs. Adams noted that the restructuring will generate annual savings that will build to about $55 million by 2011.
"The changes that Reynolds American and Reynolds Tobacco are making as part of the restructuring will help us intensify our focus on driving growth through continued innovation," Adams said. "And we're already making great progress, as demonstrated by R.J. Reynolds' upcoming national expansion of Camel Snus and the brand's introduction of dissolvable tobacco products early next year.
"We're pleased with the improvements R.J. Reynolds is making in its earnings and margins," said Adams, "and Conwood continues to deliver outstanding volume and share gains in the growing moist-snuff category.
"In addition, RAI continues to benefit from pricing strength at both of our reportable business segments  even in this difficult economic environment," he said. "Reynolds American's business fundamentals, coupled with strong cash flow and a solid balance sheet, position us well and continue to provide financial flexibility."
In the third quarter, RAI continued its share repurchase with the purchase of approximately 1.6 million RAI shares for $89 million. That brings total purchases to $207 million, under the $350 million share-repurchase program the company launched in the second quarter.
Reynolds American will webcast a conference call to discuss third-quarter 2008 results at 11 a.m. Eastern Time on Wednesday, Oct. 22, 2008. The call will be available live online on a listen-only basis. To register for the call, please visit the "Investors" section of . A replay of the call will be available on the site until Nov. 21 at 5 p.m. Investors, analysts and members of the news media can also listen to the live call by phone, by dialing (866) 293-8970 (toll free) or (913) 312-0848 (international). Remarks made during the conference call will be current at the time of the call and will not be updated to reflect subsequent material developments. Although news media representatives will not be permitted to ask questions during the call, they are welcome to monitor the remarks on a listen-only basis. Following the call, media representatives may direct inquiries to Seth Moskowitz at (336) 741-7698.
www.ReynoldsAmerican.com
 
Statements included in this news release that are not historical in nature are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe-harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements regarding RAI's future performance and financial results inherently are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements.
These risks and uncertainties include:
 
Due to these risks and uncertainties, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this news release. Except as provided by federal securities laws, RAI is not required to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI) is the parent company of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company; Conwood Company, LLC; Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Inc; and R.J. Reynolds Global Products, Inc.
Copies of RAI's news releases, annual reports, SEC filings and other financial materials are available at .
www.ReynoldsAmerican.com
 
Schedule 1
 
 
Schedule 2
RAI management uses "adjusted" (non-GAAP) measurements to set performance goals and to measure the performance of the overall company, and believes that investors' understanding of the underlying performance of the company's continuing operations is enhanced through the disclosure of these metrics. "Adjusted" (non-GAAP) results are not, and should not be viewed as, substitutes for "reported" (GAAP) results.
 
Schedule 3
R.J. Reynolds is the second largest cigarette manufacturer in the United States and manages a contract manufacturing business. R.J. Reynolds' segment results include the January 1, 2008 transfer of the contract manufacturing business from All Other, and exclude the January 1, 2008 transfer of super premium brands, including DUNHILL and STATE EXPRESS 555, to All Other.
Conwood is the second largest smokeless tobacco products manufacturer in the United States.
Management uses "adjusted" (non-GAAP) measurements to set performance goals and to measure the performance of the company, and believes that investors' understanding of the underlying performance of the company's continuing operations is enhanced through the disclosure of these metrics.
 
 
Schedule 4
UNIT VOLUME (in billions):
RETAIL SHARE OF MARKET:
Amounts are rounded on an individual basis and, accordingly, may not sum in the aggregate.
R.J. Reynolds' support brands include Kool, Winston, Salem, Doral, Capri and Misty.
Industry data based on information from Management Science Associates, Inc.
Retail shares of market are as reported by Information Resources Inc.
 
Schedule 5
UNIT VOLUME (in millions of cans):
SHARE OF SHIPMENTS:
Amounts are rounded on an individual basis and, accordingly, may not sum in the aggregate.
Share data for total moist snuff based on distributor reported data processed by Management Science Associates, Inc.


