FILE:RAI/RAI-8K-20090721132818.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
(e) At a meeting held on July 16, 2009, the Board of Directors of Reynolds American Inc., based upon a recommendation from its Compensation and Leadership Development Committee, approved certain amendments to the Amended and Restated Reynolds American Inc. Executive Severance Plan, referred to as the ESP. Such amendments consist of (1) modifications to the definition of "Cause" and (2) certain other non-material changes. A copy of the amended and restated ESP is attached to this report as Exhibit 10.1.
(d) Exhibits.
The following is filed as an Exhibit to this Report.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
Reynolds American Inc.
Executive Severance Plan
As Amended and Restated Effective August 1, 2009
 
 
 
Article 1. Establishment and Term of the Plan
     . Reynolds American Inc. hereby amends and restates the severance plan known as the "Reynolds American Inc. Executive Severance Plan" effective as of August 1, 2009. The Plan was originally effective January 1, 2007, and was subsequently amended and restated effective January 1, 2008, January 1, 2009 and February 1, 2009. The Plan provides severance benefits to specified senior executives of the Company and any other entity that adopts this Plan in accordance with the provisions of Section 9.3 upon certain terminations of employment from a Participating Company.
1.1 Establishment of the Plan
     The Company considers the establishment and maintenance of a sound management to be essential to protecting and enhancing the best interests of the Company and its shareholders. In this connection, the Company recognizes that, as is the case with many publicly held corporations, the possibilities of a Change in Control or a termination of an Executive's employment by a Participating Company may arise and that such possibilities, and the uncertainty and questions which they may raise among management, may result in the departure or distraction of management personnel to the detriment of the Company and its shareholders.
     Accordingly, the Board has determined that appropriate steps should be taken to reinforce and encourage the continued attention and dedication of members of the Participating Companies' management to their assigned duties without distraction in circumstances arising from the possibility of a Change in Control of the Company or a termination of an Executive's employment by a Participating Company.
     . This Plan commenced on January 1, 2007, and shall continue in effect until terminated by the Company. The Company may terminate this Plan entirely or terminate any individual Executive's participation in the Plan at any time by: (a) giving all Executives twelve (12) months prior written notice of Plan termination if terminating the Plan in its entirety or (b) giving the affected Executive twelve (12) months prior written notice if terminating the affected Executive's participation in the Plan. Upon delivery of such notice by the Company, this Plan or the Executive's participation in the Plan, as the case may be, along with all corresponding rights, duties, and covenants, shall terminate on the date indicated in such notice, which date shall not be less than twelve (12) months from the date the Executive received such notice.
1.2 Plan Term
     . Notwithstanding Section 1.2, in the event of a Change in Control during the term of the Plan, the Company may not terminate the Plan or any individual Executive's participation in the Plan during the period beginning on the date of the Change in Control through the second anniversary of the Change in Control, whereupon the provisions of the Plan pertaining to Change in Control Severance Benefits shall automatically terminate; , , that such automatic termination shall not apply to the payment of any Change in Control Severance Benefits commenced prior to such automatic termination. The Company shall cause any successor entity in a Change in Control to expressly assume the Plan, as further provided in Article 8.
1.3 Change in Control and Plan Term
provided
however
 
Article 2. Definitions
     Wherever used in this Plan, the following capitalized terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
 
 
 
 
 
 
.
Article 3. Severance Eligibility/Conditions
     . The Participating Company shall pay Severance Benefits to the Executive, as such benefits are described under Article 4 or Article 5, as applicable, upon the occurrence of any one or more of the following events (a "Qualifying Termination"):
3.1 Qualifying Termination
 
     A "Separation from Service" shall be deemed to have occurred on the date on which the level of bona fide services reasonably anticipated to be performed by the Executive is forty-five percent (45%) or less of the average level of bona fide services performed by such Executive during the immediately preceding thirty-six (36) month period (or the full period of services if the Executive has been providing services for less than thirty-six (36) months).
     . Notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary, in the event that the Executive is deemed to be a "specified employee" on the date of the Qualifying Termination, determined pursuant to identification methodology adopted by the Company in compliance with Code Section 409A, and if any portion of the payments or benefits to be received by the Executive upon separation from service would constitute a "deferral of compensation" subject to Code Section 409A, then to the extent necessary to comply with Code Section 409A, amounts that would otherwise be payable pursuant to this Plan during the six (6) month period immediately following the date of the Executive's Qualifying Termination and benefits that would otherwise be provided pursuant to this Plan during the six (6) month period immediately following the date of the Executive's Qualifying Termination will instead be paid or made available on the earlier of (i) within ten (10) days following the first business day of the seventh month after the date of the Executive's Qualifying Termination, provided that the Executive shall not have the right to designate the payment date or (ii) the Executive's death.
3.2 Specified Employees
     . The Executive shall not be entitled to receive Severance Benefits if the Executive's employment with a Participating Company ends for reasons other than a Qualifying Termination.
3.3 No Severance Benefits
     . As a condition to receiving Severance Benefits under Article 4 or Article 5, as applicable, prior to the 60 day following the date of the Executive's Qualifying Termination, the Executive shall be obligated to execute (i) a general release of claims in favor of the Company, its current and former subsidiaries, affiliates and shareholders, and the current and former directors, officers, employees, and agents thereof in the form prescribed by the Company (a "General Release"), and any period for revocation will have expired and (ii) a Non-Competition, Non-Disclosure of Confidential Information and Commitment to Provide Assistance Agreement in the form prescribed by the Company (a "Non-Competition Agreement") or, with respect to an Executive
3.4 General Release and Non-Competition Agreement
th
 
who has previously executed a Non-Competition Agreement, and at the Company's option, a written affirmation of the Executive's obligations thereunder.
     .
3.5 No Duplication of Severance Benefits
     . Any termination of the Executive's employment by a Participating Company or by the Executive shall be communicated by Notice of Termination to the other party. In the event an Executive provides written notice to the Participating Company of an alleged Change in Control Good Reason or General Good Reason and subsequently is deemed to have terminated his/her employment pursuant to Section 2(j) or 2(x), as applicable, then such notice shall constitute a Notice of Termination.
3.6 Notice of Termination
     . Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, if an Executive becomes Disabled after the date of the Executive's Qualifying Termination, such Executive shall not be entitled to benefits under any short-term or long-term disability plan of a Participating Company.
3.7 Disability
Article 4. Pre-2010 Severance Benefits
     .
4.1 Pre-2010 Change in Control Severance Benefits
 
 
 
 
     
4.2 Pre-2010 General Severance Benefits.
 
 
 
     . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan to the contrary, the provisions of this Article 4 shall not apply to any Executive who receives or delivers a Notice of Termination after December 31, 2009.
4.3 Expiration of Article 4
 
Article 5. Post-2009 Severance Benefits
     
5.1 Post-2009 Change in Control Severance Benefits.
 
     
5.2 Post-2009 General Severance Benefits.
 
 
.
Article 6. Excise Taxes
     .
6.1 Applicable Provisions if Excise Tax Applies
 
 
     . The provisions of Section 6.1 shall apply only to those individuals who are Tier I or Tier II Executives eligible to participate in the Plan as of the close of business on January 31, 2009.
6.2 Eligibility for Gross-Up Payment
Article 7. Contractual Rights and Legal Remedies
     . Except as otherwise provided in Section 7.4 below, a Participating Company's obligation to make the payments and the arrangements provided for herein shall be absolute and unconditional, and shall not be affected by any circumstances, including, without limitation, any offset, counterclaim, recoupment, defense, or other right which the Participating Company may have against the Executive or anyone else. All amounts payable by a Participating Company hereunder shall be paid without notice or demand.
7.1 Payment Obligations Absolute
 
     The Executive shall not be obligated to seek other employment in mitigation of the amounts payable or arrangements made under any provision of this Plan, and the obtaining of any such other employment shall in no event effect any reduction of a Participating Company's obligations to make the payments and arrangements required to be made under this Plan, except to the extent provided in Section 4.1(b)(vi), 4.2(b)(vi), 5.1(b)(vi) or 5.2(b)(vi) herein, as applicable.
     . This Plan establishes and vests in the Executive a contractual right to the benefits to which he is entitled hereunder. However, nothing herein contained shall require or be deemed to require, or prohibit or be deemed to prohibit, a Participating Company to segregate, earmark, or otherwise set aside any funds or other assets, in trust or otherwise, to provide for any payments to be made or required hereunder.
7.2 Contractual Rights to Benefits
     . A Participating Company shall pay all reasonable legal fees, costs of litigation, prejudgment interest, and other expenses which are incurred in good faith by a Tier I or Tier II Executive as a result of the Participating Company's refusal to provide the Change in Control Severance Benefits to which the Tier I or Tier II Executive becomes entitled under this Plan, or as a result of the Participating Company's (or any third party's) contesting the validity, enforceability, or interpretation of the Plan with respect to the Change in Control Severance Benefits, or as a result of any conflict between the parties pertaining to the Change in Control Severance Benefits under this Plan; , , that if the court determines that a Tier I or Tier II Executive's claims were arbitrary and capricious, the Participating Company shall have no obligation hereunder and an Executive who claims to be entitled to Change in Control Severance Benefits pursuant to Section 5.1 shall be obligated to return to the Company any reimbursement made to the Executive by the Company pursuant to this Section 7.3. If such fees and expenses are initially paid by the Tier I or Tier II Executive, subject to Section 3.2, the Participating Company shall reimburse the Tier I or Tier II Executive the full amount of such fees and expenses after receipt from the Tier I or Tier II Executive of reasonable evidence of payment; , , that any such reimbursements shall be made no later than December 31 of the year following the year in which the Tier I or Tier II Executive incurs the fees and expenses. In no event will the amount of expenses eligible for reimbursement in one year affect the amount of expenses to be reimbursed, or in-kind benefits to be provided, in any other taxable year.
7.3 Legal Fees and Expenses
provided
however
provided
however
     . With respect to Change in Control Severance Benefits or General Severance Benefits provided pursuant to Sections 4.1, 4.2, 5.1 or 5.2, if at any time the Executive breaches any provision of (i) the General Release or (ii) the Non-Competition Agreement (or, with respect to an Executive who has previously executed a Non-Competition Agreement, the written affirmation of the Executive's obligations thereunder), each as executed by the Executive in accordance with Section 3.4 of this Agreement, then in addition to all other rights and remedies available to it in law or equity, the Participating Company may cease to provide any further Severance Benefits under this Agreement, and upon the Participating Company's written demand, the Executive shall repay to the Participating Company the Severance Benefits and any other amount previously received under this Agreement. Any amount to be repaid pursuant to this Section 7.4 shall be (A) determined by the Participating Company in its sole and absolute discretion, (B) held by the Executive in constructive trust for the benefit of the Participating Company and (C) paid by the Executive to
7.4 Return of Severance Benefits
 
the Participating Company within ten (10) days of the Executive's receipt of written notice from the Participating Company. The Participating Company shall have the right to offset such amount against any amounts otherwise owed to the Executive by the Participating Company.
Article 8. Successors
     . The Company shall require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, reorganization, consolidation, acquisition of property or stock, liquidation, or otherwise) of all or substantially all of the business or assets of the Company by agreement, to expressly assume and agree to perform this Plan in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform if no such succession had taken place. Regardless of whether such agreement is executed, this Plan shall be binding upon any successor in accordance with the operation of law and such successor shall be deemed "the Company" for purposes of this Plan.
8.1 Successors to the Company
     . This Plan shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Executive's personal or legal representatives, executors, administrators, successors, heirs, distributees, devisees, and legatees. If the Executive dies while any amount would still be payable to him hereunder had he continued to live, all such amounts, unless otherwise provided herein, shall be paid in a single lump sum within ninety (90) days following the date of the Executive's death to the Executive's devisee, legatee, or other designee, or if there is no such designee, to the Executive's estate, provided that such devisee, legatee, other designee or estate shall not have the right to designate the payment date.
8.2 Assignment by the Executive
Article 9. Miscellaneous
     . This Plan is not, and nothing herein shall be deemed to create, an employment contract between the Executive and a Participating Company. The Executive acknowledges that the rights of a Participating Company remain wholly intact to change or reduce at any time and from time to time his compensation, title, responsibilities, location, and all other aspects of the employment relationship, or to discharge him (subject to Section 3.1).
9.1 Employment Status
     . This Plan contains the entire understanding of the Participating Company and the Executive with respect to the subject matter hereof. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, if the Executive is entitled to the payments provided for under this Plan in the event of the Executive's termination of employment and any other employment, retention, severance, or similar agreement with a Participating Company or any Subsidiary to which the Executive is a party or any severance pay plan or program of a Participating Company or any Subsidiary in which the Executive is a participant (an "Other Severance Arrangement"), the Executive will be entitled to severance benefits under either this Plan or the Other Severance Arrangement, whichever provides for greater benefits, but will not be entitled to benefits under both this Plan and the Other Severance Arrangement.
9.2 Entire Plan
 
     .
9.3 Adoption Procedure for a Participating Company
     . All notices, requests, demands, and other communications hereunder shall be sufficient if in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if delivered by hand or if sent by registered or certified mail to the Executive at the last address the Executive has filed in writing with the Participating Company or, in the case of the Participating Company, at its principal offices.
9.4 Notices
     . Change in Control Severance Benefits and General Severance Benefits provided hereunder shall not be considered "includable compensation" for purposes of determining the Executive's benefits under any other plan or program of a Participating Company unless otherwise provided by such other plan or program.
9.5 Includable Compensation
     . A Participating Company shall withhold from any amounts payable under this Plan all federal, state, city, or other taxes as legally required to be withheld.
9.6 Tax Withholding
     . To the extent applicable, it is intended that this Plan comply with the provisions of Code Section 409A. This Plan shall be administered in a manner consistent with this intent. References to Code Section 409A shall include any proposed, temporary or final regulation, or any other guidance, promulgated with respect to such section by the U.S. Department of Treasury or the Internal Revenue Service. Each payment and each provision of Severance Benefits pursuant to Article 4 or 5, as applicable, and each provision of reimbursements pursuant to Section 6.1 or Section 7.3, shall be considered a separate payment and not one of a series of payments for purposes of Code Section 409A. In addition, the Executive shall be solely responsible and liable for the satisfaction of all taxes and penalties that may be imposed on the Executive in connection with this Plan (including any taxes and penalties under Code Section 409A), and neither the Company nor any of its affiliates shall have any obligation to indemnify or otherwise hold the Executive harmless from any or all of such taxes or penalties.
9.7 Internal Revenue Code Section 409A
 
     . In the event any provision of this Plan shall be held illegal or invalid for any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of the Plan, and the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision had not been included. Further, the captions of this Plan are not part of the provisions hereof and shall have no force and effect.
9.8 Severability
     Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Plan to the contrary, a Participating Company shall have no obligation to make any payment to the Executive hereunder to the extent, but only to the extent, that such payment is prohibited by the terms of any final order of a federal or state court or regulatory agency of competent jurisdiction; , , that such an order shall not affect, impair, or invalidate any provision of this Plan not expressly subject to such order.
provided
however
     . Provisions of this Plan may be modified or waived by the Company without the Executive's consent, except any change that reduces the benefits of an Executive who is already receiving benefits shall require the Executive's consent; , , that during the period beginning on the date of the Change in Control and ending on the second anniversary of such Change in Control, no provision of this Plan may be modified or waived unless such modification or waiver is agreed to in writing and signed by the affected Executives then covered by the Plan and by a member of the Committee, as applicable, or by the respective parties' legal representatives or successors; provided further that any modification or waiver occurring during the twelve (12) months immediately prior to the Change in Control shall be deemed null and void unless such modification or waiver is agreed to in writing and signed by the affected Executives then covered by the Plan and by a member of the Committee, as applicable, or by the respective parties' legal representatives or successors. Modifications or waivers agreed to in writing may affect only those Executives who have signed such modification or waiver.
9.9 Modification
provided
however
     . Except where otherwise indicated by the context, any masculine term used herein shall include the feminine; the plural shall include the singular and the singular shall include the plural.
9.10 Gender and Number
     . To the extent not preempted by the laws of the United States, the laws of North Carolina shall be the controlling law in all matters relating to this Plan, including the General Release and the Non-Competition Agreement, without giving effect to principles of conflicts of laws.
9.11 Applicable Law
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has executed this Plan on this 16 day of July, 2009.
th
 


