FILE:RAI/RAI-8K-20100722082443.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     The information in this Current Report is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subjected to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
     On July 22, 2010, Reynolds American Inc. issued an earnings release announcing its financial results for the second quarter and six months ended June 30, 2010. A copy of the earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
The following is furnished as an Exhibit to this Report.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 22, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.1
Reynolds American Inc.
P.O. Box 2990 Winston-Salem, NC 27102-2990
 
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.  July 22, 2010
* Special items include 2Q10 charges related to plant closings and expansion of R.J. Reynolds' field trade-marketing organization to serve American Snuff Co. through a services agreement; and 1Q10 charges related to changes in federal health-care laws and Canadian governments' settlements.
All references in this release to "reported" numbers refer to GAAP measurements; all "adjusted" numbers are non-GAAP, as defined in schedules 2 and 3 of this release, which reconcile reported to adjusted results.
 
Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI) today announced second-quarter 2010 adjusted EPS of $1.32, up 2.3 percent from the prior-year quarter. Adjusted results exclude charges for plant closings and expansion of R.J. Reynolds' field trade-marketing organization to serve American Snuff Co. through a services agreement. Higher cigarette and moist-snuff pricing, productivity gains and higher moist-snuff volume more than offset lower cigarette volume. Reported EPS was $1.17, down 9.3 percent. For the first half of 2010, adjusted EPS was $2.43, up 5.7 percent, while reported EPS was $1.45, up 9.8 percent. First-half adjusted results exclude second-quarter 2010 charges for plant closings and expansion of R.J. Reynolds' field trade marketing, first-quarter 2010 charges for changes in federal health-care laws and Canadian governments' settlements, and first-quarter 2009 trademark impairments.
RAI increased and narrowed adjusted EPS guidance for 2010, saying it now expects $4.90 to $5.05 versus prior guidance of $4.80 to $5.00. This excludes charges related to plant closings, expansion of R.J. Reynolds' field trade marketing, health care and Canadian governments' settlements.
 
Overview
"I'm very pleased with Reynolds American's performance in the second quarter," said Susan M. Ivey, RAI's chairman, president and chief executive officer. "We delivered higher adjusted earnings and margin, driven by our operating companies' key-brand performance and continued productivity gains. These year-over-year gains are particularly outstanding given last year's unusually strong second quarter."
Ivey pointed out that second-quarter comparisons were somewhat distorted by last year's trade inventory shifts. In last year's second quarter, wholesalers and retailers rebuilt full-margin cigarette and moist-snuff inventories after federal excise-tax increases drove significant first-quarter inventory reductions.
"Both of our reportable business segments continued to benefit from the underlying strength of their business strategies and key brands in a changing tobacco environment," Ivey said. "Based on these fundamental strengths of our business, we have increased our earnings guidance for the full year."
The company now expects full-year adjusted EPS of $4.90 to $5.05, compared with its previous guidance of $4.80 to $5.00. Guidance excludes charges related to plant closings, the expansion of R.J. Reynolds' field trade-marketing organization to serve American Snuff Co. through a services agreement, changes in federal health-care laws and Canadian governments' settlements.
Among the second-quarter highlights, Ivey noted that:
She also noted that RAI's Santa Fe Natural Tobacco subsidiary continued to report excellent performance, with second-quarter gains in earnings, volume and share.
Ivey said that the expansion of R.J. Reynolds' field trade-marketing organization to serve American Snuff Co. is progressing well and should be essentially completed by the end of the third quarter. As RAI announced in April, this strategic move will offer both companies greater efficiency and speed to market, provide stronger support for the retail trade and give the companies' brands a stronger retail presence.
RAI's operating companies are also taking steps to optimize cigarette-manufacturing efficiency and expand moist-snuff production capacity. RAI announced in May that two of its operating companies' cigarette factories will be closed over the next year, and that American Snuff Co. is expanding its smokeless-tobacco processing and manufacturing capacity.
 
On the external front, Ivey said she was pleased to report that RAI's operating companies have fully met all U.S. Food and Drug Administration requirements to date, including the implementation of new packaging regulations. "We now have structures in place throughout RAI's operating companies to ensure comprehensive FDA compliance while effectively competing in the new regulatory environment," she said.
"As our second-quarter performance shows, RAI's operating companies remain intensely focused on driving profitable growth by strengthening their key brands, improving productivity and investing in cigarette and smokeless-tobacco innovations to meet changing consumer preferences," Ivey said. "This keeps us firmly on track to deliver solid earnings growth."
R.J. Reynolds
"R.J. Reynolds' focus on key-brand growth and productivity enhancements generated second-quarter gains in growth-brand volume and share, and adjusted operating income and margin," said Daniel M. Delen, R.J. Reynolds' chairman, president and chief executive officer.
Despite a very strong prior-year quarter, R.J. Reynolds' second-quarter adjusted operating income was up 2.2 percent at $568 million, as higher cigarette pricing, productivity gains and lower promotional spending more than offset lower cigarette volume.
For the first half of 2010, adjusted operating income was $1.0 billion, up 2.3 percent from the prior-year period.
Adjusted operating income excludes charges related to the plant closings and expansion of R.J. Reynolds' field trade-marketing organization, and first-quarter 2009 trademark impairments.
R.J. Reynolds' second-quarter adjusted operating margin was significantly higher at 29.3 percent, up 1.1 percentage points from the prior-year quarter, primarily on the strength of higher pricing, productivity and promotional efficiency. This brought adjusted operating margin for the first half to 28.3 percent, up 0.4 percentage points.
R.J. Reynolds' total second-quarter cigarette market share of 27.9 percent was down 0.8 share points from the prior-year quarter, largely driven by losses on non-support brands, as well as private label brands, which the company continues to de-emphasize. The company's private label brands now represent a total of only 0.6 share points. Excluding private label brands, R.J. Reynolds' total cigarette market share was 27.3 percent for both the second-quarter and the year-ago quarter.
R.J. Reynolds' second-quarter cigarette shipment volume declined 9.5 percent from the prior-year quarter, with private label brands accounting for 2.6 percentage points of that decline. That compares with an industry decline of 7.1 percent.
 
For the first half, R.J. Reynolds' cigarette shipment volume was down 6.3 percent (down 3.9 percent excluding private-label brands) while industry volume was down 4.9 percent.
The company's two growth brands, Camel and Pall Mall, both posted second-quarter cigarette share and volume gains, with the two brands now accounting for more than half of the company's total cigarette share and volume. Combined growth-brand market share of 14.8 percent was up 2.1 percentage points from the prior-year quarter.
Camel's second-quarter cigarette market share was 7.8 percent, up 0.3 percentage points from the prior-year quarter.
"Camel's strong second-quarter performance reflects the recent product and packaging upgrades to its menthol styles, which now feature R.J. Reynolds' innovative capsule technology," Delen said. "This technology offers adult smokers the option of fresh menthol flavor on demand."
Camel's Crush style uses the same technology to offer adult smokers the choice of regular or menthol with each cigarette. Including Camel Crush, Camel's second-quarter menthol market share increased to 1.8 percent.
As a total-tobacco brand, Camel is further improving and expanding its innovative offerings, with the introduction of two new Camel Snus styles, as well as additional refinements to Camel Dissolvables.
Camel Snus, the brand's first smoke-free product, was expanded nationally last year and is holding steady at a 0.3 percent share on a cigarette-equivalent basis. That assumes that a tin of Camel Snus is equal to a pack of cigarettes. Camel's total-tobacco share, which includes Camel cigarettes and snus, was 8.1 percent in the second quarter, up 0.3 percentage points from the prior-year quarter.
This summer Camel Snus is introducing Robust and Winterchill, which are packed in larger pouches and offer adult tobacco consumers a richer, more full-bodied tobacco taste. All four Camel Snus styles feature exciting new packaging and are being sold in stores nationwide.
"Robust and Winterchill have tested extremely well and we expect these new styles to strengthen the brand's leadership in this small, but growing, category," Delen said. "These new Camel Snus styles will appeal to snus consumers who want more bold taste, as well as moist-snuff users who might want a spit-free alternative."
On a moist-snuff equivalent basis, Camel Snus had a second-quarter share of 3.5 percent.
Camel's line of innovative dissolvable products  Orbs, Sticks and Strips  is also building consumer interest. Introduced in three lead markets last year, Camel's Dissolvables are making further product and packaging improvements based on consumer feedback.
 
"Camel continues to strengthen its marketplace position and improve its overall demographics for long-term growth," Delen said.
Pall Mall, R.J. Reynolds' second growth brand, continued to perform extremely well in the second quarter, with strong volume and share gains. With the economy continuing to hurt consumer spending, more adult smokers are finding great value in this high-quality, longer-lasting cigarette at an affordable price. Pall Mall's market share increased 1.8 percentage points to 7.0 percent.
"I'm very pleased with our achievements in the quarter and R.J. Reynolds' progress across the first half of the year," Delen said. "Our powerful product portfolio and sound strategies will continue to position us well in this evolving tobacco environment."
American Snuff Co.
"American Snuff Co. made solid progress in the second quarter, increasing moist-snuff pricing and volume despite continued aggressive competitive promotional activity," said Bryan K. Stockdale, the company's president and chief executive officer.
Stockdale noted that second-quarter earnings and volume comparisons were somewhat distorted due to the rebuild of trade inventories in the prior-year quarter following federal tobacco excise-tax increases.
American Snuff Co.'s second-quarter adjusted operating income was $85 million, down 7.1 percent from the prior-year quarter, as excise tax-related declines in roll-your-own and other non-core tobacco products more than offset higher moist-snuff pricing and volume.
For the first half of 2010, adjusted operating income was $169 million, down 3.8 percent from the prior-year period.
Adjusted operating income excludes second-quarter 2010 charges primarily related to severance costs associated with the field trade-marketing changes, and first-quarter 2009 trademark impairment charges.
The company's second-quarter adjusted operating margin was 46.9 percent, down 7.2 percentage points from the prior-year quarter, driven by the same factors that affected adjusted operating income. First-half adjusted operating margin was 49.2 percent, down 3.2 percentage points from the prior-year period.
American Snuff Co.'s total moist-snuff shipment volume increased 3.0 percent in the second quarter from the prior-year quarter. However, for the first half, which provides better perspective, the company's moist-snuff shipments increased 7.1 percent.
 
Industry moist-snuff shipments were somewhat inflated due to an unusually high level of competitive promotional shipments and a change in competitive shipments reporting, which excludes product returns. Industry shipments were up about 9.0 percent for both the second quarter and first half. However, on a consumer off-take basis, industry moist-snuff shipments were up about 6.0 percent.
American Snuff Co.'s share of shipments for the second quarter was 29.4 percent, in line with the prior-year quarter.
Driving American Snuff Co.'s performance were share and volume gains on Grizzly, the company's flagship brand. Grizzly increased second-quarter shipments by 4.2 percent, and for the first half by 7.6 percent.
Grizzly's share of shipments was up 0.1 percentage points to 25.5 percent in the second quarter, with strength on its core styles and new product introductions.
Grizzly also continues to improve its position in the rapidly growing pouch segment, which represents about 9.0 percent of total moist-snuff category sales. Grizzly, which entered the pouch segment less than three years ago, accounted for nearly 25 percent of all pouch sales in the second quarter.
Grizzly 1900 Long Cut, which was introduced nationally in the first quarter, continued to perform well, with a 0.3 share of market in the second quarter. A natural product with a traditional long cut, Grizzly 1900 Long Cut is enhancing the brand's broad-based appeal among moist-snuff consumers.
Grizzly's brand equity also benefited from recent packaging upgrades in the form of embossed metal lids.
Share of shipments for American Snuff Co.'s premium Kodiak brand declined 0.2 percentage points from the prior-year quarter, to 3.5 percent. Kodiak's volume was down 5.5 percent in the second quarter, but increased 2.6 percent for the first half.
The company's latest premium introduction, Camel Dip, was expanded to select outlets in 10 additional states earlier this year. In the 12 states where it is now sold, Camel Dip posted a 0.5 share of shipments during the second quarter, and a 1.2 percent share in the select outlets where it is sold.
"American Snuff Co. continues to show strength and resilience in a very challenging environment," Stockdale said. "I'm confident that our performance will continue to improve as we move through the rest of the year."
 
"Reynolds American made substantial progress in the second quarter and first half," said Thomas R. Adams, Reynolds American's chief financial officer. "Improvements in adjusted earnings and margin, and key-brand performance demonstrate the effectiveness of our operating companies' strategies."
Adams said that RAI's second-quarter adjusted EPS was $1.32, up 2.3 percent, which includes the negative impact of $0.03 per share related to the legal judgment. Adjusted results exclude charges of $0.15 per share related to plant closings and the expansion of R.J. Reynolds' field trade-marketing organization to serve American Snuff Co. through a services agreement.
Lukacs
On a reported basis, second-quarter EPS was $1.17, down 9.3 percent from the prior-year quarter.
For the first half of 2010, adjusted EPS was $2.43, up 5.7 percent. Adjusted results exclude charges related to plant closings, expansion of R.J. Reynolds' field trade-marketing organization, changes in federal health-care laws and Canadian governments' settlements, as well as trademark impairments in the first quarter of 2009.
First-half reported EPS was $1.45, up 9.8 percent from the prior-year period.
"RAI continued to see improvement in its adjusted operating margin, driven by our operating companies' pricing and productivity gains," Adams said. The company's second-quarter adjusted operating margin was 30.1 percent, up 1.3 percentage points from the prior-year quarter. RAI's first-half adjusted operating margin of 29.4 percent was 0.7 percentage points higher than the prior-year period.
"Our continued efforts to improve productivity and efficiency include our announcement in May that two of our operating companies' older cigarette factories will be closed over the next year, and production will be transferred to R.J. Reynolds' largest and most modern manufacturing facility," Adams said. "In addition, American Snuff Co. is expanding its smokeless-tobacco processing and manufacturing capacity by investing in new facilities in Memphis and Clarksville, Tenn. These projects are expected to be completed by 2012."
Reynolds American ended the quarter with $1.6 billion in cash balances after making its annual Master Settlement Agreement payment of $2.0 billion in the second quarter. Adams noted that on July 15 the company repaid $300 million in debt from cash.
Adams reiterated RAI's commitment to returning value to shareholders, with a 75 percent dividend payout target, which currently stands at $3.60 per share on an annualized basis.
"Based on our solid operating and marketplace performance in the first half, RAI has increased its outlook for the full year with an adjusted EPS range of $4.90 to $5.05, excluding
 
charges related to the plant closings, expansion of R.J. Reynolds' field trade-marketing organization, changes in federal health-care laws and Canadian governments' settlements."
Reynolds American will webcast a conference call to discuss second-quarter 2010 results at 10:30 a.m. Eastern Time on Thursday, July 22, 2010. The call will be available live online on a listen-only basis. To register for the call, please visit the "Investors" section of . A replay of the call will be available on the site for 30 days. Investors, analysts and members of the news media can also listen to the live call by phone, by dialing (877) 390-5533 (toll free) or (678) 894-3969 (international). Remarks made during the conference call will be current at the time of the call and will not be updated to reflect subsequent material developments. Although news media representatives will not be permitted to ask questions during the call, they are welcome to monitor the remarks on a listen-only basis. Following the call, media representatives may direct inquiries to Jane Seccombe at (336) 741-5068.
www.ReynoldsAmerican.com
 
RAI's website, , is the primary source of publicly disclosed news about RAI and its operating companies. We use the website as our primary means of distributing quarterly earnings and other company news. We encourage investors and others to register at to receive alerts when news about the company has been posted.
www.ReynoldsAmerican.com
www.ReynoldsAmerican.com
Statements included in this news release that are not historical in nature are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements regarding future events or the future performance or results of RAI and its subsidiaries inherently are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements.
These risks and uncertainties include:
 
Due to these risks and uncertainties, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this news release. Except as provided by federal securities laws, RAI is not required to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI) is the parent company of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company; American Snuff Company, LLC; Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Inc.; and Niconovum AB.
Copies of RAI's news releases, annual reports, SEC filings and other financial materials, including risk factors containing forward-looking information, are available at .
www.ReynoldsAmerican.com
 
Schedule 1
 
Schedule 2
RAI management uses "adjusted" (non-GAAP) measurements to set performance goals and to measure the performance of the overall company, and believes that investors' understanding of the underlying performance of the company's continuing operations is enhanced through the disclosure of these metrics. "Adjusted" (non-GAAP) results are not, and should not be viewed as, substitutes for "reported" (GAAP) results.
 
Schedule 3
R.J. Reynolds is the second-largest tobacco company in the United States and manages a contract manufacturing business.
American Snuff is the second-largest smokeless tobacco products manufacturer in the United States.
Management uses "adjusted" (non-GAAP) measurements to set performance goals and to measure the performance of the company, and believes that investors' understanding of the underlying performance of the company's continuing operations is enhanced through the disclosure of these metrics.
 
 
Schedule 4
VOLUME (in billions):
RETAIL SHARE OF MARKET:
Amounts are rounded on an individual basis and, accordingly, may not sum in the aggregate. R.J. Reynolds' support brands include Winston, Doral, Kool, Salem, Misty and Capri. Industry volume data based on information from Management Science Associates, Inc. Retail shares of market are as reported by Information Resources Inc./Capstone.
 
Schedule 5
VOLUME (in millions of cans):
SHARE OF SHIPMENTS
:
Amounts are rounded on an individual basis and, accordingly, may not sum in the aggregate.
Share data for total moist snuff based on distributor reported retail shipment data processed by Management Science Associates, Inc.


