FILE:RAI/RAI-8K-20100622092243.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
ITEM 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
     On June 17, 2010, Betsy S. Atkins notified Reynolds American Inc. ("RAI") that, due to an increase in the workload from the boards on which she serves, she is resigning as a member of RAI's Board of Directors and of the Board's Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee and Compensation and Leadership Development Committee, effective immediately. Ms. Atkins has served on RAI's Board since July 30, 2004, as one of the five board members designated by Brown & Williamson Holdings, Inc. ("B&W"), a subsidiary of British American Tobacco p.l.c. ("BAT"), under the terms of a July 30, 2004 governance agreement, as amended, among RAI, B&W and BAT. Her term as a Class I Director was scheduled to expire on the date of RAI's 2011 annual shareholders' meeting. A copy of Ms. Atkins' resignation letter is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1. A copy of the press release announcing such resignation is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.2.
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibit.
     The following is furnished as an Exhibit to this Report.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: June 22, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.1
June 17, 2010
Susan Ivey Chairman, President and CEO Reynolds American, Inc. 401 North Main Street 19th Floor Winston-Salem, NC 27102
Via Electronic mail and fax
Dear Susan,
Please consider this letter my formal resignation.
Very recently, the workload on my current boards has increased and I feel it is best that I reduce my commitments before I am unable to devote the amount of time that the company requires and deserves.
I remain a supporter of you and the company and expect to hear great things about Reynolds American, Inc. I wish the company every success going forward.
All the best,
Betsy Atkins

Exhibit 99.2
Reynolds American Inc. P.O. Box 2990 Winston-Salem, NC 27102-2990
 
 Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI) announced that Betsy S. Atkins, the chief executive officer of Baja Ventures, has resigned as a member of RAI's board of directors, and the board's compensation and leadership development committee and corporate governance and nominating committee, effective June 17.
Winston-Salem, N.C.  June 22, 2010
Atkins has been a member of RAI's board since July 30, 2004, and her three-year term as a Class I director was due to expire in 2011. Atkins said she was resigning her position on the board due to an increase in the workload from the boards on which she serves.
Susan M. Ivey, the chairman, president and chief executive officer of Reynolds American, thanked Atkins for her contributions to the company. "Betsy has provided valuable advice and counsel during her years of service on the board, and I thank her for her commitment to the success of Reynolds American and its shareholders," Ivey said.
Atkins has been the chief executive officer of Baja Ventures, an independent venture capital firm focused on the technology and life-sciences industry, since 1994. She serves on the boards of directors for a number of public and private companies.
Atkins was one of five RAI board members designated by Brown & Williamson Holdings, Inc., a subsidiary of British American Tobacco p.l.c., as part of the business combination undertaken in 2004 that resulted in the formation of RAI.
RAI's website, , is the primary source of publicly disclosed news about RAI and its operating companies. We use the website as our primary means of distributing quarterly earnings and other company news. We encourage investors and others to register at to receive alerts when news about the company has been posted.
www.ReynoldsAmerican.com
www.ReynoldsAmerican.com
Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI) is the parent company of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company; American Snuff Company, LLC; Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Inc.; and Niconovum AB.
Copies of RAI's news releases, annual reports, SEC filings and other financial materials are available at .
www.ReynoldsAmerican.com


