FILE:RAI/RAI-8K-20111025080728.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
[  ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The information in this Current Report is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subjected to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
On October 25, 2011, Reynolds American Inc. issued an earnings release announcing its financial results for the third quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2011. A copy of the earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
The following is furnished as an Exhibit to this Report.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: October 25, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
Reynolds American Inc.
P.O. Box 2990
Winston-Salem, NC 27102-2990
 
 
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.  October 25, 2011
 
 
1
Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI) today announced third-quarter 2011 adjusted EPS of $0.70, up 2.9 percent from the prior-year quarter as higher pricing and productivity improvements more than offset cigarette volume declines. Adjusted results exclude a charge of $0.07 per share for accruals for four progeny lawsuits and implementation and integration costs. Third-quarter reported EPS was $0.63, down 3.1 percent.
Engle
For the first nine months of 2011, adjusted EPS was $1.96, up 3.7 percent, while reported EPS was $1.75, up 26.8 percent. Nine-month adjusted results exclude the above items as well as the charge for the lawsuit, tax items, and 2010 charges for health-care changes and Canadian governments' settlements. Both third-quarter and nine-month earnings results reflect the impact of the sale of Lane, Limited earlier this year.
Scott
RAI tightened its 2011 adjusted EPS guidance range to $2.63 to $2.68. This guidance excludes charges related to progeny lawsuits, the lawsuit, implementation and integration costs, and tax items.
Engle
Scott
 
 
2
Overview
"Reynolds American continues to deliver solid financial results in this challenging environment, while our transformation strategy shapes the business for long-term success," said Daniel M. Delen, RAI's president and chief executive officer. "This performance once again demonstrates our ability to overcome near-term challenges while continuing to position our business for future growth."
RAI's board of directors has also approved a 5.7 percent increase in the company's dividend, demonstrating confidence in the operating companies' businesses going forward, and the company's commitment to returning value to shareholders.
Third-quarter results benefited from growth-brand gains at R.J. Reynolds, and strong volume and share growth at American Snuff. In addition, Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Inc. again delivered excellent results, with higher volumes, share and earnings.
"Even with a difficult economic and competitive environment, RAI and its operating companies remain focused on delivering sustainable growth, while driving innovations throughout our businesses," Delen said. "As we continue to focus on key-brand equity building and identifying additional opportunities for growth, we believe our transformation strategy will sustain the company well into the future."
R.J. Reynolds
R.J. Reynolds' third-quarter adjusted operating income was up 2.6 percent from the prior-year quarter, at $587 million. These results exclude the accrual of $63 million for four progeny lawsuits and $5 million in implementation and integration costs. Higher pricing and productivity, as well as gains on growth brands, more than offset lower cigarette volumes on the company's other brands.
Engle
The $63 million accrual was recorded in the third quarter for the four Progeny lawsuits that have proceeded through the appellate process in the state of Florida, and which the company will ask the U.S. Supreme Court to review. This amount includes $53 million for compensatory and punitive damages and $10 million for attorneys' fees and statutory interest.
Engle
For the first nine months of 2011, adjusted operating income was $1.62 billion, up 0.6 percent from the prior-year period. Nine-month adjusted results also exclude the progeny lawsuits accruals, a charge of $139 million related to the smoking-cessation lawsuit, and $16 million in implementation and integration costs.
Engle
Scott
Third-quarter adjusted operating margin increased 1.4 percentage points to 31.2 percent, while nine-month adjusted operating margin was 29.3 percent, up 0.5 percentage points from the prior-year period.
 
3
"R.J. Reynolds' third-quarter performance shows the strength and resilience of its business model," Delen said. "Despite the ongoing economic challenges and significant competitive activity, the heritage and innovation its brands bring to the market continued to drive improved performance during the quarter."
The company's third-quarter cigarette shipment volume declined 6.8 percent from the prior-year quarter. Excluding the company's private label brands, volume decreased 6.4 percent, which was in line with the industry. For the nine-month period, R.J. Reynolds' volume decline, excluding private label brands, was 4.4 percent, compared to an industry decline of 3.7 percent.
R.J. Reynolds' total third-quarter cigarette market share of 27.2 percent was down 1.0 share point from the prior-year quarter, as growth-brand gains were more than offset by declines on the company's other brands, which have been significantly impacted by the high levels of competitive promotional activity. For the nine-month period, the company's market share, excluding private label brands, was unchanged from the prior-year period, at 27.4 percent.
Combined market share for Camel and Pall Mall, the company's growth brands, increased by 0.6 percentage points from the prior-year quarter, to 16.5 percent.
Camel, R.J. Reynolds' premium-priced growth brand, saw a slight decline of 0.1 share point in the third quarter to 7.9 percent, compared to a very strong performance in the prior-year quarter. Premium-priced products continue to face challenging market trends as the weak economy and high unemployment continue to put pressure on tobacco consumers' disposable income.
Camel's menthol styles, which utilize R.J. Reynolds' innovative capsule technology, continued to perform extremely well. Camel's third-quarter menthol market share, which includes Camel Crush styles, increased by 0.5 percentage points from the prior-year quarter, to 2.4 percent.
"In late July, R.J. Reynolds expanded nationally Camel Crush's second style, Camel Crush Bold," Delen said. "This product has a more full-bodied, richer tobacco taste, and the company expects Camel Crush Bold to further broaden the appeal of the Camel brand and drive future growth."
Camel SNUS continued its positive momentum in the third quarter, maintaining its position as the leader in this innovative smokeless category. "With more than 70 percent of snus category market share, it's clear that Camel SNUS has led the way for adult tobacco consumers who want more options for enjoying tobacco in today's society," Delen said.
Pall Mall, R.J. Reynolds' value-priced growth brand, continued to perform well in the third quarter, with both volume and share gains. The brand's high quality and lower price offer exceptional value to consumers, making Pall Mall very appealing in the current economic environment. Despite significant competitive activity and many offerings below Pall Mall's price point, the brand's third-quarter market share rose 0.7 percentage points from the prior-year period, to 8.6 percent.
 
4
American Snuff
American Snuff's third-quarter adjusted operating income was $90 million, down 12.1 percent from the prior-year quarter. This decline was driven by the impact of the sale of Lane, Limited early this year, which contributed about $10 million to the company's operating income in the prior-year period.
American Snuff's nine-month adjusted operating income, which was also impacted by the Lane sale, was $258 million, down 5.1 percent from the prior-year period. These results exclude $3 million in implementation and integration costs.
Third-quarter adjusted operating margin of 54.9 percent was down slightly from the prior-year quarter, while adjusted operating margin for the first nine months climbed to 53.2 percent, up 1.9 percentage points from the prior-year period.
"Considering the impact of the Lane sale on American Snuff's prior-year comparisons, and the investment in retail contracts to further strengthen its moist-snuff business, we remain pleased with the strong market performance the company has delivered this year," Delen said.
American Snuff's moist-snuff shipment volume increased 7.0 percent from the prior-year quarter, contributing to a gain of 7.7 percent in the nine-month period. This compares favorably to moist-snuff category growth of about 5 percent this year.
The company's third-quarter moist-snuff retail market share also delivered strong gains, increasing 1.1 percentage points from the prior-year quarter, to 31.6 percent.
Delen noted that Grizzly, the company's flagship brand, made excellent gains in volume and share again in the quarter, despite intense competitive activity.
Grizzly's third-quarter shipment volume increased by 9.1 percent from the prior-year quarter, and shipments for the nine-month period were up 9.9 percent.
Retail market share for Grizzly increased 1.6 percentage points from the prior-year quarter, to 27.8 percent. The brand's strong performance is benefiting from new retail contracts and the larger R.J. Reynolds field trade-marketing organization that now also serves American Snuff.
American Snuff's premium brand, Kodiak, remained relatively stable in the quarter and throughout the year, with a modest decline in market share from the prior-year quarter, to 3.6 percent.
 
5
"RAI again delivered solid underlying financial performance in the third quarter, despite the challenging environment," said Thomas R. Adams, Reynolds American's chief financial officer. "Our operating companies continue to manage these challenges and deliver sustainable, positive results."
Based on this performance, RAI has tightened its adjusted 2011 EPS guidance range to $2.63 to $2.68. This excludes the impact of progeny lawsuits, the lawsuit, implementation and integration costs, and tax items.
Engle
Scott
The company's board of directors has also approved an increase of $0.03 per share, or 5.7 percent, in the quarterly dividend, to $0.56. This action increases the annual dividend rate to $2.24 per share from $2.12 per share. The dividend will be payable on Jan. 3, 2012, to shareholders of record on Dec. 9, 2011.
"Reynolds American has again reaffirmed its commitment to building shareholder value with its second increase in the dividend this year," said Adams. "This increase brings the total dividend growth to 14.3 percent this year, and is in line with the company's policy of returning about 80 percent of net income to shareholders in the form of dividends."
Reynolds American's third-quarter adjusted EPS was $0.70, up 2.9 percent from the prior-year quarter on higher pricing and productivity gains. For the first nine months of 2011, adjusted EPS was $1.96, up 3.7 percent from the prior-year period. Adjusted results exclude the impact of the progeny lawsuits, the lawsuit, implementation and integration cost, and tax items, as well as prior-year charges related to plant closings, implementation and integration costs, federal health-care changes and Canadian governments' settlements.
Engle
Scott
On a reported basis, third-quarter EPS was $0.63, down 3.1 percent from the prior-year quarter primarily due to the progeny lawsuits. Nine-month EPS was $1.75, up 26.8 percent from the prior-year period. Both third-quarter and nine-month earnings results reflect the impact of the Lane sale.
Engle
RAI's third-quarter adjusted operating margin was 32.1 percent, up 1.5 percentage points from the prior-year quarter, and nine-month adjusted operating margin increased to 30.6 percent.
Adams also noted that RAI remains committed to maintaining a strong balance sheet. The company ended the third quarter with $2.0 billion in cash balances, after contributing $75 million to the pension plans.
"RAI's resilience and sound business strategies give us confidence as we move ahead," Adams said. "We are committed to delivering value to our shareholders not only today, but over the long term as well."
 
6
Reynolds American will webcast a conference call to discuss third-quarter 2011 results at 9:00 a.m. Eastern Time on Tuesday, October 25, 2011. The call will be available live online on a listen-only basis. To register for the call, please go to . A replay of the call will be available on the site. Investors, analysts and members of the news media can also listen to the live call by phone, by dialing (877) 390-5533 (toll free) or (678) 894-3969 (international). Remarks made during the conference call will be current at the time of the call and will not be updated to reflect subsequent material developments. Although news media representatives will not be permitted to ask questions during the call, they are welcome to monitor the remarks on a listen-only basis. Following the call, media representatives may direct inquiries to Bryan Hatchell at (336) 741-0763.
http://www.reynoldsamerican.com/events.cfm
RAI's website, , is the primary source of publicly disclosed news about RAI and its operating companies. We use the website as our primary means of distributing quarterly earnings and other company news. We encourage investors and others to register at to receive alerts when news about the company has been posted.
www.reynoldsamerican.com
http://www.reynoldsamerican.com/events.cfm
Statements included in this news release that are not historical in nature are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements regarding future events or the future performance or results of RAI and its subsidiaries inherently are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements.
These risks and uncertainties include:
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
Due to these risks and uncertainties, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this news release. Except as provided by federal securities laws, RAI is not required to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI) is the parent company of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company; American Snuff Company, LLC; Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Inc.; and Niconovum AB.
Copies of RAI's news releases, annual reports, SEC filings and other financial materials, including risk factors containing forward-looking information, are available at .
http://www.reynoldsamerican.com/invest.cfm
 
9
Schedule 1
 
 
Schedule 2
 
RAI management uses "adjusted" (non-GAAP) measurements to set performance goals and to measure the performance of the overall company, and believes that investors' understanding of the underlying performance of the company's continuing operations is enhanced through the disclosure of these metrics. "Adjusted" (non-GAAP) results are not, and should not be viewed as, substitutes for "reported" (GAAP) results.
 
 
Schedule 3
 
The R.J. Reynolds segment consists of the primary operations of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, the second-largest tobacco company in the United States and which also manages a contract manufacturing business.
The American Snuff segment consists of the primary operations of American Snuff Company, LLC, the second-largest smokeless tobacco products manufacturer in the United States, and Lane, Limited until its sale on February 28, 2011.
Management uses "adjusted" (non-GAAP) measurements to set performance goals and to measure the performance of the company, and believes that investors' understanding of the underlying performance of the company's continuing operations is enhanced through the disclosure of these metrics.
 
(1) For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2011, RAI and its operating companies recorded
aggregate implementation costs of $8 million and $23 million, respectively, including $2 million and $4 million, respectively, in non-reportable operating segments, related to plant closings and other implementation costs. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2010, RAI and its operating companies recorded such costs of $24 million and $41 million, respectively, including $6 million and $9 million, respectively, in non-reportable operating segments.
(2) RAI and its operating companies recorded aggregate asset impairment and exit charges of $38 million in the
second quarter of 2010, including $14 million in non-reportable operating segments.
Schedule 4
 
VOLUME (in billions):
Amounts are rounded on an individual basis and, accordingly, may not sum in the aggregate.
R.J. Reynolds' support brands include Winston, Doral, Kool, Salem, Misty and Capri.
Industry volume data based on information from Management Science Associates, Inc.
Retail shares of market are as reported by Information Resources Inc./Capstone.
Schedule 5
 
VOLUME (in millions of cans):
 
Amounts are rounded on an individual basis and, accordingly, may not sum in the aggregate.
Retail share of market for moist snuff based on A.C. Nielsen Monthly Retail Off-Take data.


