FILE:RAI/RAI-8K-20111202143240.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
At its meeting on December 2, 2011, the Board of Directors, referred to as the Board, of Reynolds American Inc., referred to as RAI, elected Richard E. Thornburgh to serve on RAI's Board as a Class II Director and appointed him to serve on the Board's Audit and Finance Committee. The Class II Directors of RAI have a term of service ending on the date of RAI's 2012 annual meeting of shareholders. After the December 2, 2011 election of Mr. Thornburgh, RAI's Board is comprised of 13 Directors. A copy of the press release announcing Mr. Thornburgh's election to the Board and appointment to the Board's Audit and Finance Committee is attached to this Report as Exhibit 99.1.
Mr. Thornburgh is eligible to participate in the non-employee director compensation arrangements described in the Reynolds American Inc. Outside Directors' Compensation Summary, which summary was filed as Exhibit 10.28 to RAI's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010 and which is incorporated herein by reference. Mr. Thornburgh has entered into an indemnification agreement with RAI, the same indemnification agreement which RAI offers to all of its executive officers and directors. Such indemnification agreement was filed as Exhibit 10.1 to RAI's Form 8-K dated February 1, 2005 and is incorporated by reference herein.
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
The following is furnished as an Exhibit to this Report.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: December 2, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
Reynolds American Inc.
P.O. Box 2990
Winston-Salem, NC 27102-2990
 
 
 Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI) announced today that its board of directors has elected Richard E. Thornburgh, vice chairman of Corsair Capital, as a Class II director, effective immediately.
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.  Dec. 2, 2011
Thornburgh will serve on the board's audit and finance committee. His appointment brings the number of RAI's directors to 13.
Thornburgh joined Corsair Capital in 2006. The company is a private equity firm specializing in the financial services industry. Prior to joining Corsair, Thornburgh was executive vice chairman of Credit Suisse First Boston, now called Credit Suisse. He held a number of senior leadership positions at the Credit Suisse Group, and has more than 30 years of experience in the global banking and financial services sector.
Thornburgh also is currently a member of the boards of directors of Credit Suisse Group and NewStar Financial.
RAI's website,
www.reynoldsamerican.com
, is the primary source of publicly disclosed news about RAI and its operating companies. We use the website as our primary means of distributing quarterly earnings and other company news. We encourage investors and others to register at
www.reynoldsamerican.com
to receive alerts when news about the company has been posted.
Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI) is the parent company of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company; American Snuff Company, LLC; Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Inc.; and Niconovum AB.
Copies of RAI's news releases, annual reports, SEC filings and other financial materials, including risk factors containing forward-looking information, are available at
www.reynoldsamerican.com
.


