FILE:RAI/RAI-8K-20110718104901.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
At its meeting on July 14, 2011, the Board of Directors, referred to as the Board, of Reynolds American Inc., referred to as RAI, elected H. Richard Kahler to serve on RAI's Board as a Class I Director and appointed him to serve on the Board's Compensation and Leadership Development Committee. Mr. Kahler is a designee of Brown & Williamson Holdings, Inc., referred to as B&W, a subsidiary of British American Tobacco p.l.c., referred to as BAT. (A copy of the press release announcing the foregoing Board and Board Committee appointments is attached to this Report as Exhibit 99.1.)
Under the terms of a July 30, 2004 governance agreement, as amended, among RAI, B&W and BAT, referred to as the governance agreement, B&W has the right, based on its current ownership of approximately 42% of RAI common stock, to designate five people for nomination to RAI's Board  three of which must be independent directors as defined under the New York Stock Exchange listing standards and the governance agreement. After the July 14, 2011 election of Mr. Kahler, RAI's Board is comprised of 12 Directors. In addition to Mr. Kahler, the other current RAI Directors who have been designated as independent directors by B&W pursuant to the governance agreement are: H.G.L. (Hugo) Powell (Class II Director) and Martin D. Feinstein (Class III Director). The other current RAI Directors designated by B&W pursuant to the governance agreement are: John P. Daly (Class II Director) and Neil R. Withington (Class III Director). Each class of RAI Directors serves a staggered three-year term, with the term of the Class I, Class II and Class III Directors ending generally on the date of the RAI annual shareholders' meeting held in 2014, 2012 and 2013, respectively. Mr. Kahler's initial term as a Class I Director, however, is scheduled to expire on the date of RAI's 2012 annual shareholders' meeting because under the law of North Carolina (the state in which RAI is incorporated), the term of a director elected to fill a vacancy will expire at the next shareholders' meeting at which directors are elected (notwithstanding that the term of the other Directors in that same class is not yet scheduled to expire).
Mr. Kahler is eligible to participate in the non-employee director compensation arrangements described in the Reynolds American Inc. Outside Directors' Compensation Summary, which summary was filed as Exhibit 10.28 to RAI's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010 and which is incorporated herein by reference. Mr. Kahler has entered into an indemnification agreement with RAI, the same indemnification agreement which RAI offers to all of its executive officers and directors. Such indemnification agreement was filed as Exhibit 10.1 to RAI's Form 8-K dated February 1, 2005 and is incorporated by reference herein.
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
The following is furnished as an Exhibit to this Report.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: July 18, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI) announced today that its board of directors declared a quarterly cash dividend on the company's common stock of $0.53 per share ($2.12 per share annualized), and elected H. Richard Kahler as a Class I director.
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.  July 15, 2011 
The dividend will be payable on Oct. 3, 2011, to shareholders of record on Sept. 12, 2011. This is the 29th consecutive quarterly cash dividend that Reynolds American has declared since it became a public company on July 30, 2004. RAI's policy is to return about 80 percent of the company's current-year net income to shareholders in the form of dividends.
Kahler, a former senior executive of Caterpillar in Asia, is a member of the board of directors of Van Shung Chong based in Hong Kong. Kahler fills the board vacancy created by Betsy S. Atkins' resignation in 2010 and will serve on the board's Compensation and Leadership Development Committee. He is one of five RAI board members designated by Brown & Williamson Holdings, Inc., a subsidiary of British American Tobacco p.l.c., as part of the business combination undertaken in 2004 that resulted in the formation of RAI.
RAI's website, , is the primary source of publicly disclosed news about RAI and its operating companies. We use the website as our primary means of distributing quarterly earnings and other company news. We encourage investors and others to register at to receive alerts when news about the company has been posted.
www.reynoldsamerican.com
www.reynoldsamerican.com
Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI) is the parent company of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company; American Snuff Company, LLC; Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Inc.; and Niconovum AB.
 
 
 
 
Copies of RAI's news releases, annual reports, SEC filings and other financial materials, including risk factors containing forward-looking information, are available at .
www.reynoldsamerican.com


