FILE:RAI/RAI-8K-20110421083548.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Table of Contents
     The information in this Current Report is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subjected to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
     On April 21, 2011, Reynolds American Inc. issued an earnings release announcing its financial results for the three months ended March 31, 2011. A copy of the earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
(d) Exhibits.
The following is furnished as an Exhibit to this Report.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 21, 2011
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
Reynolds American Inc. P.O. Box 2990 Winston-Salem, NC 27102-2990
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.  April. 21, 2011
* Special items include 2010 charges related to changes in federal health-care laws and Canadian governments' settlements, and 2011 implementation costs related to plant closings and tax items.
All references in this release to "reported" numbers refer to GAAP measurements; all "adjusted" numbers are non-GAAP, as defined in schedules 2 and 3 of this release, which reconcile reported to adjusted results.
 
Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI) today announced first-quarter 2011 adjusted EPS of $0.59, up 5.4 percent from the prior-year quarter, driven by strong performance on key brands, higher pricing and productivity improvements. Adjusted results exclude the impact of first-quarter 2010 changes in federal health-care laws and the Canadian governments' settlements, as well as first-quarter 2011 implementation costs related to plant closings and tax items. First-quarter reported EPS was $0.60, up 328.6 percent.
RAI reaffirmed adjusted EPS guidance for 2011 in the range of $2.60 to $2.70, up 4.4 percent to 8.4 percent. This guidance excludes charges related to plant closings and tax items.
 
Overview
"RAI has made a solid start to the year, delivering higher first-quarter earnings driven by continued momentum in its operating companies' key brands," said Daniel M. Delen, who became RAI's president and chief executive officer on March 1. "With further improvements in productivity also contributing to the bottom line, I'm pleased to reaffirm today our projections for full-year adjusted EPS growth in the mid- to high-single digits."
Delen said that among the first-quarter highlights:
Reynolds American's Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Inc. subsidiary also generated strong first-quarter results, with higher volume, share and earnings, Delen said.
"Our operating companies continue to demonstrate the positive impact of their successful business strategies despite a challenging environment," Delen said. "As a result, they are strengthening marketplace and financial performance, while focusing on innovations to continue the transformation of the business. This positions us well for long-term growth."
R.J. Reynolds
R.J. Reynolds' first-quarter adjusted operating income was up slightly from the prior-year quarter, at $471 million, with gains in growth brands and higher pricing offsetting cigarette volume declines on support and non-support brands. Adjusted results exclude $8 million in charges related to plant closings.
The company's first-quarter adjusted operating margin increased 0.5 percentage points to 27.8 percent.
"This quarter's financial performance reflects R.J. Reynolds' successful focus on its powerful growth brands, Camel and Pall Mall, as part of a defined brand-portfolio strategy, as well as continued benefits from productivity efforts," Delen said.
R.J. Reynolds plans to further refine its cigarette portfolio this year, a long-term strategy that has reduced complexity and improved efficiency. The company is also improving cigarette manufacturing efficiencies, and is on track to close its Whitaker Park facility later this year in line with the company's previously announced consolidation of cigarette production at its Tobaccoville manufacturing facility.
 
The company's total first-quarter cigarette market share was stable at 27.9 percent. However, excluding private label brands that have been delisted as part of R.J. Reynolds' portfolio streamlining, R.J. Reynolds' total cigarette market share was up 1.0 percentage point from the prior-year quarter, at 27.8 percent.
R.J. Reynolds' first-quarter cigarette shipment volume declined 5.2 percent from the prior-year quarter. Taking into account the elimination of the de-emphasized private label brands, total cigarette shipment volume was down 3.0 percent compared with a first-quarter industry volume decline of 3.4 percent.
Additional gains in both volume and market share were generated by the company's growth brands, Camel and Pall Mall. For the first quarter, combined growth-brand market share increased 2.7 percentage points from the prior-year quarter, to 16.3 percent.
Camel's cigarette performance further strengthened in the first quarter, increasing market share by 0.7 percentage points, to 7.8 percent. The latest brand-building initiative, Hump Day, was launched at the end of March. This promotion is generating high levels of adult tobacco consumer interest and interaction with the brand.
Camel's performance was also enhanced by its menthol styles, which use R.J. Reynolds' innovative capsule technology to offer adult smokers the choice of fresh menthol flavor on demand. Camel's first-quarter menthol market share, including Camel Crush, increased 0.5 percentage points to 2.0 percent.
In the modern smoke-free tobacco category, Camel recently moved ahead with several changes as part of the brand's commitment to offer innovative and convenient smoke-free products for adult tobacco consumers to enjoy.
Camel SNUS continues to show steady growth in the expanding snus category. Camel SNUS introduced Frost Large pouches and a Mint style in selected lead markets in February, and the new styles are generating positive interest. Camel SNUS Frost is the best-selling snus style in America, and the new large-pouch style adds to the variety of taste options. Camel SNUS Mint is also broadening the Camel SNUS portfolio.
These new styles follow the national introduction of two larger-pouch styles  Robust and Winterchill  in the third quarter of last year.
Camel's new line of dissolvable tobacco products  Orbs, Sticks and Strips  were introduced in two new lead markets, Charlotte and Denver, in March. R.J. Reynolds has incorporated product and packaging refinements in the new markets, and expects to continue to gain valuable consumer insights.
Pall Mall, the nation's third-largest cigarette brand, had an excellent quarter, with market share increasing 2.0 percentage points from the prior-year quarter, to 8.5 percent. Pall Mall offers a unique longer lasting proposition at an affordable price, and continues to gain awareness and trial, with about half of adult smokers who try the brand switching to it.
Looking ahead, Delen said that R.J. Reynolds' overall positive momentum positions the company well for continued growth.
 
American Snuff
American Snuff's first-quarter adjusted operating income increased 4.2 percent from the prior-year quarter, to $87 million, driven by higher moist-snuff pricing and volume. These results include only two months of earnings from Lane, Limited, which was sold at the end of February, resulting in a decline of approximately $3.5 million in operating income from the prior-year quarter. Adjusted results exclude $2 million in plant closing and other implementation costs.
The company's first-quarter adjusted operating margin increased 0.5 percentage points to 52.3 percent.
"American Snuff's performance was driven by renewed momentum in its flagship Grizzly brand, which is benefiting from last year's packaging upgrade and R.J. Reynolds' larger field-trade marketing organization that now serves American Snuff," Delen said. "And I'm very pleased with these results."
For the first quarter, American Snuff's moist-snuff shipment volume increased 13.2 percent from the prior-year quarter. This comparison benefits from a particularly challenging prior-year quarter, which was impacted by high levels of competitive line extensions and aggressive promotional activity. Industry moist-snuff shipments were up about 4 percent for the first quarter.
The company's first-quarter moist-snuff consumer off-take share was up 1.3 percentage points from the prior-year quarter, at 31.1 percent.
Grizzly delivered strong first-quarter shipment volume, which increased by 17.1 percent despite significant competitive activity. The brand's consumer off-take share gained 1.5 percentage points from the prior-year quarter, to 27.1 percent.
Pouch sales continue to contribute to Grizzly's performance. The rapidly growing pouch segment represents more than 9 percent of total moist-snuff category sales, and Grizzly's share has grown to about 25 percent of all pouch sales. The brand now has the No. 1 overall pouch style in the market.
"Reynolds American's higher first-quarter earnings and margin demonstrate the success of its operating companies' key-brand strategies and productivity efforts," said Thomas R. Adams, RAI's chief financial officer. "This strong foundation positions us well for the rest of the year, and we're maintaining our adjusted EPS guidance of $2.60 to $2.70, excluding implementation costs related to plant closings and tax items."
 
Reynolds American's first-quarter adjusted EPS was $0.59, up 5.4 percent, driven by higher pricing and productivity gains. These results reflect the impact of the sale of Lane at the end of February. Adjusted results exclude $0.01 per share related to implementation costs from plant closings and tax items.
On a reported basis, first-quarter EPS was $0.60, up 328.6 percent from the prior-year quarter. This increase reflects the impact of last year's Canadian governments' settlements of $0.37 per share.
RAI's first-quarter adjusted operating margin was 29.6 percent, up 0.9 percentage points from the prior-year quarter.
Reynolds American ended the quarter with $3.0 billion in cash balances, including $200 million from the sale of Lane. On April 15, R.J. Reynolds made this year's $1.96 billion Master Settlement Agreement payment, of which $477 million was deposited in the NPM disputed-funds account. The company now has a total of $2.95 billion in dispute related to the NPM Adjustment for years 2003 through 2008. A three-judge panel continues the arbitration process to resolve the dispute over the 2003 adjustment of $615 million.
Adams also noted RAI's announcement of an 8.2 percent dividend increase in February, bringing the total dividend increase over the past year to 17.8 percent. The company will continue to evaluate additional opportunities to enhance value for its shareholders.
Reynolds American will webcast a conference call to discuss first-quarter 2011 results at 10:30 a.m. Eastern Time on Thursday, April 21, 2011. The call will be available live online on a listen-only basis. To register for the call, please go to . A replay of the call will be available on the site for 30 days. Investors, analysts and members of the news media can also listen to the live call by phone, by dialing (877) 390-5533 (toll free) or (678) 894-3969 (international). Remarks made during the conference call will be current at the time of the call and will not be updated to reflect subsequent material developments. Although news media representatives will not be permitted to ask questions during the call, they are welcome to monitor the remarks on a listen-only basis. Following the call, media representatives may direct inquiries to Jane Seccombe at (336) 741-5068.
http://www.reynoldsamerican.com/events.cfm
RAI's website, , is the primary source of publicly disclosed news about RAI and its operating companies. We use the website as our primary means of distributing quarterly earnings and other company news. We encourage investors and others to register at to receive alerts when news about the company has been posted.
www.reynoldsamerican.com
www.reynoldsamerican.com
 
Statements included in this news release that are not historical in nature are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements regarding future events or the future performance or results of RAI and its subsidiaries inherently are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements.
These risks and uncertainties include:
 
Due to these risks and uncertainties, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this news release. Except as provided by federal securities laws, RAI is not required to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI) is the parent company of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company; American Snuff Company, LLC; Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Inc.; and Niconovum AB.
Copies of RAI's news releases, annual reports, SEC filings and other financial materials, including risk factors containing forward-looking information, are available at .
www.reynoldsamerican.com
 
Schedule 1
 
Schedule 2
RAI management uses "adjusted" (non-GAAP) measurements to set performance goals and to measure the performance of the overall company, and believes that investors' understanding of the underlying performance of the company's continuing operations is enhanced through the disclosure of these metrics. "Adjusted" (non-GAAP) results are not, and should not be viewed as, substitutes for "reported" (GAAP) results.
 
Schedule 3
The R.J. Reynolds segment consists of the primary operations of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, the second-largest tobacco company in the United States and which also manages a contract manufacturing business.
The American Snuff segment consists of the primary operations of American Snuff Company, LLC, the second-largest smokeless tobacco products manufacturer in the United States, and Lane, Limited until its sale on February 28, 2011.
Management uses "adjusted" (non-GAAP) measurements to set performance goals and to measure the performance of the company, and believes that investors' understanding of the underlying performance of the company's continuing operations is enhanced through the disclosure of these metrics.
 
 
Schedule 4
VOLUME (in billions):
RETAIL SHARE OF MARKET:
 
Amounts are rounded on an individual basis and, accordingly, may not sum in the aggregate. R.J. Reynolds' support brands include Winston, Doral, Kool, Salem, Misty and Capri.
Industry volume data based on information from Management Science Associates, Inc. Retail shares of market are as reported by Information Resources Inc./Capstone.
 
Schedule 5
VOLUME (in millions of cans):
RETAIL SHARE OF MARKET:
Amounts are rounded on an individual basis and, accordingly, may not sum in the aggregate. Retail share of market for moist snuff based on A.C. Nielsen Monthly Retail Off-Take data.


