FILE:RAI/RAI-8K-20110722081408.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
     The information in this Current Report is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subjected to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
     On July 22, 2011, Reynolds American Inc. issued an earnings release announcing its financial results for the second quarter and six months ended June 30, 2011. A copy of the earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
(d) Exhibits.
The following is furnished as an Exhibit to this Report.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 22, 2011
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
Reynolds American Inc. P.O. Box 2990 Winston-Salem, NC 27102-2990
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.  July 22, 2011
 
All references in this release to "reported" numbers refer to GAAP measurements; all "adjusted" numbers are non-GAAP, as defined in schedules 2 and 3 of this release, which reconcile reported to adjusted results.
 
Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI) today announced second-quarter 2011 adjusted EPS of $0.67, up 1.5 percent from the prior-year quarter, as higher pricing and moist-snuff volume gains more than offset cigarette volume declines. Adjusted results exclude the impact of an $88 million after-tax charge for the lawsuit and implementation costs related to plant closings, as well as prior-year charges related to plant closings and single sales-force implementation. Second-quarter reported EPS was $0.52, down 10.3 percent.
Scott
For the first half of 2011, adjusted EPS was $1.26, up 4.1 percent, while reported EPS was $1.12, up 55.6 percent. First-half adjusted results exclude the above items as well as first-quarter 2011 tax items, and 2010 charges for health-care changes and Canadian governments' settlements.
RAI tightened its 2011 adjusted EPS guidance to a range of $2.62 to $2.70 versus $2.60 to $2.70. This guidance excludes charges related to the lawsuit, plant closings and tax items, and any potential impact from the progeny cases.
Scott
Engle
 
Overview
"Reynolds American delivered solid second-quarter performance given the challenging competitive and economic environment, with further gains in its operating companies' key cigarette and smokeless brands," said Daniel M. Delen, RAI's president and chief executive officer.
"These results demonstrate the fundamental strength and resilience of our businesses, even as we focus on building innovative platforms for future growth," he said. "Based on our first-half results, RAI has tightened its earnings projections and is on track to deliver mid- to high-single digit adjusted EPS growth for the full year."
Second-quarter highlights included:
Delen said that Reynolds American's Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Inc. subsidiary again delivered excellent results in the second quarter, with strong volume, share and earnings growth.
"Building on our successful business strategies, RAI and its operating companies are focused on delivering outstanding results for shareholders by leading the transformation of the tobacco industry over the long term," Delen said. "This is a bold vision, and we'll achieve it by continuing to drive innovation throughout our businesses and redefining enjoyment for adult tobacco consumers."
R.J. Reynolds
R.J. Reynolds' second-quarter adjusted operating income was down slightly from the prior-year quarter, at $562 million, with cigarette volume declines on support and non-support brands offsetting higher pricing, productivity improvements and growth-brand gains. Adjusted results exclude a charge of $139 million related to the smoking-cessation lawsuit in Louisiana and $3 million in implementation costs.
Scott
For the first half of 2011, adjusted operating income was $1.03 billion, down 0.5 percent from the prior-year period. First-half adjusted results also exclude the above items.
The company's second-quarter adjusted operating margin declined 0.6 percentage points to 28.7 percent, driven by an increase in contract manufacturing for BAT Japan. Excluding that impact, adjusted operating margin was in line with the prior-year quarter. First-half adjusted operating margin was 28.3 percent, in line with the prior-year period.
"R.J. Reynolds' second-quarter performance was negatively impacted by intense competitive activity and the ongoing economic weakness," Delen said. "Even so, the company achieved further gains in its growth brands, Camel and Pall Mall."
 
Delen noted that the cigarette category continues to demonstrate pricing power as reflected by the price increase taken by R.J. Reynolds in early July. The company's promotional activities remain focused on achieving the right balance between profitability and market share growth.
R.J. Reynolds' second-quarter cigarette shipment volume declined 4.4 percent from the prior-year quarter, and was affected by timing of competitive promotional activity in the quarter. However, taking into account the elimination of private-label brands as part of the company's complexity reduction efforts, total cigarette shipment volume was down 3.6 percent. Total second-quarter industry volume declined 1.3 percent, which benefited from a significant increase in wholesale cigarette inventory levels.
R.J. Reynolds' total second-quarter cigarette market share declined 0.5 percentage points from the prior-year quarter, to 27.4 percent. Excluding delisted private label brands, the company's total cigarette market share was 27.3 percent, in line with the prior-year quarter.
The company's growth brands, Camel and Pall Mall, continued to perform well, with their combined market share increasing by 1.5 percentage points from the prior-year quarter, to 16.3 percent. These two growth brands accounted for almost 60 percent of R.J. Reynolds' total cigarette volume in the quarter.
Camel's market share remained steady at 7.8 percent in the second quarter. In addition to a significant level of competitive line extensions and promotional support, the market continues to be challenging for premium-priced products as the weak economy continues to put pressure on consumers' disposable income.
"R.J. Reynolds' focus on building Camel's brand equity continues with its latest promotion, Hump Day'," Delen said. "This promotion was launched at the end of March and is generating strong adult tobacco consumer interest. In fact, this web-based initiative is one of the brand's most successful promotions."
Camel's menthol styles, which use R.J. Reynolds' innovative capsule technology, continue to perform well in the growing menthol category. Camel's second-quarter menthol market share, including Camel Crush, increased 0.3 percentage points to 2.1 percent.
"R.J. Reynolds continues to build on the success of Camel Crush," Delen said. "Next week, the company will expand nationally Camel Crush's second SKU  Camel Crush Bold  the company's first cigarette line extension since this innovative style was expanded nationally in 2008. Camel Crush Bold has a more full-bodied, richer tobacco taste, and the company expects this product to further broaden the appeal of the Camel brand and drive additional growth."
Camel SNUS continued to show steady growth in the second quarter as interest builds in this convenient option for adult tobacco consumers. "The brand continues to increase awareness and trial of Camel SNUS, with promotions like the Camel SNUS Pleasure Switch Challenge, which focuses on the smoke-free convenience of this innovative product," Delen said.
 
Camel's refined and improved line of dissolvable tobacco products  Orbs, Sticks and Strips  is generating new consumer insights after being introduced in two new lead markets, Charlotte and Denver, in March.
Pall Mall, R.J. Reynolds' second growth brand, had another strong quarter, with volume up 15 percent and market share increasing 1.5 percentage points from the prior-year quarter, to 8.5 percent. Pall Mall is a highly differentiated offering in the value segment, delivering on its promise as a high quality, longer-lasting product.
American Snuff
American Snuff's second-quarter operating income was $81 million, down 4.7 percent from the adjusted prior-year quarter, driven by the sale of Lane, Limited, which contributed about $10 million in the prior-year period. The company also made investments in the implementation of its new retail moist-snuff contracts.
For the first half of 2011, American Snuff's adjusted operating income was $168 million, down $1 million or 0.6 percent from the prior-year period, also driven by the impact of the Lane sale. Adjusted results exclude $2 million in plant closings and other implementation costs.
The company's second-quarter operating margin was 52.4 percent, up 5.5 percentage points from the adjusted prior-year quarter, and was favorably impacted by the timing of prior-year promotional spending. This brought the first-half adjusted operating margin to 52.3 percent, up 3.1 percentage points from the prior-year period.
"I'm pleased to note that American Snuff's underlying performance delivered good results in the second quarter, even though the sale of Lane negatively impacted the comparison to the prior-year quarter," Delen said. "The company's flagship Grizzly brand made strong gains in volume and share, despite significant competitive activity."
American Snuff's moist-snuff shipment volume increased 3.6 percent from the prior-year quarter, contributing to a first-half shipment gain of 8.1 percent.
The company's second-quarter moist-snuff consumer off-take share increased 1.5 percentage points from the prior-year quarter, to 31.3 percent.
Grizzly continues to deliver strong performance, with second-quarter shipment volume increasing by 4.7 percent from the prior-year quarter, and first-half shipments gaining 10.4 percent.
Grizzly's consumer off-take share increased 1.9 percentage points from the prior-year quarter, to 27.4 percent. The brand's performance is benefiting from the larger R.J. Reynolds field trade-marketing organization that now also serves American Snuff, as well as from the new retail contracts.
 
Grizzly's pouch sales also continued to perform well in the second quarter. The brand now holds almost 30 percent of the growing pouch segment, which accounts for 9.2 percent of the moist-snuff category. Grizzly Wintergreen Pouches is the best-selling pouch style in the market.
"Reynolds American's increase in adjusted second-quarter earnings completes a solid first-half performance, with our operating companies' business strategies proving effective in the challenging environment," said Thomas R. Adams, RAI's chief financial officer. "As a result, we've raised the bottom end of our adjusted EPS guidance to $2.62 to $2.70, excluding the charge for the lawsuit and implementation costs related to plant closings and tax items. This estimate also excludes any potential impact from the progeny cases that are currently under review."
Scott
Engle
Reynolds American's second-quarter adjusted EPS was $0.67, up 1.5 percent on higher pricing and productivity gains. These results reflect the impact of the Lane sale at the end of February. Adjusted results exclude a charge of $0.15 per share related to the lawsuit.
Scott
On a reported basis, second-quarter EPS was $0.52, down 10.3 percent from the prior-year quarter.
For the first half of 2011, adjusted EPS was $1.26, up 4.1 percent from the prior-year period. Adjusted results exclude the impact of the charge for the lawsuit and implementation costs related to plant closings, as well as prior-year charges related to plant closings, single sales-force implementation, changes in federal health-care laws and Canadian governments' settlementsFirst-half reported EPS was $1.12, up 55.6 percent from the prior-year period.
Scott
.
RAI's second-quarter adjusted operating margin was 30.1 percent, in line with the prior-year quarter. This brought the first-half adjusted operating margin to 29.9 percent, up 0.5 percentage points from the prior-year period.
Reynolds American ended the quarter with $1.3 billion in cash balances, reflecting the $1.96 billion Master Settlement Agreement payment made in April, and further strengthened its balance sheet with a $400 million debt repayment made in June.
RAI continues to deliver value to shareholders, with a targeted dividend payout ratio of 80 percent. This has resulted in a total dividend increase of nearly 18 percent over the past year.
"RAI and its operating companies' effective business strategies continue to deliver solid results for our shareholders despite the challenging environment, and we expect to maintain this positive momentum through the rest of the year," Adams said.
 
RAI's website, , is the primary source of publicly disclosed news about RAI and its operating companies. We use the website as our primary means of distributing quarterly earnings and other company news. We encourage investors and others to register at to receive alerts when news about the company has been posted.
www.reynoldsamerican.com
http://www.reynoldsamerican.com/events.cfm
Statements included in this news release that are not historical in nature are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements regarding future events or the future performance or results of RAI and its subsidiaries inherently are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements.
These risks and uncertainties include:
 
 
Due to these risks and uncertainties, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this news release. Except as provided by federal securities laws, RAI is not required to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI) is the parent company of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company; American Snuff Company, LLC; Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Inc.; and Niconovum AB.
Copies of RAI's news releases, annual reports, SEC filings and other financial materials, including risk factors containing forward-looking information, are available at .
http://www.reynoldsamerican.com/invest.cfm
 
Schedule 1
 
Schedule 2
RAI management uses "adjusted" (non-GAAP) measurements to set performance goals and to measure the performance of the overall company, and believes that investors' understanding of the underlying performance of the company's continuing operations is enhanced through the disclosure of these metrics. "Adjusted" (non-GAAP) results are not, and should not be viewed as, substitutes for "reported" (GAAP) results.
 
Schedule 3
The R.J. Reynolds segment consists of the primary operations of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, the second-largest tobacco company in the United States and which also manages a contract manufacturing business.
The American Snuff segment consists of the primary operations of American Snuff Company, LLC, the second-largest smokeless tobacco products manufacturer in the United States, and Lane, Limited until its sale on February 28, 2011.
Management uses "adjusted" (non-GAAP) measurements to set performance goals and to measure the performance of the company, and believes that investors' understanding of the underlying performance of the company's continuing operations is enhanced through the disclosure of these metrics.
 
 
Schedule 4
VOLUME (in billions):
RETAIL SHARE OF MARKET:
 
 
Schedule 5
VOLUME (in millions of cans):
RETAIL SHARE OF MARKET:
 


