FILE:RAI/RAI-8K-20111114092340.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On November 14, 2011, Reynolds American Inc., referred to as RAI, announced that its Board of Directors had authorized RAI to repurchase, on or before May 31, 2014, up to $2.5 billion of outstanding shares of RAI common stock, in open market or privately negotiated transactions or pursuant to the share repurchase agreement described below under "Share Repurchase Agreement" (such share repurchase is referred to as the Repurchase Program). The execution of the Repurchase Program is subject to prevailing market and business conditions and may be terminated or suspended at any time.
Share Repurchase Agreement
In connection with the Repurchase Program, RAI and Brown & Williamson Holdings, Inc., referred to as B&W, a wholly owned subsidiary of British American Tobacco p.l.c., referred to as BAT, entered into a Share Repurchase Agreement, dated November 11, 2011, referred to as the SRA. The material terms of the SRA are summarized below, with this summary qualified in its entirety by the full text of the SRA, a copy of which is attached to this report as Exhibit 10.1.
As of November 11, 2011, B&W was the record and beneficial owner of 245,036,858 shares of RAI common stock, or approximately 42% of RAI's outstanding common stock. Subject to the terms of the SRA, B&W will participate in the Repurchase Program (except to the extent the purchases under the Repurchase Program are Excluded Compensation Buybacks, as such term is defined in the SRA) on a basis approximately proportionate with B&W's percentage ownership of RAI's equity, and in a manner designed to treat B&W's proceeds from its sales of RAI common stock pursuant to the Repurchase Program as dividends for tax purposes, such treatment referred to as the Intended Tax Treatment. B&W will not participate proportionately in Excluded Compensation Buybacks under the Repurchase Program because those share repurchases, which will satisfy the requirements of the Governance Agreement described below, offset increases in the number of outstanding shares of RAI common stock, and the net effect of such share issuances and share buybacks (without B&W participation) is to keep B&W's percentage ownership in RAI unchanged.
Subject to this treatment of Excluded Compensation Buybacks, under the SRA, at the end of each week, referred to as a Buyback Week, during which RAI purchases shares of RAI common stock under the Repurchase Program from shareholders other than B&W, RAI will purchase from B&W shares of RAI common stock in an amount that is equal to the lowest of:
(1) the number of shares such that, after giving effect to the purchase, the net total number of shares sold by B&W to RAI under the SRA will be equal to the total number of shares purchased by RAI from shareholders other than B&W for all periods through such Buyback Week pursuant to the Repurchase Program multiplied by the ratio, which is subject to certain adjustments as set forth in the SRA, of (x) B&W's percentage ownership of the equity of RAI on November 11, 2011, to (y) 1.0 minus B&W's percentage ownership of the equity of RAI on November 11, 2011;
(2) the maximum number of shares that B&W can sell to RAI without decreasing B&W's percentage ownership of the equity of RAI from November 11, 2011 to the end of such Buyback Week; and
(3) the maximum number of shares that B&W reasonably determines it can sell to RAI without putting at risk the Intended Tax Treatment.
The per share price to be paid by RAI with respect to any such purchase of RAI common stock from B&W will be equal to the volume weighted average price paid by RAI for shares of RAI common stock purchased from shareholders other than B&W during the Buyback Week.
The SRA provides that B&W may reduce the number of shares otherwise determined to be sold to RAI pursuant to clause (2) of the preceding paragraph in order to obtain the Intended Tax Treatment, to assure itself that its percentage ownership of RAI's equity will not decrease as a result of certain transactions. Further, under the SRA, if B&W reasonably determines that (1) there is a reasonable risk of it not obtaining the Intended Tax Treatment because of equity issued or to be issued by RAI which reduces B&W's percentage ownership of RAI's equity, and (2) such risk cannot be avoided by reducing the number of shares to be sold to RAI in future Buyback Weeks, then B&W may elect to repurchase from RAI a number of shares of RAI common stock (up to the number of shares B&W had already sold to RAI under the Repurchase Program) sufficient to eliminate such risk. B&W may not exercise the foregoing reduction right or purchase right to the extent such exercise would cause B&W's percentage ownership of the voting stock of RAI to exceed 43.1783% (the Standstill Percentage, as defined in the Governance
Agreement discussed below, plus 1%). In calculating B&W's percentage ownership of RAI in the preceding sentence, certain shares that are expected to be issued by RAI are treated as already outstanding. If B&W has exercised the foregoing reduction right or purchase right due to an expected issuance by RAI of additional shares of RAI common stock and RAI subsequently determines that such issuance will not take place, or if B&W has reduced the number of shares to be sold to RAI in reliance upon certain facts or assumptions and RAI or B&W subsequently determines that such facts or assumptions are no longer correct or applicable, then RAI will in certain circumstances purchase from B&W a certain number of shares of RAI common stock as a result of such canceled issuance or subsequent determination, all as set forth in, and otherwise subject to the terms of, the SRA.
RAI has agreed under the SRA, in certain circumstances, to indemnify B&W from loss or liability arising from B&W's failure to obtain the Intended Tax Treatment resulting from the inaccuracy of any information provided to B&W by RAI in certain periodic certificates delivered to B&W under the SRA.
Subject to earlier termination by either party as set forth therein, the SRA will terminate on the earlier of May 31, 2014, and the expenditure of $2.5 billion pursuant to the Repurchase Program, including pursuant to the SRA.
In connection with its approval of the SRA, RAI's Board of Directors determined that under the existing terms of RAI's shareholder rights plan adopted on July 30, 2004, neither BAT nor any of its subsidiaries will be deemed to be an "Acquiring Person" (as such term is defined in the rights plan), no "Distribution Date" (as such term is defined in the rights plan) will be deemed to occur, and the rights thereunder will not become triggered or exercisable, in each case solely by reason of the execution or performance of the SRA or any increased ownership of RAI common stock by BAT or any of its subsidiaries pursuant to the SRA.
Amendment to Governance Agreement
In connection with the business combination transactions consummated on July 30, 2004, pursuant to which, among other things, the U.S. cigarette and tobacco business of B&W was combined with the business of R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company (an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of RAI), B&W, BAT and RAI entered into a Governance Agreement, dated July 30, 2004, as amended, which is referred to as the Governance Agreement. Subject to certain exceptions (none of which would apply to B&W's exercise of the purchase right under the SRA described above under "Share Repurchase Agreement"), the Governance Agreement prohibits BAT and its subsidiaries from acquiring beneficial ownership of additional shares of RAI common stock until the earliest of July 30, 2014, the date on which a significant transaction, as defined therein, is consummated and the date on which the Governance Agreement otherwise terminates.
In connection with the entry into the SRA, RAI, BAT and B&W entered into Amendment No. 3, dated as of November 11, 2011, to the Governance Agreement, modifying the Governance Agreement to, among other things, (i) permit B&W's acquisition of shares of RAI common stock pursuant to and as contemplated by the SRA and to disregard the dispositions of shares of RAI common stock by B&W to RAI pursuant to the SRA in determining whether BAT and its subsidiaries are permitted to acquire beneficial ownership of additional shares of RAI common stock, and (ii) require RAI, if it issues RAI common stock upon certain transactions (such as the exercise of employee stock options or vesting of performance shares), to repurchase, within a reasonable period after such issuance, a number of shares of RAI common stock equal to the number of shares of RAI common stock issued by RAI so that the number of outstanding shares of RAI common stock is not increased, and B&W's percentage ownership is not decreased, by such issuance after taking into account the repurchases. A copy of such amendment is attached to this report as Exhibit 10.2.
ITEM 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On November 14, 2011, RAI announced a change in its method of accounting for pension and postretirement benefits. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Historically, RAI has recognized actuarial gains and losses outside of 10% of the greater of the pension and postretirement plan assets or benefit obligations, referred to as the corridor, as a component of shareholders' equity in its consolidated balance sheets on an annual basis, amortizing them into operating results over the average future service period of active employees in these plans. During the fourth quarter of 2011, RAI elected to recognize actuarial gains and losses that are outside the corridor in its operating results in the year in which such gains and losses occur. This change is intended to improve the transparency of RAI's operating results by more quickly recognizing the effects of current economic and interest rate trends on plan investments and assumptions. These
gains and losses are measured annually as of December 31 and, accordingly, are recorded during the fourth quarter. Additionally, for purposes of calculating the expected return on plan assets, RAI will no longer use an averaging technique permitted under generally accepted accounting principles for the market-related value of plan assets, but instead will use actual fair value of plan assets. RAI has applied this change retrospectively, adjusting prior periods.
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: November 14, 2011
 

Exhibit 10.1
EXECUTION COPY
THIS SHARE REPURCHASE AGREEMENT (this "Agreement"), is entered into on November 11, 2011, by REYNOLDS AMERICAN INC. (the "Company") and BROWN & WILLIAMSON HOLDINGS, INC. (f/k/a Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation) ("B&W").
 
 
 
 
IN CONSIDERATION OF the mutual promises contained in this Agreement, the Company and B&W hereby agree:
 
 
(i) a "Buyback Week" means a Calendar Week (as defined below) during which the Company repurchases any Shares pursuant to the Share Repurchase Program from any Person other than B&W;
(ii) a "Calculation Period" means a period that begins on the day immediately after the end of the preceding Calculation Period (or in the case of the first Calculation Period, on the first day of the month that includes the date of this Agreement) and ends on the earlier of (i) the next Friday that is the last day of a Buyback Week or (ii) the next Friday that is the last Friday of a calendar month;
(iii) "Calendar Week" means each seven-day period ending on a Friday;
(iv) "Excluded Compensation Buyback" means a buyback of Shares by the Company designated by the Company in a notice to B&W as being made pursuant to Section 2.04(d) of the Governance Agreement; and
(v) for purposes of the provisions of this Agreement relating to B&W's participation in the Share Repurchase Program (including, for example, the definition of "Buyback Week" and the calculation of the B&W Buyback Number as defined below), any Excluded Compensation Buyback shall be treated as not made pursuant to the Share Repurchase Program (and B&W will not participate in any Excluded Compensation Buyback).
 
 
 
 
(i) the number of Shares such that, after the purchase of such Shares from B&W by the Company, the net total number of Shares sold by B&W to the Company under this Agreement shall be equal to the total number of Shares purchased by the Company from shareholders other than B&W for all periods through such Buyback Week pursuant to the Share Repurchase Program multiplied by the ratio of (x) B&W's percentage ownership of the equity of the Company on the date of this Agreement, to (y) 1.0 minus B&W's percentage ownership of the equity of the Company on the date of this Agreement, provided that such ratio shall be appropriately adjusted to reflect changes from time to time in B&W's Percentage Interest that do not occur as part of the same plan as the purchases under the Share Repurchase Program or this Agreement;
(ii) the maximum number of Shares that B&W can sell to the Company without decreasing B&W's percentage ownership of the equity of the Company from the date of this Agreement to the end of such Buyback Week; and
(iii) the maximum number of Shares, reasonably determined by B&W upon advice of its outside tax counsel after consultation with the Company, that B&W can sell to the Company without putting at risk the Intended Tax Treatment.
 
(i) any Sale (as defined below) of Shares to the Company under this Agreement with respect to any Buyback Week (current or prior) shall be treated as having occurred or as occurring on the last day of such Buyback Week,
(ii) unless reasonably determined otherwise by B&W upon advice of its outside tax counsel and after consultation with the Company, such calculation shall take into account any increase or decrease in the outstanding equity of the Company since the date of this Agreement for any reason, and
(iii) B&W shall be entitled to provide itself with assurance of the Intended Tax Treatment, based on advice of its outside tax counsel and after prior consultation with the Company, by reducing the number of Shares otherwise determined under Paragraph A.5(ii) so as to permit B&W to assure itself that B&W's percentage ownership of the equity of the Company does not decrease as a result of future events that may be considered to occur as part of the same plan as the purchases under the Share Repurchase Program or this Agreement, including, without limitation, issuances of new equity by the Company pursuant to the exercise of stock options or the vesting of performance shares, the issuance or vesting of restricted stock, or the issuance of any other equity to any third party reasonably expected to occur after the end of the applicable Buyback Week.
 
Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, for purposes of Paragraph A.5(ii), (i) B&W will take into account, in considering whether to take account of possible future issuances of Shares by the Company, the Company's obligation pursuant to Section 2.04(d) of the Governance Agreement to make Excluded Compensation Buybacks, and (ii) B&W's percentage ownership in the Company at any time shall be determined by treating as not outstanding the number of Shares with respect to which the Company then has an outstanding obligation to make Excluded Compensation Buybacks.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(ii) If the Company properly delivers a Purchase Certificate, then B&W will be obligated to sell, and the Company shall be obligated to buy, a number of Shares equal to such Repurchase Number for such Repurchase Price at or before 12:00 p.m. Eastern Time on the second business day after the determination of the Repurchase Number and Repurchase Price in accordance with Paragraph L.2(i) above.
 
 
(ii) Without limiting the generality of Paragraph L.2(i), either B&W or the Company may invoke the procedures of that Paragraph immediately following the end of the Share Repurchase Program, to the extent that the number of Shares that have been purchased from B&W has been reduced on account of Paragraphs A.5(ii) and A.6(iii). If such procedures are invoked by the Company at such time, B&W shall reasonably consider, based on the advice of its outside tax counsel after consultation with the Company, the extent to which the prior reduction in sales of Shares to the Company pursuant to Paragraph A.6(iii) is still appropriate in order to not put the Intended Tax Treatment at risk, based on all the facts and circumstances existing at that time. To the extent that B&W determines that the sale of an additional number of Shares to the Company at that time, in order to offset all or part of the prior reduction in sales as a result of Paragraph A.6(iii), is consistent with Paragraphs A.5(i) and (ii) and would not put the Intended Tax Treatment at risk, then it shall accept a Modification Certificate from the Company providing an Additional Number equal to such additional number.
(iii) If either the Company or B&W properly delivers a Modification Certificate, then, subject to Paragraphs L.3(i) and (ii), B&W will be obligated to sell, and the Company shall be obligated to buy, a number of Shares equal to such Additional Number for such Modification Repurchase Price at or before 12:00 p.m. Eastern Time on the second business day after such determination of the Additional Number, if any, and Modification Repurchase Price in accordance with Paragraphs L.3(i) and (ii) above.
 
 
if to B&W, to
Corporate Secretary
Email: apanaccione@cscinfo.com
with copies to:
Divisional Vice President, Tax and Treasury
Louisville Corporate Services, Inc.
Email: mike_walter@bat.com
Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP
Email: pgelston@cravath.com
    sjebejian@cravath.com
if to the Company, to
General Counsel
Email: holtonm@rjrt.com
with a copy to:
Jones Day
Email: jrthomson@jonesday.com
    rclesnick@jonesday.com
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
Date:
                                        
Calculation Period: beginning date ending date
            
                    
Note: Unless otherwise indicated, all statements of outstanding shares, shares issued, shares acquired, percentage interest, etc. are to be based on the meaning of those terms for U.S. federal income tax purposes and otherwise will be calculated in accordance with the Share Repurchase Agreement.
The following schedules are attached hereto (as applicable).
Schedule 1: General information and calculation of B&W Buyback Number.
Schedule 2: Schedule of all outstanding restricted stock, employee stock options, performance shares and other deferred issuances of shares as compensation, including grant, vesting, expiration and issuance dates, all as of the end of the Calculation Period.
Schedule 3: Details of purchases made under the Program from parties other than B&W during the Calculation Period, including Excluded Compensation Buybacks.
[Other]
 
 
 
 
 
The Company represents that, except as otherwise expressly noted below or elsewhere in this Exhibit A, (i) the Board of Directors of the Company has not been informed of and has not publicly announced or approved any intent, plan or arrangement directly or indirectly to issue or acquire any of its equity, other than the purchase of Shares pursuant to the Share Repurchase Program (including Excluded Compensation Buybacks) or pursuant to employee stock option or restricted stock plans, (ii) previously issued Calculation Certificates remain true, correct and complete as of their dates of issuance, (iii) if the Calculation Period includes a Buyback Week, it will have sufficient earnings and profits to permit the entire purchase price of all the Shares to be purchased pursuant to this Certificate to be treated as a dividend within the meaning of Section 316 of the Code and (iv) it does not have a Rabbi Trust or a similar arrangement holding shares.
Exceptions:
The undersigned hereby certifies on behalf of Reynolds American Inc. that the statements contained herein and on schedules attached hereto are true, correct and complete.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date:
                            
To: REYNOLDS AMERICAN INC.
      Attn: Steven Holland
      Sent by email to: Hollans@rjrt.com
Calculation Period ending:
                            
Date of Calculation Certificate
                            
We agree with the B&W Buyback Number stated in such Calculation Certificate
            
We agree with the B&W Buyback Number stated in such Calculation Certificate.
            
DO NOT
B&W Buyback Number proposed by B&W:
[Explanation]
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
EXECUTION COPY
AMENDMENT No. 3, dated as of November 11, 2011, (this "") to the GOVERNANCE AGREEMENT, dated as of July 30, 2004 (the ""), as amended, among BRITISH AMERICAN TOBACCO p.l.c., a public limited company incorporated under the laws of England and Wales (""), BROWN & WILLIAMSON HOLDINGS, INC, (f/k/a Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation), a Delaware corporation (""), and REYNOLDS AMERICAN INC., a North Carolina corporation ("").
Amendment
Agreement
BAT
B&W
Reynolds American
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of Reynolds American has authorized a share repurchase program (the "") for the purchase of outstanding shares of common stock of Reynolds American, par value $0.0001 per share, pursuant to which Reynolds American may spend up to $2.5 billion by May 31, 2014, to repurchase shares;
Share Repurchase Program
WHEREAS, B&W and Reynolds American have entered into a share repurchase agreement, dated as of November 11, 2011, pursuant to which B&W shall participate in the Share Repurchase Program subject to the terms and conditions set forth therein;
WHEREAS, the parties desire to enter into this Amendment in order to amend Sections 1.01, 2.04(d), 4.01 and 4.03(a) of the Agreement;
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto agree as follows:
SECTION 1. .
Amendment to the Agreement
(a) Section 1.01 of the Agreement is hereby amended by replacing the definition of "Share Repurchase Agreement" with the following:
"" means (i) the Share Repurchase Agreement, dated as of April 29, 2008, between B&W and Reynolds American, pursuant to which B&W shall participate in the Share Repurchase Program subject to the terms and conditions set forth therein, (ii) the Share Repurchase Agreement, dated as of November 11, 2011, between B&W and Reynolds American, pursuant to which B&W shall participate in the Second Share Repurchase Program subject to the terms and conditions set forth therein, and (iii) any other agreement entered into by B&W and Reynolds American which by its terms provides that it shall constitute a "Share Repurchase Agreement" within the meaning of this Agreement."
Share Repurchase Agreement
(b) Section 1.01 of the Agreement is hereby further amended by inserting the following definition in the appropriate alphabetical order:
"" means the share repurchase program for the repurchase of outstanding shares of common stock of Reynolds American, par value $0.0001 per share, pursuant to which Reynolds American may spend up to $2.5 billion (including purchases required by Section 2.04(d) of this Agreement) by May 31, 2014 to repurchase shares."
Second Share Repurchase Program
 
(c) Section 2.04(d) of the Agreement is hereby amended by replacing such Section 2.04(d) in its entirety with the following new Section 2.04(d):
"(d) If, on or after November 11, 2011, Reynolds American issues Common Stock or any other Equity Security to any of its directors, officers, employees, consultants or independent contractors who provided services to Reynolds American or its subsidiaries (the "Designated Persons") upon exercise of any option, warrant or other security relating to Common Stock or any other Equity Security or upon vesting of any performance shares or similar compensation award or otherwise issues Common Stock or any other Equity Security, restricted or otherwise, to any Designated Person then prior to or within a reasonable period after such issuance (but in any event not later than 20 Available Trading Days after such issuance occurs), Reynolds American will repurchase a number of shares of outstanding Common Stock so that the number of outstanding shares of Common Stock are not increased, and B&W's Percentage Interest is not decreased, by such issuance after taking into account such repurchase; , , that (i) Reynolds American will not be required to repurchase such shares, if, at the time of such issuance, B&W's Percentage Interest has fallen below 25%, without giving effect to such issuance, and (ii) repurchases by Reynolds American pursuant to any share repurchase plan or program in which any Investor Party has participated or agreed to participate, including pursuant to any Share Repurchase Agreement (except Excluded Compensation Buybacks under the Second Share Repurchase Program), shall not satisfy Reynolds American's obligation under this Section 2.04(d). For purposes of this Section 2.04(d), an "Available Trading Day" shall mean any day on which the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. is open for trading, except (x) any day during a "blackout period" that is included in Reynolds American's insider trading policy and prohibits the buying or selling of Common Stock by executive officers of Reynolds American in connection with the release or prospective release of Reynolds American's annual or quarterly financial earnings information, or (y) any day on which purchases of Common Stock by Reynolds American would (i) in the reasonable judgment of Reynolds American, based on the advice of its outside counsel and after consultation with B&W, violate applicable law or (ii) require Reynolds American to disclose a material financing, acquisition or other corporate development, and the proper officers of Reynolds American have determined in the good faith exercise of their reasonable business judgment, that such disclosure is not in the best interests of Reynolds American; , , that the number of days excluded from the definition of Available Trading Days under clause (y) of this sentence shall not, without the prior written consent of BAT, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, delayed or conditioned (it being understood that withholding consent to avoid putting at risk the Intended Tax Treatment (as such term is defined in the Share Repurchase Agreement) shall be deemed reasonable), exceed 40 of such trading days for any specific issuance of Equity Securities or a total of 80 of such trading days in any twelve-month period. Reynolds American shall promptly give B&W written notice of any delay in the repurchase of shares of Common Stock required by this Section 2.04(d), which notice shall contain the anticipated length of such delay, and Reynolds American shall promptly notify B&W of the termination of each such delay."
provided
however
provided
however
 
(d) Section 4.01 of the Agreement is hereby further amended by replacing such 4.01 in its entirety with the following new Section 4.01:
". Except for the acquisition of shares of Common Stock pursuant to the Combination Agreement or pursuant to or as contemplated by any Share Repurchase Agreement and subject to the exceptions set forth in Section 4.03, during the Standstill Period, the Investor Parties shall not, directly or indirectly, acquire, agree to acquire or make a proposal to acquire beneficial ownership of any shares of Equity Securities. Equity Securities acquired pursuant to this Article IV shall be subject to all of the terms, covenants and conditions of this Agreement."
Purchases of Equity Securities
(e) Section 4.03(a) of the Agreement is hereby further amended by replacing such Section 4.03(a) in its entirety with the following new Section 4.03(a):
"(a) during the Standstill Period, the Investor Parties may acquire beneficial ownership of additional Equity Securities if, after giving effect to any such acquisition (other than any acquisition pursuant to or as contemplated by any Share Repurchase Agreement), B&W's Percentage Interest would not exceed the Standstill Percentage the percentage of Voting Power (calculated as of the date of disposition) associated with any Equity Securities disposed of by any Investor Party (other than to another Investor Party or to Reynolds American pursuant to any Share Repurchase Agreement) following the date of this Agreement;"
less
SECTION 2. . This Amendment shall be considered to be a part of the Agreement and shall be subject to the provisions thereof, including Article VI thereof (but excluding Section 6.10 thereof). Except as expressly set forth herein, the Agreement shall continue in full force and effect without waiver, modification or amendment.
Amendment Part of the Agreement
 
, this Amendment has been duly executed by the parties hereto as of the date first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Reynolds American Inc.
P.O. Box 2990
Winston-Salem, NC 27102-2990
 
 
 Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI) announced today that its board of directors had authorized the repurchase of up to $2.5 billion of the company's outstanding common stock over the next two-and-a-half years.
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.  Nov. 14, 2011
RAI said that the new share repurchase program, which goes into effect immediately, would be completed by mid-2014. The program allows for shares to be purchased from time to time in the open market, depending on market conditions, or in privately negotiated transactions.
The company also announced that British American Tobacco p.l.c. will participate through its wholly owned subsidiary, Brown & Williamson Holdings, Inc., in the share repurchase program, except for repurchases to offset new equity compensation issuances, to maintain its ownership of approximately 42 percent of RAI's outstanding common stock.
"The share repurchase program clearly demonstrates our continuing commitment to returning value to our shareholders," said Daniel M. Delen, RAI's president and chief executive officer. "This announcement comes on top of two dividend increases announced earlier this year, which brought the total dividend increase to 14.3 percent for the year."
In addition, the company said it is changing the way in which it accounts for pension and postretirement plans, adopting the mark-to-market methodology of accounting that recognizes actuarial gains and losses in the period during which they were incurred.
"The new policy increases transparency at the operating company level by reflecting current market returns, interest rates and health-care costs," said Thomas R. Adams, RAI's chief financial officer.
An analysis of pension and postretirement plan performance is generally performed annually as of December 31. Any actuarial gains or losses that fall outside a 10 percent corridor (10 percent of the greater of plan assets or benefit obligations) will be recognized during the fourth quarter as a mark-to-market adjustment included in pension and postretirement expense.
The change in accounting will be applied retrospectively to prior periods. The GAAP and adjusted EPS impact is highlighted in the following table, and is detailed on both a GAAP and adjusted basis in the attached schedules.
 
 
 
"The change will not impact cash flow or funding requirements," Adams said. "The company will adjust prior-years' financials to be consistent with the new policy. We continue to monitor our pension plans closely to ensure that they remain well funded," he said.
As a result of the pension and postretirement accounting change, RAI is revising its adjusted full-year EPS guidance to $2.77 to $2.82. This guidance excludes the effect of any potential mark-to-market adjustments for the pension and postretirement plans, as well as the impact of the progeny lawsuits, the lawsuit, implementation and integration costs, and tax items.
Engle
Scott
RAI's website, , is the primary source of publicly disclosed news about RAI and its operating companies. We use the website as our primary means of distributing quarterly earnings and other company news. We encourage investors and others to register at to receive alerts when news about the company has been posted.
www.reynoldsamerican.com
www.reynoldsamerican.com
Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI) is the parent company of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company; American Snuff Company, LLC; Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Inc.; and Niconovum AB.
Copies of RAI's news releases, annual reports, SEC filings and other financial materials, including risk factors containing forward-looking information, are available at .
www.reynoldsamerican.com
 
 
Schedule 1
 
 
 
Schedule 2
 
Schedule 3
RAI management uses "adjusted" (non-GAAP) measurements to set performance goals and to measure the performance of the overall company, and believes that investors' understanding of the underlying performance of the company's continuing operations is enhanced through the disclosure of these metrics. "Adjusted" (non-GAAP) results are not, and should not be viewed as, substitutes for "reported" (GAAP) results.
 
Schedule 4
RAI management uses "adjusted" (non-GAAP) measurements to set performance goals and to measure the performance of the overall company, and believes that investors' understanding of the underlying performance of the company's continuing operations is enhanced through the disclosure of these metrics. "Adjusted" (non-GAAP) results are not, and should not be viewed as, substitutes for "reported" (GAAP) results.
 
 
Schedule 5
The R.J. Reynolds segment consists of the primary operations of R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, the second-largest tobacco company in the United States and which also manages a contract manufacturing business.
The American Snuff segment consists of the primary operations of American Snuff Company, LLC, the second-largest smokeless tobacco products manufacturer in the United States, and Lane, Limited until its sale on February 28, 2011.
Management uses "adjusted" (non-GAAP) measurements to set performance goals and to measure the performance of the company, and believes that investors' understanding of the underlying performance of the company's continuing operations is enhanced through the disclosure of these metrics.
 
 
Schedule 6
The R.J. Reynolds segment consists of the primary operations of R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, the second-largest tobacco company in the United States and which also manages a contract manufacturing business.
The American Snuff segment consists of the primary operations of American Snuff Company, LLC, the second-largest smokeless tobacco products manufacturer in the United States, and Lane, Limited until its sale on February 28, 2011.
Management uses "adjusted" (non-GAAP) measurements to set performance goals and to measure the performance of the company, and believes that investors' understanding of the underlying performance of the company's continuing operations is enhanced through the disclosure of these metrics.
 
 
 


