FILE:RAI/RAI-8K-20120919131500.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Amendments to the Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Amendments to the Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On September 13, 2012, the Board of Directors, referred to as the Board, of Reynolds American Inc., referred to as RAI, approved an amendment to the amended and restated Bylaws of RAI, effective September 13, 2012, providing for a majority voting standard for the election of directors in uncontested elections. The amendment conforms the voting provisions in RAI's amended and restated Bylaws to those providing for such majority voting standard in RAI's amended and restated Articles of Incorporation. A copy of RAI's amended and restated Bylaws is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 3.1.
 
On September 13, 2012, RAI's Board also approved and adopted amendments to RAI's Code of Conduct. The amendments to the Code of Conduct clarify, update or enhance the descriptions of the standards of conduct that are expected of all directors, officers and employees of RAI and its subsidiaries. The substantive amendments consist of the addition of new sections on the Regulation of Tobacco Products and Bribery and Anti-Corruption Laws, and updates or enhancements to the following subject areas: No Retaliation; Take Action; How to Report Code Violations; Preventing Youth Tobacco Use; Workplace Behavior; Gifts; Personal Financial Interests; Outside Employment; Insider Trading and Stock Tipping; Trading Blackout Periods; Product Integrity; Restricted Information and Privacy Protection; Integrity of Records and Financial Reports; Use of Company Information and Technology Resources; Use of Internet/Company Intranet; Advertising and Marketing; Antitrust Laws; Environment, Health and Safety; International Business; Anti-Boycott Laws; Export Controls, U.S. Embargoes Against Certain Countries; and Company Contributions.
None of the amendments to the Code of Conduct constitute a waiver of any provision of the Code of Conduct on behalf of RAI's Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, or Chief Accounting Officer.
The foregoing summary of the amendments to the Code of Conduct is subject to and qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Code of Conduct as so amended, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 14.1 and incorporated herein by reference. The amended Code of Conduct is also posted on RAI's web site at under the "Corporate Governance" subsection of the "Governance" tab. The information contained on or accessible through RAI's web site shall not be deemed to be a part of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
www.reynoldsamerican.com
 
(d) Exhibits.
The following are filed as exhibits to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: September 19, 2012
 

Exhibit 3.1
. Meetings of shareholders of the Reynolds American Inc. (the "Corporation") shall be held at such time and place either within or without the State of North Carolina as shall be fixed by the Corporation's Board of Directors (the "Board") and designated in the notice or waiver thereof. The Board may postpone and reschedule any previously scheduled annual or special meeting of shareholders.
Section 1.01 Place of Meetings
. Annual meetings of shareholders shall be held at a place, if any, date and hour fixed by the Board to elect directors to the Board and to transact such other business as may properly come before the meeting. Special meetings of shareholders may be called by the persons permitted to call such meetings by the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation.
Section 1.02 Annual and Special Meetings
. Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Articles of Incorporation, written notice shall be given to each shareholder entitled to vote at such meeting not fewer than 10 nor more than 60 days before the date of each meeting of shareholders. Such notice shall include the place, if any, date and hour of the meeting, the means of remote communications, if any, by which shareholders and proxy holders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at such meeting and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called. When a meeting is adjourned to a different date, time or place, notice need not be given of the new date, time or place if (a) the new date, time or place is announced at the meeting before adjournment, and (b) a new record date is not fixed for the adjourned meeting. If a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting (which must be done if the new meeting date is more than 120 days after the date of the original meeting), notice of the adjourned meeting must be given as provided in this Section 1.03 to persons who are shareholders as of the new record date.
Section 1.03 Notice
. Shares entitled to vote as a separate voting group may take action in a matter only if a quorum of those shares exists with respect to that matter. A majority of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter by the voting group constitutes a quorum of the voting group for action on that matter. Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Articles of Incorporation, at the opening of any meeting, such meeting may be adjourned from time to time by the vote of a majority of the votes cast on the motion to adjourn or by any officer entitled to preside at or to act as secretary of the meeting. Once a share is represented for any purpose at a meeting, it is deemed present for quorum purposes for the remainder of the meeting and for any adjournment of that meeting unless a new record date is or must be set for that adjourned meeting. Subject to the provisions of the North Carolina Business Corporation Act, at any adjourned meeting any business may be transacted that might have been transacted at the original meeting if a quorum exists with respect to the matter proposed.
Section 1.04 Quorum; Adjournment
. The Chairman or, at the Chairman's request or in the absence of the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, or, in the absence of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer, such person as shall be selected by the Board, shall act as chairman at all meetings of shareholders. The Secretary of the Corporation or, in his or her absence, an Assistant Secretary shall act as secretary at all meetings of shareholders. The chairman of the meeting shall have the right and authority to determine and maintain the rules, regulations and procedures for the proper conduct of the meeting, including but not limited to restricting entry to the meeting after it has commenced, maintaining order and the safety of those in attendance, opening and closing the polls for voting, dismissing business not properly submitted, and limiting time allowed for discussion of the business of the meeting.
Section 1.05 Conduct of Meeting and Order of Business
Business to be conducted at annual meetings of shareholders shall be limited to that business properly submitted to the meeting either by or at the direction of the Board or by any shareholder of the Corporation who satisfies and complies with the notice requirements set forth in Section 1.06. If the chairman of the meeting shall determine that any business was not properly submitted in accordance with the terms of Section 1.06, he or she shall so declare to the meeting and the business that was not properly submitted shall not be transacted at that meeting.
. In addition to any other applicable requirements under law or under this Section 1.06, in order to properly submit any business to an annual meeting of shareholders, a shareholder must (a) be a shareholder of record or beneficially own shares of the Corporation at the time of the giving of notice provided for in this Section 1.06 and at the time of such annual meeting, (b) be entitled to vote at the annual meeting, and (c) give timely notice in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation, and include in such notice all of the information required by this Section 1.06 to be contained in such notice. The requirements of this Section 1.06 are separate from and in addition to the requirements under Rule 14a-8 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act").
Section 1.06 Advance Notice of Shareholder Proposals and Nominations
To be timely, notice provided under this Section 1.06 must be delivered either in person or by United States certified mail, postage prepaid, and received prior to the close of business at the principal executive offices of the Corporation (a) not less than 120 days nor more than 150 days before the first anniversary of the date of the Corporation's proxy statement released to shareholders in connection with the most recent annual meeting of shareholders or (b) if no annual meeting was held in the previous year or the date of the applicable annual meeting has been changed by more than 30 days from the date contemplated at the time of the previous year's proxy statement, not later than the close of business on the later of (i) the tenth calendar day following the day on which the first public announcement of the date of the annual meeting was made and (ii) the date that is 90 days before the date of the applicable annual meeting In no event shall the public announcement of a postponement or adjournment of an annual meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a shareholder's notice as described above.
Nomination of persons for election to the Board may be made by the Board or any committee designated by the Board or, in the case of an annual meeting, by any shareholder entitled to vote for the election of directors at the annual meeting of shareholders and who otherwise meets the requirements of this Section 1.06 (including, without limitation, the first sentence of Section 1.06). However, nominations other than those made by the Board or its
 
designated committee must be made in accordance with the procedures for submitting business at an annual meeting of the shareholders as set forth in this Section 1.06, and no person shall be eligible to serve as a director unless such procedures have been followed. A shareholder may nominate a person or persons for election to the Board only if written notice of such shareholder's intent to make such nomination is given to the Secretary of the Corporation in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 1.06.
A shareholder's notice to submit business to an annual meeting of shareholders shall set forth (a) the name and address of the shareholder and any Shareholder Related Person (as hereinafter defined) covered by clauses (b), (c) and (e) below, (b) the class and number of shares of stock of the Corporation beneficially owned by such shareholder and any Shareholder Related Person, and the name in which such shares are registered on the stock transfer books of the Corporation or, if such shares are held beneficially and not of record and the shareholder has not filed a Schedule 13D or Schedule 13G with the Securities and Exchange Commission that discloses such beneficial ownership, a written statement from the record holder of such securities verifying such beneficial ownership, (c) a description of (i) any option, warrant, convertible security, stock appreciation right or similar right with an exercise or conversion privilege or settlement payment or mechanism at a price related to any class or series of securities of the Corporation or with a value derived in whole or in part from the value of any class or series of securities of the Corporation, whether or not such instrument or right shall be subject to settlement in the underlying class or series of securities of the Corporation or otherwise (each, a "Derivative Instrument"), directly or indirectly held of record or beneficially by the shareholder or any Shareholder Related Person, (ii) any hedging, swap or other transaction or series of transactions, agreement, arrangement or understanding entered into or made, the effect or intent of which is to increase or decrease the voting power of such shareholder or any Shareholder Related Person with respect to the Corporation's securities or to allow such shareholder or any Shareholder Related Person the opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from any increase or decrease in the value of the Corporation's securities, (iii) any proxy, transaction, agreement, arrangement, understanding or relationship pursuant to which such shareholder or any Shareholder Related Person has a right to vote any of the Corporation's securities, (iv) any short interest of such shareholder or any Shareholder Related Person in any security of the Corporation (for purposes of these Bylaws, a person shall be deemed to have a short interest in a security if such person, directly or indirectly, through any contract, arrangement, understanding or otherwise, has the opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from any decrease in the value of the subject security), (v) any rights, directly or indirectly, held of record or beneficially by the shareholder or any Shareholder Related Person to dividends on the Corporation's securities that are separated or separable from the underlying securities, (vi) any performance-related fees (other than an asset-based fee) that such shareholder or any Shareholder Related Person is entitled to based on any increase or decrease in the value of securities of the Corporation or Derivative Instruments as of the date of such notice, including, without limitation, any such interests held by members of such shareholder's immediate family sharing the same household and (vii) all arrangements or understandings between or among the shareholder giving the notice, any Shareholder Related Person and any other person relating to the business specified in the notice, (d) whether either such shareholder or beneficial owner intends to deliver a proxy statement and form of proxy to the holders of at least the percentage of shares of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote that is required to approve the proposal, (e) a representation that the shareholder intends to appear at the meeting in person or by proxy to submit the business
 
specified in such notice, and if intending to appear by proxy, the name and address of the proxy, (f) any other material interest of the shareholder or any Shareholder Related Person in the business to be submitted and (g) a brief description of the business desired to be submitted to the annual meeting, including the complete text of any resolutions to be presented at the annual meeting, and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting. In addition, the shareholder making such proposal shall promptly provide any other information reasonably requested by the Corporation. A "Shareholder Related Person" of any shareholder means (i) any person controlling, directly or indirectly, or acting in concert with, such shareholder, (ii) any beneficial owner of shares of stock of the Corporation owned of record or beneficially by such shareholder, and (iii) any person controlled by or under common control with such shareholder.
In addition to the information required above to be given by a shareholder who intends to submit business to a meeting of shareholders, if the business to be submitted is the nomination of a person or persons for election to the Board then such shareholder's notice must also set forth, as to each person whom the shareholder proposes to nominate for election as a director, (a) the name, age, business address and, if known, residence address of such person, (b) the principal occupation or employment of such person, (c) the class and number of shares of stock of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by such person, (d) any other information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors or is otherwise required by the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission promulgated under the Exchange Act, (e) the written consent of such person to (i) be named in the proxy statement as a nominee, (ii) serve as a director if elected and (iii) provide information that the Board requests to determine whether such person qualifies as an independent director under applicable guidelines, and (f) a description of all arrangements or understandings between such shareholder or any Shareholder Related Person and each nominee and any other person or persons (naming such person or persons) pursuant to which the nomination or nominations are to be made by such shareholder.
If any of the facts set forth in the notice provided pursuant to either of the two preceding paragraphs changes between the date that such notice is sent and the date of the annual meeting, the shareholder must deliver to the Secretary of the Corporation either in person or by United States certified mail, postage prepaid, and the Corporation must receive at its principal executive offices by the earlier of (a) the close of business within five (5) calendar days of the event giving rise to such change, or (b) the commencement of such annual meeting, a supplemental notice providing such revised information. Any person nominated for election as a director by the Board or any committee designated by the Board shall, upon the request of the Board or such committee, furnish to the Secretary of the Corporation all such information pertaining to such person that is required to be set forth in a shareholder's notice of nomination.
In addition to the foregoing provisions of this Section 1.06, a shareholder who seeks to have any proposal included in the Corporation's proxy statement also shall comply with the requirements of the Exchange Act, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, including, without limitation, Regulation 14A.
 
For purposes of this Section 1.06, "public announcement" means announcement in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to the Exchange Act.
. If a quorum exists, in all actions of shareholders other than the election of directors or as otherwise required by law, the Articles of Incorporation or these Bylaws, action on a matter by a voting group is approved if the votes cast within the voting group favoring the action exceed the votes cast opposing the action.
Section 1.07 Voting
The vote required for election of a director at any meeting of shareholders for the election of directors at which a quorum is present (other than a Contested Election (as defined below)) shall be the vote of a majority of the votes cast with respect to that director's election. In a Contested Election, directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes in accordance with  55-7-28 (or any successor provision) of the North Carolina Business Corporation Act. For purposes of this Section, a "vote of the majority of the shares cast" means that the number of shares voted "for" a director must exceed the number of votes cast "against" that director's election. A "Contested Election" means an election for directors at a meeting of shareholders for the election of directors at which a quorum is present for which there are more nominees for election to the Board of Directors than open directorships on the Board of Directors to be filled pursuant to that election.
A shareholder may appoint one or more proxies to vote or otherwise act for the shareholder in accordance with the North Carolina Business Corporation Act. A proxy shall be submitted to the secretary of the meeting at or prior to the time designated by the chairman of the meeting.
. Prior to any meeting of shareholders, the Board may appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting and make a written report thereof. The Board may designate one or more persons as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act. Each inspector, before entering upon the discharge of his or her duties, shall take and sign an oath to execute faithfully the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his or her ability. If any inspector previously appointed shall fail to attend or refuse or be unable to serve, a substitute shall be appointed by the presiding officer.
Section 1.08 Inspectors of Election
. Regular meetings of the Board shall be held at such times and places within or without the State of North Carolina as may from time to time be fixed by the Board or as may be specified in a notice of meeting. Special meetings of the Board may be held at any time upon the call of the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer or the President and shall be called by the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or the Secretary if directed by the Board or at least two or more Directors. A meeting of the Board may be held without notice immediately after the annual meeting of shareholders. No notice shall be required for any regular meeting of the Board. Notice of the date, time and place of holding of each special meeting shall be given by delivering such notice at least two business days before the date of the meeting to each director by telecopy, telegraph or e-mail, personally or by telephone.
Section 2.01 Meetings
 
Any director unable to participate in person at any meeting shall be given the opportunity to participate by any means of communication by which all directors participating may simultaneously hear each other during the meeting. In addition, notwithstanding the foregoing, action may be taken by the Board without a meeting if it is taken by unanimous written consent. A director's consent to action taken without a meeting may be in electronic form and delivered by electronic means.
. Except as otherwise provided in the Articles of Incorporation, a majority of the total number of directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. If a quorum is not present at any meeting of the Board, the directors present may adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until such a quorum is present.
Section 2.02 Quorum
. The Board may, by resolution adopted by a majority of the Board, designate one or more committees to have and exercise such power and authority as the Board shall specify.
Section 2.03 Committees of Directors
No action by any committee of the Board shall be valid unless taken at a meeting for which notice has been duly given in accordance with the last sentence of the first paragraph of Section 2.01 of these Bylaws or waived by the members of such committee. Such notice shall include a description of the general nature of the business to be transacted at the meeting, and no other business may be transacted at such meeting unless all members of the committee are present and consent to the consideration of such other business.
Any committee member unable to participate in person at any meeting shall be given the opportunity to participate by any means of communication by which all committee members participating may simultaneously hear each other during the meeting. In addition, notwithstanding the foregoing, action may be taken by a committee of the Board without a meeting if it is taken by unanimous written consent. A committee member's consent to action taken without a meeting may be in electronic form and delivered by electronic means.
Each of the committees established by the Board pursuant to this Section 2.03 shall establish such other rules and procedures for its operation and governance (consistent with the North Carolina Business Corporation Act) as it shall see fit and may seek such consultation and advice as to matters within its purview as it shall require.
. The Board shall elect a Chairman of the Board from among the members of the Board. The Board shall designate the Chairman as either a Non-Executive Chairman of the Board or, in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.01 of these Bylaws, an Executive Chairman of the Board. (References in these Bylaws to the "Chairman" shall mean the Non-Executive Chairman or Executive Chairman, as designated by the Board.) The Chairman shall preside at all meetings of the Board and shall perform such other duties as may be directed by the Board or as otherwise set forth in these Bylaws.
Section 2.04 Chairman of the Board
 
. The Board may elect a Vice Chairman of the Board from among the members of the Board. If the Board has elected a Vice Chairman of the Board, the Vice Chairman shall perform such duties as may be designated by the Chairman, subject to the direction of the Board.
Section 2.05 Vice Chairman of the Board
. The officers of the Corporation shall be, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, a Treasurer and a Secretary, who shall have the duty, among other things, to record the proceedings of the meetings of shareholders and directors in a book kept for that purpose, and such other additional officers with such titles as the Board shall determine, all of whom shall be chosen by and serve at the pleasure of the Board; provided that the Chief Executive Officer may appoint Senior Vice Presidents, Vice Presidents or Assistant Officers at his or her discretion. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Board may designate the Chairman as an Executive Chairman, in which case such person shall be an officer of the Corporation and shall have, in addition to the duties set forth in these Bylaws, such powers and authority as determined by the Board. Subject to such limitations as may be imposed by the Board, the Chief Executive Officer shall have full executive power and authority with respect to the Corporation. The President, if separate from the Chief Executive Officer, shall have such powers and authority as the Chief Executive Officer may determine. If the Chief Executive Officer is absent or incapacitated, the Board or any committee designated by the Board for such purpose shall determine the person who shall have all the power and authority of the Chief Executive Officer. Other officers shall have the usual powers and shall perform all the usual duties incident to their respective offices. All officers shall be subject to the supervision and direction of the Board. The authority, duties or responsibilities of any officer (other than an Executive Chairman, if the Chairman has been so designated) of the Corporation may be suspended by the Chief Executive Officer with or without cause. Any officer may be removed by the Board with or without cause; provided that an Executive Chairman who is removed as an officer pursuant to the foregoing shall, subject to and in accordance with the provisions and limitations of the Articles of Incorporation, these Bylaws and applicable law, retain his position as a director. Subject to such limitations as the Board and the North Carolina Business Corporation Act may provide, each officer may further delegate to any other officer or any employee or agent of the Corporation such portions of his or her authority as the officer shall deem appropriate, subject to such limitations as the officer shall specify, and may revoke such authority at any time.
Section 3.01 Description and Terms
. The Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Secretary and the Treasurer, or any one of them, shall have the power and authority on behalf of the Corporation to execute any shareholders' consents or proxies and to attend and act and vote in person or by proxy at any meetings of shareholders of any corporation in which the Corporation may own stock, and at any such meetings shall possess and may exercise any and all of the rights and powers incident to the ownership of such stock which as the owner thereof the Corporation might have possessed and executed if present. The Board by resolution from time to time may confer like powers upon any officer.
Section 3.02 Shareholder Consents and Proxies
 
. Whenever any statute, the Articles of Incorporation or these Bylaws require notice to be given to any shareholder, such notice is to be given in writing by mail, addressed to such shareholder at his or her address as it appears on the current shareholder records of the Corporation, with postage thereon prepaid. Such notice shall be deemed to have been given when it is deposited in the United States mail. Notice to directors may be given by telegram or facsimile transmission or be delivered personally or by telephone.
Section 4.01 Notices
. If a claim under Section 1 or 2 of Article Ninth of the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation is not paid in full by the Corporation within 60 calendar days after a written claim has been received by the Corporation, the person claiming indemnification may at any time thereafter bring suit against the Corporation to recover the unpaid amount of the claim. If successful in whole or in part in any such suit, such claimant shall be entitled to be paid also the expense of prosecuting or defending such suit. In any case, it shall be a defense to such claims that, and the Corporation shall not be obliged to advance any such expense if, the claimant has not met any applicable standard for indemnification set forth in the North Carolina Business Corporation Act or the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation. The Corporation shall not advance any such expenses to a claimant, unless the Corporation has previously received from such claimant an undertaking to repay the amount of such expenses in the event it is determined such claimant was not entitled to indemnification. A determination by the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel or shareholders) to the effect that indemnification of the claimant is proper in the circumstances because the claimant has met the applicable standard of conduct or that the claimant has not met such applicable standard of conduct, or the failure by the Corporation to make any such determination, shall not create a presumption that the claimant has or has not met the applicable standard of conduct or be a defense to such suit.
Section 4.02 Indemnification
. The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be fixed by the Board.
Section 4.03 Fiscal Year
. Any certificates which represent shares of the Corporation shall be signed by the Chairman or the Chief Executive Officer and by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary. Any and all signatures on any such certificates, including signature of officers, transfer agents and registrars, may be facsimile.
Section 4.04 Certificates of Stock
Adopted July 28, 2004
Amended February 2, 2005
Amended November 29, 2006
Amended December 4, 2008
Amended September 13, 2012
 

Exhibit 14.1
doing the
code of conduct
rightthing
 
contents
About the Code of Conduct
Doing the Right Thing.1
Ethical Thinking.2
The Code is for Everyone.2
No Retaliation.3
Waivers and Amendments.3
Take Action.3
How to Report Code Violations.4
Preventing Youth Tobacco Use.5
Workplace Behavior.5
Conflicts of Interest
What to Know About Conflicts of Interest.7
Gifts.7
Entertainment.8
Customers and Potential Customers.8
Personal Financial Interests.9
Outside Employment.9
Outside Service as a Director or Officer.9
Company Information and Assets
Insider Trading and Stock Tipping.11
Trading Blackout Periods.12
Investor and Media Relations.12
Product Integrity.12
Restricted Information and Privacy Protection.13
Company Funds and Property.14
Records Management.14
Integrity of Records and Financial Reports.15
Use of Company Information Technology Resources.16
Use of Internet/Company Intranet.16
Electronic Communications.17
Business Continuity.17 10 118 23 27
Legal Compliance
Regulation of Tobacco Products.18
Advertising and Marketing.19
Antitrust Laws.19
Environment, Health and Safety.20
Government and Attorney Inquiries.20
International Business.21
Bribery and Anti-Corruption Laws.21
Anti-Boycott Laws.22
Use of Agents and Non-Employees.22
Export Controls and U.S. Embargoes Against Certain Countries.22
Political Activities and Contributions
Company Contributions.24
Personal Contributions.24
Dealings with Public Officials.24
Final Thoughts
 2012 Reynolds American Inc.
 
about the
code of
conduct
Doing the Right Thing
Ethical Thinking
The Code is for Everyone
No Retaliation
Waivers and Amendments
Take Action
How to Report Code Violations
Preventing Youth Tobacco Use
Workplace Behavior
Doing the Right Thing
Reynolds American Inc. (RAI) and its subsidiaries have set a bold goal: Transforming Tobacco.
In order to be successful, all of our decisions and actions must be based on one foundational approach  doing the right thing for today and tomorrow.
Understanding our Code of Conduct is a good starting point for that journey. Each of us has an obligation to represent our companies in a responsible, honest and ethical manner. Simply stated, we must operate our businesses with integrity. Good ethical thinking and a solid understanding of our standards and legal responsibilities are required of every employee.
This Code of Conduct gives guidance on many key issues and decisions that may face employees. It does not address every situation, nor does it include all of our companies' policies. Read the Code and familiarize yourself with its guidelines, and make sure you also understand your company's policies.
Ask questions if there are things you do not understand. You may contact your supervisor, Human Resources or the Director of the Office of Ethics and Compliance. If you ever have concerns about how we operate our businesses, report your concerns immediately.
Our integrity and reputation are built by what we do every day. Violations of the
Code are taken seriously. You will be required to certify your compliance with the Code each year.
It is every employee's job to conduct our businesses in an ethical, lawful and responsible way  upholding our high standards in every decision you make and every action you take.
Daniel M. Delen
President and Chief Executive Officer
 
Ethical Thinking
When faced with a difficult decision, ask yourself these questions:
Is it legal?
Is it the right thing to do?
Is this allowed under the Code of Conduct? Does this comply with Company policies? Am I authorized to do this?
Would I want to see this reported in the media?
If you answer NO to any of these questions, discuss the issue with your supervisor, Human Resources or the Director of the Office of Ethics and
Compliance.
RAI's Office of Ethics and Compliance maintains an online resource center at www.RAIethics.com.
The Code is for Everyone
Directors, officers and employees of RAI and its subsidiaries must follow Code guidelines.
References to "us," "we," or "you" in the Code include all of these individuals. RAI and its subsidiaries sometimes are referred to collectively in the Code as the "Company" or "RAI's companies." The Board of Directors of RAI has adopted this Code, which represents our commitment to ethical conduct and compliance with the law.
This Code of Conduct and the policies described in it are not an employment contract and do not create any express or implied contractual rights to employment. RAI reserves the right to modify the Code at any time.
 
No Retaliation
The Company does not tolerate retaliation of any kind (including, for example, termination, demotion, re-assignment or harassment) against an employee who responsibly reports unethical or wrongful activity. In conducting investigations and taking corrective actions, the Company will maintain strict confidentiality protection. Information will only be disclosed on a need-to-know basis.
Q. What if one of my co-workers retaliates against me because I made a legitimate complaint of inappropriate business practices?
A. All employees must understand and comply with Company non-
?retaliation policies and the provisions of the Code. If a retaliation claim proves to be true, swift and appropriate corrective action will be taken, including disciplinary action. Retaliation is prohibited by all employees, not just managers.
Waivers and Amendments
Provisions of the Code, as they apply to any director or executive officer, can only be waived with the approval of the Audit and Finance Committee of the Board of Directors, or by the Board of Directors of RAI. Any waiver of this Code must be properly disclosed in accordance with applicable legal requirements. An amendment to the Code must be approved by the RAI
Board of Directors, upon the recommendation of the Audit and Finance Committee.
Take Action
Read and understand the policies of RAI and your specific company. Share in our commitment to integrity and good ethical thinking by complying with the Code and working to enforce Code compliance throughout the Company.
You have a responsibility to:
 -  Obey local, state, national and international laws, particularly those related to your job.
 -  Learn the details of the policies relevant to your company and your job  which can be found on your company's employee intranet site. In many cases, the policies of the RAI companies go beyond compliance with the law and include additional restrictions. Specific policies may vary between companies. Compliance with these additional guidelines, policies or procedures is required under the Code.
 -  Gain understanding of the requirements included in the Code.
 -  Seek guidance when you do not understand aspects of the Code or when you are faced with a difficult question.
 -  Raise questions about the Code with your immediate supervisor, Human Resources or the Director of the Office of Ethics and Compliance.
 -  Report actual and suspected violations of the Code using the methods outlined in the section "How to Report Code Violations."
 -  Familiarize yourself with the different methods of reporting ethical concerns.
 -  Ensure your concerns are addressed by following up on the issue. If necessary, raise it again through another method available to you.
 -  Cooperate in Company investigations of potential Code violations.
 -  Certify your understanding and compliance of the Code each year.
 
How to Report Code Violations
RAI offers several avenues for reporting any known or suspected violations of the law, the Code, or policies of RAI and its subsidiaries. Use the reporting method that is most comfortable for you.
In many cases, your supervisor, Human Resources or the Director of the Office of Ethics and Compliance can help resolve violations quickly, but the following resources are always available to you:
Office of Ethics and Compliance
The Office of Ethics and Compliance ensures that RAI and its subsidiaries have effective policies and procedures regarding corporate governance, compliance with the law and enforcement of the RAI Code of Conduct. The office is available to take reports and answer questions at 1-800-887-1802.
EthicsLine  Anonymous Reporting
The EthicsLine hotline is staffed by an independent third-party company. It is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week for employees who wish to report any known or suspected violations of the Code of Conduct. Information may be reported anonymously to the EthicsLine.
You can use the EthicsLine to report concerns or complaints regarding any Code violations, including:
 -  Suspected theft, embezzlement or fraud;
 -  Conflicts of interest or antitrust issues;
 -  Safety or product test results; and
 -  Financial or auditing matters.
Contact the EthicsLine at 1-800-500-0333.
Log on to the EthicsLine at www.rai.myethicsline.com.
Audit and Finance Committee
Complaints or concerns about financial reporting, accounting or auditing matters and controls can be reported directly to the Chair of the Audit and
Finance Committee of RAI's Board of Directors. Send correspondence to the
Chair of the Audit and Finance Committee  Board of Directors, Reynolds
American Inc., P.O. Box 2990, Winston-Salem, North Carolina 27102-2990.
The Company's Whistleblower Policy can be found under the Governance section at www.reynoldsamerican.com.
Employment Practices Hotline and Reporting
The Employment Practices Hotline is a resource that is available for employees of RAI and its subsidiaries to handle employment-related questions and concerns. Use this line for things such as:
 -  Possible violations of Human Resources policies and practices;
 -  Potential discrimination or harassment concerns; and
 -  Employee disputes.
Call this resource at 1-877-723-2241.
Failure to report known violations is a violation of the Code. This may result in disciplinary action against you, up to and including termination of employment.
Intentionally reporting false information also may result in disciplinary action against you.
 
Preventing Youth Tobacco Use
RAI and its operating companies are guided by the belief that minors should never use tobacco products. We strongly support youth tobacco use prevention efforts, particularly within our own companies.
The Master Settlement Agreement (MSA) obligates certain of our operating companies to help find ways of reducing tobacco use by youth. We have been aggressively pursuing this goal, and each employee must share this commitment.
Each operating company has internal guidelines and practices in place to limit exposure of minors to their tobacco advertising and marketing activities.
Several companies, in particular R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company (R.J. Reynolds), support additional programs that reach retailers, parents, students and youth leaders to help in the fight to prevent youth from using tobacco. If you would like to learn more about R.J. Reynolds' youth tobacco use prevention programs, visit: www.rightdecisionsrightnow.com.
For additional information about the youth tobacco use prevention efforts of
RAI and its operating companies  R.J. Reynolds, American Snuff Company, LLC (American Snuff Company) and Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Inc. (Santa Fe)  please review the Youth Tobacco Prevention section at www.reynoldsamerican.com.
Employees with suggestions about ways to prevent and/or reduce tobacco use by youth should contact the General Counsel of RAI or the Vice President  Corporate Sustainability of RAI Services Company (RAI Services).
Feel free to talk with your manager, Human Resources, or the Vice President 
Corporate Sustainability of RAI Services if you have questions about the Company's guidelines and policies regarding the prevention of youth tobacco use.
Workplace Behavior
Our behavior defines our workplace. Respect and fairness are the cornerstones required to ensure an inclusive work environment where individual differences are valued.
Every employee is responsible for maintaining a workplace that brings out the best in each other. Discrimination against any employee or applicant based on any legally protected status will not be tolerated. It is important that we all support the achievement of goals set forth in our respective companies'
Affirmative Action Plans.
Our work environment must be safe and secure for all employees, business partners and customers  free from sexual and other types of harassment, violent acts or threats of violence, drugs and alcohol. We also must ensure compliance with all government and company health and safety requirements. RAI and its subsidiaries have set policies regarding human resources matters
 which can be found on your company's employee intranet site. You are responsible for reading, understanding and complying with these human resources policies and practices.
 
con?icts of
interest
What to Know About
Conflicts of Interest
Gifts
Entertainment
Customers Potential and Customers
Personal Financial Interests
Outside Employment
Outside or Officer Service as a Director
Conflicts of Interest
Q. I want to take a second job to make some extra money.
Is this okay?
A. Your first responsibility is to maintain your effectiveness and efficiency in your regular job duties. For instance, if overtime and ?weekend work is part of your job requirement, then you must be sure that the second job does not interfere with these responsibilities. In a situation where the other employer is an actual or potential competitor, supplier or customer of the Company, there is a potential conflict of interest. This circumstance should be discussed with your supervisor prior to taking the second job.
Q. As a project manager, I am responsible for hiring outside consultants to complete various projects. My cousin is a subcontractor to one of the consultants I'm considering. He is well qualified to do the work and has a strong reputation in his field.
Can I hire him?
A. This is a conflict of interest for you because of the family relationship. In practical terms, this situation presents two problems. First, other consultants could claim they were not treated fairly because of the family relationship. Second, it may be difficult for you to address performance problems on the project if it harms your cousin's interests. Discuss the situation with your manager and remove yourself from the decision-making process.
 
What Conflicts to Know of Interest About
Avoid activities at work and in your personal life that are at odds or appear to be at odds with the interests of the Company. Misusing company resources and influence are prohibited. Even when nothing wrong has been done, the appearance of a conflict can have a negative impact.
Examples of Potential Conflicts of Interest:
 -  An employee or a close relation of an employee has an interest in a company that does business with the Company.
 -  An employee engages in any personal business transaction involving the
Company for profit or gain.
 -  An employee discovers a business opportunity through his or her work with the Company and pursues the opportunity or discloses it to a third party.
 -  An employee or close relation of an employee receives improper personal benefits as a result of his or her position with the Company.
 -  An employee dates or becomes romantically involved with his or her supervisor or someone he or she supervises, directly or indirectly. This can disrupt the workplace and create a possible conflict of interest.
 -  An employee engages in outside employment or serves as an officer, director, partner or consultant of another organization.
 -  An employee accepts gifts, gratuities or entertainment from individuals or companies that do business or want to do business with the Company.
Not sure if an activity is a conflict of interest? Talk to your supervisor, Human Resources or the Director of the Office of Ethics and Compliance about the issue.
Gifts
Gifts can be used by customers and competitors to influence business decisions that relate to them. Gifts include merchandise and products, personal services, and tickets to sporting or other events.
What to Do
Do not solicit gifts, gratuities or other personal benefits or favors of any kind from any person or business organization that does or seeks to do business with our Company.
Do not accept gifts in any form that would induce or obligate you to give special consideration to the person or company making the gift.
Do not accept gifts of cash or cash equivalents, such as gift certificates or gift cards.
You are discouraged from accepting unsolicited gifts.
Unsolicited, non-monetary gifts that are not excessive in value may be acceptable  provided the gift or business courtesy is consistent with marketplace practices, infrequent in nature and is not lavish or extravagant.
Gifts of more than nominal value must be reported to your immediate supervisor to determine whether they can be accepted. In certain situations, returns of gifts with more than nominal value can result in awkward business situations. In such situations, the employee should discuss with his or her supervisor and the Director of the Office of Ethics and Compliance the propriety of keeping the gift versus donating it to charity or turning it over to the Company. Disposition of the gift should be documented.
In some countries it is lawful and customary for business leaders to give unsolicited gifts to employees. These gifts can be of more than nominal value.
Only the General Counsel of RAI can authorize the receiving of such gifts. The recipient may be required to transfer ownership of the gift to the Company or pay the Company the reasonable value of the gift.
 
Entertainment
Customers or competitors may also use entertainment to influence business decisions in their favor. This can take the form of activities like dinner parties, theater parties and sporting events.
What to Do
You may not encourage or solicit entertainment from any individual or company with whom our Company does business.
What to Watch Out For
It's difficult to define "lavish" or "extravagant" by means of a specific dollar amount, but a good rule of thumb is to remember that the gift, courtesy or entertainment should not be something that would cause either the employee or the Company embarrassment if it were publicly disclosed.
Unsolicited entertainment may be accepted only under the following conditions:
 -  It occurs infrequently;
 -  It arises in the ordinary course of business;
 -  It involves reasonable, not lavish, expenditures. The amount involved should not be more than an employee would normally spend for his or her own business or personal entertainment;
 -  It takes place in settings that also are reasonable, appropriate and fitting to employees, their hosts and their business at hand; and
 -  The employee is not tempted to give, and does not feel obligated to give, any special consideration to the individual or company providing the entertainment.
Customers and Potential Customers
All dealings with customers and potential customers should be fair and aboveboard. The Company obtains business and keeps it because of the quality of its goods and services.
The boundary between ethical and unethical competition, and legal and illegal conduct, is not always well-defined, particularly in international activities where differing local laws, customs and practices come into play or where the
Company may be transacting business with government or quasi-government entities like government monopolies or government-owned enterprises.
What to Do
The Company will not give illegal or unethical rebates, kickbacks, under- the-table payments or other similar improper favors to customers or their representatives.
To help keep all of us on the right side of the line, these standards serve as guidelines:
 -  Make every effort to know and fully comply with all state, federal and international laws governing relations with customers as well as competitors.
 -  Be familiar with the rules and regulations covering relations with public agencies when dealing with government contracts or contracts and dealings with quasi-governmental entities.
 -  Do not make gifts to customers or their employees or representatives, except items of nominal value that fit the normal and customary pattern of the Company's sales efforts for a particular market. Exceptions to this policy must be approved by the General Counsel of RAI.
 -  Entertainment for any customer must fit regular business practices and must involve reasonable, not lavish, expenditures. The entertainment must also take place in settings that are reasonable, appropriate and fitting to our employees, their guests and the business at hand.
 
Personal Financial Interests
When you or a close relation directly or indirectly owns any significant interest in any supplier, customer, vendor, landlord or competitor of the Company, this can create a conflict of interest. A "significant financial interest" is one that represents a material part of the person's net worth or income, or if these business relations with the Company represent a major part of the business of the outside enterprise. An improper financial interest creates or appears to create a conflict of interest with the Company.
What to Do
Avoid any outside financial interests that might influence or appear to influence your corporate decisions or actions.
Significant financial interests must be disclosed to your supervisor and the Office of Ethics and Compliance. If in doubt, ask your supervisor or the Director of the Office of Ethics and Compliance.
Executive officers and directors also must comply with the requirements of RAI's related person transaction approval policy.
Outside Employment
Employment outside of the Company may create a conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest if the activity negatively impacts your performance or puts your interests at odds with the interests of the Company.
What to Do
You should avoid performing work or services for an outside organization that conducts business or seeks to conduct business with the Company.
In addition, you should avoid working for organizations that compete with the Company.
Outside Service as a Director or Officer
Service as a director or officer of another company has the potential to create a conflict of interest.
What to Do
Before accepting a position on the board of directors of another company or a nonprofit organization, thoroughly consider whether it could cause a real or perceived conflict of interest.
If in doubt, consult the General Counsel or Secretary of RAI.
Elected officers cannot serve as a director or officer of any other commercial enterprise without prior written approval from the President and Chief
Executive Officer of RAI.
 
company
information and assets
Insider Trading and Stock Tipping
Trading Blackout Periods
Investor and Media Relations Product Integrity Restricted Information and Privacy Protection Company Funds and Property
Records Management Integrity of Records and Financial Reports
Use of Company Information Technology Resources
Use of Internet/Company Intranet
Electronic Communications Business Continuity
Company Information and Assets
Q. My supervisor has asked me to do some small personal errands and make some personal phone calls for her. Although it is not much, I have my own errands to do at lunch, and I do not feel right making the calls or doing her errands during work time. I'm afraid that if I refuse, it will hurt my relationship with her.
?What should I do?
A. It would be best to have a discussion with your supervisor about not doing her personal business. If that doesn't resolve the situation, or you are uncomfortable discussing it directly with your supervisor, you may want to seek help from Human Resources. Your time is a Company resource and asset, and is not for your supervisor's personal use.
Q. I use the Internet to keep in touch with my son who is away at college. I usually check my personal e-mail during the lunch break. Is this OK?
A. Access to the Internet via Company equipment should not be regularly used for "personal e-mail." However, our Company supports balance in the lives of its employees so, like the telephone, it is reasonable to use the
Internet to keep in touch or make a plan with family or a friend occasionally. Remember, Company e-mail is not personal. Messages can be seen by others and are stored on Company servers.
Be careful about discussing Company business with family and friends, or in public places where others can hear.
 
Insider Trading and Stock Tipping
While working for the Company, you might become aware of material information or inside information about RAI, one of its subsidiaries or another outside company that is not available to the public.
Material information is any information that a reasonable investor would consider important in a decision to buy, hold or sell securities. Inside information is any information about a company or its business activities that is not generally known to the public and could also impact an investor's decision about investing in that company.
Such information could come from your work assignments, from seeing a document or message, or from overhearing a telephone call or cafeteria conversation. Using this information in connection with the purchase or sale of any securities may constitute insider trading under the law and could subject you to civil and criminal penalties, as well as disciplinary action by the Company, including termination of employment. It is illegal to buy or sell the securities of any company when you have material information that is not available to the public. Do not give inside information to an entity or anyone
 relative, friend, or other  who might make financial transactions based on what you tell them.
Helpful Hints
 -  Never buy or sell the securities of RAI or any other company while you are aware of material information not available to the public.
 -  Do not give securities advice or suggestions to anyone about any company, including RAI, while you are aware of inside information.
 -  Keep the Company's information confidential and do not share any information with any outside person or entity unless it is necessary for conducting the Company's business.
 -  The restriction of trading based on inside information includes selling or purchasing RAI stock through the RAI 401k Savings Plan (Savings Plan), or the Puerto Rico Savings & Investment Plan (SIP), and the selling of RAI stock received under the Company's incentive compensation plan.
 -  You may trade in RAI stock after material information has been fully disclosed to the public. Information can be considered public beginning
48 hours after it has been broadly disseminated to the public by means of a press release distributed via a wire service, posted in the Current News section of RAI's web site or in a report filed with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.
 -  Consult with the General Counsel or Secretary of RAI before making any trades or sharing any information if you have access to material nonpublic information.
 
Trading Blackout Periods
To avoid potentially problematic trading during the period immediately prior to RAI's quarterly earnings announcements, employees at Level 9 and above and other employees with access to RAI's earnings information are not permitted to purchase or sell RAI stock during the "trading blackout period." This blackout period begins on the 15th day of the last month of a calendar quarter and ends 48 hours after RAI's public release of its earnings statement for that quarter.
A waiver of the trading blackout restriction may be granted to an employee
(other than an executive officer) by the General Counsel or Secretary of RAI after making a determination that such employee does not possess any material nonpublic information about the Company and is facing a financial hardship, or that such transactions will occur in accordance with a stock trading plan that has been approved by the General Counsel or Secretary of RAI.
The General Counsel or Secretary of RAI is required to report any waivers granted during a trading blackout period to the Chair of the Audit and Finance
Committee of the Board of Directors of RAI.
The trading blackout restriction also applies to the RAI Common Stock Fund in the Savings Plan and the SIP. Accordingly, if a covered employee reallocates funds in the Savings Plan or the SIP within the trading blackout period, the percentage of funds invested in the RAI Common Stock Fund must remain the same throughout the trading blackout period.
You may not engage in put or call options, short selling or similar hedging activities involving RAI stock.
Having a trading blackout period does not mean that there is an unrestricted open window for trading in RAI stock at any other time.
The prohibition against trading based on material nonpublic information applies at all times to all directors and employees.
Investor and Media Relations
Disclosure of any material, nonpublic information regarding RAI or its subsidiaries must be coordinated and approved by the appropriate members of senior management, including Finance, Public Affairs, Law and Investor Relations. All employees involved with the disclosure of such information are expected to follow RAI's policies and practices as they apply to fair disclosure to ensure that such information is properly disclosed in compliance with applicable government regulations. All inquiries by the investment community should be directed to Investor Relations.
If you receive a request or inquiry from a member of the news media for information concerning the Company or the Company's position on an issue, refer the request to the Communications department of RAI Services.
Product Integrity
The quality and integrity of the products manufactured and marketed by RAI's operating companies are of the utmost importance. Each of RAI's operating companies must adhere to legal, regulatory and product quality requirements and to numerous quality assurance policies and procedures designed to promote product quality and to safeguard the integrity of all products. In addition, each operating company continuously implements numerous security controls to minimize any risk of product tampering.
You are expected to comply at all times with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements and all policies, procedures and other controls adopted to promote product quality and to safeguard product integrity.
 
If you become aware of, or have a reasonable suspicion of, any activity or conduct that threatens product quality or integrity, you are obligated to immediately report the activity or conduct to your supervisor, Corporate
Security, the General Counsel of RAI or the Director of the Office of Ethics and Compliance. Reports of this nature also can be made to the EthicsLine anonymous reporting resource at 1-800-500-0333.
Restricted and Privacy Information Protection
You have a responsibility to protect confidential and proprietary Company information  also known as restricted information. This responsibility applies both during and after employment.
Restricted information includes, but is not limited to:
 -  Strategic planning information, nonpublic business results, unannounced products or product research, marketing studies and plans, pricing policies or information, sales programs and financial forecasts/results;
 -  Sensitive Personal Information (SPI) of employees, consumers or other individuals consisting of the individual's name in combination with certain data, such as a social security number, employment records, financial account information, payroll or tax information, or medical or health information;
 -  Product ingredients, specifications or formulas, and trade secrets;
 -  Supplier and customer lists;
 -  Any manufacturing process or information related to the equipment used for the process, such as a pattern or design;
 -  Shareholder information;
 -  Nonpublic information about products or services; and
 -  Passwords/PINs.
You are expected to maintain the integrity of all restricted information under your control, including information maintained by third party business partners. Never disclose the information without written authorization or unless it is necessary to conduct your business responsibilities.
The collection, use and online transmission of personal data also is frequently regulated by specific laws. In short, if you wouldn't want it shared about you, then you shouldn't share that information about others. The policies and procedures for protecting the Company's restricted information can be found on your company's employee intranet site.
If in doubt about whether to release restricted information or about the conditions for releasing it, consult your supervisor, Information Management Security or the General Counsel of RAI. If restricted information is lost or disclosed to an unauthorized recipient, or suspected of being lost or disclosed to an unauthorized recipient, you must notify your supervisor and Information Management Security at 1-336-741-5713 or 1-800-822-2011.
 
Company Funds and Property
You are responsible for safeguarding and making proper and efficient use of Company funds and property by following established procedures to prevent loss, theft or unauthorized use. Be accountable for Company funds and revenues and the related records under your control.
Spend Company funds for products and services only in accordance with the Company's established policies and procedures, as well as any applicable law.
Ensure that Company resources  whether time, material, equipment, or funds  are used only for legal, ethical and proper purposes that directly benefit the
Company and its shareholders.
Immediately report any actual or suspected loss, damage, misuse, theft, embezzlement or destruction of Company funds or property to Corporate
Security or to the Company officer in charge of the functional area to which the employee is assigned. Reports can also be made to the Director of the
Office of Ethics and Compliance or to the EthicsLine.
When you are away from your workspace, always make sure to follow the Company's secure desk and office policy  which can be found on your company's employee intranet site.
Records Management
Proper treatment of the Company's corporate records and documents is important. The records management program and policies of the Company are designed to meet the mandatory retention requirements of domestic and international governmental regulatory agencies and to ensure that appropriate records are retained for the orderly and efficient conduct of business.
Document retention guidelines also are designed and issued to ensure that the Company is able to meet any legal obligations to preserve and produce documents in connection with litigation requirements.
You must comply with Company document retention guidelines, as well as all other aspects of the records management program and policies reflected in the policies for RAI and its subsidiaries  which can be found on your company's employee intranet site.
 
Integrity and Financial of Records Reports
Respect the integrity of the Company's financial record keeping and reporting systems at all times.You are responsible for ensuring the accuracy of all Company records, information and accounts. The consideration or use of "off-the-books" record keeping, secretaccounts, unrecorded bank accounts, "slush" funds, falsified books or anyother devices that could be used to distort records or reports of the Company's true operating results and financial conditions is strictly prohibited.
No false or artificial entries may be made in the records of the Company for any reason, and no payment on behalf of the Company may be approved or made with the intention or understanding that any part of such payment is to be used for any purpose other than that described by the documents supporting the payment. Maintenance of falsified, inaccurate or incomplete records can subject the offending individual and the Company to civil and criminal penalties.
It is legally required, as well as essential to the success of our businesses, that full, fair, accurate, timely and understandable disclosures be made in all financial statements, reports and documents submitted to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, and in all other public communications made by the Company. All individuals who prepare, contribute to, assist in the preparation of or approve such reports and communications must strictly adhere to the following guidelines:
 -  All accounting records and reports produced from such records must be prepared and maintained in accordance with applicable laws, rules and regulations.
 -  All records and reports must fairly and accurately reflect the transactions or occurrences to which they relate.
 -  All records and reports must fairly and accurately reflect the Company's assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses.
 -  The Company's accounting records must not contain any false or intentionally misleading entries.
 -  No transactions may be intentionally misclassified as to accounts, departments or accounting periods.
 -  All transactions must be supported by accurate documentation in reasonable detail and recorded in the proper account and in the proper accounting period.
 -  No false or misleading statement may be made to, and no fact may be concealed from, an internal or external auditor in connection with the audit, review or examination of Company financial statements or the preparation of any document or report filed with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.
 -  No action may be taken by any person to coerce, manipulate, mislead, or fraudulently influence an internal or external auditor engaged in the performance of an audit or review of the Company's financial statements.
 -  Compliance with the Company's system of internal accounting controls is required at all times.
Anyone who receives, uses or disburses corporate funds as a part of his or her job has a special obligation to follow established procedures to ensure proper use and recording of such funds. These procedures are designed to protect the employee as well as the Company's assets.
Report any suspected misconduct, illegal activities, fraud or abuse relating to the Company's accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing matters to your management, Human Resources, or the General Auditor or General
Counsel of RAI.
You may also report this information (anonymously, if desired) to the
EthicsLine by calling 1-800-500-0333 or directly to the Chair of the
Audit and Finance Committee of RAI's Board of Directors by sending a detailed note, with any relevant documents, addressed to Chair of Audit and Finance Committee, P. O. Box 2990, Winston-Salem, North Carolina 27102-2990. The Company's Whistleblower Policy can be found in the
Governance section at www.reynoldsamerican.com.
Use Technology of Company Resources Information
The Company depends upon the ongoing availability, integrity and confidentiality of the information and services provided by its information technology resources. Company information technology resources include information, the Company network, software, hardware, and the premises where information technology processing takes place.
You are responsible for ensuring that all information subject to your control or use, wherever it is stored, is protected from unauthorized access, alteration or destruction. In addition, you are personally responsible for all activities originating from the use of your User ID (LAN ID) and/or computer system. This includes responsibility for all messages (including e-mail), commands, programs, software or files that you originate or cause to be downloaded via the Internet. If you are using a Company network you are responsible for complying with copyright or licensing laws associated with any programs, files, software or information.
You are also responsible for documents stored under your control. This includes data confidentiality, integrity, retention (including litigation holds and compliance with existing preservation orders) and access authorization. Company electronic communications systems are not encrypted by default. If restricted information must be sent outside the Company by electronic means, you must use encryption or similar technologies to protect the information.
Encryption guidelines and information can be found in the Information Management policies and procedures on your company's employee intranet site. You may contact Information Management Security personnel to help ensure that the data is sent securely.
The Company reserves the right to audit and to monitor any systems, electronic messages and files that originate, terminate or pass through a
Company network, at any time and without notice.
Deliberately circumventing ("hacking") security of any controls, computer, network or an Internet site is strictly prohibited. You must alert Information Management Security at 1-336-741-5713 or 1-800-822-2011 regarding any known security violations. The only authorized means of accessing the Internet from a Company network is through the firewall and service provider supplied by the Company.
Use of Internet/Company Intranet
In accessing the Internet, you represent the Company in a public forum, and therefore, proper conduct is expected. The use of the Internet is a privilege, not a right, and may be revoked at any time. Company Internet/Intranet facilities, as well as other
Company information technology resources, should never be used for any purpose or in any manner that is contrary to Company business purposes.
Examples of improper Internet conduct
Improper conduct includes, but is not limited to, the following examples:
 -  Unauthorized disclosure of restricted Company information;
 -  The use of abusive, threatening or offensive language in public or private messages;
 -  Actions that violate the Company's policies and guidelines regarding youth tobacco use prevention;
 -  Unauthorized sharing or distribution of proprietary information or information protected by copyright;
 -  Actions that could cause congestion, delay, or disruption of service to any corporate system or network, such as downloading/viewing large on-line videos, listening to on-line music or transmitting chain letters/unauthorized mass mailings;
 -  Use of unauthorized devices or software to access or store Company information, such as the use of personal e-mail accounts (Yahoo, Gmail, AOL) to send and receive business related e-mails or the use of unapproved Internet apps/tools for business purposes;
 -  Downloading, transmitting or creating any messages, material or images that could be construed as harassment or discrimination on the basis of age, race, religion, disability, national origin, gender or any other illegal basis such as sexually or racially offensive material;
 -  Operating a personal business through Company resources; and
 -  Unapproved use of social media and other similar Internet-based communication technologies to discuss or comment on Company business, whether you are at or away from the workplace, or any other actions that violate the
Company's social media policy  which can be found in the Information Management policies and procedures on your company's employee intranet site.
Electronic Communications
Electronic communications such as electronic mail, or e-mail, voice mail and all message content must conform to all Company policies and practices, including those relating to non-discrimination, harassment and the safeguarding of restricted information. Electronic messages should never be used for any purpose or in any manner that is contrary to
Company business purposes.
The information contained within all electronic communication systems is Company property. The Company reserves the right to access, retain and disclose at any time all communications transmitted or received, and you have no personal privacy rights or expectation of privacy with respect to any materials created, received or sent using the Company systems.
The storage of electronic messages incurs significant cost. Therefore, it is your responsibility to maintain only those messages required to conduct Company business, including conformance with legal, regulatory and/or statutory retention requirements.
Business Continuity
In the event of a natural disaster or other business interruption, the Company's business continuity planning provides for the recovery and restoration of all critical operations. The business continuity program and policies of the Company are designed to help ensure that appropriate plans are in place.
Understand your role in the execution of your functional plan as well as the policies and procedures of the Company reflected in your company's policies and practices. The overall goal is to ensure that the Company can protect employees, critical business functions and meet customer expectations.
legal
compliance
Regulation of Tobacco Products
Advertising and Marketing
Antitrust Laws
Environment, Health and Safety
Government and Attorney Inquiries International Business
Bribery and Anti-Corruption Laws Anti-Boycott Laws Use of Agents and Non-Employees Export Against Controls Certain and Countries U.S. Embargoes
Legal Compliance
Q. After approval by RAI's General Counsel, you engage an agent to help you enter the market in another country. The agent tells you that to secure the contract you must give him the equivalent of a few hundred dollars which he will use to "make sure all the proper officials think highly of you." He says it is the way ?business is done in this country. Can you make the payment?
A. No. Contact RAI's General Counsel to disclose the agent's request. A payment (or even the promise to pay) to a foreign official to improperly influence a purchasing decision violates the United States
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and may violate the foreign country's laws which prohibit bribes.
If you have an ethical or legal dilemma, talk to your supervisor, Human Resources or the Director of the Office of Ethics and Compliance.
Regulation of Tobacco Products
Compliance with the regulatory requirements of the U.S. Food and
Drug Administration (FDA) is of the utmost importance to RAI and its subsidiaries.
The enactment of the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control
Act (FDA Tobacco Act) in 2009 gave the FDA authority to regulate tobacco products. The FDA Tobacco Act contains many provisions that regulate the registration, manufacture, distribution, and marketing of tobacco products. RAI and its subsidiaries are committed to complying with the FDA Tobacco Act and
FDA regulations pertaining to tobacco. To that end, RAI and its subsidiaries have taken significant steps to incorporate compliance into their respective business practices through the development of compliance processes and the education and training of their respective employees.
Advertising and Marketing
All employees must adhere to the advertising and marketing policies and guidelines of their individual operating companies.
R.J. Reynolds and Santa Fe employees follow the provisions of the Master Settlement Agreement (MSA), which was signed in November 1998 by the major U.S. tobacco companies. The MSA sets forth restrictions regarding the advertising, promotion or marketing of tobacco products, and all employees are responsible for abiding by these restrictions.
Important points from the MSA, as well as the full text, are available in the Youth Tobacco Prevention  Responsible Marketing section of R.J. Reynolds' web site at www.rjrt.com.
In addition to adhering to the provisions of the MSA, these companies also continue to follow certain rules as stated in the voluntary Cigarette Advertising and Promotion Code.
The voluntary Cigarette Advertising and Promotion Code is also available in the Youth Tobacco Prevention  Responsible Marketing section at www.rjrt.com.
American Snuff Company employees must adhere to the tobacco marketing policies and procedures described in the Company Practices  Responsible
Marketing section at www.americansnuffco.com.
Employees also must follow all other policies of their specific company related to the advertising and marketing of its products.
Antitrust Laws
Generally, the antitrust laws seek to require companies to compete vigorously and independently at all times.
The antitrust laws are a complex and difficult subject, and the Code does not attempt to list all conduct, or the outer boundaries of conduct, which may
or may not be permissible under the antitrust laws. All employees, however, should become aware of the types of situations that present potential antitrust problems when they arise. Described below are basic antitrust do's and don'ts, which are intended to help you understand basic antitrust principles and to recognize situations in which the advice of the Law department's antitrust counsel should be sought.
The basic antitrust do's and don'ts cannot address every potential antitrust issue. Accordingly, any time you have a question or concern regarding a business situation or the antitrust laws, you should consult with the Law department's antitrust counsel.
Basic Antitrust Do's and Don'ts
 -  Do not enter into any kind of agreement, or even any discussion, with any competitor with respect to topics such as prices, profits, costs, terms of sale, production, territories or customers. Do not enter into any kind of agreement or even any discussion with any competitor not to do business or to limit business with a particular buyer or seller. Do not get involved in circumstances that may provide or suggest the appearance of an agreement with a competitor. Do nothing that you would feel uncomfortable seeing reported on the front page of a trade paper or a newspaper.
 -  Do not obtain competitively sensitive information (particularly price information) about competitors directly from competitors.
 -  Do consult with the Law department's antitrust counsel before attending meetings with competitors (including trade association meetings).
 -  Do not attend meetings with competitors (including trade association gatherings) at which prices, markets, customers or other topics relating to competitively sensitive information are discussed. Do immediately remove yourself from any meeting with competitors at which prices or any of the other foregoing subjects are discussed and make your departure from the meeting or discussion sufficiently obvious so that those who are present will be likely to recall the departure. Do advise the Law department's antitrust counsel immediately after you attend any meeting where any of those subjects are discussed.
 -  Do respect your customers' independence. Do not impose restraints on your customers' ability to resell our operating companies' products without the prior approval of the Law department's antitrust counsel.
 -  Do not enter into any agreement, understanding or discussion with any customer concerning our operating companies' dealings with other customers, including at what prices and terms our operating companies sell to those other customers.
 -  Do not offer different customers different prices, discounts, or other terms of sale; other allowances; or other programs unless you have the approval of the Law department's antitrust counsel to do so.
Environment, Health and Safety
The Company complies with all applicable environmental, health and safety regulations, and requires that employees comply as well.
RAI and its subsidiaries also seek to reduce the overall environmental impact of the companies' activities; and promote energy conservation and waste management across the RAI companies. Protecting the environment and finding ways to reduce the impact on our environment makes good business sense.
RAI and its subsidiaries are committed to conducting our business operations in a responsible manner that protects the occupational health and safety of our employees. Our companies believe in fostering a safety culture where employees own and act on safety concerns and consider safety an essential part of their business role.
Employees looking for more information about environmental sustainability and employee responsibility initiatives are encouraged to review the Transforming
Tobacco  Commercial Integrity section at www.reynoldsamerican.com.
Government and Attorney Inquiries
The Company sometimes receives inquiries from government agencies and departments. These inquiries may take the form of letters, telephone calls or personal visits. We comply with all applicable laws and cooperate with any reasonable requests for information from federal, state and local governments. However, in doing so, it is important that the legal rights of the Company and its employees be preserved and protected.
When a request for information is received from any government branch, agency or department, or attorney who represents parties other than the
Company, the General Counsel of RAI or his designee should be notified promptly, before any response or acknowledgment is made. No employee should answer any question, submit to any interview, produce any
Company information or hold any discussion or conversation with any government representative before consulting with the General Counsel of RAI or his designee.
International Business
Although RAI is a U.S.-based company, its operating companies conduct business in all regions of the world. RAI's operating companies conduct their international business activities in strict compliance with all applicable laws, including both U.S. and non-U.S. laws.
Many countries have different laws, regulations and business practices than those of the United States. As a result, situations may arise where non-U.S. laws or business practices, U.S. laws, or our Company policies and procedures are in conflict. In these instances you should consult with the Law department's international trade counsel.
Additional guidance can be found in the Company's International Trade Compliance Manual on your company's employee intranet site.
Bribery and Anti-Corruption Laws
Bribery and anti-corruption laws around the world prohibit the making of improper payments to gain a business advantage. Violations of such laws can subject the Company and the individuals involved to criminal prosecution, fines and imprisonment. RAI and its subsidiaries expressly prohibit making such improper payments to anyone, anywhere in the world, for any reason.
Two of the more significant bribery and anti-corruption laws are the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and the United Kingdom Bribery Act of 2010 (UK Bribery Act).
Direct or indirect payments or offers to make payments of money or anything of value to foreign officials, political parties, party officials or political candidates for the purpose of influencing an official act or decision, or securing an improper advantage, in order to obtain or retain business for the Company or its subsidiaries violate the FCPA and may also violate local laws outside the
United States. In addition, the FCPA requires the Company to maintain proper internal controls, and keep accurate books and records of all its transactions. The FCPA applies to employees and to consultants hired by the Company to facilitate business in any country outside the United States.
The UK Bribery Act not only broadly prohibits all forms of offering or accepting bribes for purposes of obtaining or retaining a business advantage, but also punishes the failure to prevent bribes. In contrast to the FCPA, the UK Bribery Act covers not only the bribery of foreign public officials, but also private individuals, and applies to any UK company or citizen, anywhere in the world, as well as any conduct taking place in the UK.
Anti-Boycott Laws
The Company complies with anti-boycott provisions around the world. Employees and agents of the Company may not, by law, support or cooperate with an unsanctioned boycott of another country that is "friendly" to the United States. In the United States, specific export administration regulations and anti-boycott rules must be followed to help ensure that U.S. firms do not assist in implementing foreign policies of other nations that run counter to
U.S. policy.
The Company must report to the U.S. government any information(about which it has knowledge) concerning a request to support an unsanctionedforeign boycott. Any employee who receives a request to take any action in support of an unsanctioned foreign boycott must report such request to the General Counsel of RAI.
Use of Agents and Non-Employees
Agents or other non-employees cannot be used to circumvent the law. Employees and supervisors should not retain agents or other representatives to engage in practices that run contrary to the Code of Conduct. Prior written approval of the General Counsel of RAI is required before entering into an agency arrangement outside the United States.
Export Against Controls Certain Countries and U.S. Embargoes
The Company and all its employees are prohibited or severely restricted from exporting to, or entering into transactions with, countries or nationals of countries embargoed by the U.S. government. The restrictions extend to specific individuals, entities and foreign governments identified by the U.S. government and apply to all transactions, including exports, imports, contracts, financing, payments and services.
U.S. embargoes can change in response to shifts in national foreign policy.
All exports must undergo required export compliance screening procedures prior to shipment and payment. Violation of these laws could subject you and the Company to criminal prosecution. Since these regulations are very complicated and since the countries, individuals and entities to which they apply may change, please consult the Law department's international trade counsel for information.
If you have questions about the FCPA, the UK Bribery Act, the U.S. Anti-boycott laws, the U.S. Embargo Against Certain Countries, or if your job responsibilities require that you fully understand these topics, you should consult with your immediate supervisor or the Law department's international trade counsel.
Additional guidance can be found in the Company's International Trade Compliance Manual on your company's employee intranet site.
political
activities contributions and
Company Contributions Personal Contributions
Dealings with Public Officials
Political Activities and Contributions
Q. I have been asked to endorse a candidate for local office in my official capacity with the Company. What should I do?
A. Although the Company supports employees who wish to participate in civic affairs, we must always keep our personal politics separate from our professional identities. Our Company never ?endorses political candidates, and we must all be sure that any endorsements we give are purely personal and that our Company name is never used.
Company Contributions
Federal law and the statutes of many states limit or prohibit the Company from contributing money, services, facilities or anything of value to political candidates or political parties. U.S. law also prohibits similar contributions to foreign political parties, officials or candidates for political office for the purpose of influencing any act or decision of such political party or candidate or inducing such candidate or political party to use his or her/its influence with a foreign government or instrumentality in order to assist in obtaining or retaining business. The laws of some states allow the Company to contribute to candidates for state or local elective office or to a campaign committee established to support or oppose a ballot issue.
The Company has established specific policies and procedures that must be followed before a corporate political contribution can be made. Contributions must be approved by the Executive Vice President  Public Affairs and the appropriate attorney in the Law department in accordance with these policies and procedures.
Federal and certain state laws permit corporate funds to be used in the formation and the administration of Political Action Committees, or PACs, which can receive voluntary political contributions from eligible employees and their families. All such voluntary contributions received must be accounted for in separate, segregated funds, strictly apart from those of the Company. No corporate action, direct or indirect, will be allowed that infringes on the right of any employee individually to decide whether, to whom and in what amount, he or she will make personal political contributions. The same is true of voluntary political donations of personal service time, so long as it does not interfere with the duties of your employment by the Company.
Personal Contributions
You are free to participate in personal political activities. Make it clear that you are acting in an individual capacity and not on behalf of the Company when participating in partisan political activities. Participate in these activities on your own time.
Dealings with Public Officials
The nature of the businesses of the Company's operating companies requires them to be in contact with public officials in the United States and foreign countries on a variety of matters. These contacts take place against a background of laws and regulations. There is a high level of public interest in dealings by business with public officials. Employees who regularly make these contacts have special responsibilities for upholding the Company's good name and relationships with public officials.
You should be aware that there are corporate policies and procedures that may require coordination with RAI's Executive Vice President  Public Affairs and the General Counsel of RAI prior to contacting public officials. Many government entities have enacted formal, published codes of conduct and regulations which apply to elected and appointed government officials and their staffs, as well as to various other government employees such as government investigators and those involved in negotiating and overseeing government contracts. Those who deal with members or employees of such entities should familiarize themselves with the relevant codes.
What standards generally govern your contact with public officials?
 -  Be familiar with and obey the lobbying laws and public disclosure requirements.
 -  Some types of contact with public officials, like lobbying, require special record keeping and the filing of reports that may be made public by the government entities receiving them. Any employee whose job requires contact with public officials must be aware of all applicable record keeping and other requirements before contacting officials. If you feel you may need to contact public officials, you should first contact RAI's Executive
Vice President  Public Affairs.
 -  Do not make any form of payment, direct or indirect, to any public official as inducement to having a law or regulation enacted, defeated or violated.
 -  When not prohibited by law or public officials' codes of conduct, you may make gifts to public officials within any legal or code guidelines, provided that the presentation and acceptance of such gifts is open and aboveboard, customary for the occasion and a normal business practice. Such gifts cannot be for the purpose of corruptly influencing the recipient. All such gifts shall be of nominal or reasonable value, and questions as to value should be referred to the Executive Vice President  Public Affairs of RAI.
Any proposed gift must be approved in advance by the Executive Vice
President  Public Affairs of RAI. Such gifts must be presented in a manner that clearly identifies the Company and the occasion that warrants the presentation.
 -  On special ceremonial occasions, senior officers of the Company may publicly give gifts of more than nominal value to public institutions and public bodies. Such gifts can commemorate special events or milestones in the Company's history, such as the dedication of a new facility. These may be transmitted through public officials, but the gifts are given to the public institutions and public groups they represent, not the officials personally.
 -  From time to time, within the scope of your job responsibilities, it may be appropriate for you to entertain public officials. Before you entertain any public official, you must be aware of what is allowed by applicable laws and regulations. Some states and localities specifically prohibit such activities. Entertainment, when permitted, can be provided only under the following conditions:
- the entertainment is not for the purpose of corruptly influencing the official;the entertainment is not solicited by the public official;
- the entertainment arises in the ordinary course of business;
- the entertainment does not involve lavish expenditures or excessive frequency, considering the circumstances; and
- the settings and types of entertainment are reasonable, appropriate and fitting to our employees, their guests and the business at hand.
Some public officials with whom we have dealings might be candidates for reelection. In these instances, the corporate standards applicable to the
Company's relationship with political candidates must also be observed.
Specific Requirements for Employees Dealing with Members of Congress, Federal Officials, and Federal Employees
Gifts
With some limited exceptions, Congressional gift rules and the Lobbying
Disclosure Act generally prohibit employers of federal lobbyists like RAI from providing gifts and travel to Members of Congress and Congressional staffers. Furthermore, RAI and each of its in-house federal lobbyists must separately certify twice per year that they have not provided any gift or travel in violation of the Congressional gift rules. As a result of these rules, no director, officer, employee, or agent of RAI may provide anything of value to a Member of Congress, Congressional staffer, or officer or employee of the Executive Branch of the federal government without prior approval from RAI's Executive
Vice President  Public Affairs. The provision of money, goods, or services to any government official at any level in exchange for official action or as a result of official action is strictly prohibited.
Lobbying
Federal lobbying activity is highly regulated and includes actions that attempt to influence Members of Congress, Congressional staff, and certain officers and employees in the Executive Branch of the federal government with respect to legislation, rules, regulations, programs, policies, nominations, and other types of administrative actions. Such activity can take the form of phone calls, e-mails, letters, or face-to-face meetings. Among other things, RAI is required to register as federal lobbyists those employees who engage in certain levels of federal lobbying activity. In addition, RAI must file quarterly lobbying reports and semiannual expenditure and contribution reports and certifications.
Semiannually, registered lobbyists separately also must report certain personal federal political contributions, report certain politically related expenditures, and make gift-rule certifications.
In order to ensure compliance with all applicable federal lobbying laws, employees must confer with the Public Affairs department before conducting federal lobbying activities or hiring an outside lobbyist on behalf of RAI.
Employees are expected to assist RAI in complying with the Lobbying
Disclosure Act by, among other things:
 -  providing timely and good-faith estimates of time spent engaged in lobbying activities;
 -  providing timely and good-faith answers to questionnaires distributed by RAI about lobbying activities;
 -  providing timely and accurate internal certifications distributed by RAI about the Congressional gift rules; and
 -  if one is a registered federal lobbyist, timely and accurately filing the personal semiannual LDA certifications and reports (Form LD-203). Employees having or likely to have interaction with federal officials also will certify that they have read and are familiar with the gift and travel rules of the U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate.
Any employee with additional questions should contact RAI's Public
Affairs department.
?nal
thoughts
Final Thoughts
The Code of Conduct of Reynolds American Inc. requires all employees of RAI and its subsidiaries to report any suspected or observed wrongdoing. This protects the assets and reputation of RAI and its subsidiaries.
The Code is not all-encompassing. If you have questions or concerns, there are several resources available, including your management, the Office of Ethics and Compliance, the Human Resources department, the Law department or the Audit and Finance Committee of RAI's Board of Directors. Familiarize yourself with the Code and the other policies of RAI and your individual company. The Code and other policies will help you recognize wrongdoing and violations.


