FILE:RAI/RAI-8K-20120424081157.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information in this Current Report is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subjected to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
On April 24, 2012, Reynolds American Inc. issued an earnings release announcing its financial results for the three months ended March 31, 2012. A copy of the earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
 
(d) Exhibits.
The following is furnished as an Exhibit to this Report.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: April 24, 2012
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Reynolds American Inc.
P.O. Box 2990
Winston-Salem, NC 27102-2990
 
 
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.  April. 24, 2012
 
 
Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI) today announced first-quarter 2012 adjusted EPS of $0.63, down 1.6 percent from the prior-year quarter as higher pricing and productivity improvements were offset by cigarette volume declines. Adjusted results exclude a charge of $0.16 per share for a restructuring charge related to the completion of the comprehensive business analysis. First-quarter reported EPS was $0.47, down 27.7 percent, driven by the restructuring charge.
RAI reaffirmed adjusted EPS guidance for 2012 in the range of $2.91 to $3.01, up 3.6 percent to 7.1 percent. This guidance excludes the restructuring charge.
 
 
Overview
"RAI and its operating companies demonstrated underlying strength and resilience in a challenging first quarter, and we remain on track to deliver full-year adjusted EPS growth in the mid- to high-single digits," said Daniel M. Delen, president and chief executive officer. "Our operating companies continue to focus on balancing market share and profitability, and their broad range of tobacco products at different price points offers a distinct advantage in this highly competitive environment."
First-quarter highlights include:
 
 
 
During the first quarter, the company conducted a comprehensive review of key programs and activities at RAI, RAI Services Company and most departments within R.J. Reynolds. This analysis resulted in cost savings and a reallocation of resources to areas of the businesses that offer the best potential for growth.
"Our industry is transforming and we intend to maintain our growth momentum," Delen said. "Despite the intense competitive environment in the first quarter, we have the financial resources and employees aligned behind the right programs and processes. This gives our operating companies the flexibility to move quickly to take advantage of marketplace opportunities as they present themselves, while allowing them to further develop product innovations and strong brands as platforms for long-term growth."
RJR Tobacco
RJR Tobacco's first-quarter adjusted operating income declined by 0.3 percent from the prior-year quarter, to $516 million, with combined growth-brand gains and higher pricing offset by cigarette volume declines. Adjusted results exclude a restructuring charge of $138 million.
The company's first-quarter adjusted operating margin increased 1.2 percentage points to 31.6 percent on the strength of improved premium mix, higher pricing and productivity improvements.
RJR Tobacco's first-quarter cigarette shipment volume declined 5.8 percent from the prior-year quarter, compared with the industry volume decline of 4.0 percent. The company's shipment volume was negatively impacted by high levels of competitive promotional activities in the quarter, and by lower wholesale inventory levels.
RJR Tobacco's first-quarter cigarette market share was 26.8 percent, down 1.2 percentage points from the prior-year quarter. The decline was driven by losses on the company's non-growth value brands.
 
RJR Tobacco's growth brands, Camel and Pall Mall, gained a combined 0.1 share point over the prior-year quarter, to 16.9 percent.
Camel delivered solid performance in the first quarter, with volume growth of 4.4 percent. The brand's market share increased 0.1 percentage points, to 8.4 percent.
Camel's position in the premium menthol cigarette market continued to build momentum in the first quarter, benefitting from the expansion of Camel Crush's second style  Camel Crush Bold. Camel's menthol styles, which use R.J. Reynolds' innovative capsule technology, increased their market share by 0.6 percentage points from the prior-year quarter, to 2.7 percent.
Camel SNUS, the best-selling brand of snus in the U.S., continued to make good progress in the growing snus category. Camel SNUS is broadening the brand's appeal with this month's expansion of its Mint offering to select retail outlets. Camel SNUS Mint, which has performed very well in its initial Minneapolis / St. Paul market since its introduction in the first quarter of 2011, offers adult tobacco consumers spit-free and smoke-free convenience in a traditional mint style.
"As trends in tobacco use change, Camel is transforming by offering adult tobacco consumers innovative smoke-free tobacco products such as Camel SNUS Mint, giving them the freedom to enjoy tobacco on their own terms," Delen said.
Pall Mall, the nation's best-selling value brand, delivered stable market share performance compared with the prior-year quarter, at 8.5 percent, while volume declined 5.2 percent.
Pall Mall's "longer-lasting" proposition and its affordable price continue to attract interest from value-conscious adult tobacco consumers. RJR Tobacco is focused on building Pall Mall, while balancing the brand's share and profit growth amid significant competition from other value brands, as well as value-priced line extensions on competitive premium brands that sell at or below Pall Mall's price.
American Snuff
American Snuff's first-quarter operating income was $84 million, down 3.8 percent from the adjusted prior-year quarter. This comparison reflects an operating-income contribution of approximately $5 million from Lane, Limited in the prior-year quarter before that company was sold at the end of February 2011. Adjusted prior-year results exclude $2 million in implementation costs.
The company's first-quarter operating margin increased 0.7 percentage points from the adjusted prior-year quarter, to 53.2 percent.
"I'm pleased to report that American Snuff's underlying performance was strong in the first quarter, driven by robust growth in its flagship Grizzly brand despite the highly competitive market environment," Delen said.
 
American Snuff's growth in first-quarter moist-snuff volume again outpaced the industry, increasing 7.6 percent from the prior-year quarter. This compares to growth in industry moist-snuff shipments of about 5 percent.
Beginning this year, the company has moved to Information Resources Inc./Capstone for moist-snuff market share data. Management believes that this measure will better reflect actual retail share performance. The company's first-quarter moist-snuff market share increased 1.9 percentage points from the prior-year quarter, to 32.2 percent.
Driving this growth was the continued success of the Grizzly brand, which increased first-quarter shipment volume by 9.4 percent. The brand's first-quarter market share increased 2.2 percentage points, to 28.7 percent.
Grizzly continued to build momentum from the investment in new retail contracts that were introduced in the first quarter last year, as well as from the expertise of R.J. Reynolds' larger field-trade marketing organization, which now serves American Snuff. "These changes have strengthened Grizzly's product distribution and retail presence, and enable Grizzly to better compete at retail," Delen said.
Grizzly, the best-selling moist-snuff brand in the U.S., is transforming its offerings in the growing Natural segment, with the recent introduction of new packaging that conveys the premium quality and value of the brand's five Premium Natural styles. "The Natural style represents 30 percent of the moist-snuff market, and offers good growth opportunity for Grizzly," Delen said.
Santa Fe
Santa Fe increased operating income by 6.3 percent from the adjusted prior-year quarter, to $45 million, driven by volume and pricing gains in the company's powerful Natural American Spirit brand.
The company's first-quarter operating margin was down 1.0 percentage points from the adjusted prior-year quarter, at 45.0 percent.
Santa Fe delivered modest volume growth in the quarter, as shipment volumes were negatively impacted by the company's shift to a more efficient integrated supply chain. This change resulted in a reduction of the company's inventory levels in the quarter.
However, on a consumer off-take basis, Natural American Spirit continued to deliver strong growth with first-quarter market share gaining 0.2 percentage points from the prior-year quarter, to 1.1 percent.
"Natural American Spirit continues to lead the way in the super-premium cigarette category," Delen said. "Driving this success is an intensely loyal franchise, and a unique product and brand appeal."
 
"Reynolds American delivered solid results in a challenging environment," said Thomas R. Adams, RAI's chief financial officer. "We remain confident in our companies' key brands and business strategies, and are maintaining RAI's adjusted EPS guidance of $2.91 to $3.01, excluding the charge for restructuring."
Reynolds American's first-quarter adjusted EPS was $0.63, down $0.01 from the prior-year quarter as cigarette volume declines offset higher pricing and productivity gains. This comparison was also negatively impacted by the sale of Lane, as well as favorable tax items, in the prior-year quarter. Adjusted results exclude a charge of $0.16 per share related to the restructuring charge.
On a reported basis, first-quarter EPS was $0.47, down 27.7 percent from the prior-year quarter.
However, RAI's first-quarter adjusted operating margin saw solid growth, up 1.0 percentage points from the prior-year quarter, at 32.9 percent.
RAI borrowed $750 million on April 11 under its previously announced term loan agreement. "The company continues to maintain a strong balance sheet and conservative debt levels at very attractive interest rates," Adams said.
Reynolds American ended the quarter with $2.4 billion in cash balances. In mid-April, R.J. Reynolds made its Master Settlement Agreement payment of $1.9 billion, which included $469 million in disputed funds for the 2009 NPM Adjustment. The company now has a total of $3.4 billion in dispute related to the NPM Adjustments for years 2003 through 2009. Arbitration proceedings are under way to resolve the dispute over the 2003 NPM Adjustment of $615 million.
As part of RAI's $2.5 billion share repurchase program initiated late last year, the company repurchased 6.3 million shares for $261 million in the first quarter, bringing total repurchases to date to 13.1 million shares for $537 million.
Reynolds American will webcast a conference call to discuss first-quarter 2012 results at 9:00 a.m. Eastern Time on Tuesday, April 24, 2012. The call will be available live online on a listen-only basis. To register for the call, please go to . A replay of the call will be available on the site. Investors, analysts and members of the news media can also listen to the live call by phone, by dialing (877) 390-5533 (toll free) or (678) 894-3969 (international). Remarks made during the conference call will be current at the time of the call and will not be updated to reflect subsequent material developments. Although news media representatives will not be permitted to ask questions during the call, they are welcome to monitor the remarks on a listen-only basis. Following the call, media representatives may direct inquiries to Jane Seccombe at (336) 741-5068.
http://www.reynoldsamerican.com/events.cfm
 
RAI's website, , is the primary source of publicly disclosed news about RAI and its operating companies. We use the website as our primary means of distributing quarterly earnings and other company news. We encourage investors and others to register at to receive alerts when news about the company has been posted.
www.reynoldsamerican.com
www.reynoldsamerican.com
Statements included in this news release that are not historical in nature are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements regarding future events or the future performance or results of RAI and its subsidiaries inherently are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements.
These risks and uncertainties include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Due to these risks and uncertainties, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this news release. Except as provided by federal securities laws, RAI is not required to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI) is the parent company of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company; American Snuff Company, LLC; Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Inc.; and Niconovum AB.
 
 
 
 
Copies of RAI's news releases, annual reports, SEC filings and other financial materials, including risk factors containing forward-looking information, are available at .
www.reynoldsamerican.com
 
Schedule 1
 
 
Schedule 2
RAI management uses "adjusted" (non-GAAP) measurements to set performance goals and to measure the performance of the overall company, and believes that investors' understanding of the underlying performance of the company's continuing operations is enhanced through the disclosure of these metrics. "Adjusted" (non-GAAP) results are not, and should not be viewed as, substitutes for "reported" (GAAP) results.
 
 
Schedule 3
The R.J. Reynolds segment consists of the primary operations of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, the second-largest tobacco company in the United States and which also manages a contract manufacturing business.
The American Snuff segment consists of the primary operations of American Snuff Company, LLC, the second-largest smokeless tobacco products manufacturer in the United States, and Lane, Limited until its sale on February 28, 2011.
The Santa Fe segment consists of the primary operations of Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Inc., which manufactures Natural American Spirit cigarettes and other additive-free tobacco products.
Management uses "adjusted" (non-GAAP) measurements to set performance goals and to measure the performance of the company, and believes that investors' understanding of the underlying performance of the company's continuing operations is enhanced through the disclosure of these metrics.
 
 
Schedule 4
VOLUME (in billions):
 
RETAIL SHARE OF MARKET:
 
Amounts are rounded on an individual basis and, accordingly, may not sum in the aggregate.
R.J. Reynolds' other brands include Winston, Doral, Kool, Salem, Misty and Capri.
Industry volume data based on information from Management Science Associates, Inc.
Retail shares of market are as reported by Information Resources Inc./Capstone.
Schedule 5
VOLUME (in millions of cans):
 
RETAIL SHARE OF MARKET:
 
Amounts are rounded on an individual basis and, accordingly, may not sum in the aggregate.
Retail share of market for moist snuff based on Information Resources Inc./Capstone.
Schedule 6
VOLUME (in billions):
 
RETAIL SHARE OF MARKET:
 
Amounts are rounded on an individual basis and, accordingly, may not sum in the aggregate.
Retail shares of market are as reported by Information Resources Inc./Capstone.


