FILE:RAI/RAI-8K-20120208082539.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The information in this Current Report is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subjected to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
On February 8, 2012, Reynolds American Inc. issued an earnings release announcing its financial results for the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2011. A copy of the earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
 
(d) Exhibits.
The following is furnished as an Exhibit to this Report.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: February 8, 2012
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Reynolds American Inc.
P.O. Box 2990
Winston-Salem, NC 27102-2990
 
 
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.  Feb. 8, 2012
 
 
Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI) today announced fourth-quarter 2011 adjusted EPS of $0.72, up 12.5 percent from the prior-year quarter on the strength of higher pricing and productivity improvements. Adjusted results exclude non-cash charges of $0.05 per share for trademark impairments and $0.15 per share for mark-to-market adjustments for pension and postretirement plans. Fourth-quarter reported EPS was $0.52, up 15.6 percent.
For the full year, adjusted EPS was $2.81, up 6.8 percent, while reported EPS was $2.40, up 25.0 percent. Full-year adjusted results exclude trademark impairments, mark-to-market adjustments for pension and postretirement plans, accruals for four progeny lawsuits, the lawsuit charge, implementation costs, tax items, and 2010 charges for goodwill impairments, plant closings, federal health-care changes and Canadian governments' settlements. Both fourth-quarter and full-year results reflect the impact of the sale of Lane, Limited in early 2011.
Engle
Scott
RAI issued 2012 EPS guidance of $2.91 to $3.01, an increase of 3.6 percent to 7.1 percent from 2011 adjusted results.
 
 
Overview
"Reynolds American finished the year with solid results, despite the challenging economic and competitive environment," said Daniel M. Delen, RAI's president and chief executive officer. "I'm pleased to report that RAI continued to make progress in the fourth quarter, increasing earnings and margins while further demonstrating our commitment to returning value to shareholders with the launch of a $2.5 billion share repurchase program. RAI also increased its dividend again in the quarter, bringing the total dividend increase for 2011 to 14.3 percent."
Fourth-quarter highlights included higher adjusted operating income and margin, along with growth-brand share gains at R.J. Reynolds; continued growth in share and volume at American Snuff; and strong earnings, share and volume gains at Santa Fe.
"We have elected to break out Santa Fe's domestic operations as a reportable business segment, reflecting their strong growth over the past several years," Delen said. "With the company's increasing contribution to RAI, we felt the time was right to give greater visibility to its outstanding performance."
Delen said that RAI expects mid- to high-single digit adjusted EPS growth in 2012, with guidance in the range of $2.91 to $3.01.
"In 2012, we intend to sustain our operating companies' key-brand momentum, invest in innovation and have the financial flexibility to take advantage of competitive opportunities," Delen said. "As a result, we believe it is prudent to once again review key activities and resources to ensure they are aligned with today's economic and competitive landscape. A comprehensive analysis of programs, activities and organizational structures at RAI, RAI Services and most departments within R.J. Reynolds is currently under way. This review is expected to be completed by the end of the first quarter."
Delen said that RAI's operating companies have demonstrated their resilience and ability to successfully manage through challenges, while strengthening their platforms for sustainable growth. "Our companies continue to enhance performance of their key brands, while identifying new opportunities for innovation and growth as part of RAI's strategy to transform the industry over the long term," Delen said.
R.J. Reynolds
R.J. Reynolds' fourth-quarter adjusted operating income of $594 million was up 9.2 percent from the prior-year quarter, as higher pricing and productivity improvements continued to offset lower cigarette volumes. These results exclude non-cash charges of $43 million for trademark impairments primarily on the company's Doral cigarette brand, and $128 million in mark-to-market adjustments for pension and postretirement plans.
 
For the full year, adjusted operating income increased 4.3 percent from the prior-year period, to $2.34 billion. Full-year adjusted results also exclude the above items, as well as $64 million in accruals for four progeny lawsuits, a charge of $139 million related to the smoking-cessation lawsuit, and $16 million in implementation costs.
Engle
Scott
In the fourth quarter, R.J. Reynolds' adjusted operating margin of 33.6 percent was up 2.9 percentage points, while full-year adjusted operating margin was up 1.5 percentage points from the prior-year period, at 32.0 percent.
R.J. Reynolds' fourth-quarter cigarette volume was negatively impacted by the introduction of heavily promoted competitive line extensions, the timing of the company's promotional activity, and the decision to move away from the company's private label brands. This drove the company's fourth-quarter cigarette volume lower by 7.4 percent from the prior-year quarter.
"R.J. Reynolds remains focused on balancing volume, share and profitability over the long term," Delen said.
Excluding R.J. Reynolds' de-emphasized private label brands, volume decreased 7.1 percent in the fourth quarter, while for the full year the company's volume decline was 5.1 percent, compared to an overall industry decline of 3.5 percent.
R.J. Reynolds' total cigarette market share, excluding private label brands, was 27.0 percent in the fourth quarter, down 1.1 percentage points from the prior-year quarter, as declines on the company's support and non-support brands more than offset growth-brand gains.
For the full year, the company's market share, excluding private label brands, was 27.3 percent, down 0.3 percentage points from the prior-year period.
The sampling and projection model that the company's vendor uses to estimate R.J. Reynolds' retail cigarette market share will be revised in 2012 to better reflect marketplace changes. This revision may result in modest changes in absolute share levels, but should not affect overall share trends.
R.J. Reynolds' growth brands, Camel and Pall Mall, increased their combined fourth-quarter market share by 0.3 percentage points from the prior-year quarter, to 16.5 percent. For the full year, combined growth-brand share was 16.4 percent, up 1.3 percentage points from the prior-year period. Combined growth-brand volume was up 2.9 percent for the year.
Camel, R.J. Reynolds' premium growth brand, continued to perform well, especially in light of the weak economy and a continuing trend in consumer down-trading. The brand's fourth-quarter market share remained stable at 8.0 percent, and for the full year the brand's share was up 0.1 percentage point, to 7.8 percent.
Camel's menthol styles, which include Camel Crush, made good progress in the fourth quarter and provide a strong platform for future growth. The brand's menthol market share increased by 0.5 percentage points from the prior-year quarter, to 2.6 percent. A second style of Camel Crush, Camel Crush Bold, was expanded nationally in July and is broadening the appeal of the Camel brand with a richer, more full-bodied taste.
 
Camel SNUS, which holds 75 percent of the growing snus smokeless category, continues to show double-digit volume growth. "As trends in tobacco use change, Camel is transforming with the times, offering spit-free and smoke-free convenience to adult tobacco consumers who want to switch from cigarettes," Delen said.
R.J. Reynolds' value-priced growth brand, Pall Mall, generated additional volume and share gains in the fourth quarter as the combination of the brand's price and "longer-lasting" proposition continued to attract value-conscious consumers.
Pall Mall continued to be impacted by significant competitive activity and offerings below the brand's price point, but its fourth-quarter market share rose 0.3 percentage points from the prior-year period, to 8.6 percent, while its full-year market share rose 1.1 percentage points from the prior-year period, to 8.5 percent.
American Snuff
American Snuff's fourth-quarter adjusted operating income was $88 million, down 15.4 percent from the prior-year quarter. This decline was again driven by the impact of the sale of Lane, Limited in February 2011. Lane contributed about $10 million to operating income in the prior-year quarter. Adjusted results exclude non-cash charges of $5 million in trademark impairments related to the company's loose-leaf brands, and $7 million in mark-to-market adjustments for pension and postretirement plans.
The Lane sale also affected American Snuff's full-year adjusted operating income, which declined 8.0 percent from the prior-year period, to $346 million. These full-year adjusted results exclude the above items, as well as $3 million in implementation costs.
The company's fourth-quarter adjusted operating margin of 53.0 percent was down 1.0 percentage point from the prior-year quarter, but for the full year its adjusted operating margin increased 1.0 percentage point, to 53.2 percent.
"Taking into account the absence of Lane's contribution to the bottom line, as well as the investment in new retail contracts, American Snuff turned in a very good performance in 2011," Delen said. "The company's flagship Grizzly brand made substantial gains in both share and volume in the highly competitive but growing moist-snuff category."
The company's moist-snuff shipment volume increased 6.1 percent from the prior-year quarter, and was up 7.3 percent for the full year. This compares to moist-snuff category growth of about 5 percent in 2011.
American Snuff's fourth-quarter moist-snuff retail market share increased 0.9 percentage points from the prior-year quarter, to 32.1 percent, bringing total market share for the year to 31.5 percent, an increase of 1.2 percentage points.
"Grizzly continued to generate growth in 2011 despite heightened competitive activity, with performance greatly enhanced by the new retail contracts and the expertise applied by the expanded R.J. Reynolds field trade-marketing organization," Delen said.
 
Grizzly's fourth-quarter retail market share increased 1.4 percentage points from the prior-year quarter, to 28.4 percent, bringing its total market share for the full year to 27.7 percent, up 1.6 percentage points. The brand's shipment volume increased 7.9 percent in the fourth quarter, and 9.4 percent for the full year.
Grizzly pouch styles continued to deliver strong growth in 2011, gaining 0.9 percentage points from the prior year, to 3.3 percent of the moist-snuff category. Moist-snuff pouch styles grew more than 10 percent last year, and Grizzly captured 80 percent of that growth.
"American Snuff continues to build momentum on Grizzly," Delen said. "And there's good potential for incremental growth in the brand's range of natural-flavor styles to drive increased awareness and trial."
Santa Fe
Santa Fe continued to deliver strong growth in 2011, with double-digit gains in both earnings and volume. The company's fourth-quarter operating income increased 39.0 percent from the prior year's adjusted quarter, to $50 million, while full-year adjusted operating income of $199 million was up 41.3 percent.
The company's operating margin was 45.6 percent for 2011, up 6.0 percentage points from the prior year.
Santa Fe's performance was driven by its powerful super-premium brand, Natural American Spirit. The brand increased market share 0.2 percentage points to 1.0 percent in 2011, on cigarette shipment volume growth of 13.5 percent.
"Santa Fe delivered great performance last year, based on its unique, super-premium product offerings and strong brand equity," Delen said. "The company is well positioned for continued growth in the years ahead."
"I'm very pleased with Reynolds American's performance in 2011, which allowed us to continue to return excellent value to our shareholders through the increased dividend and share repurchase program," said Thomas R. Adams, RAI's chief financial officer. "Our operating companies' sound business strategies continued to generate solid results in the fourth quarter despite the challenging landscape, resulting in higher earnings and margin at RAI."
Reynolds American's fourth-quarter adjusted EPS was $0.72, up 12.5 percent from the prior- year quarter on higher pricing and productivity gains. This excludes non-cash charges of $0.05 per share in trademark impairments, and $0.15 per share in mark-to-market adjustments for pension and postretirement plans.
 
For the full year, adjusted EPS was $2.81, up 6.8 percent from the prior-year period. These results exclude the above items, as well as the impact of four progeny lawsuits, the lawsuit, implementation costs and tax items. They also exclude 2010 charges related to goodwill impairments, plant closings, federal health-care changes and Canadian governments' settlements.
Engle
Scott
On a reported basis, fourth-quarter EPS was $0.52, up 15.6 percent from the prior-year quarter, bringing full-year EPS to $2.40, up 25.0 percent from the prior year. These results reflect the impact of the Lane sale, as well as the pension accounting change announced in November.
RAI's fourth-quarter adjusted operating margin increased 2.9 percentage points from the prior-year quarter, to 34.1 percent, while the full-year adjusted operating margin increased 1.8 percentage points, to 33.0 percent.
Adams noted that the company remains committed to returning shareholder value. In October, RAI's board of directors approved an increase of $0.03 per share, or 5.7 percent, in the quarterly dividend, bringing it to $0.56. This brought the total dividend increase in 2011 to 14.3 percent. In November, the board also authorized the repurchase of up to $2.5 billion of the company's outstanding common stock over two-and-a-half years. The company repurchased 6.7 million shares for $276 million in the fourth quarter.
RAI ended the fourth quarter with $2.0 billion in cash balances, after contributing an additional $125 million to the pension plans in the fourth quarter. This brought total pension contributions in 2011 to $220 million. The pension plans were about 90 percent funded at the end of the year.
"Reynolds American and its operating companies have again demonstrated strength and resilience in a challenging environment," Adams said. "As a result, we are projecting mid- to high-single digit EPS growth in 2012, with a range of $2.91 to $3.01 compared to $2.81 in 2011."
Reynolds American will webcast a conference call to discuss fourth-quarter 2011 results at 9:00 a.m. Eastern Time on Wednesday, Feb. 8, 2012. The call will be available live online on a listen-only basis. To register for the call, please go to . A replay of the call will be available on the site. Investors, analysts and members of the news media can also listen to the live call by phone, by dialing (877) 390-5533 (toll free) or (678) 894-3969 (international). Remarks made during the conference call will be current at the time of the call and will not be updated to reflect subsequent material developments. Although news media representatives will not be permitted to ask questions during the call, they are welcome to monitor the remarks on a listen-only basis. Following the call, media representatives may direct inquiries to Jane Seccombe at (336) 741-5068.
http://www.reynoldsamerican.com/events.cfm
 
RAI's website, , is the primary source of publicly disclosed news about RAI and its operating companies. We use the website as our primary means of distributing quarterly earnings and other company news. We encourage investors and others to register at to receive alerts when news about the company has been posted.
www.reynoldsamerican.com
http://www.reynoldsamerican.com/events.cfm
RISK FACTORS
Statements included in this news release that are not historical in nature are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements regarding future events or the future performance or results of RAI and its subsidiaries inherently are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements.
These risks and uncertainties include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Due to these risks and uncertainties, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this news release. Except as provided by federal securities laws, RAI is not required to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI) is the parent company of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company; American Snuff Company, LLC; Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Inc.; and Niconovum AB.
 
Camel, Pall Mall, Winston, Kool, Doral and Salem.
 
 
 
Copies of RAI's news releases, annual reports, SEC filings and other financial materials, including risk factors containing forward-looking information, are available at .
http://www.reynoldsamerican.com/invest.cfm
 
Schedule 1
 
Schedule 2
RAI management uses "adjusted" (non-GAAP) measurements to set performance goals and to measure the performance of the overall company, and believes that investors' understanding of the underlying performance of the company's continuing operations is enhanced through the disclosure of these metrics. "Adjusted" (non-GAAP) results are not, and should not be viewed as, substitutes for "reported" (GAAP) results.
 
 
Schedule 3
The R.J. Reynolds segment consists of the primary operations of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, the second-largest tobacco company in the United States and which also manages a contract manufacturing business.
The American Snuff segment consists of the primary operations of American Snuff Company, LLC, the second-largest smokeless tobacco products manufacturer in the United States, and Lane, Limited until its sale on February 28, 2011.
The Santa Fe segment consists of the primary operations of Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Inc., which manufactures Natural American Spirit cigarettes and other additive-free tobacco products.
Management uses "adjusted" (non-GAAP) measurements to set performance goals and to measure the performance of the company, and believes that investors' understanding of the underlying performance of the company's continuing operations is enhanced through the disclosure of these metrics.
 
 
Schedule 4
VOLUME (in billions):
 
RETAIL SHARE OF MARKET:
 
Amounts are rounded on an individual basis and, accordingly, may not sum in the aggregate.
R.J. Reynolds' support brands include Winston, Doral, Kool, Salem, Misty and Capri.
Industry volume data based on information from Management Science Associates, Inc.
Retail shares of market are as reported by Information Resources Inc./Capstone.
Schedule 5
VOLUME (in millions of cans):
 
RETAIL SHARE OF MARKET:
 
Amounts are rounded on an individual basis and, accordingly, may not sum in the aggregate.
Retail share of market for moist snuff based on A.C. Nielsen Monthly Retail Off-Take data.
Schedule 6
VOLUME (in billions):
 
RETAIL SHARE OF MARKET:
 
Amounts are rounded on an individual basis and, accordingly, may not sum in the aggregate.
Industry volume data based on information from Management Science Associates, Inc.
Retail shares of market are as reported by Information Resources Inc./Capstone.


