FILE:RAI/RAI-8K-20120724083231.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information in this Current Report is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subjected to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
On July 24, 2012, Reynolds American Inc. issued an earnings release announcing its financial results for the second quarter and six months ended June 30, 2012. A copy of the earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
 
(d) Exhibits.
The following is furnished as an Exhibit to this Report.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: July 24, 2012
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Reynolds American Inc.
P.O. Box 2990
Winston-Salem, NC 27102-2990
 
 
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.  July 24, 2012
 
 
Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI) today announced second-quarter 2012 adjusted EPS of $0.79, up 11.3 percent from the prior-year quarter as higher cigarette and moist-snuff pricing, moist-snuff volume gains and productivity improvements more than offset cigarette volume declines. Adjusted results exclude a charge of $0.01 per share related to the progeny lawsuits. Second-quarter reported EPS was $0.78, up 39.3 percent.
Engle
For the first half of 2012, adjusted EPS was $1.41, up 4.4 percent, while reported EPS was $1.24, up 2.5 percent. First-half adjusted results exclude the above litigation charge, as well as the 2012 restructuring charge and 2011 implementation costs, tax items and lawsuit charge.
Scott
RAI reaffirmed adjusted EPS guidance for 2012 in the range of $2.91 to $3.01, up 3.6 percent to 7.1 percent. This excludes the charge of $0.01 per share for the progeny lawsuits, as well as the 2012 restructuring charge of $0.16 per share following completion of a comprehensive business analysis.
Engle
 
 
Overview
"RAI increased earnings and margin in the second quarter as our operating companies successfully navigated an intensely competitive environment," said Daniel M. Delen, president and chief executive officer. "This performance rounded out a solid first half, and keeps us on track for full-year earnings growth in the mid- to high-single digits."
Delen said that RAI's operating companies continue to effectively execute their business strategies and remain focused on building their key brands. All three business segments improved their second-quarter financial performance. RAI added further value for shareholders in the quarter, with the 5.4 percent increase in its dividend.
"The comprehensive business analysis completed earlier this year has given our companies added flexibility in this challenging environment, allowing them to move quickly to take advantage of marketplace opportunities," Delen said.
"Our companies are also positioning their key brands for long-term growth as trends in tobacco use change," he said. "In line with our strategy to transform the tobacco industry, they are actively working on the development of new non-combustible product innovations, ranging from vapor to nicotine replacement therapy products, and additional innovations in the cigarette, snus and dissolvable tobacco categories.
"RAI's vision is to achieve market leadership by driving innovation throughout its businesses, while redefining enjoyment for adult tobacco consumers," Delen said. "We're excited by what we have in the pipeline, and there will be more details to come as we move through the year."
To learn more about RAI's commitment to transforming tobacco, visit
www.transformingtobacco.com.
RJR Tobacco
RJR Tobacco's second-quarter adjusted operating income increased by 0.2 percent from the prior-year quarter, to $604 million, as higher pricing and productivity gains offset cigarette volume declines and increased promotional spending. Adjusted results exclude a charge of $10 million related to the progeny lawsuits.
Engle
The company's pricing gains, along with its premium mix and productivity improvements, resulted in an increase of 2.3 percentage points in second-quarter adjusted operating margin, to 33.0 percent.
For the first half of 2012, RJR Tobacco's adjusted operating income was $1.12 billion, in line with the prior-year period. First-half adjusted results exclude the above litigation charge, as well as a restructuring charge of $138 million.
Engle
 
First-half adjusted operating margin jumped 1.7 percentage points from the prior-year period, to 32.3 percent, as the company continues to focus on balancing profitability and share.
RJR Tobacco's second-quarter shipment volume was negatively impacted by intense competitive promotional activity. As a result, the company's shipments fell 6.7 percent from the prior-year quarter, mainly driven by losses on the company's non-focus value brands. This compares with the industry volume decline of 1.7 percent.
RJR Tobacco's total second-quarter cigarette market share was 26.2 percent, down 1.4 percentage points from the prior-year quarter.
RJR Tobacco's growth brands, Camel and Pall Mall, generated a combined market share of 16.7 percent in the second quarter, down 0.2 share points from the prior-year quarter.
Camel continued to hold up well in a tough market for premium-priced products, on the strength of its equity and positive consumer demographics. Despite intense competitive activity, Camel's second-quarter share was down only 0.1 percentage point, at 8.3 percent.
Camel's premium menthol cigarette styles, which offer consumers R.J. Reynolds' innovative capsule technology, made further progress, increasing their second-quarter market share by 0.5 percentage points from the prior-year quarter, to 2.8 percent.
Camel SNUS turned in an excellent marketplace performance in the second quarter and now holds over 75 percent of the small but growing snus category. Camel SNUS offers six styles, with its latest variant, Camel SNUS Mint, gaining strength since its expansion to select retail outlets earlier this year.
"In line with our transforming tobacco strategy, we continue to refine and broaden the appeal of Camel SNUS as a convenient smoke-free and spit-free alternative for adult tobacco consumers, and I'm very pleased with how the market is responding," Delen said.
Pall Mall continued to be negatively impacted by significant competition from other value brands, as well as value-priced line extensions of competitive premium brands that sell at or below Pall Mall's price. Second-quarter market share of Pall Mall was 8.4 percent, down 0.2 percentage points from the prior-year quarter.
Pall Mall's affordable price and "longer-lasting" proposition have made it the nation's best-selling value brand, and it continues to attract interest from value-conscious adult tobacco consumers.
American Snuff
American Snuff's second-quarter operating income increased 18.4 percent from the prior-year quarter, to $95 million, driven by higher moist-snuff volume and pricing on its flagship Grizzly brand.
 
The company's second-quarter operating margin increased 3.2 percentage points from the prior-year quarter, to 55.4 percent.
"American Snuff's impressive second-quarter performance in a highly competitive environment is a tribute to the company's highly successful execution of its business strategies," Delen said.
For the first half of 2012, American Snuff's adjusted operating income was up 6.8 percent from the prior-year period, at $179 million. These results reflect the impact of the sale of Lane, Limited at the end of February 2011, as well as investments in the implementation of retail moist-snuff contracts.
The company's first-half operating margin was 54.3 percent, up 2.0 percentage points from the prior-year period.
American Snuff's second-quarter moist-snuff volume increased 10.7 percent from the prior-year quarter, more than double the industry growth rate of about 5 percent.
The company's second-quarter moist-snuff market share increased 1.7 percentage points from the prior-year quarter, to 32.4 percent.
Once again, American Snuff's powerful Grizzly brand, the best-selling moist-snuff product in the U.S., drove performance, increasing second-quarter shipment volume by 12.3 percent and market share by 2.0 percentage points, to 29.0 percent.
The brand is benefiting from the company's investment in retail contracts, as well as its equity-building programs.
Grizzly continues to see outstanding growth on its pouch style products, capturing 70 percent of all pouch-style growth. Pouches are one of the fastest growing styles in the moist snuff category, and now account for almost 10 percent of total moist snuff sales.
Grizzly is focused on transforming its offerings in the Natural segment, where the brand is underdeveloped. The first-quarter introduction of new packaging that captures the premium quality and value of the brand's five Premium Natural styles is meeting expectations, and offers incremental growth potential for Grizzly.
Santa Fe
Santa Fe increased second-quarter operating income by 25.9 percent from the prior-year quarter, to $64 million, driven by volume and pricing gains in the company's Natural American Spirit super-premium brand.
The company's second-quarter operating margin was up 3.4 percentage points from the prior-year quarter, at 49.4 percent.
 
For the first half of 2012, Santa Fe's operating income rose 17.0 percent from the prior-year period, to $109 million. First-half operating margin was up 1.5 percentage points, at 47.5 percent.
Santa Fe's shipment volumes, which were disrupted in the first quarter by the company's move to a more efficient, integrated supply chain, increased 9.5 percent in the second quarter.
Natural American Spirit continued its upward trajectory, increasing second-quarter market share by 0.2 percentage points from the prior-year quarter, to 1.1 percent.
Natural American Spirit is building a loyal franchise with its unique, additive-free and organic tobacco product offerings.
Reynolds American's second-quarter adjusted EPS was $0.79, up 11.3 percent from the prior-year quarter on higher pricing, productivity gains, the impact of the share repurchase program, and the resolution of various state-specific tax items. Adjusted results exclude a charge of $0.01 per share related to progeny litigation.
Engle
On a reported basis, second-quarter EPS was $0.78, up 39.3 percent from the prior-year quarter.
The company's second-quarter adjusted operating margin increased 2.4 percentage points to 34.2 percent.
For the first half of 2012, adjusted EPS was $1.41, up 4.4 percent from the prior-year period.
Adjusted results exclude the above litigation charge, and a charge of $0.16 per share related to the restructuring. First-half reported EPS was $1.24, up 2.5 percent.
Engle
RAI remains focused on returning value to shareholders through its attractive dividend. The dividend was increased by 5.4 percent in May, to an annualized rate of $2.36 per share. RAI's policy is to return about 80 percent of the company's current-year net income to shareholders in the form of dividends.
Reynolds American ended the quarter with $1.0 billion in cash balances, after repaying $450 million of debt that matured in June.
The company also continued its $2.5 billion share repurchase program initiated late last year, repurchasing 6.1 million shares for $250 million in the second quarter. That brought total repurchases to date to 19.2 million shares for $788 million.
RAI continues to maintain a strong balance sheet, with modest debt levels and a conservative leverage ratio of 1.3 times debt to EBITDA. The company's pension plans remain well funded at about 90 percent.
 
"This solid first-half performance in a challenging environment allows us to reaffirm adjusted EPS guidance of $2.91 to $3.01 for 2012, excluding the litigation and restructuring charges," said Thomas R. Adams, RAI's chief financial officer.
Engle
Reynolds American will webcast a conference call to discuss second-quarter 2012 results at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Time on Tuesday, July 24, 2012. The call will be available live online on a listen-only basis. To register for the call, please go to . A replay of the call will be available on the site. Investors, analysts and members of the news media can also listen to the live call by phone, by dialing (877) 390-5533 (toll free) or (678) 894-3969 (international). Remarks made during the conference call will be current at the time of the call and will not be updated to reflect subsequent material developments. Although news media representatives will not be permitted to ask questions during the call, they are welcome to monitor the remarks on a listen-only basis. Following the call, media representatives may direct inquiries to Jane Seccombe at (336) 741-5068.
http://www.reynoldsamerican.com/events.cfm
RAI's website, , is the primary source of publicly disclosed news about RAI and its operating companies. We use the website as our primary means of distributing quarterly earnings and other company news. We encourage investors and others to register at to receive alerts when news about the company has been posted.
www.reynoldsamerican.com
www.reynoldsamerican.com
Statements included in this news release that are not historical in nature are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements regarding future events or the future performance or results of RAI and its subsidiaries inherently are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements.
These risks and uncertainties include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Due to these risks and uncertainties, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this news release. Except as provided by federal securities laws, RAI is not required to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI) is the parent company of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company; American Snuff Company, LLC; Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Inc.; and Niconovum AB.
 
 
 
 
Copies of RAI's news releases, annual reports, SEC filings and other financial materials, including risk factors containing forward-looking information, are available at . To learn more about how Reynolds American and its operating companies are transforming the tobacco industry, visit .
www.reynoldsamerican.com
http://TransformingTobacco.com
 
Schedule 1
 
 
Schedule 2
RAI management uses "adjusted" (non-GAAP) measurements to set performance goals and to measure the performance of the overall company, and believes that investors' understanding of the underlying performance of the company's continuing operations is enhanced through the disclosure of these metrics. "Adjusted" (non-GAAP) results are not, and should not be viewed as, substitutes for "reported" (GAAP) results.
 
 
Schedule 3
The R.J. Reynolds segment consists of the primary operations of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, the second-largest tobacco company in the United States and which also manages a contract manufacturing business.
The American Snuff segment consists of the primary operations of American Snuff Company, LLC, the second-largest smokeless tobacco products manufacturer in the United States, and Lane, Limited until its sale on February 28, 2011.
The Santa Fe segment consists of the primary operations of Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Inc., which manufactures Natural American Spirit cigarettes and other additive-free tobacco products.
Management uses "adjusted" (non-GAAP) measurements to set performance goals and to measure the performance of the company, and believes that investors' understanding of the underlying performance of the company's continuing operations is enhanced through the disclosure of these metrics.
 
 
Schedule 4
VOLUME (in billions):
 
RETAIL SHARE OF MARKET:
 
Amounts are rounded on an individual basis and, accordingly, may not sum in the aggregate.
Industry volume data based on information from Management Science Associates, Inc.
Retail shares of market are as reported by Information Resources Inc./Capstone.
Schedule 5
VOLUME (in millions of cans):
 
RETAIL SHARE OF MARKET:
 
Amounts are rounded on an individual basis and, accordingly, may not sum in the aggregate.
Retail share of market for moist snuff based on Information Resources Inc./Capstone.
Schedule 6
VOLUME (in billions):
 
RETAIL SHARE OF MARKET:
 
Amounts are rounded on an individual basis and, accordingly, may not sum in the aggregate.
Retail shares of market are as reported by Information Resources Inc./Capstone.


