FILE:RAI/RAI-8K-20121218171421.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On December 18, 2012, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, an indirect subsidiary of Reynolds American Inc. ("R. J. Reynolds"), issued a press release announcing that it and certain other Participating Manufacturers had reached an agreement in principle with 17 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico to settle certain claims related to R. J. Reynolds' and such other Participating Manufacturers' Master Settlement Agreement ("MSA") payments to the states. The settlement addresses claims relating to a downward adjustment to R. J. Reynolds' annual MSA payment obligations known as the Non-Participating Manufacturer ("NPM") Adjustment. The settlement resolves claims pertaining to payment years from 2003 through 2012, and puts in place a revised NPM Adjustment mechanism to apply from 2013 forward to states that join the agreement. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated by reference in its entirety into this Item 7.01. A copy of the Term Sheet referenced in the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.2 hereto and is incorporated by reference in its entirety into this Item 7.01. A copy of the letter dated December 17, 2012, sent on behalf of the Original Participating Manufacturers, acknowledging critical mass has been achieved under the Term Sheet, is attached as Exhibit 99.3 hereto and is incorporated by reference in its entirety into this Item 7.01.
The information furnished in Item 7.01 of this Form 8-K and in Exhibits 99.1, 99.2 and 99.3 attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
P.O. Box 2959
Winston-Salem, NC 27102
 
 
R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company has reached an agreement in principle with 17 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico to settle 10 years of claims related to the company's Master Settlement Agreement (MSA) payments to the states. The settlement addresses claims relating to a downward adjustment to R.J. Reynolds' annual MSA payment obligations known as the Non-Participating Manufacturer (NPM) Adjustment. The settlement resolves claims pertaining to payment years from 2003 through 2012, and puts in place a new method to determine future adjustments from 2013 forward as to states that join the agreement.
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C., Dec. 18, 2012 
The agreement sets forth a sliding scale of financial recovery for R.J. Reynolds and the other Participating Manufacturers that depends on the level of state participation. Based on the 19 jurisdictions that have joined the agreement thus far, R.J. Reynolds will receive credits, currently estimated to be more than $1 billion, that will be applied to the company's MSA payments over the next five years, for its claims relating to 2003 through 2012.
The agreement includes a mechanism that allows additional states to join under certain conditions. If additional states join the settlement, the amount R.J. Reynolds and the other Participating Manufacturers will recover under the settlement will increase, and the cost of the settlement to participating states could decrease.
The agreement in principle is set forth in a Term Sheet, which is available as an attachment to a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission made today by Reynolds American Inc., the parent company of R.J. Reynolds. To become effective, the Term Sheet must be reviewed and approved by the Arbitration Panel that is currently in place to deal with the 2003 NPM Adjustment (and other NPM Adjustment-related matters). The parties will cooperate in the drafting and execution of a comprehensive final settlement agreement incorporating the provisions of the Term Sheet.
The current arbitration will proceed to its conclusion as to those contested states that have elected not to join the settlement agreement. Decisions as to these states are expected from the Arbitration Panel by the end of 2013.
"This settlement is a win-win proposition for both the joining states and R.J. Reynolds, and we hope that additional states will choose to participate," said Martin L. Holton III, executive vice president and general counsel for R.J. Reynolds. "The company is able to receive significant value for injury its brands have suffered in the marketplace at the hands of manufacturers who are not subject to the obligations of the MSA. At the same time, the settlement will make available a significant amount of money for each state that joins the agreement. Perhaps most importantly, both sides can now move beyond this decade-long series of financial disputes that have distracted attention and consumed many resources for far too long."
R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, an indirect subsidiary of Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI), is the second-largest tobacco company in the United States. To learn more about how Reynolds American and its operating companies are transforming the tobacco industry, visit .
http://TransformingTobacco.com

Exhibit 99.2
November 14, 2012
 
Accrued claims relating to the NPM Adjustment disputes for 2003 to 2011 and the 2012 NPM Adjustment would be handled as follows:
 
 
 
 
Appendix A sets forth the reference date for determining the aggregate Allocable Share and the increased settlement value applicable to States that sign this Term Sheet after December 14, 2012 (or, in the case of States with December hearing dates, after the start of their hearing).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX A:
 
 
 
Except as provided below, the initial sign-on date is December 14, 2012. For Settling States whose individual State diligent enforcement hearing in the 2003 Arbitration is scheduled to begin in December 2012 (WA, AZ and CO), the initial sign-on date is the day preceding the beginning of its hearing unless the beginning of its hearing is deferred until after December 14, 2012. At the present time, WA and AZ have agreed to such deferral, and their initial sign-on date will be December 14, 2012 so long as the Panel approves the deferral.
(B) For Settling States that sign this Term Sheet (or, in the case of Settling States that do not sign this Term Sheet, the final settlement agreement) after the initial sign-on date, the applicable settlement value percentage is 59%. The signatory PMs, in their sole discretion, may waive all or part of the increase above the applicable settlement value percentage under subparagraph (A) as to such a State without triggering the MFN clause in this Term Sheet and without any obligation to provide a similar waiver to any other State.
12
(C) The Reference Date is December 21, 2012. A Settling State that signs this
 
 
 
Term Sheet after the initial sign-on date but by the Reference Date will be counted as part of the aggregate Allocable Share under subparagraph (A) whether or not the signatory PMs waived the increased percentage applicable to such State under subparagraph (B).
 
(B) The amount of the percentage in subparagraph (A)(ii) will be the percentage that, when applied to the OPMs' estimated MSA annual payments due in April 2014-2017 (the estimate being after the Inflation Adjustment, Volume Adjustment and Previously Settled States Reduction, but before the remaining adjustments, reductions and offsets under the MSA), yields a total reduction equal to 50% of the Total OPM Amount. (For example, if 50% of the Total OPM Amount were $1 billion and the OPMs' estimated MSA annual payments for 2014-2017 (as adjusted as specified above) were $5 billion per year, the percentage in subparagraph (A)(ii) would be 5%.) The percentage will be filled in with respect to the MSA annual payment due in April 2014 pursuant to these specifications as of the Reference Date (once the Total OPM Amount is known), subject to change in the event additional Settling States sign this Term Sheet or the final settlement agreement after the Reference Date. With respect to each of the reductions to the MSA annual payments due in April 2015-2017, the percentage will be recalculated annually on October 15 of the year prior to the year the payment is due (for example, on October 15, 2014 for the MSA annual payment due in April 2015) to reflect the percentage that, when applied to an estimate of the OPMs' next annual payment based upon inflation and volume in the first 9 months of the year prior to the year the payment is due, yields a reduction equal to 12.5% of the Total OPM Amount.
14
(C) The final settlement agreement will include provisions that will apply in the event the Total OPM Amount increases after the Auditor's Final Calculation of the MSA annual payment due on April 15, 2013 as a result of increased State
 
 
 
 
participation after that date and that specify how the increased part of that Amount will be provided to the OPMs. Unless the parties agree otherwise, those provisions will be consistent with the principles of this Appendix, including providing for payment of 50% of the increased part of that Amount by first-available credit and of the remaining 50% by reduction.
(D) Each credit and reduction will be allocated among the OPMs as directed by the OPMs.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.3
 
 
VIA E-MAIL
Bradford Phelps
Chief Deputy Attorney General
State of Arkansas, Office of Attorney General
323 Center Street, Suite 200
Little Rock, AR 72201
bradford.phelps@arkansas.gov
David D. Cookson
Chief Deputy Attorney General
State of Nebraska, Office of Attorney General
2115 State Capitol
Lincoln, NE 68509
david.cookson@nebraska.gov
 
Dear Counsel:
I am authorized by the Original Participating Manufacturers to agree: (1) pursuant to Section IV.E of the Term Sheet, that the PMs that have joined the November 14, 2012 Term Sheet to date constitute a critical mass of PMs and that the Settling States that have signed that Term Sheet to date, with an aggregate Allocable Share of approximately 42%, constitute a critical mass of Settling States; and (2) for purposes of Section I.A.2 of the Term Sheet and Appendix A, Paragraph 2(A) of the Term Sheet, joinder by those signatory Settling States with that aggregate Allocable Share qualifies as joinder by Settling States with an aggregate Allocable Share of 50% and gives rise to a Settlement Value Percentage of 46%.
 


