FILE:RAI/RAI-8K-20120511112350.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 7.01 Regulation FD.
The information in this Current Report is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subjected to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Reynolds American Inc., referred to as RAI, reports financial and operational information of three segments, RJR Tobacco, American Snuff and Santa Fe. The RJR Tobacco segment consists of the primary operations of R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company. The American Snuff segment consists of the primary operations of American Snuff Co. and prior to its sale, Lane, Limited.
During the fourth quarter of 2011, RAI elected to begin reporting the Santa Fe segment, which includes the primary operations of Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Inc. Previously, Santa Fe was included in the All Other segment. Although the operations and results of Santa Fe currently do not meet the quantitative criteria to be required to be reported, RAI management believes that reporting this segment is important to the financial statement user for additional understanding and transparency with respect to the aggregate operations and results of RAI's subsidiaries that produce and market cigarettes in the United States.
Additionally, on January 1, 2012, the results of super premium brands, DUNHILL and STATE EXPRESS 555, transferred into the R.J. Reynolds segment from the Santa Fe segment.
For comparative analysis, RAI has retrospectively revised, and attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K, segment net sales and operating income as measured under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, referred to as GAAP, for each quarter and the full year of 2011.
Also included, by quarter and full year of 2011, are schedules similar to those included in RAI's earnings releases, disclosing reconciliations from GAAP to adjusted results, volume and share of market information under the revised segment structure. RAI management uses "adjusted" (non-GAAP) measurements to set performance goals and to measure the performance of the overall company, and believes that investors' understanding of the underlying performance of the company's continuing operations is enhanced through the disclosure of these metrics.
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: May 11, 2012
 

Exhibit 99.1
Schedule 1
The R.J. Reynolds segment consists of the primary operations of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, the second-largest tobacco company in the United States and which also manages a contract manufacturing business. Effective January 1, 2012, the results of super premium brands, DUNHILL and STATE EXPRESS 555, transferred into R.J. Reynolds from Santa Fe.
The American Snuff segment consists of the primary operations of American Snuff Company, LLC, the second-largest smokeless tobacco products manufacturer in the United States, and Lane, Limited until its sale on February 28, 2011.
During the fourth quarter of 2011, Reynolds American Inc. began reporting the Santa Fe segment, which consists of the primary operations of Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Inc., which manufactures Natural American Spirit cigarettes and other additive-free tobacco products.
Management uses "adjusted" (non-GAAP) measurements to set performance goals and to measure the performance of the company, and believes that investors' understanding of the underlying performance of the company's continuing operations is enhanced through the disclosure of these metrics.
 
Schedule 2
 
Amounts are rounded on an individual basis and, accordingly, may not sum in the aggregate.
R.J. Reynolds' other brands include Winston, Doral, Kool, Salem, Misty and Capri.
Industry volume data based on information from Management Science Associates, Inc.
Retail shares of market are as reported by Information Resources Inc./Capstone.
Schedule 3
 
Amounts are rounded on an individual basis and, accordingly, may not sum in the aggregate.
Retail shares of market are as reported by Information Resources Inc./Capstone.
Schedule 4
 
Amounts are rounded on an individual basis and, accordingly, may not sum in the aggregate.
Retail shares of market are as reported by Information Resources Inc./Capstone.


