FILE:RAI/RAI-8K-20121023071238.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information in this Current Report is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subjected to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
On October 23, 2012, Reynolds American Inc. issued an earnings release announcing its financial results for the third quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2012. A copy of the earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
The following is furnished as an Exhibit to this Report.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: October 23, 2012
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Reynolds American Inc.
P.O. Box 2990
Winston-Salem, NC 27102-2990
 
 
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.  Oct. 23, 2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All references in this release to "reported" numbers refer to GAAP measurements; all "adjusted" numbers are non-GAAP, as defined in schedules 2 and 3 of this release, which reconcile reported to adjusted results.
 
 
Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI) today announced third-quarter 2012 adjusted EPS of $0.79, up 6.8 percent from the prior-year quarter as higher cigarette and moist-snuff pricing, and gains in moist-snuff volume more than offset cigarette volume declines and higher promotional spending. Adjusted results exclude a charge of $0.04 per share related to the mark-to-market adjustments for postretirement plans, and a charge of $0.01 per share for other tobacco-related litigation. Third-quarter reported EPS was $0.74, up 10.4 percent.
For the first nine months of 2012, adjusted EPS was $2.21, up 5.7 percent, while reported EPS was $1.98, up 5.3 percent. Nine-month adjusted results exclude the above-referenced items, as well as 2012 restructuring and progeny lawsuits charges. Adjusted results also exclude 2011 charges for implementation costs, the lawsuit and progeny lawsuits, and tax items.
Engle
Scott
Engle
RAI reaffirmed adjusted EPS guidance for 2012 in the range of $2.91 to $3.01, up 3.6 percent to 7.1 percent. Adjusted EPS excludes the above-referenced items.
 
 
 
Overview
"RAI increased both earnings and margin in the third quarter as its operating companies continued to make good progress in a weak economy and a highly competitive environment," said Daniel M. Delen, president and chief executive officer. "RJR Tobacco, American Snuff and Santa Fe remained focused on building the equity of their key brands, while investing in innovations for sustainable growth in an evolving marketplace."
Delen said that RAI's earnings and margin growth reflected the fundamental strength and momentum of its operating companies' key brands, as well as their focus on productivity improvements.
Based on RAI's solid performance for the first nine months of 2012, the company reaffirmed projections for full-year adjusted earnings growth in the mid- to high-single digits.
Delen said that RAI and its operating companies also continue to strengthen their corporate sustainability initiatives, and these efforts gained further independent recognition during the quarter. For the fifth consecutive year, RAI was awarded membership to the Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index, which is viewed by the investment community as an important benchmark.
"While our companies are finding additional opportunities for enhancing performance of their key brands, work also continues on the development of exciting new product innovations across the tobacco and nicotine categories," Delen said.
"I'm pleased to report that RAI's Niconovum subsidiary has entered its first U.S. lead market with its Zonnic nicotine replacement therapy product, while another subsidiary, R.J. Reynolds Vapor Company, has introduced its first e-cigarette, Vuse, in limited distribution," Delen said. "As part of our strategy to transform the tobacco industry over the long term, RAI's operating companies are meeting the changing preferences of adult tobacco consumers."
Learn more about RAI's commitment to transforming tobacco at .
www.transformingtobacco.com
RJR Tobacco
RJR Tobacco's third-quarter adjusted operating income was $606 million, down 3.9 percent from the prior-year quarter, as cigarette volume declines and higher promotional spending more than offset higher pricing and productivity gains. Adjusted results exclude a charge of $36 million related to the mark-to-market adjustments for postretirement plans, and a charge of $5 million for other tobacco-related litigation.
The company's third-quarter adjusted operating margin sustained its momentum, increasing 0.7 percentage points, to 34.2 percent.
 
 
For the first nine months of 2012, RJR Tobacco's adjusted operating income was $1.73 billion, down 1.4 percent from the prior-year period. Nine-month adjusted results exclude the above charges, as well as charges of $11 million for progeny lawsuits and $138 million for restructuring.
Engle
The company's nine-month adjusted operating margin increased 1.4 percentage points from the prior-year period, to 33.0 percent, as the company continues to focus on balancing profitability and share.
Aggressive competitive promotional activity again affected RJR Tobacco's shipment volume and cigarette market share. Third-quarter shipments declined 6.9 percent from the prior-year quarter, mainly driven by losses on the company's non-focus value brands. Shipments were also impacted by one less shipping day in the quarter. Industry volume declined 2.7 percent in the quarter. RJR Tobacco's total third-quarter cigarette market share was 26.4 percent, down 1.0 percentage points from the prior-year quarter.
RJR Tobacco's growth brands, Camel and Pall Mall, had a combined third-quarter market share of 17.2 percent in the third quarter, in line with the prior-year quarter. However, both brands delivered sequential share growth from the second quarter of this year.
Camel's third-quarter market share remained stable at 8.5 percent despite the weak economy's pressure on premium-priced products as well as heavy competitive promotions. The brand continued to build equity through enthusiastic consumer interaction with Camel's website, while further improving the brand's demographics.
Camel's premium menthol cigarette styles continue to support the brand's performance. These styles increased their third-quarter market share by 0.4 percentage points from the prior-year quarter, to 3.0 percent.
"The use of R.J. Reynolds' innovative capsule technology with these styles offers relevant product differentiation and strong appeal for consumers," Delen said.
Camel SNUS, which now holds about 80 percent of the growing U.S. snus category, is also performing extremely well, with its latest style, Camel SNUS Mint, enhancing the brand's strong growth.
RJR Tobacco continues to focus on balancing Pall Mall's profitability and share, while also building the brand's equity for sustainable growth over the long term.
Despite being negatively affected by significant competition from other value brands and value-priced line extensions of competitive premium brands, Pall Mall's third-quarter market share was 8.7 percent, up 0.1 percentage points from the prior-year quarter.
With the menthol category now representing more than 30 percent of total industry volume, and as adult tobacco consumer preferences change, Pall Mall is expanding its menthol portfolio with two additional styles. Pall Mall Black, a full-flavor tobacco blend, and Pall Mall White, a smoother tobacco blend, will be available along with Pall Mall Green, the existing Pall Mall menthol offering.
 
"Pall Mall is underrepresented in the menthol category, so this expansion offers a good opportunity for growth," Delen said. "R.J. Reynolds believes Pall Mall is the right product at the right time, as the weak economy continues to affect spending by adult tobacco consumers, and as strong rates of trial and conversion show that value-conscious consumers are sticking with the brand."
American Snuff
American Snuff's third-quarter adjusted operating income increased 11.4 percent from the prior-year quarter, to $100 million, as the company's flagship Grizzly brand continued to expand its position in the moist-snuff market. Adjusted results exclude a charge of $2 million in mark-to-market adjustments for postretirement plans.
The company's third-quarter adjusted operating margin increased 2.4 percentage points from the prior-year quarter, to 57.4 percent.
"American Snuff sustained its strong momentum and again delivered excellent results in the third quarter," Delen said.
For the first nine months of 2012, American Snuff's adjusted operating income was up 8.4 percent from the prior-year period, at $279 million.
The company's nine-month adjusted operating margin was up 2.2 percentage points from the prior-year period, at 55.4 percent. Adjusted results exclude the above-referenced charge.
American Snuff's third-quarter moist-snuff volume increased 6.6 percent from the prior-year quarter, while the industry continued to grow at about 5 percent.
The company's third-quarter moist-snuff market share increased 0.9 percentage points from the prior-year quarter, to 32.2 percent.
American Snuff's Grizzly brand further improved both volume and share in the third quarter. Grizzly increased shipment volume by 7.8 percent and market share by 1.2 percentage points, to 28.8 percent.
Grizzly, the nation's best-selling moist-snuff brand, is benefiting from activities to build the brand's equity, such as the powerful "Tellin' it like it is" promotional campaign.
Grizzly continues to focus on strengthening its offerings in the Natural style, with new packaging that conveys the premium quality and value of the brand's five Premium Natural styles. Grizzly is underrepresented in this style, so this enhancement to the brand offers growth potential.
 
Santa Fe
Santa Fe increased third-quarter operating income by 35.3 percent from the prior-year quarter, to $63 million, driven by strong performance in the company's Natural American Spirit super-premium brand.
The company's third-quarter operating margin rose 7.4 percentage points from the prior-year quarter, to 50.5 percent.
For the first nine months of 2012, Santa Fe's operating income increased 23.1 percent from the prior-year period, to $172 million. That brought the company's nine-month operating margin to 48.6 percent, up 3.6 percentage points.
Natural American Spirit increased third-quarter market share by 0.2 percentage points from the prior-year quarter, to 1.2 percent, on the strength of 13.9 percent volume growth.
"Santa Fe is doing an outstanding job on every level, all the more remarkable in a market where many other premium-priced products are being impacted by the weak economy," Delen said. "Natural American Spirit's success is driven by its unique heritage and highly differentiated product offerings."
Reynolds American's third-quarter adjusted EPS was $0.79, up 6.8 percent from the prior-year quarter on higher pricing, productivity improvements, and the impact of the share repurchase program. Adjusted results exclude a charge of $0.04 per share related to mark-to-market adjustments for postretirement plans, as well as a charge of $0.01 per share for other tobacco-related litigation.
On a reported basis, third-quarter EPS was $0.74, up 10.4 percent from the prior-year quarter.
The company's third-quarter adjusted operating margin increased 2.0 percentage points to 36.1 percent.
For the first nine months of 2012, adjusted EPS was $2.21, up 5.7 percent from the prior-year period. Adjusted results exclude the above-referenced charges, as well as charges of $0.02 per share for progeny lawsuits and $0.16 per share related to the restructuring. Nine-month reported EPS was $1.98, up 5.3 percent.
Engle
In accordance with the $2.5 billion share repurchase program that RAI started late last year, the company repurchased 6.5 million shares for $300 million in the third quarter, bringing total repurchases under the plan to 25.7 million shares for $1.1 billion.
 
Thomas R. Adams, RAI's chief financial officer, said that RAI contributed $50 million to the pension plans in the third quarter, and noted that the company's pension plans remain well funded at about 90 percent. RAI ended the quarter with $1.2 billion in cash balances after repaying $100 million of the company's term loan.
"Reynolds American continues to demonstrate its deep commitment to returning value to shareholders," Adams said. "I'm pleased to say that the achievements reported by RAI and its operating companies over the first nine months of 2012 keep us on track to meet our adjusted EPS growth projections of $2.91 to $3.01 for the full year, excluding the charges for mark-to-market adjustments, and other tobacco-related litigation, and the restructuring."
Engle
Reynolds American will webcast a conference call to discuss third-quarter 2012 results at 9:00 a.m. Eastern Time on Tuesday, Oct. 23, 2012. The call will be available live online on a listen-only basis. To register for the call, please go to . A replay of the call will be available on the site. Investors, analysts and members of the news media can also listen to the live call by phone, by dialing (877) 390-5533 (toll free) or (678) 894-3969 (international). Remarks made during the conference call will be current at the time of the call and will not be updated to reflect subsequent material developments. Although news media representatives will not be permitted to ask questions during the call, they are welcome to monitor the remarks on a listen-only basis. Following the call, media representatives may direct inquiries to Jane Seccombe at (336) 741-5068.
http://www.reynoldsamerican.com/events.cfm
RAI's website, , is the primary source of publicly disclosed news about RAI and its operating companies. We use the website as our primary means of distributing quarterly earnings and other company news. We encourage investors and others to register at to receive alerts when news about the company has been posted.
www.reynoldsamerican.com
www.reynoldsamerican.com
Statements included in this news release that are not historical in nature are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements regarding future events or the future performance or results of RAI and its subsidiaries inherently are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements.
These risks and uncertainties include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Due to these risks and uncertainties, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this news release. Except as provided by federal securities laws, RAI is not required to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Reynolds American Inc. (NYSE: RAI) is the parent company of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company; American Snuff Company, LLC; Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Inc.; and Niconovum AB.
 
 
 
 
Copies of RAI's news releases, annual reports, SEC filings and other financial materials, including risk factors containing forward-looking information, are available at . To learn more about how Reynolds American and its operating companies are transforming the tobacco industry, visit .
www.reynoldsamerican.com
http://TransformingTobacco.com
 
Schedule 1
 
 
Schedule 2
RAI management uses "adjusted" (non-GAAP) measurements to set performance goals and to measure the performance of the overall company, and believes that investors' understanding of the underlying performance of the company's continuing operations is enhanced through the disclosure of these metrics. "Adjusted" (non-GAAP) results are not, and should not be viewed as, substitutes for "reported" (GAAP) results.
 
 
Schedule 3
The R.J. Reynolds segment consists of the primary operations of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, the second-largest tobacco company in the United States and which also manages a contract manufacturing business.
The American Snuff segment consists of the primary operations of American Snuff Company, LLC, the second-largest smokeless tobacco products manufacturer in the United States, and Lane, Limited until its sale on February 28, 2011.
The Santa Fe segment consists of the primary operations of Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Inc., which manufactures Natural American Spirit cigarettes and other additive-free tobacco products.
Management uses "adjusted" (non-GAAP) measurements to set performance goals and to measure the performance of the company, and believes that investors' understanding of the underlying performance of the company's continuing operations is enhanced through the disclosure of these metrics.
 
 
Schedule 4
VOLUME (in billions):
 
RETAIL SHARE OF MARKET:
 
Amounts are rounded on an individual basis and, accordingly, may not sum in the aggregate.
Industry volume data based on information from Management Science Associates, Inc.
Retail shares of market are as reported by Information Resources Inc./Capstone.
Schedule 5
VOLUME (in millions of cans):
 
RETAIL SHARE OF MARKET:
 
VOLUME (in billions):
 
RETAIL SHARE OF MARKET:
 
Amounts are rounded on an individual basis and, accordingly, may not sum in the aggregate.
Retail shares of market are as reported by Information Resources Inc./Capstone.


