FILE:R/R-8K-20031222175756.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
Item 5. Other Events
     On December 19, 2003, Ryder System, Inc. (the "Company") announced that it has entered into a definitive agreement to purchase substantially all of the operating assets of General Car and Truck Leasing System, Inc. The full text of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and the contents of such press release are incorporated herein by reference.
     In addition, the Company announced that it has entered into a non-binding letter of intent with Ruan Leasing Company ("Ruan") to purchase substantially all of Ruan's operating assets. The full text of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.2 hereto and the contents of such press release are incorporated herein by reference.
Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (c)  Exhibits
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
News Release
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
     Ryder System, Inc. (NYSE:R), a global leader in transportation and supply chain management solutions, today announced it has reached agreement to acquire substantially all the assets of General Car and Truck Leasing System, a major privately held commercial truck leasing, maintenance and rental company based in Davenport, Iowa. General is no longer engaged in the car rental business.
MIAMI, December 19, 2003 
     Per the terms of the transaction, Ryder will acquire General's fleet of more than 4,000 vehicles and over 700 customers in the U.S. The combined network will operate under the Ryder name, complementing Ryder's United States market coverage and service network with expanded capabilities in the Midwest and Southeast.
     "General is a known and respected name in the transportation industry with an excellent record of delivering high levels of customer service," said Ryder Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Gregory T. Swienton. "By building on the best practices and unique qualities of each company, we can strengthen our network and product offering in key markets to bring more business resources and value to customers of both companies."
     The acquisition is expected to be finalized by the end of 2003 and take effect on January 1, 2004. Once completed, Ryder will implement a transition plan under the leadership of Ryder Senior Vice President of Fleet Management Solutions, Richard B. Carson, to achieve a smooth transition for General customers and employees.
     "Joining forces with Ryder will provide new resources to serve the growing needs of General customers in the competitive transportation marketplace," said Gene Ehlers, President of General Car and Truck Leasing. "Ryder's operations supporting more than 13,000 customers should also present opportunities for many of our employees to continue their fine work in support of a significantly expanded portfolio of customers."
     Fleet M&A Advisors, a division of Fleet Securities, Inc., acted as financial advisor to General Car and Truck Leasing System, Inc. in connection with this transaction.
     Ryder is a 500 company providing leading-edge transportation, logistics and supply chain management solutions worldwide. Ryder's stock (NYSE:R) is a component of the Dow Jones Transportation Average and the Standard & Poor's 500 Index. For more information about Ryder System, Inc., visit www.ryder.com.
Fortune
 
Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements: Certain statements and information included in this presentation are "forward-looking statements" under the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Accordingly, we advise that these forward-looking statements be evaluated with consideration given to the many uncertainties inherent in our business that could cause actual results and events to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause such differences include, among others, the competitive pricing environment applicable to the Company's businesses, customer retention levels, changes in customers' business environments, changes in market conditions affecting the sale of used vehicles, adverse changes in debt ratings, changes in accounting assumptions, greater than expected expenses associated with the Company's activities and changes in general economic conditions. The risks included here are not exhaustive. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors on the Company's business. Accordingly, the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.

 
Exhibit 99.2
News Release
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
     Ryder System, Inc. (NYSE:R), a global leader in transportation and supply chain management solutions, today announced it has entered into a non-binding letter of intent to purchase substantially all the assets of Ruan Leasing Company, a major privately owned truck leasing, rental and contract maintenance company headquartered in Des Moines, Iowa. Ruan has capabilities through the Midwest, Southeast, and Mid-Atlantic regions, as well as in California.
Miami, December 19, 2003 
     Ruan has a fleet of nearly 6,800 vehicles and an additional 4,800 units under contract maintenance agreements, serving over 550 customers in the U.S. The supply chain, logistics and dedicated contract carriage businesses of Ruan are not included in the transaction.
     The acquisition remains subject to the negotiation of a definitive purchase agreement and customary closing conditions, including regulatory consents and the approval of each company's board of directors. The transaction is expected to close by the end of the first quarter of 2004.
     Ryder is a 500 company providing leading-edge transportation, logistics and supply chain management solutions worldwide. Ryder's stock (NYSE:R) is a component of the Dow Jones Transportation Average and the Standard & Poor's 500 Index. For more information about Ryder System, Inc., visit www.ryder.com.
Fortune
Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements: Certain statements and information included in this presentation are "forward-looking statements" under the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Accordingly, we advise that these forward-looking statements be evaluated with consideration given to the many uncertainties inherent in our business that could cause actual results and events to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause such differences include, among others, the competitive pricing environment applicable to the Company's businesses, customer retention levels, changes in customers' business environments, changes in market conditions affecting the sale of used vehicles, adverse changes in debt ratings, changes in accounting assumptions, greater than expected expenses associated with the Company's activities and changes in general economic conditions. The risks included here are not exhaustive. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors on the Company's business. Accordingly, the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.


