FILE:R/R-8K-20031219163920.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
The following information is furnished as part of this report on Form 8-K:
On December 19, 2003, Ryder System, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release reporting its earnings forecast for 2004 (the "Press Release"). The Company also hosted a conference call and webcast related to the Press Release during which a presentation was made on the Company's earnings forecast for 2004 (the "Presentation"). The Press Release and the Presentation are also available on the Company's website. A copy of the Press Release and the Presentation are being furnished hereto as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
The information furnished pursuant to Item 9, including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Registrant under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
News Release
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
       Ryder System, Inc. (NYSE:R), a global leader in transportation management and supply chain solutions, today announced it forecasts full-year 2004 earnings to be in the range of $2.35 to $2.45 per diluted share. This represents an increase of approximately 13% to 20% over the Company's current full-year 2003 earnings per diluted share (EPS) forecast of $2.04 to $2.08, before the cumulative effect of accounting changes. The full-year 2003 forecast reaffirms management's previous fourth quarter EPS estimate of $0.53 to $0.57, and excludes a $0.06 per share charge related to the cumulative effect of changes in accounting.
MIAMI, December 19, 2003
      "We are forecasting Ryder's overall 2004 revenue to grow by 2% to $4.87 billion," said Gregory T. Swienton, Ryder's Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "We believe continuing economic improvement and our Company-wide focus on growth should work in tandem to give prospects the confidence and motivation needed to commit to longer-term contracts. Once those commitments become finalized, however, we anticipate the customary lag in revenue impact related to the start-up of our contractual business. Transactional business, such as commercial rental, is expected to demonstrate continuing revenue growth throughout the year."
      Commenting on the Company's financial objectives for 2004, Ryder Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Tracy A. Leinbach said, "The cost management and continuous improvement disciplines that are now ingrained in Ryder's operations will position us to deliver good earnings leverage as we work to grow the business in 2004."
1
 
      Ryder's 2004 forecast does not include anticipated earnings or revenue impacts resulting from today's separately announced acquisition-related actions, as those transactions have not yet been finalized.
      Ryder provides leading-edge transportation, logistics, and supply chain management solutions worldwide. Ryder's product offerings range from full-service leasing, commercial rental and programmed maintenance of vehicles to integrated services such as dedicated contract carriage and carrier management. Additionally, Ryder offers comprehensive supply chain solutions, consulting, lead logistics management services and e-Business solutions that support customers' entire supply chains, from inbound raw materials and parts through distribution and delivery of finished goods. Ryder serves customer needs throughout North America, in Latin America, Europe and Asia.
      The National Safety Council selected Ryder to receive the 2002 Green Cross for Safety Medal  its highest honor  for exemplary commitment to workplace safety and corporate citizenship. For the seventh consecutive year, Ryder was featured in the 2003 Most Admired Companies survey of corporate reputations. Ryder is ranked 87 in the 500 of leading business users of information technology in 2003. named Ryder as one of the top 100 U.S. companies for effectiveness in using the Internet to achieve tangible business benefits. For the sixth consecutive year, Ryder has been named a top three third-party logistics provider by .
Fortune
InformationWeek
InternetWeek
Inbound Logistics
      Ryder's stock is a component of the Dow Jones Transportation Average and the Standard & Poor's 500 Index. With 2002 revenue of $4.78 billion, Ryder ranks 345th on the 500.
Fortune
      For more information on Ryder System, Inc., visit www.ryder.com.
Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements: Certain statements and information included in this presentation are "forward-looking statements" under the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Accordingly, we advise that these forward-looking statements be evaluated with consideration given to the many uncertainties inherent in our business that could cause actual results
2
 
and events to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause such differences include, among others, the competitive pricing environment applicable to the Company's businesses, customer retention levels, changes in customers' business environments, changes in market conditions affecting the sale of used vehicles, adverse changes in debt ratings, changes in accounting assumptions, greater than expected expenses associated with the Company's activities and changes in general economic conditions. The risks included here are not exhaustive. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors on the Company's business. Accordingly, the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Conference Call and Webcast Information:
Ryder's 2004 earnings forecast and fourth quarter 2003 earnings update webcast is scheduled for Friday, December 19, 2003 from 10:00 to 11:00 a.m. (Eastern Time). Speakers will be Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Gregory T. Swienton and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Tracy A. Leinbach.
78-03
3

 
EXHIBIT 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


