FILE:R/R-8K-20050511172715.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
Ryder System, Inc. 2005 Equity Compensation Plan (the "Plan")
     
Approval of the Plan
At the Annual Meeting of Shareholders held on May 6, 2005, our shareholders approved the Plan. The Plan was approved by our Board of Directors on February 5, 2005, subject to shareholder approval, and is effective as of May 6, 2005.
The Plan allows the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors to grant a variety of stock-based and cash-based awards including stock options, restricted stock rights, restricted stock units and cash awards to our directors, executive officers and employees. The Plan replaces the Ryder System, Inc. 1995 Stock Incentive Plan, the Stock for Merit Increase Replacement Plan and the Board of Directors Stock Award Plan.
The Plan and a summary of its terms are set forth in our definitive proxy statement for the 2005 Annual Meeting of Shareholders held on May 6, 2005, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 30, 2005, and are incorporated by reference herein.
     
Terms and Conditions of Awards under the Plan
On May 5, 2005, the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors approved certain terms and conditions for (i) non-qualified stock options, (ii) restricted stock rights issued to our executive officers and employees and (iii) restricted stock units issued to our non-employee directors, under the Plan. The terms and conditions for each of these award types are attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibits 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3.
     
2005 Long-Term Incentive Cash Awards
On May 6, 2005, the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors approved the terms and conditions applicable to the 2005 long-term incentive cash awards granted to our executive officers under the Plan. Amounts earned under the cash awards will be based on our achievement of certain levels of net operating revenue growth, earnings per share growth (excluding the effect of pension) and return on capital during the period from April 1, 2005 through December 31, 2007. The performance goals for the cash awards are set at threshold, target and maximum levels. The payout amounts are expressed as a percentage of eligible base salary with the maximum payout amount for the named executive officers ranging from 150% to 300% of eligible base salary. The cash awards will be subject to cancellation, reduction, acceleration and recapture under certain circumstances, as more fully described in the terms and conditions which are attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 10.4.
Amendment to Long-Term Incentive Plan
On May 5, 2005, the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors amended the Ryder System, Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan which was effective on January 1, 2002. The purpose of the amendments was to specify the effect of termination of employment on awards granted under the Long-Term Incentive Plan in light of the requirements of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. The amended Long-Term Incentive Plan is attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 10.5.
Amendments to Revolving Credit Agreement
On May 11, 2005, we amended our $870 million global revolving credit agreement with Fleet National Bank, as administrative agent, and the lenders, syndication agent, co-documentation agents, Canadian agent and U.K. agent named in the credit agreement. The amendment does the following:
Table of Contents
The foregoing summary of the amendments to the credit agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the amendment itself which is attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 10.6.
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
The information set forth under Item 1.01 regarding the amendments to our $870 million global revolving credit agreement is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
Item 9.01(c) Exhibits
     The following exhibits are furnished as part of this Form 8-K:
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 10.1
     The following terms and conditions apply to the non-qualified stock option ("Option") granted by Ryder System, Inc. (the "Company") under the Ryder System, Inc. 2005 Equity Compensation Plan (the "Plan"), as specified in the Stock Option Award Notification Letter (the "Notification Letter"), to which these terms and conditions are appended. Certain terms of the Option, including the number of Shares subject to the Option, the exercise price, the vesting schedule and the expiration date, are set forth in the Notification Letter. The terms and conditions contained herein may be amended by the Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors (the "Committee") as permitted by the Plan. Capitalized terms used herein and not defined shall have the meaning ascribed to such terms in the Plan or in the Notification Letter.
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 10.2
The following terms and conditions apply to the Restricted Stock Rights (the "RSRs") granted by Ryder System, Inc. (the "Company") under the Ryder System, Inc. 2005 Equity Compensation Plan (the "Plan"), as specified in the Restricted Stock Rights Award Notification Letter (the "Notification Letter"), to which these terms and conditions are appended. Certain terms of the RSRs, including the number of RSRs granted and the vesting schedule for the RSRs, are set forth in the Notification Letter. The terms and conditions contained herein may be amended by the Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors (the "Committee") as permitted by the Plan. Capitalized terms used herein and not defined shall have the meaning ascribed to such terms in the Plan or in the Notification Letter.
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 10.3
     The following terms and conditions apply to the Restricted Stock Units (the "RSUs") granted by Ryder System, Inc. (the "Company") to the Company's Non-Employee Directors, under the Ryder System, Inc. 2005 Equity Compensation Plan (the "Plan"), as specified in the Restricted Stock Units Award Notification Letter (the "Notification Letter"), to which these terms and conditions are appended. Certain terms of the RSUs, including the number of RSUs granted and the vesting date(s), are set forth in the Notification Letter. The terms and conditions contained herein may be amended by the Compensation Committee of the Board (the "Committee") as permitted by the Plan. Capitalized terms used herein and not defined shall have the meaning ascribed to such terms in the Plan or in the Notification Letter.
 
 

 
Exhibit 10.4
     The following terms and conditions apply to the long-term cash incentive award (the "Award") granted by Ryder System, Inc. under the Ryder System, Inc. Plan as specified in the Award Notification Letter (the "Notification Letter") to which these terms and conditions are appended. Certain terms of the Award, including the performance goals and payout amounts, are set forth in the Notification Letter. The terms and conditions contained herein may be amended by the Committee as permitted by the Plan. Capitalized terms used herein and not defined shall have the meaning ascribed to such terms in the Plan or the Notification Letter.
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 10.5
Compensation and Benefits January 1, 2002 As Amended December 16, 2004 As Amended May 6, 2005
MASTER
 
Introduction
The Board of Directors of Ryder System Inc. has approved a Long-Term Incentive Plan for designated executives as a component of Ryder's targeted total direct compensation package. The LTIP is designed to reward key executives with additional compensation contingent upon attainment of critical business objectives over a three-year period.
Definitions
For this Plan, the following terms will have these meanings:
means the participant's base salary on January 1, 2002, the beginning of the initial Plan Cycle. For subsequent Plan Cycles, annual base pay will mean bonusable base pay as of December 31 of the first year in the three year cycle.
Annual Base Pay
means the definition set forth in each Participant's Change of Control Severance Agreement.
Change of Control
or means Ryder System, Inc.
Company
Ryder
means the Committee appointed by the Board of Directors to administer all Compensation and Benefit Plans including the LTIP. May also be referred to as the "Committee".
Compensation Committee
means an injury or illness that entitles the Participant to long-term disability payments under the Company's Long-Term Disability Plan, as in effect from time to time.
Disability
means the cumulative total amount earned in each plan year during the three-year Plan Cycle. Earned cash is payable according to the Plan's schedule following the end of each Plan Cycle.
Earned Cash
or means any Employee designated by the Compensation Committee to participate in this Plan.
Eligible Employee
Participant
means any employee of the Company.
Employee
mean those investment funds made available under the LTIP.
Investment options
or means the Ryder System, Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan.
LTIP
Plan
means an account established for each Participant in the LTIP.
LTIP Account
means a Participant's balance in his or her LTIP Account.
LTIP Balance
 
means the percentage of annual base salary established for each participant for the purpose of the LTIP. This target percentage is distributed equally: 50% in cash and 50% in stock. The cash payout is governed by this Plan. The stock award is governed by the terms of the 1995 Incentive Stock Plan, or any successor stock plan.
LTIP Target
means the three-year period during which time a participant has the opportunity to earn cash compensation under the Plan.
Plan Cycle
means retirement under the provisions of the Ryder System, Inc. Retirement Plan, or any successor pension plan maintained by the Company, in each case in effect from time to time.
Retirement
means a supplement to the Plan for a particular Plan Cycle.
Supplement
means the trustee of the Plan which shall initially be Merrill Lynch Trust Company and which can be changed by the Company at its discretion.
Trustee
means the time at which the Participant gains ownership to a portion of such Participant's LTIP Balance.
Vesting
Effective Date
The effective date of the Plan is January 1, 2002. The initial Plan Cycle commences on January 1, 2002 and ends on December 31, 2004. Subsequent Plan Cycles will begin on January 1 as approved by the Compensation Committee.
Eligibility
Executives will be designated each year to participate in this Plan. Eligibility is based on the decision of the Compensation Committee and is not tied to position, management level or past eligibility. Participation during one Plan Cycle is not a guarantee of future participation.
How the Plan Works
Performance Criteria and Goal Setting
Each Plan Cycle is comprised of three consecutive years with performance measure(s) for each year. The Committee will determine and approve performance measurements and pay contingencies (targets and goals) by March 15 of the first year of each Plan Cycle. The performance measurements will be documented in the Supplement for each Plan Cycle.
th
Performance will be measured each year of the Plan individually against an annual performance goal. Achievement of the performance target or failure to achieve the
 
performance target in one plan year will not affect the target, performance goals or compensation for any other plan year.
Cash for Performance
Payment for the initial Plan Cycle is based on a performance spread from 80% to 120% of target for the performance criteria. For subsequent Plan Cycles, payment is based on a performance spread. Cash payouts for meeting a performance spread is 50% to 200% of target compensation. Incremental payouts will be made based on actual performance results.
For example:
Earned Cash Opportunity
Each Plan Cycle has an earned cash target opportunity equal to 50% of the total LITP cash target.
LTIP Target: 125%       Earned Cash Target: 62.5%
To determine the earned cash opportunity for the Plan Cycle, multiply your annual base pay by earned cash target percentage.
This is the earned cash target opportunity for the entire three-year Plan Cycle.
Each year of the Plan Cycle has performance measurements as detailed in the Supplement for each Plan Cycle. Cash payouts are based on performance results. The following example assumes that 80% of the performance spread is reached in the first year of the Plan Cycle, 100% in the second year of the Plan Cycle and 100% in third year of the Plan Cycle.
This example shows the participant had the opportunity to earn $187,500 upon achieving 100% of performance targets. Based on performance results, the participant earned $156,250.
 
Distribution of LTIP Awards
Each year during the Plan Cycle, the Compensation Committee will determine what, if any, cash payments are payable to each Participant in the Plan. Any awards payable with respect to such year will be deposited into each Participant's LITP Account with the Trustee.
Investment Elections
Each Participant has the right to allocate the funds in his or her LTIP Account to one or more of several investment options, including the purchase of Ryder stock, made available by the Trustee (as amended from time to time). Such investment elections are within the sole discretion of each Participant, who bears all the risk associated with such investments.
Making Investment Elections
Participants meet with a Merrill Lynch investment advisor to discuss investment choices and allocation of awards into the Participant's LTIP Account. The Participant submits a signed allocation form to the Compensation Department for processing with Merrill Lynch.
Ryder Stock
The purchase and sale of Ryder stock in the Participant's LTIP Account must be pre-approved by the Law Department.
Ryder Stock held in a Participant's LTIP Account will count toward such Participant's compliance with Ryder's Stock Ownership Guidelines.
Vesting and Forfeiture
The cumulative earnings (total of each of the three years of the Plan Cycle together will all gains and losses realized in a Participant's LTIP Account) become vested and non-forfeitable following the close of the three-year Plan Cycle according to the following schedule:
To vest and be eligible for cash distributions, a Participant must be actively employed in good standing with the Company. Participants who are not actively employed in good standing with the Company at the time of distribution are not eligible for payment and forfeit any unvested award.
 
Cash Payments and Method of Distribution
Payment Distribution
All payments are subject to approval by the Compensation Committee.
Distribution of each Participant's earnings under the Plan will be paid, as soon as practicable, after each vesting date.
The following example shows both the vesting and distribution schedule for one plan cycle:
Participants whose employment with the Company terminates for any reason prior to a payment date are not eligible for a payout under the LTIP Plan, except upon death, Disability or Retirement as follows:
If the Company terminates the Participant's employment for cause after payment has been made, the Company has the right to reclaim and receive from the Participant any amounts already paid during the one year period before the date of the Participant's termination of employment.
Date and Method of Payment
Prior to the beginning of each Plan Cycle, Participants must complete a payment distribution election form. The Participant elects both the date when payments are to begin and the method of payment. These elections are irrevocable.
Date
Participants may elect to receive account balances according to the set payment schedule (see above) or they may elect to defer payments beyond the set payment schedule to a future date.
 
Method of Payment
There are two methods of payment available: lump sum or annual installments that will pay in a minimum of two (2) years to a maximum of ten (10) years.
Change of Control
In the event of a Change of Control, each Participant's LTIP Balance will vest and be distributed as soon as practicable following such Change of Control.
Each Participant should refer to his/her individual, signed Change of Control Agreement for full details.
Limitations
An Eligible Employee may participate in a maximum of three concurrent Plan Cycles at any given time.
Exclusion
Participation is the Plan is not a right but a privilege subject to annual review by the Committee. The Committee reserves the right, at its sole and absolute discretion, to withhold payment from any Participant who violates or who has violated any Company principle or policy, even if there are no documented performance issues in the Participant's personnel file.
Plan Administration
The Compensation Committee shall have full power and authority to construe, interpret and administer the Plan. All decisions, actions or interpretations related to the Plan are the responsibility of the Compensation Committee, subject to the Compensation Committee's sole and absolute discretion, and shall be final, conclusive and binding on all parties.
The Committee is responsible for designating Participants; setting goals; reviewing results and proposed payments and approving cash payouts.
 
In the event a Participant is not actively employed by the Company the Committee has the authority to accelerate vesting and to approve a lump sum distribution of all or a pro-rata portion of earned cash payouts.
The Compensation Committee has the right to amend or terminate the Plan, although it cannot rescind any payments already granted to a Participant so long as that person is employed by the Company, and is qualified under the terms of the Plan.
General Provisions
- A Participant's rights under this Plan may not be sold, pledged, assigned or transferred in any manner, except if required by the laws of descent and distribution (transfers of earned compensation at death through wills or intestate transfers).
Non-Transferable
Nothing in this Plan shall be construed as an agreement by Ryder to employ an employee for a specific period of time, or to change the at-will status of any employee.
No Right to Employment
-
Amounts allocated to the Plan are general liabilities of Ryder and will be funded in a Rabbi Trust, which is an irrevocable trust used to fund deferred compensation benefits for key employees. The primary purpose of a Rabbi Trust is to provide and protect nonqualified plan assets, guaranteeing that funds will be available when promised, except in the case of bankruptcy.
Plan Funding & Security
-
In the event of bankruptcy, the assets of the Trust are subject to the claims of general creditors, but are inaccessible to the Company for discretionary use. In the event that the Company becomes insolvent, each Participant will be an unsecured general creditor of the Company. Your claim against the assets of the Company will be considered in sequence with the claims of other general creditors of the Company.

 
Exhibit 10.6
     This (this "Amendment"), dated as of May 11, 2005, relates to that certain Revolving Credit Agreement dated as of May 11, 2004 (as amended and in effect from time to time, the " ") by and among (a) (""), (" "), (" " and together with Ryder Holdings Canada, the " "), (" "), ("" and together with Ryder PLC, the ". "), (" "), (b) the lending institutions identified as Banks therein, (c) , as administrative agent for the Banks (the " "), (d) , as syndication agent thereunder (the " "), (e) , , and , each a documentation agent thereunder (each a " " and collectively, the " "), (f) , as Canadian agent for the Banks (the ""), and (g) , as United Kingdom agent for the Banks (the ". ").
AMENDMENT AGREEMENT NO. 1
Credit
Agreement
RYDER SYSTEM, INC.
Ryder
RYDER TRUCK RENTAL HOLDINGS CANADA LTD.
Ryder
Holdings
Canada
RYDER TRUCK RENTAL CANADA LTD.
Ryder
Canada
Limited
Canadian
Borrowers
RYDER PLC
Ryder
PLC
RYDER SYSTEM HOLDINGS (U.K.) LIMITED
RSH
U.K
Borrowers
RYDER PUERTO RICO, INC.
Ryder
PR
FLEET NATIONAL BANK
Administrative
Agent
CITICORP USA, INC.
Syndication
Agent
BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI TRUST COMPANY
MIZUHO CORPORATE BANK, LTD.
ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND PLC
WACHOVIA BANK, N.A.
Co-Documentation
Agent
Co-Documentation
Agents
ROYAL BANK OF CANADA
Canadian Agent
ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND PLC
U.K
Agent
     , Each of Ryder, the Canadian Borrowers, the U.K. Borrowers and Ryder PR (collectively, the "") have requested that the Administrative Agent and the Banks agree, and the Administrative Agent and the Banks have agreed, on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein, to amend certain of the terms and provisions of the Credit Agreement;
WHEREAS
Borrowers
     the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE,
      Capitalized terms which are used herein without definition and which are defined in the Credit Agreement shall have the same meanings herein as in the Credit Agreement.
1.
Defined
Terms
.
     
2.
Amendments
to
the
Credit
Agreement
.
     (a)  . The definition of "Maturity Date" in Section 1.1 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the definition of "Maturity Date" set forth therein in its entirety and substituting in lieu thereof the following new definition:
Maturity
Date
     " . May 11, 2010."
Maturity
Date
 
     (b)  . The definition of "Pricing Table" set forth in Section 1.1 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the definition of "Pricing Table" set forth therein in its entirety and substituting in lieu thereof the following new definition:
Pricing
Table
     " . With respect to Domestic Loans, Canadian Loans, U.K. Loans, PR Loans, Bankers' Acceptances, Letters of Credit, Letter of Credit Fees, Domestic Commitments, Canadian Commitments, U.K. Commitments and PR Commitments, on each day the Applicable Acceptance Fee Rate, Applicable Facility Fee Rate, and Applicable Margin shall be as set forth in the table below (expressed in basis points ) based on the Senior Public Debt Ratings in effect on such day and shall correspond to the highest level in such table at which the Senior Public Debt Ratings threshold shall be satisfied. If at any time there is a split among ratings of S&P, Fitch and Moody's such that all three ratings fall in different Levels in the table below, the Applicable Acceptance Fee Rate, Applicable Facility Fee Rate, and Applicable Margin shall be determined by the rating that is neither the highest nor the lowest of the three ratings, and, if at any time there is a split among ratings of S&P, Fitch and Moody's such that two of such ratings are in one Level in the table below (the " ") and the third rating is in a different Level, the Applicable Acceptance Fee Rate, Applicable Facility Fee Rate, and Applicable Margin shall be determined by the rating at the Majority Level. In the event that a Senior Public Debt Rating is not available from any one of S&P, Moody's or Fitch, the Applicable Acceptance Fee Rate, Applicable Facility Fee Rate, and Applicable Margin shall be as set forth in the table below (expressed in basis points ) based on the Senior Public Debt Ratings of S&P, Moody's and Fitch that are available and in effect on such day and shall correspond to the highest level in such table at which the Senior Public Debt Ratings threshold shall be satisfied; that (i) in the event of a one step split rating by S&P, Moody's and Fitch, as the case may be, the higher step rating shall apply and (ii) in the event of a two or more step split rating by S&P, Moody's and Fitch, as the case may be, the step rating that is one step above the lower rating shall apply. In the event that a Senior Public Debt Rating is not available from Fitch and one of S&P or Moody's, the Applicable Acceptance Fee Rate, Applicable Facility Fee Rate, and Applicable Margin shall be as set forth in the table below (expressed in basis points ) based on the Senior Public Debt Ratings available from S&P or Moody's, as the case may be, in effect on such day and shall correspond to the highest level in such table at which the Senior Public Debt Ratings threshold shall be satisfied. In the event that neither S&P nor Moody's has a Senior Public Debt Rating available, the Applicable Acceptance Fee Rate, the Applicable Facility Fee Rate, and the Applicable Margin shall be as set forth in Level VI in the table below. Adjustments to the Applicable Acceptance Fee Rate, the Applicable Facility Fee Rate, and the Applicable Margin shall be made on, and shall be effective as of, the day of any adjustment in the Senior Public Debt Rating.
Pricing
Table
per
annum
Majority
Level
per
annum
provided
per
annum
 
     (c)  . The definition of "Receivables Purchase Agreement" in Section 1.1 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the definition of "Receivables Purchase Agreement" set forth therein in its entirety and substituting in lieu thereof the following new definition:
Receivables
Purchase
Agreement
     " . Collectively, any trade receivables purchase and sale facilities and/or other receivables purchase agreements permitted pursuant to 9.3 the terms and conditions of which are either (a) substantially similar in all material respects to those provided for in the Trade Receivables Purchase and Sale Facility, dated April 17, 2001, among Ciesco L.P., Thunder Bay Funding Inc., Citicorp North America Inc. ("Citicorp"), Royal Bank of Canada and Ryder Receivables Funding, L.L.C. or (b) have been consented to by the Administrative Agent, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld, in either case, whether characterized as sales agreements or security agreements."
Receivables
Purchase
Agreement
     (d)  . The definition of "Senior Public Debt Ratings" set forth in Section 1.1 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the definition of "Senior Public Debt Ratings" set forth therein in its entirety and substituting in lieu thereof the following new definition:
Senior
Public
Debt
Ratings
     " . The rating(s) of Ryder's public unsecured long-term senior debt, without third party credit enhancement, issued by Fitch, Moody's and/or S&P; or, in the event no such debt of Ryder is outstanding or if such debt shall be outstanding but shall not be rated by Fitch, S&P or Moody's, the rating(s) of this credit facility issued by Fitch, Moody's and/or S&P (or, if Fitch, Moody's and S&P do not exist, another nationally recognized rating agency) upon request of Ryder."
Senior
Public
Debt
Ratings
     (e)  . Section 2.2(e) of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the reference to "one-third (1/3)" therein and substituting in lieu thereof a reference to "one-half (1/2)".
Utilization
Fee
     (f)  . Sections 13.1(f),(i),(j) and (k) of the Credit Agreement are each hereby amended by deleting each reference to "$50,000,000" set forth therein and substituting a reference to "$75,000,000" in lieu thereof.
Events
of
Default
      Each of the Borrowers hereby affirms and acknowledges to the Banks as follows:
3.
Affirmation,
Acknowledgment
of
the
Borrowers
.
     (a) Each of the Borrowers hereby ratifies and confirms all of its Obligations to the Banks, including, without limitation, the Loans, and each of the Borrowers hereby affirms its absolute and unconditional promise to pay to the Banks the Loans and all other amounts due under the Credit Agreement as amended hereby.
 
     (b) Ryder hereby acknowledges the provisions of this Amendment and hereby reaffirms its absolute and unconditional guaranty of the payment and performance of the Obligations by Ryder PR, the Canadian Borrowers and the U.K. Borrowers as more fully described in Section 5 of the Credit Agreement.
     Each of the Borrowers hereby represents and warrants to the Banks as follows:
4.
Representations and Warranties
.
     (a) The execution and delivery of this Amendment, and the performance by each of the Borrowers of its obligations and agreements under this Amendment and the Credit Agreement as amended hereby, are within the corporate authority of each of the Borrowers, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate proceedings on behalf of each of the Borrowers, and do not and will not materially contravene any provision of law, statute, rule or regulation to which any of the Borrowers is subject or any of their charters, other incorporation papers, by-laws or any stock provisions or any amendments thereof or of any material agreements or other material instruments binding upon any of the Borrowers.
     (b) This Amendment and the Credit Agreement as amended hereby constitute legal, valid and binding obligations of each of the Borrowers, enforceable in accordance with their respective terms, except as limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other laws relating to or affecting generally the enforcement of creditors' rights.
     (c) No approval or consent of, or filing with, any governmental agency or authority is required to make valid and legally binding the execution, delivery or performance by each of the Borrowers of this Amendment or the Credit Agreement as amended hereby other than those already obtained.
     (d) The representations and warranties contained in 7 of the Credit Agreement are true and correct at and as of the date hereof and thereof, except to the extent of changes resulting from transactions contemplated or permitted by the Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents and changes occurring in the ordinary course of business that singly or in the aggregate are not materially adverse, and to the extent that such representations and warranties relate expressly to an earlier date.
     (e) Each of the Borrowers has performed and complied in all material respects with all the terms and conditions herein required to be performed or complied with prior to or at the time hereof, and as of the date hereof, after giving effect to the provisions hereof, there exists no Default or Event of Default.
     This Amendment shall be deemed to be effective as of May 11, 2005 (the "Effective Date"), subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions precedent:
5.
Effectiveness
.
     (a) the receipt by the Administrative Agent of a fully executed counterpart hereof signed by each of Ryder, the Canadian Borrowers, the U.K. Borrowers, Ryder PR, the Administrative Agent and each of the Banks;
     (b) the receipt by the Administrative Agent of certificates of an appropriate officer of each of the Borrowers, dated as of the date hereof, as to (i) the charter documents and by-laws, each as amended, or a certificate of an appropriate officer of each of the Borrowers certifying that there have been no amendments or other changes to the charter documents and by-laws since the Closing Date of the Credit
 
Agreement, (ii) the corporate actions authorizing the execution, delivery, and performance hereof, and (iii) the names, titles, incumbency, and specimen signatures of the officers of each of the Borrowers authorized to sign this Amendment on behalf of such entity;
     (c) the receipt by the Administrative Agent of legal existence and good standing certificates issued by the appropriate public officials as to each of the Borrowers, and such other certificates, documents, or instruments with respect to this Amendment and the other Loan Documents as the Administrative Agent or the Banks may reasonably request;
     (d) the receipt by the Administrative Agent of a favorable legal opinion of counsel from (i) Ryder Law Department, United States counsel to the Ryder and Ryder PR and (ii) Ryder Law Department, United Kingdom counsel to the U.K. Borrowers, in each case, addressed to the Administrative Agent and the Banks, dated as of the date hereof, in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent;
     (e) the receipt by the Administrative Agent and Banc of America Securities, LLC and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., as joint lead arrangers of all reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable legal fees and expenses) for which invoices have been presented which have been incurred or sustained by the Administrative Agent or Banc of America Securities, LLC and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. in connection with this Amendment and the Credit Agreement;
     (f) the receipt by the Administrative Agent, for the pro rata accounts of each of the Banks, of an amendment fee equal to five basis points (0.05%) of the Total Commitment; and
     (g) all proceedings in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Amendment and all documents incident thereto shall be reasonably satisfactory in substance and form to the Administrative Agent, and the Administrative Agent shall have received all information and such counterpart originals or certified or other copies of such documents as the Administrative Agent may reasonably request.
      .
6.
Miscellaneous
Provisions
     (a) This Amendment shall constitute a Loan Document. Except as otherwise expressly provided by this Amendment, all of the terms, conditions and provisions of the Credit Agreement shall remain the same. It is declared and agreed by each of the parties hereto that the Credit Agreement, as amended hereby, shall continue in full force and effect, and that this Amendment and the Credit Agreement shall be read and construed as one instrument.
     (b) This Amendment shall be construed according to and governed by the laws of the State of New York.
     (c) This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one instrument. In making proof of this Amendment it shall not be necessary to produce or account for more than one counterpart signed by each party hereto by and against which enforcement hereof is sought. Delivery of an executed signature page of this Amendment by facsimile or electronic transmission shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart thereof.
 
     (d) Headings or captions used in this Amendment are for convenience of reference only and shall not define or limit the provisions hereof.
     (e) The Borrowers hereby agree to pay to the Administrative Agent, on demand by the Administrative Agent, all reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses incurred or sustained by the Administrative Agent in connection with the preparation of this Amendment (including reasonable legal fees and expenses).
 
     the parties hereto have executed this Amendment as of the date first written above.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


