FILE:R/R-8K-20050912092612.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On September 12, 2005, the Company announced that Gregory E. Hyland, President, U.S. Fleet Management Solutions, has resigned to take a position with another company.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibit 99.1: Press Release dated September 12, 2005 announcing the resignation of Gregory E. Hyland.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

News Release
David_Bruce@Ryder.com
 Ryder System, Inc. (NYSE: R) today announced that Gregory E. Hyland, President of its U.S. Fleet Management Solutions business segment, is departing the company to become Chief Executive Officer of a diversified industrial company located in Florida.
MIAMI, September 12, 2005
"We appreciate Mr. Hyland's contributions to Ryder and wish him success as he pursues this unique opportunity to lead another organization," said Ryder's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Greg Swienton. Mr. Swienton will assume direct operational responsibility for this area of the company until a successor is named.
Ryder is a 500 company providing leading-edge transportation, logistics and supply chain management solutions worldwide. Ryder's stock (NYSE:R) is a component of the Dow Jones Transportation Average and the Standard & Poor's 500 Index. For more information about Ryder System, Inc., visit .
Fortune
www.ryder.com
Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements: Certain statements and information included in this presentation are "forward-looking statements" under the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Accordingly, these forward-looking statements should be evaluated with consideration given to the many risks and uncertainties inherent in our business that could cause actual results and events to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause such differences include, among others, our ability to obtain adequate profit margins for our services, our inability to maintain current pricing levels due to customer acceptance or competition, customer retention levels, the possibility that changes in customers' business environments will limit their ability to commit to long-term vehicle leases, changes in market conditions affecting the commercial rental market or the sale of used vehicles, higher borrowing costs and possible decreases in available funding sources caused by adverse changes in debt ratings, changes in accounting assumptions, adequacy of accounting accruals, changes in general economic conditions, availability of heavy- and medium-duty vehicles, increases in fuel prices, availability of qualified drivers, the Company's ability to create operating synergies in connection with its acquisitions of Ruan and General, and changes in government regulations, including regulations regarding vehicle emissions, drivers' hours of service and security regulations issued by the Department of Homeland Security. The risks included here are not exhaustive. New risks emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors or to assess the impact of such risks on the Company's business. Accordingly, the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
48-05


