FILE:R/R-8K-20060215172104.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On February 9, 2006 and February 13, 2006, the Compensation Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Ryder System, Inc. (the "Company") approved certain compensation actions for the Company's "named executive officers" (as defined in Item 402(a)(3) of Regulation S-K). In addition, the Companys independent directors approved certain compensation actions for Gregory T. Swienton, the Companys Chief Executive Officer. The compensation actions taken by the Committee (and by the independent directors with respect to the CEO) included setting 2006 base salaries, approving 2005 incentive payments under the Ryder System, Inc. 2005 Management Incentive Plan and the Ryder System, Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan, and granting stock options and performance-based restricted stock rights under the Ryder System, Inc. 2005 Equity Compensation Plan (the "Plan"). Incentive Plans. The Committee approved the terms and conditions of the 2006 annual incentive cash awards ("Aw ards") granted to the named executive officers under the Plan. Each Award provides for the payment of a target bonus amount (expressed as a percentage of the executives salary) based on the achievement of certain levels of net operating revenue, return on capital and earnings per share. The terms and conditions of the Awards are attached as Exhibit 10.1 of this Current Report on Form 8-K. Performance-Based Restricted Stock Rights. The Committee approved the terms and conditions of the performance-based restricted stock rights granted to officers of the Company, including the named executive officers. The restricted stock will vest based on the Companys total shareholder return (generally the change in the Companys stock price over the performance period plus dividends paid) relative to the total shareholder return of the S&P 500 for the threeyear performance period beginning January 1, 2006 and ending December 31, 2008. As part of the restricted stock award, if the restricted stock vests, the participants will also receive a cash award designed to approximate the amount of the participants tax liability relating to the restricted stock. The terms and conditions of the performance-based restricted stock rights are attached as Exhibit 10.2 of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The following exhibits are filed as part of this Report on Form 8-K: Exhibit 10.1 Terms and Conditions applicable to the 2006 Annual Incentive Cash Awards granted under the Ryder System, Inc. 2005 Equity Compensation Plan. Exhibit 10.2 Terms and Conditions applicable to Performance-Based Restricted Stock Rights and Related Cash Awards granted under the Ryder System, Inc. 2005 Equity Compensation Plan.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Exhibit 10.1
The following terms and conditions apply to the annual incentive cash awards (the "Awards") granted by Ryder System, Inc. under the Ryder System, Inc. 2005 Equity Compensation Plan (the "Plan") a description of which is set forth in the relevant Guide to the Annual Incentive Compensation Program (the "Guide") to which these terms and conditions are appended. No individual shall receive an Award unless the Company has notified the individual of the Award and delivered these Terms and Condition and the Guide to the individual. Certain terms of the Award, including the performance goals and target payout amounts, are set forth in the Guide or the payout grids titled "Incentive Payout Components by Position" ("Payout Grid") applicable to the Participant. The Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors (the "Committee") shall administer the Awards in accordance with the Plan. Capitalized terms used herein and not defined shall have the meaning ascribed to such terms in the Plan or the Guide.
The Award Documents supersede any and all prior oral representations, promises or guarantees relating to short-term incentives or annual bonuses. All provisions of the Award Documents shall apply unless otherwise prohibited by law.
In the event there is an express conflict between the provisions of the Plan and those set forth in the Guide or in these terms and conditions, the terms and conditions of the Plan shall govern. Unless otherwise approved by the Committee, individuals who have written agreements which specifically provide for annual incentive compensation other than that which is provided under the Award or who are participants in any other short-term incentive compensation plan of the Company or its subsidiaries and affiliates are not eligible to receive an Award hereunder. The Company may, in its sole discretion, provide discretionary or other bonuses to Company employees, whether or not they receive an Award.
The terms and conditions contained herein may be amended by the Committee as permitted by the Plan; none of the terms and conditions of the Award may be amended or waived without the prior approval of the Committee. Any amendment or waiver not approved by the Committee will be void and have no force or effect. Any employee or officer of the Company who authorizes any such amendment or waiver without the prior approval of the Committee will be subject to disciplinary action up to and including forfeiture of an Award and/or termination of employment (unless otherwise prohibited by law). All decisions and determination made by the Committee relating to the Awards shall be final and binding on the Participant, his or her beneficiaries and any other person having or claiming an interest under the Plan.
The target incentive award (expressed as a percentage of the Participant's Eligible Base Salary) to be paid under the Award, as approved by the Committee, are also set forth in the Guide.
For purposes of the Award, Eligible Base Salary means the annual rate of pay for the Performance Period, excluding all other compensation paid to the Participant during the year, including but not limited to bonuses, incentives, commissions, car allowance, employee benefits, relocation expenses, and any imputed income for which the Participant may be eligible (all as more fully described in the Guide). As soon as practicable after the end of the Performance Period, the Committee will determine the attainment of the Performance Goals, to the extent applicable, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP").
The Committee may increase or decrease a Participant's Payout Amount (as defined below) based on the Participant's individual performance by way of a performance modifier to the extent provided in the Guide; provided, however that in no event may the Payout Amount for a Participant that is in a Management Level of 14 or above be increased or decreased by way of a performance modifier.
(i) any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "1934 Act")) (a "Person") becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of twenty percent (20%) or more of the combined voting power of the Company's outstanding voting securities ordinarily having the right to vote for the election of directors of the Company; provided, however, that for purposes of this subparagraph (i), the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change of Control: (A) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan or plans (or related trust) of the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates or (B) any acquisition by any corporation pursuant to a transaction which complies with clauses (A), (B) and (C) of subparagraph (iii) below; or
(ii) the individuals who, as of August 18, 1995, constituted the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board" generally and as of August 18, 1995 the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least two-thirds (2/3) of the Board, provided that any person becoming a director subsequent to August 18, 1995 whose election, or nomination for election, was approved by a vote of the persons comprising at least two-thirds (2/3) of the Incumbent Board (other than an election or nomination of an individual whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened election contest, as such terms are used in Rule 14a-11 of Regulation 14A promulgated under the 1934 Act) shall be, for purposes of this Plan, considered as though such person were a member of the incumbent Board; or
(iii) there is a reorganization, merger or consolidation of the Company (a "Business Combination"), in each case, unless, following such Business Combination, (A) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners, respectively, of the Company's outstanding Shares and outstanding voting securities ordinarily having the right to vote for the election of directors of the Company immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than fifty percent (50%) of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities ordinarily having the right to vote for the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, a corporation which as a result of such transaction owns the Company or all or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination, of the Company's outstanding Shares and outstanding voting securities ordinarily having the right to vote for the election of directors of the Company, as the case may be, (B) no Person (excluding any corporation resulting from such Business Combination or any employee benefit plan or plans (or related trust) of the Company or such corporation resulting from such Business Combination and their subsidiaries and affiliates) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination and (C) at least two-thirds (2/3) of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business combination were members of the incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement, or of the action of the Board, providing for such Business combination; or
(iv) there is a liquidation or dissolution of the Company approved by the shareholders; or
(v) there is a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company.

Exhibit 10.2
The following terms and conditions apply to the performance-based restricted stock rights (the "RSRs ") and related cash awards (the "Related Cash Award") granted by Ryder System, Inc. (the "Company") under the Ryder System, Inc. 2005 Equity Compensation Plan (the "Plan"), as specified in the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Rights Award Notification Letter (the "Notification Letter"), to which these terms and conditions are appended. Certain terms of the RSRs and the Related Cash Award including the number of shares of Ryder common stock underlying the RSRs, are set forth in the Notification Letter. The Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors (the "Committee") shall administer the RSRs and Related Cash Awards in accordance with the Plan. Capitalized terms used herein and not defined shall have the meaning ascribed to such terms in the Plan or in the Notification Letter.
The terms and conditions contained herein may be amended by the Committee as permitted by the Plan; none of the terms and conditions of the RSRs or Related Cash Awards may be amended or waived without the prior approval of the Committee. Any amendment or waiver not approved by the Committee will be void and have no force or effect. Any employee or officer of the Company who authorizes any such amendment or waiver without the prior approval of the Committee will be subject to disciplinary action up to and including forfeiture of the RSRs and Related Cash Awards and/or termination of employment (unless otherwise prohibited by law). All decisions and determination made by the Committee relating to the RSRs and Related Cash Awards shall be final and binding on the Participant, his or her beneficiaries and any other person having or claiming an interest under the Plan.
Upon vesting, (i) a share certificate evidencing the Shares subject to the vested RSRs will be issued in the name of the Participant and delivered to the Participant at the Participant's address on file with the Company on the vesting date, provided that the Participant may request to receive delivery of the shares either by transfer of the Shares to a broker or by depositing the Shares in an account with the Company's transfer agent, by delivering to the Company a written election form satisfactory to the Company specifying such alternate delivery instructions and (ii) the Participant will receive the cash payment by the March 15 immediately following the end of the Performance Period, unless administratively impracticable to do so.
th
(v) there is a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company.


