FILE:R/R-8K-20071017172634.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On October 17, 2007, we announced the appointment of Robert E. Sanchez as our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer effective October 26, 2007. Mr. Sanchez replaces Mark T. Jamieson who resigned from the Company effective October 26, 2007 to accept a position with HD Supply, Inc. Mr. Jamiesons resignation is not the result of any disagreement regarding our financial statements. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Sanchez served as Executive Vice President of Operations of our Fleet Management Solutions business segment and has served as a member of our Executive Leadership Team since 2003. Mr. Sanchez joined Ryder in 1993 and has served in roles of increasing responsibility including: Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer (CIO); Senior Vice President, Global Transportation Management; Vice President, Asset Management; and Finance Director, Global Financial Analysis. A copy of the press release announcing Mr. Sanchez's appointment as Chief Financial Officer an d Mr. Jamiesons departure is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibit 99.1: Press Release dated October 17, 2007.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

EXHIBIT 99.1
News Release
Ryder System, Inc. (NYSE: R), a global leader in transportation and supply chain management solutions, today announced Robert E. Sanchez has been named Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Sanchez replaces Mark T. Jamieson, who is leaving Ryder to become the Chief Financial Officer at HD Supply, a leading wholesale building material distribution company headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia.
MIAMI, October 17, 2007 
Prior to this appointment, Mr. Sanchez served as Executive Vice President of Operations of the Company's largest business segment, Fleet Management Solutions. In that position, he was responsible for all FMS operations in the U.S. and Canada. This included responsibility for a fleet of more than 145,000 vehicles, and more than 800 maintenance facilities. He has served as a member of Ryder's Executive Leadership Team since 2003.
"Over his 14-year career with Ryder, Robert has provided effective leadership and delivered proven results in the areas of finance, asset management, fleet and supply chain management operations, and information technology. He brings to his new role broad financial experience and a deep understanding of the people, processes, and technologies that drive our competitiveness," said Ryder Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Greg Swienton. "We wish Mark much success with his new organization and thank him for both his leadership and his many contributions in the areas of strategy, mergers and acquisitions, and the process efficiencies he helped introduce within Ryder's global organization."
Mr. Jamieson will continue to lead Ryder's finance organization through the close of the Company's third quarter financial results and will work to fully transition his responsibilities within the next few weeks. Commenting on his decision, Mr. Jamieson said, "My time with Ryder has been personally and professionally rewarding and I am very proud of the team that is in place, the process initiatives we launched, and the results we achieved together."
Mr. Sanchez joined Ryder in 1993 and has served in roles of increasing responsibility including: Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer (CIO); Senior Vice President, Global Transportation Management; Vice President, Asset Management; and Finance Director, Global Financial Analysis.
Prior to joining Ryder, Mr. Sanchez served as an Applications Engineer at Florida Power and Light and a Controls Engineer at Pratt & Whitney Aircraft.
Mr. Sanchez earned his MBA from The Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania with a concentration in Finance and a bachelor of science degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of Miami.
Ryder provides leading-edge transportation, logistics and supply chain management solutions worldwide. Ryder's stock (NYSE: R) is a component of the Dow Jones Transportation Average and the Standard & Poor's 500 Index. Ryder ranks 362 on the 500 and 1,458 on the Global 2000. For more information on Ryder System, Inc., visit .
nd
Fortune
th
Forbes
www.ryder.com
Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements: Certain statements and information included in this news release are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on our current plans and expectations and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Accordingly, these forward-looking statements should be evaluated with consideration given to the many risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and events to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements including those risks set forth in our periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. New risks emerge from time to time. It is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors or to assess the impact of such risks on our business. Accordingly, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
61-07


