FILE:R/R-8K-20071130120617.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(b) On November 29, 2007, Ms. Vicki A. O'Meara elected to leave her position as President, U.S. Supply Chain Solutions for Ryder System, Inc. (the "Company"). Tom Jones, Senior Vice President and General Manager, U.S. Supply Chain Solutions, will assume Ms. O'Meara's responsibilities on an interim basis. A copy of the press release announcing Ms. O'Meara's departure is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference. (e) On November 29, 2007, the Company entered into a Severance Agreement and Release ("Severance and Release") with Ms. O'Meara pursuant to which she will receive severance payments and benefits that are materially consistent with those described in that certain Severance Agreement dated as of June 18, 1997 previously entered into by Ms. O'Meara and the Company. A form of the Severance Agreement was previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and is described in detail in the Company's 2007 Proxy Statement. In addition, the Severance and Release provides for payment of the following additional amounts which were approved by the Company's Compensation Committee: (i) a pro-rata bonus under the Company's 2007 annual cash incentive awards, the exact amount to be calculated in accordance with the terms of the awards, payable in February 2008 and (ii) approximately $360,000 which represents amounts earned but not yet vested under the 2004-2006 plan cycle of the Company's cash long-term incentive plan described in our 2007 Proxy Statement, payable in July 2008. The Severance and Release also includes a general release of all legal claims, and noncompete, nonsolicitation, nondisparagement and confidentiality provisions.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibit 99.1: Press Release dated November 30, 2007.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

News Release
Ryder System, Inc. (NYSE: R) today announced plans to combine its U.S. and International Supply Chain Solutions (SCS) business operations to form a single, fully integrated organization to serve SCS customers globally. The new structure will formally align SCS expertise, business resources, and management processes, to efficiently support the increasing global sourcing and production needs of the Company's substantial North American customer base and accelerating customer demand outside of North America.
MIAMI, November 30, 2007 
The announcement follows the introduction of a global account management initiative in 2006, which integrated SCS expertise and resources from various reporting units and operations across four continents into a collaborative network to improve consistency of customer support across global regions. As a result of the restructuring, President of U.S. Supply Chain Solutions Vicki O'Meara has elected to leave the Company to pursue other interests. Ms. O'Meara is a 10-year veteran of the Company who has served in senior leadership roles as Executive Vice President of Corporate Operations and Executive Vice President and General Counsel, prior to her most recent role as President of U.S. Supply Chain Solutions. Ryder will be conducting an internal and external search of candidates to lead the new Global Supply Chain Solutions organization.
Commenting on Ms. O'Meara's decision, Ryder Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Greg Swienton said, "Vicki has made significant contributions to Ryder's progress in each of her diverse roles over the past 10 years, and was instrumental in initiating global account management within our Supply Chain Solutions business. We thank Vicki for her commitment and we wish her much success in the future."
Mr. Swienton will assume direct responsibility for all SCS operations until the leader of the new global SCS organization is named. Reporting to Mr. Swienton will be Tom Jones, Senior Vice President and General Manager, U.S. Supply Chain Solutions, who will replace Ms. O'Meara on an interim basis. Mr. Jones joined Ryder in 1988 and has held various positions of increasing responsibility, including Senior Vice President of Supply Chain Solutions, Automotive, Aerospace and Transportation Management. Dave Bouchard, Senior Vice President and General Manager of International, will continue to lead Ryder's international SCS operations, reporting to Mr. Swienton.
Ryder provides leading-edge transportation, logistics and supply chain management solutions worldwide. Ryder's stock (NYSE: R) is a component of the Dow Jones Transportation Average and the Standard & Poor's 500 Index. Ryder ranks 362 on the 500 and 1,458 on the Global 2000. For more information on Ryder System, Inc., visit .
nd
Fortune
th
Forbes
www.ryder.com
Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements: Certain statements and information included in this news release are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on our current plans and expectations and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Accordingly, these forward-looking statements should be evaluated with consideration given to the many risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and events to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements including those risks set forth in our periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. New risks emerge from time to time. It is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors or to assess the impact of such risks on our business. Accordingly, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
71-07


