FILE:R/R-8K-20070214173055.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Election of Directors
On February 8, 2007, our Board of Directors, upon the recommendation of the Board's Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, elected Luis P. Nieto, Jr., President of the Refrigerated Foods Group for ConAgra Foods Inc., to serve as a director for a term of office expiring at our 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Mr. Nieto was also appointed to the Board's Audit Committee and Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee.
The Board has determined that Mr. Nieto qualifies as independent under the independence standards set forth in the NYSE corporate governance listing standards. There are no arrangements or understandings between Mr. Nieto and other persons with respect to his appointment as a director. We plan to enter into a Director Indemnification Agreement with Mr. Nieto, the form of which was previously filed with the Commission on October 10, 2006.
A press release announcing Mr. Nieto's election to the Board is filed with this report as Exhibit 99.1.
Departure of Directors
On February 9, 2007, Daniel H. Mudd, a member of our Board of Directors, notified us of his decision to resign his position as a director effective at our 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 4, 2007. Mr. Mudd's decision to resign as a director was not due to any disagreement with us on any matter relating to our operations, policies or practices.
Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On February 9, 2007, the Compensation Committee of our Board approved compensation actions for certain of our "named executive officers" (as defined in Item 402(a)(3) of Regulation S-K). In addition, our independent directors approved certain compensation actions for Gregory T. Swienton, our Chief Executive Officer.
The Compensation Committee (and the independent directors with respect to Mr. Swienton) approved the cash payouts earned under the 2006 annual cash incentive awards and determined the amounts earned under our Long-Term Incentive Plan for 2006 performance, in each case, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the awards which were previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
2006 Cash Incentive Plan Payouts.
The Compensation Committee and the independent directors approved the terms and conditions of the 2007 annual cash incentive awards granted to our CEO and the other named executive officers under the Plan. Each award provides for the payment of a target bonus amount (expressed as a percentage of the executive's base salary, which percentages are consistent with the percentages in effect for the 2006 annual cash incentive awards) based on the achievement of certain levels of operating revenue, return on capital and earnings per share. The terms and conditions of the 2007 annual cash incentive awards are materially consistent with the terms and conditions of the 2006 awards.
2007 Cash Incentive Awards.
. The Compensation Committee and the independent directors also approved the grant of stock options and performance-based restricted stock rights to the named executive officers under the Ryder System, Inc. 2005 Equity Compensation Plan (the "Plan"). The performance-based restricted stock rights will vest based on our total shareholder return (generally the change in our stock price over the performance period plus dividends paid) relative to the total shareholder return of the S&P 500 for the threeyear performance period ending on December 31, 2009. As part of the restricted stock award, if the restricted stock vests, the participants will also receive a cash award designed to approximate the amount of the participant's tax liability relating to the restricted stock. The terms and conditions of the options and performance-based restricted stock rights are attached as Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
2007 Equity Awards
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
The following exhibits are filed as part of this Report on Form 8-K:
Exhibit 10.1: Terms and Conditions applicable to the Stock Options granted under the Ryder System, Inc. 2005 Equity Compensation Plan.
Exhibit 10.2: Terms and Conditions applicable to the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Rights and Related Cash Awards granted under the Ryder System, Inc. 2005 Equity Compensation Plan.
Exhibit 99.1: Press Release dated February 14, 2007 announcing the election of Luis P. Nieto, Jr., as a director of Ryder System, Inc.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
EXHIBIT 10.1
     The following terms and conditions apply to the non-qualified stock option ("Option") granted by Ryder System, Inc. (the "Company") under the Ryder System, Inc. 2005 Equity Compensation Plan (the "Plan"), as specified in the Stock Option Award Notification (the "Notification"), to which these terms and conditions are appended. Certain terms of the Option, including the number of Shares subject to the Option, the exercise price, the vesting schedule and the expiration date, are set forth in the Notification. The terms and conditions contained herein may be amended by the Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors (the "Committee") as permitted by the Plan. Capitalized terms used herein and not defined shall have the meaning ascribed to such terms in the Plan or in the Notification.
 
 
 
 

 
EXHIBIT 10.2
The following terms and conditions apply to the performance-based restricted stock rights (the "PBRSRs") and related cash award (the "Related Cash Award") granted by Ryder System, Inc. (the "Company") under the Ryder System, Inc. 2005 Equity Compensation Plan (the "Plan"), as specified in the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Rights Award Notification (the "Notification"), to which these terms and conditions are appended. Certain terms of the PBRSRs and the Related Cash Award including the number of shares of Ryder common stock underlying the PBRSRs, are set forth in the Notification. The Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors (the "Committee") shall administer the PBRSRs and Related Cash Award in accordance with the Plan. Capitalized terms used herein and not defined shall have the meaning ascribed to such terms in the Plan or in the Notification.
 
 
 
 
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
News Release
      Ryder System, Inc. (NYSE: R), a global leader in transportation and supply chain management solutions, today announced that Luis P. Nieto, Jr., President of the Refrigerated Foods Group for ConAgra Foods, Inc. (NYSE: CAG), one of America's leading packaged food companies, has been elected to its Board of Directors. Mr. Nieto was appointed to serve on the Company's Audit Committee, and Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee.
MIAMI, February 14, 2007
     "Luis is an accomplished leader in the food industry which is clearly a key industry sector for Ryder," said Ryder Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Greg Swienton. "We are honored that he has agreed to serve and further strengthen our ability for growth, innovation, customer service, and outstanding value to our customers, shareholders, and employees."
     Mr. Nieto, 51, has been President of the Refrigerated Foods Group for ConAgra Foods, Inc., since 2005. From 2002 to 2005, he served as President and CEO of the Federated Group, a leading private label supplier to the retail grocery and food services industries. Earlier, Mr. Nieto held senior positions in brand management and strategic planning with highly respected companies including National Refrigerated Products Group of Dean Foods Company, Mission Foods, Kraft Foods, and the Quaker Oats Company.
     Mr. Nieto is a graduate of the University of Chicago and holds an MBA from the Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration. Mr. Nieto is a member of the University of Chicago's College Visiting Committee.
     Ryder is a 500 company providing leading-edge transportation, logistics and supply chain management solutions worldwide. Ryder's stock (NYSE: R) is a component of the Dow Jones Transportation Average and the Standard & Poor's 500 Index. For more information about Ryder System, Inc., visit .
Fortune
www.ryder.com
Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements: Certain statements and information included in this news release are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on our current plans and expectations and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Accordingly, these forward-looking statements should be evaluated with consideration given to the many risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and events to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements including those risks set forth in our periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. New risks emerge from time to time. It is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors or to assess the impact of such risks on our business. Accordingly, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
08-07


