FILE:R/R-8K-20080214163232.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers On February 8, 2008, the Compensation Committee of our Board approved compensation actions for certain of our "named executive officers" (as defined in Item 402(a)(3) of Regulation S-K). In addition, our independent directors approved certain compensation actions for Gregory T. Swienton, our Chief Executive Officer. 2007 Cash Incentive Plan Payouts. The Compensation Committee (and the independent directors with respect to Mr. Swienton) approved the cash payouts earned under the 2007 annual cash incentive awards (annual bonus) and determined the amounts earned under our 2005 Long-Term Cash Incentive Awards for 2007 performance, in each case, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the awards which were previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 2008 Cash Incentive Awards. The Compensation Committee and the independent directors approved the terms and conditions of the 2008 annual cash incentive awards granted to our CEO and the other named executive officers under the Plan. Each award provides for the payment of a target bonus amount (expressed as a percentage of the executives base salary) based on the achievement of certain levels of operating revenue, return on capital and earnings per share. For 2008, the target bonus percentage approved for our CEO was increased to 120% of base salary (from 100% of base salary in 2007), and the target bonus percentages approved with respect to our other named executive officers were consistent with the percentages in effect for the 2007 annual cash incentive awards. Other than the change with respect to the CEOs target percentage, the terms and conditions of the 2008 annual cash incentive awards are materially consistent with the terms and conditions of the 2007 awards. 2008 Equity Awards. The Compensation Committee and the independent directors also approved the grant of stock options, performance-based restricted stock rights and performance-based cash aw ards to the named executive officers under the Ryder System, Inc. 2005 Equity Compensation Plan (the "Plan"). Both the performance-based restricted stock rights and the performance-based cash awards will vest based on our total shareholder return (generally the change in our stock price over the performance period plus dividends paid) relative to the total shareholder return of the S&P 500 for the threeyear performance period ending on December 31, 2010. In previous years, the performance-based cash awards were designed to vest in tandem with the performance-based restricted stock rights, and were intended to approximate the participants tax liability relating to the restricted stock. For 2008, however, the Committee decided to separate these two compensation elements such that the performance-based cash awards will vest independent of the performance-based restricted stock rights. The Compensation Committee also approved amendments to the terms and conditions under the Plan to clarif y certain language concerning the treatment of equity in the event of termination of employment for retirement, disability and death. The revised terms and conditions of the options, performance-based restricted stock rights, performance-based cash awards and restricted stock rights are attached as Exhibits 10.1, 10.2, 10.3 and 10.4 to this Current Report on Form 8-K, and are incorporated herein by reference. The foregoing description of these terms and conditions does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the terms and conditions filed as Exhibits hereto.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The following exhibits are filed as part of this Report on Form 8-K: Exhibit 10.1: Terms and Conditions applicable to the Stock Options granted under the Ryder System, Inc. 2005 Equity Compensation Plan. Exhibit 10.2: Terms and Conditions applicable to the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Rights granted under the Ryder System, Inc. 2005 Equity Compensation Plan. Exhibit 10.3: Terms and Conditions applicable to the Performance-Based Cash Awards granted under the Ryder System, Inc. 2005 Equity Compensation Plan. Exhibit 10.4: Terms and Conditions applicable to the Restricted Stock Rights granted under the Ryder System, Inc. 2005 Equity Compensation Plan.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Exhibit 10.1
The following terms and conditions apply to the non-qualified stock option ("Option") granted by Ryder System, Inc. (the "Company") under the Ryder System, Inc. 2005 Equity Compensation Plan (the "Plan"), as specified in the Stock Option Award Notification (the "Notification"), to which these terms and conditions are appended. Certain terms of the Option, including the number of Shares subject to the Option, the exercise price, the vesting schedule and the expiration date, are set forth in the Notification. The terms and conditions contained herein may be amended by the Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors (the "Committee") as permitted by the Plan. Capitalized terms used herein and not defined shall have the meaning ascribed to such terms in the Plan or in the Notification.
(v) there is a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company.
Notwithstanding anything in this Section 7 to the contrary, for purposes of the acceleration of the payment pursuant to Section 5, a Change of Control shall only be deemed to occur if such transactions or events would give rise to a "change in ownership or effective control" under Section 409A of the Code, and the rulings and regulations issued thereunder

Exhibit 10.2
The following terms and conditions apply to the performance-based restricted stock rights (the "PBRSRs") granted by Ryder System, Inc. (the "Company") under the Ryder System, Inc. 2005 Equity Compensation Plan (the "Plan"), as specified in the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Rights Award Notification (the "Notification"), to which these terms and conditions are appended. Certain terms of the PBRSRs including the number of shares of Ryder common stock underlying the PBRSRs, are set forth in the Notification. The Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors (the "Committee") shall administer the PBRSRs in accordance with the Plan. Capitalized terms used herein and not defined shall have the meaning ascribed to such terms in the Plan or in the Notification.
The terms and conditions contained herein may be amended by the Committee as permitted by the Plan; none of the terms and conditions of the PBRSRs may be amended or waived without the prior approval of the Committee. Any amendment or waiver not approved by the Committee will be void and have no force or effect. Any employee or officer of the Company who authorizes any such amendment or waiver without the prior approval of the Committee will be subject to disciplinary action up to and including forfeiture of his or her PBRSRs and/or termination of employment (unless otherwise prohibited by law). All decisions and determination made by the Committee relating to the PBRSRs shall be final and binding on the Participant, his or her beneficiaries and any other person having or claiming an interest under the Plan.
Upon vesting, the Shares subject to the vested PBRSRs will be transferred to an account held in the name of the Participant by the Company's independent stock plan administrator and the Participant will receive notice of such transfer together with all relevant account details.
(v) there is a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company.
Notwithstanding anything in this Section 11 to the contrary, for purposes of the acceleration of the payment pursuant to Section 5, a Change of Control shall only be deemed to occur if such transactions or events would give rise to a "change in ownership or effective control" under Section 409A of the Code, and the rulings and regulations issued thereunder.

Exhibit 10.3
The following terms and conditions apply to the performance-based cash awards (the "PBCAs") granted by Ryder System, Inc. (the "Company") under the Ryder System, Inc. 2005 Equity Compensation Plan (the "Plan"), as specified in the Performance-Based Cash Award Notification (the "Notification"), to which these terms and conditions are appended. Certain terms of the PBCAs are set forth in the Notification. The Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors (the "Committee") shall administer the PBCAs in accordance with the Plan. Capitalized terms used herein and not defined shall have the meaning ascribed to such terms in the Plan or in the Notification.
The terms and conditions contained herein may be amended by the Committee as permitted by the Plan; none of the terms and conditions of the PBCAs may be amended or waived without the prior approval of the Committee. Any amendment or waiver not approved by the Committee will be void and have no force or effect. Any employee or officer of the Company who authorizes any such amendment or waiver without the prior approval of the Committee will be subject to disciplinary action up to and including forfeiture of his or her PBCAs and/or termination of employment (unless otherwise prohibited by law). All decisions and determination made by the Committee relating to the PBCAs shall be final and binding on the Participant, his or her beneficiaries and any other person having or claiming an interest under the Plan.
(v) there is a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company.
Notwithstanding anything in this Section 11 to the contrary, for purposes of the acceleration of the payment pursuant to Section 5, a Change of Control shall only be deemed to occur if such transactions or events would give rise to a "change in ownership or effective control" under Section 409A of the Code, and the rulings and regulations issued thereunder.

Exhibit 10.4
The following terms and conditions apply to the Restricted Stock Rights (the "RSRs") granted by Ryder System, Inc. (the "Company") under the Ryder System, Inc. 2005 Equity Compensation Plan (the "Plan"), as specified in the Restricted Stock Rights Award Notification (the "Notification"), to which these terms and conditions are appended. Certain terms of the RSRs, including the number of shares of Ryder common stock underlying the RSRs, are set forth in the Notification. The Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors (the "Committee") shall administer the RSRs in accordance with the Plan. Capitalized terms used herein and not defined shall have the meaning ascribed to such terms in the Plan or in the Notification.
The terms and conditions contained herein may be amended by the Committee as permitted by the Plan; none of the terms and conditions of the RSRs may be amended or waived without the prior approval of the Committee. Any amendment or waiver not approved by the Committee will be void and have no force or effect. Any employee or officer of the Company who authorizes any such amendment or waiver without the prior approval of the Committee will be subject to disciplinary action up to and including forfeiture of his or her RSRs and/or termination of employment (unless otherwise prohibited by law). All decisions and determination made by the Committee relating to the RSRs shall be final and binding on the Participant, his or her beneficiaries and any other person having or claiming an interest under the Plan.
Upon vesting, the Shares subject to the vested RSRs will be transferred to an account held in the name of the Participant by the Company's independent stock plan administrator and the Participant will receive notice of such transfer together with all relevant account details
(v) there is a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company.
Notwithstanding anything in this Section 10 to the contrary, for purposes of the acceleration of the payment pursuant to Section 4, a Change of Control shall only be deemed to occur if such transactions or events would give rise to a "change in ownership or effective control" under Section 409A of the Code, and the rulings and regulations issued thereunder.


