FILE:R/R-8K-20100908184101.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(c) Ryder System, Inc. (the Company) has appointed Ms. Cristina A. Gallo-Aquino, age 36, to serve as the Company's Vice President and Controller and principal accounting officer effective September 8, 2010. Ms. Gallo-Aquino will replace Mr. Art A. Garcia, who served as Senior Vice President and Controller until September 1, 2010, when he was appointed as the Company's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Ms. Gallo-Aquino joined the Company in 2004 and has held various positions within the Company's Corporate Accounting department. Most recently, she served as Assistant Controller since 2009. From 2007 to 2009, she served as Senior Director of Corporate Accounting, from 2005 to 2007, she served as Director of Corporate Accounting and from 2004 to 2005, she served as Director of Technical Accounting. Before joining the Company, Ms. Gallo-Aquino worked as Senior Manager of Technical Accounting at LNR Property Corporation. Prior to that, she worked in KMPG's Audit Services department for s even years. Ms. Gallo-Aquino holds a Bachelor of Science in Accounting and a Masters in Business Administration and is a Certified Public Accountant. In connection with her appointment as Vice President and Controller, Ms. Gallo-Aquino's annual compensation will be increased by 25% and her target bonus opportunity will be increased to 55%. There are no family relationships between Ms. Gallo-Aquino and any of the Companys directors or executive officers and the Company has not entered into any transactions with Ms. Gallo-Aquino that are reportable pursuant to Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits Exhibit 99.1: Press Release, dated September 8, 2010
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

News Release
Ryder System, Inc. (NYSE: R) today announced the appointment of Cristina Gallo-Aquino as Vice President and Controller. In this position, Ms. Gallo-Aquino serves as the Company's principal accounting officer and is responsible for corporate accounting and planning, internal and external financial reporting, vehicle administration, as well as accounting for insurance, benefits, payroll and sales tax. In addition, Ms. Gallo-Aquino will continue to serve as a member of Ryder's Diversity & Inclusion Council.
MIAMI, September 8, 2010 
"Cristy brings a strong combination of financial accounting expertise and more than a decade of experience working on Ryder financial matters to this important role," said Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Art Garcia.
Prior to this appointment, Ms. Gallo-Aquino served as Assistant Controller, where she was responsible for Ryder's Corporate Accounting, Benefits Accounting and Payroll Accounting departments. She joined Ryder from LNR Property Corporation in 2004 as Director of Technical Accounting, and later served as Director of Corporate Accounting and then Senior Director of Corporate Accounting.
Ms. Gallo-Aquino began her accounting career in KPMG's audit practice, where she spent seven years serving primarily Ryder as well as other corporate accounts. She received her bachelor of accounting degree (cum laude) from Florida International University, where she later earned a master of business administration degree.
In assuming the role of the Company's controller, Ms. Gallo-Aquino succeeds Art A. Garcia, who was recently named Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Ryder.
Ryder is a FORTUNE 500 commercial transportation, logistics and supply chain management solutions company. Ryder's stock (NYSE:R) is a component of the Dow Jones Transportation Average and the Standard & Poor's 500 Index. magazine has recognized Ryder as the top third party logistics provider, and magazine has named Ryder the number-one company for security practices in the transportation, logistics, supply chain, and warehousing sector. Ryder is a proud member of the American Red Cross Annual Disaster Giving Program, supporting national and local disaster preparedness and response efforts. For more information on Ryder System, Inc., visit .
Inbound Logistics
Security
www.ryder.com
Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements: Certain statements and information included in this presentation are "forward-looking statements" under the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on our current plans and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Accordingly, these forward-looking statements should be evaluated with consideration given to the many risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and events to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. New risks emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors or to assess the impact of such risks on our business. Accordingly, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.


