FILE:R/R-8K-20110512165535.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Election of Directors On May 12, 2011, our Board of Directors, upon the recommendation of the Board's Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, elected Robert J. Eck, President and Chief Executive Officer of Anixter International, Inc., to serve as a director for a term of office expiring at our 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. It is anticipated that Mr. Eck will be appointed to the Board's Compensation Committee and Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee. The Board has determined that Mr. Eck qualifies as independent under the independence standards set forth in the NYSE corporate governance listing standards. There are no arrangements or understandings between Mr. Eck and any other persons with respect to his appointment as a director. Neither Mr. Eck nor any immediate family member of Mr. Eck has been a participant in any transaction or currently proposed transaction with the Company that is reportable under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K. Mr. Eck will participate in the standard non-employee director compensation arrangements described under the heading "Director Compensation" in our 2011 Proxy Statement, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 21, 2011. We plan to enter into a Director Indemnification Agreement with Mr. Eck, the form of which was previously filed with the Commission on October 10, 2006. A press release announcing Mr. Eck's election to the Board is filed with this report as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) The following exhibits are filed as part of this Report on Form 8-K: Exhibit 99.1: Press Release dated May 12, 2011 announcing the election of Robert J. Eck.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

News Release
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 Ryder System, Inc. (NYSE: R), a leader in transportation and supply chain management solutions, today announced that Robert J. Eck, President and Chief Executive Officer of Anixter International, Inc. (NYSE: AXE) has been elected to its Board of Directors.
MIAMI, May 12, 2011
Mr. Eck, 53, has served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Anixter International since 2008. Based in Glenview, Ill., Anixter is a $5.5 billion global distributor of communications and security products, electrical and electronic wire and cable, fasteners and other small components. Before his current position, Mr. Eck served as Anixter's Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer. Prior to that position, he was also Anixter's Executive Vice President of Enterprise Cabling and Security Systems, where he was responsible for this business segment's profitability and strategy in North America and emerging markets. Having joined Anixter in 1989, Mr. Eck boasts a successful 22-year career with the company, where he has held roles of increasing responsibility in operations, strategy, sales and marketing, information technology, and human resources.
"Bob is a dynamic leader who has brought success to every area he has led and who is now driving strong profitability and growth for his company," said Ryder Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Greg Swienton. "We are honored that he has agreed to serve on our board as we continue to make strong progress at Ryder. The depth of his knowledge and seasoned leadership will serve our Company well."
Mr. Eck is a graduate of Marquette University in Milwaukee, Wis., where he received a bachelor's degree in economics.
Ryder is a FORTUNE 500 commercial transportation, logistics and supply chain management solutions company. Ryder's stock is a component of the Dow Jones Transportation Average and the Standard & Poor's 500 Index. magazine has recognized Ryder as the top third party logistics provider and included Ryder in its 2010 "50 Green Partners" listing. Ryder also ranked 114 out of the top 500 U.S. companies and sixth in its industry sector in the 2010 Green Rankings. has named Ryder one of the top companies for security practices in the transportation, logistics, supply chain, and warehousing sector. Ryder is a proud member of the American Red Cross Annual Disaster Giving Program, supporting national and local disaster preparedness and response efforts. For more information on Ryder System, Inc., visit .
Inbound Logistics
Newsweek
Security Magazine
www.ryder.com
Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements: Certain statements and information included in this news release are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on our current plans and expectations and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Accordingly, these forward-looking statements should be evaluated with consideration given to the many risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and events to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements including those risks set forth in our periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. New risks emerge from time to time. It is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors or to assess the impact of such risks on our business. Accordingly, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.


