FILE:R/R-8K-20120510144044.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Item 5.02(b)
On May 4, 2012, the Board accepted Lynn M. Martin's tender of resignation from the Company's Board of Directors pursuant to the director retirement policy set forth in the Company's Corporate Governance Guidelines. Ms. Martin's resignation was effective on May 4, 2012. Ms. Martin has been a valuable member of the Company's Board of Directors since 1993. At the time of her resignation, Ms. Martin served on the Compensation Committee and Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee.
Item 5.02(e)
Approval of the Plan
At the Annual Meeting of Shareholders held on May 4, 2012, our shareholders approved the Ryder System, Inc. 2012 Equity and Incentive Compensation Plan (the "2012 Plan"). The 2012 Plan was approved by our Board of Directors on February 10, 2012, subject to shareholder approval, and is effective as of May 4, 2012. Unless earlier terminated by our Board of Directors, the 2012 Plan shall terminate on the day before the tenth anniversary of the later of the effective date or the date of any subsequent shareholder approval of the Plan.
The 2012 Plan will serve as the umbrella plan for all of our stock-based and cash-based incentive compensation programs for our directors, officers and other key employees. The Plan allows the Company to issue a variety of stock-based awards, including stock options, restricted stock rights and restricted stock units up to an aggregate of 3.5 million shares of the Company's common stock. For each share that is actually delivered pursuant to a stock-based award, other than a stock option or stock appreciation right, the aggregate share limit under the 2012 Plan will be reduced by two shares and for each share that is actually delivered pursuant to a stock option or stock appreciation right, the aggregate share limit under the 2012 Plan will be reduced by one share. Additionally, upon the exercise of each stock-settled stock appreciation right, the aggregate share limit under the 2012 Plan will be reduced further by the number of shares having a fair market value equal to the base price or exercise price for the number of shares so exercised, and for each stock option or stock-settled stock appreciation right, each share withheld by the Company to satisfy the exercise price or withholding taxes with respect to any such award, will reduce the aggregate share limit by one share. Upon adoption of the 2012 Plan, the Company terminated its prior 2005 Equity Compensation Plan (the "2005 Plan"); awards outstanding under the 2005 Plan will continue to remain outstanding in accordance with their terms.
Terms and Conditions of Awards under the Plan
On May 3, 2012, the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors approved the form of the terms and conditions pursuant to which the Company will grant non-qualified stock options, performance-based restricted stock rights, performance-based cash awards and restricted stock rights to our executive officers and employees; and (ii) restricted stock units to our non-employee directors, under the 2012 Plan.
Item 5.07 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
On May 4, 2012, Ryder System, Inc. held its Annual Meeting of Shareholders. At the meeting, the shareholders voted as indicated below on the following proposals:
 
 
Election of one director for a one-year term of office expiring at the 2013 Annual Meeting.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.7
 
 
 
 
1.
Purpose of the Plan
The purpose of this 2012 Equity and Incentive Compensation Plan (the "Plan") is to advance the interests of the Company and its shareholders by providing a means (a) to attract, retain, and reward directors, officers and other employees of the Company and its Subsidiaries, (b) to link compensation to measures of the Company's performance in order to provide additional incentives, including stock-based incentives and cash-based incentives, to such persons for the creation of shareholder value, and (c) to enable such persons to acquire or increase a proprietary interest in the Company in order to promote a closer identity of interests between such persons and the Company's shareholders. The Plan is intended to replace the Company's 2005 Equity Compensation Plan, provided that awards outstanding under such plan as of the Effective Date shall remain outstanding in accordance with their terms.
2.
Definitions
Capitalized terms used in the Plan and not defined elsewhere in the Plan shall have the meaning set forth in this Section.
2.1 "Award" means a Cash-Based Award or a Share-Based Award.
2.2 "Award Agreement" means a written document prescribed by the Committee and provided to a Participant evidencing the grant of an Award under the Plan.
2.3 "Beneficiary" means the person(s) or trust(s) entitled by will or the laws of descent and distribution to receive any rights with respect to an Award that survive such Participant's death, provided that if at the time of a Participant's death, the Participant had on file with the Committee a written designation of a person(s) or trust(s) to receive such rights, then such person(s) (if still living at the time of the Participant's death) or trust(s) shall be the "Beneficiary" for purposes of the Plan.
2.4 "Board" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
2.5 "Cash-Based Award" means a compensatory award made pursuant to the Plan pursuant to which a Participant receives, or has the opportunity to receive, cash, other than an award pursuant to which the amount of cash is determined by reference to the value of a specific number of Shares. For the avoidance of doubt, Dividend-Equivalent Rights constitute Cash-Based Awards.
2.6 "Change of Control" occurs when:
(a) any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act) (a "Person") becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly,
 
of 30% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's outstanding voting securities ordinarily having the right to vote for the election of directors of the Company; provided, however, that for purposes of this subparagraph (a), the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change of Control: (i) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan or plans (or related trust) of the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates or (ii) any acquisition by any corporation pursuant to a transaction which complies with clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of subparagraph (c) below; or
(b) the individuals who, as of the Effective Date, constituted the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board" generally and as of the Effective Date the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board, provided that any person becoming a director subsequent to the Effective Date whose election, or nomination for election, was approved by a vote of the persons comprising at least a majority of the Incumbent Board (other than an election or nomination of an individual whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened election contest, as such terms are used in Rule 14a-11 of Regulation 14A promulgated under the Exchange Act) (as in effect on January 23, 2000)) shall be, for purposes of this Plan, considered as though such person were a member of the Incumbent Board; or
(c) there is a reorganization, merger or consolidation of the Company (a "Business Combination"), in each case, unless, following such Business Combination, (i) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners, respectively, of the Company's outstanding Shares and outstanding voting securities ordinarily having the right to vote for the election of directors of the Company immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities ordinarily having the right to vote for the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, a corporation which as a result of such transaction owns the Company or all or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination, of the Company's outstanding Shares and outstanding voting securities ordinarily having the right to vote for the election of directors of the Company, as the case may be, (ii) no Person (excluding any corporation resulting from such Business Combination or any employee benefit plan or plans (or related trust) of the Company or such corporation resulting from such Business Combination and their subsidiaries and affiliates) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 30% or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination and (iii) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement, or of the action of the Board, providing for such Business Combination; or
(d) there is a liquidation or dissolution of the Company approved by the shareholders; or
(e) there is a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company.
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, solely for the purpose of determining the timing of payment or timing of distribution of any compensation or benefit that constitutes "non-qualified deferred compensation" within the meaning of Code Section 409A, a Change of Control shall not be deemed to occur under this Plan unless the events that have occurred would also constitute a "Change in the Ownership or Effective Control of a Corporation or in the Ownership of a Substantial Portion of the Assets of a Corporation" under Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5), or any successor provision, and in the event such Change of Control does not constitute "Change in the Ownership or Effective Control of a Corporation or in the Ownership of a Substantial Portion of the Assets of a Corporation" under Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5), the timing of payment or timing of distribution of any compensation or benefit that constitutes "non-qualified deferred compensation" within the meaning of Code Section 409A will occur pursuant to the terms of the applicable Award Agreement without regard to the Change of Control. For the avoidance of doubt, the immediately preceding sentence does will not apply for the purpose of determining the vesting of any Award upon a Change of Control.
2.7 "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, including regulations thereunder and successor provisions and regulations thereto.
2.8 "Committee" means the Compensation Committee of the Board, or another committee appointed by the Board to administer the Plan or any part thereof, or the Board, where the Board is acting as the Committee or performing the functions of the Committee, as set forth in Section 3.
2.9 "Company" means Ryder System, Inc., a company organized under the laws of the state of Florida.
2.10 "Dividend-Equivalent Right" means the right to receive an amount, calculated with respect to a Share-Based Award, which is determined by multiplying the number of Shares subject to the applicable Award by the per-Share cash dividend, or the per-Share Fair Market Value (as determined by the Committee) of any dividend in consideration other than cash, paid by the Company on Shares.
2.11 "Effective Date" means the date on which the Plan is approved by the Company's stockholders.
2.12 "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
2.13 "Fair Market Value" means the last reported sale price of a Share during regular trading hours on the relevant date or (if there were no trades on that date) the latest preceding date upon which a sale was reported by the composite transaction reporting system for securities listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
2.14 "Full-Value Award" means any Share-Based Award granted under the Plan other than (a) a stock option that requires the Participant to pay (in cash, foregone cash compensation, or other consideration, other than the performance of services, designated as acceptable by the Committee) at least the Fair Market Value of the Shares subject thereto as determined on the date of grant of an Award or (b) a stock appreciation right that is based solely on the appreciation
 
of the Shares underlying the Award from the Fair Market Value of the Shares as determined on the date of grant of the Award.
2.15 "Non-Employee Director" means a member of the Board who is not otherwise employed by the Company or any Subsidiary.
2.16 "Participant" means any employee, director or other individual who has been granted an Award under the Plan.
2.17 "Qualified Member" means a member of the Committee who is a "non-employee director" of the Company as defined in Rule 16b-3(b)(3) under the Exchange Act, an "outside director" within the meaning of Regulation  1.162-27 under Code Section 162(m) and an "independent director" within the meaning of the applicable stock exchange rules.
2.18 "Share-Based Award" means a compensatory award made pursuant to the Plan pursuant to which a Participant receives, or has the opportunity to receive, Shares, or receives, or has the opportunity to receive, cash, where the amount of cash is determined by reference to the value of a specific number of Shares. Share-Based Awards shall include, without limitation, stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units, stock units, and bonus shares.
2.19 "Shares" means common shares of the Company and such other securities as may be substituted or resubstituted for Shares pursuant to Section 7.
2.20 "Subsidiary" means an entity that is, either directly or through one or more intermediaries, controlled by the Company.
3.
Administration
3.1 . The Compensation Committee of the Board shall administer the Plan, unless the Board shall appoint a different committee. At any time that a member of the Committee is not a Qualified Member, (a) any action of the Committee relating to an Award intended by the Committee to qualify as "performance-based compensation" within the meaning of Code Section 162(m) and regulations thereunder may be taken by a subcommittee, designated by the Committee or the Board, composed solely of two or more Qualified Members, and (b) any action relating to an Award granted or to be granted to a Participant who is then subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act in respect of the Company may be taken either by the Board, a subcommittee of the Committee consisting of two or more Qualified Members or by the Committee but with each such member who is not a Qualified Member abstaining or recusing himself or herself from such action, provided that, upon such abstention or recusal, the Committee remains composed of two or more Qualified Members. Such action, authorized by such a subcommittee or by the Committee upon the abstention or recusal of such non-Qualified Member(s), shall be the action of the Committee for purposes of the Plan. Other provisions of the Plan notwithstanding, the Board may perform any function of the Committee under the Plan, and that authority specifically reserved to the Board under the terms of the Plan, the Company's Articles of Incorporation, By-Laws, or applicable law shall be exercised by the Board and not by the Committee. The Board shall serve as the Committee in respect of any Awards made to any Non-Employee Director.
Committee
 
3.2 . In addition to the powers and duties specified elsewhere in the Plan, the Committee shall have full authority and discretion to:
Powers and Duties of Committee
(a) adopt, amend, suspend, and rescind such rules and regulations and appoint such agents as the Committee may deem necessary or advisable to administer the Plan, including rules and regulations relating to sub-plans established for the purpose of satisfying applicable foreign laws;
(b) correct any defect or supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan and to construe and interpret the Plan and any Award, rules and regulations, Award Agreement, or other instrument hereunder;
(c) make determinations relating to eligibility for and entitlements in respect of Awards, and to make all factual findings related thereto; and
(d) make all other decisions and determinations as may be required under the terms of the Plan or as the Committee may deem necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan.
All determinations and decisions of the Committee shall be final and binding upon a Participant or any person claiming any rights under the Plan from or through any Participant, and the Participant or such other person may not further pursue his or her claim in any court of law or equity or other arbitral proceeding.
3.3 . Except to the extent prohibited by applicable law or the applicable rules of a stock exchange, or as provided in Section 5.2, the Committee may delegate, on such terms and conditions as it determines in its sole and absolute discretion, to one or more senior executives of the Company (i) the authority to make grants of Awards to officers (other than executive officers) and employees of the Company and any Subsidiary or other individuals (other than Non-Employee Directors) who provide services to the Company or any Subsidiary and (ii) other administrative responsibilities. Any such allocation or delegation may be revoked by the Committee at any time.
Delegation by Committee
3.4 . Each member of the Committee shall be entitled to, in good faith, rely or act upon any report or other information furnished to him or her by any officer or other employee of the Company or any Subsidiary, the Company's independent certified public accountants, or any executive compensation consultant, legal counsel, or other professional retained by the Company to assist in the administration of the Plan. No member of the Committee, nor any officer or employee of the Company acting on behalf of the Committee, shall be personally liable for any action, determination, or interpretation taken or made in good faith with respect to the Plan, and all members of the Committee and any officer or employee of the Company acting on behalf of the Committee or members thereof shall, to the extent permitted by law, be fully indemnified and protected by the Company with respect to any such action, determination, or interpretation.
Limitation of Liability
 
4.
Awards
4.1 . The Committee shall have the discretion to select Award recipients from among the following categories of eligible recipients: (a) individuals who are employees (including officers) of the Company or any Subsidiary, (b) Non-Employee Directors, and (c) other individuals who provide services to the Company or any Subsidiary.
Eligibility
4.2 . The Committee shall have the discretion to determine the type of Award to be granted to a Participant. The Committee is authorized to grant Awards as a bonus, or to grant Awards in lieu of obligations of the Company or any Subsidiary to pay cash or grant other awards under other plans or compensatory arrangements, to the extent permitted by such other plans or arrangements. Shares issued pursuant to an Award in the nature of a purchase right (e.g., stock options) shall be purchased for such consideration, paid for at such times, by such methods, and in such forms, including cash, Shares, other Awards, or other consideration, as the Committee shall determine.
Type of Awards
4.3 . The Committee shall determine the size of each Award to be granted (including, where applicable, the number of Shares to which an Award will relate), and all other terms and conditions of each such Award (including, but not limited to, any exercise price, grant price, or purchase price, any restrictions or conditions relating to transferability, forfeiture, exercisability, or settlement of an Award, and any schedule or performance conditions for the lapse of such restrictions or conditions, and accelerations or modifications thereof, based in each case on such considerations as the Committee shall determine). The Committee may determine whether, to what extent, and under what circumstances an Award may be settled, or the exercise price of an Award may be paid, in cash, Shares, other Awards, or other consideration, or an Award may be canceled, forfeited, or surrendered. The right of a Participant to exercise or receive a grant or settlement of any Award, and the timing thereof, may be subject to such performance conditions as may be specified by the Committee. The Committee may use such business criteria and measures of performance as it may deem appropriate in establishing performance conditions, and may exercise its discretion to reduce or increase the amounts payable under any Award subject to performance conditions, except as limited under Section 5.1 in the case of a Performance Award intended to qualify under Code Section 162(m). Notwithstanding the foregoing, (i) except with respect to Substitute Awards, the price per Share at which Shares may be purchased upon the exercise of a stock option shall not be less than one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value on the date of grant of such stock option, (ii) except with respect to Substitute Awards, with respect to stock appreciation rights, the price per Share from which stock appreciation is measured shall not be less than one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of such Share on the date of grant of the stock appreciation right, (iii) the period during which an Award may remain outstanding shall not exceed ten (10) years from the date the Award is granted, (iv) Dividend-Equivalent Rights shall not be granted with respect to stock options or stock appreciation rights, (v) Dividend-Equivalent Rights shall not be paid with respect to unvested performance shares and performance units (provided dividend equivalents may accrue on such unvested awards and be paid to the extent the shares vest), (vi) (I) if the grant or vesting of Full-Value Awards is subject to performance conditions, the Full-Value Awards (other than Full-Value Awards granted to Non-Employee Directors) shall have a minimum vesting period of not less than one (1) year and (II) if neither the grant nor the vesting of Full-Value Awards is subject to
Terms and Conditions of Awards
 
performance conditions, the Full-Value Awards (other than Full-Value Awards granted to Non-Employee Directors) shall fully vest over a period of not less than three (3) years; provided that (x) the Award Agreement may provide that such Full-Value Awards may fully vest on an accelerated basis in the event of a Participant's death, disability, retirement or in the event of a Change of Control, and (y) up to five percent (5%) of the Shares subject to the Aggregate Share Limit (as defined below in Section 6.1) may be granted as Full Value Awards free of the limitations on vesting set forth in this Section 4.3(v), and (vi) any Awards granted to Non-Employee Directors shall be granted to all Non-Employee Directors on a non-discretionary basis based on a formula approved by the Committee.
4.4 . Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, the Committee may not reprice stock options or stock appreciation rights or cancel stock options or stock appreciation rights in exchange for a cash payment or another Award (except pursuant Section 7), nor may the Board amend the Plan to permit such repricing or cancellation, unless the stockholders of the Company provide prior approval for such repricing or cancellation. The term "repricing" shall have the meaning given that term in Section 303A.08 of the New York Stock Exchange Listed Company Manual, as in effect from time to time, and shall not include adjustments pursuant to Section 7 of the Plan.
No Repricing of Stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights
4.5 . Subject to Section 4.4, Awards granted under the Plan may, in the discretion of the Committee, be granted either alone or in addition to, in tandem with, or in substitution or exchange for, any other Award or any award granted under another plan of the Company, any Subsidiary, or any business entity to be acquired by the Company or a Subsidiary, or any other right of a Participant to receive payment from the Company or any Subsidiary.
Stand-Alone, Additional, Tandem, and Substitute Awards
5.
Performance Awards
5.1 . If the Committee determines that an Award to be granted to an eligible person who is designated by the Committee as likely to be a Covered Employee (as defined below in Section 5.3) should qualify as "performance-based compensation" for purposes of Code Section 162(m), the grant, exercise, and/or settlement of such Award (a "Performance Award") shall be contingent upon achievement of preestablished performance goals and other terms set forth in this Section 5.1. This Section 5.1 shall not apply to Awards that otherwise qualify as "performance-based compensation" by reason of Regulation 1.162-27(e)(2)(vi) (relating to certain stock options and stock appreciation rights).
Performance Awards Granted to Designated Covered Employees
(a) . The performance goals for such Performance Awards shall consist of one or more business criteria and a targeted level or levels of performance with respect to each such criteria, as specified by the Committee consistent with this Section 5.1. Performance goals shall be objective and shall otherwise meet the requirements of Code Section 162(m) and regulations thereunder (including Regulation 1.162-27 and successor regulations thereto), including the requirement that the level or levels of performance targeted by the Committee result in the achievement of performance goals being "substantially uncertain." The Committee may determine that such Performance Awards shall be granted, exercised, and/or settled upon achievement of any one performance goal or that two or more of
Performance Goals Generally
 
the performance goals must be achieved as a condition to grant, exercise, and/or settlement of such Performance Awards. Performance goals may differ for Performance Awards granted to any one Participant or to different Participants.
(b) . One or more of the following business criteria for the Company, on a consolidated basis, and/or for specified Subsidiaries, divisions, or other business units of the Company (where the criteria are applicable), shall be used by the Committee in establishing performance goals for such Performance Awards: (i) earnings per share; (ii) revenues; (iii) cash flow; (iv) cash flow return on investment; (v) return on net assets, return on assets, return on investment, return on capital, return on equity; profitability; (vi) economic value added ("EVA"); (vii) operating margins or profit margins; (viii) income or earnings before or after taxes; pretax earnings; pretax earnings before interest, depreciation and amortization; operating earnings; pretax operating earnings, before or after interest expense and before or after incentives, and extraordinary or special items; net income; (ix) total stockholder return or stock price; (x) book value per share; (xi) expense management; improvements in capital structure; working capital; costs; and (xii) any of the above goals as compared to the performance of a published or special index deemed applicable by the Committee including, but not limited to, the Standard & Poor's 500 Stock Index or a group of comparator companies. EVA means the amount by which a business unit's earnings exceed the cost of the equity and debt capital used by the business unit during the performance period, as determined by the Committee. Income of a business unit may be before payment of bonuses, capital charges, non-recurring or extraordinary income or expense, and general and administrative expenses for the performance period, if so specified by the Committee.
Business Criteria
(c) . Achievement of performance goals in respect of such Performance Awards shall be measured over a performance period as specified by the Committee. Performance goals, amounts payable upon achievement of such goals, and other material terms of Performance Awards shall be established by the Committee (i) while the performance outcome for that performance period is substantially uncertain and (ii) no more than 90 days after the commencement of the performance period to which the performance goal relates or, if less, the number of days which is equal to 25 percent of the relevant performance period.
Performance Period; Timing for Establishing Performance Award Terms
(d) . The Committee may establish a Performance Award pool, which shall be an unfunded pool, for purposes of measuring performance of the Company in connection with Performance Awards. The amount of such Performance Award pool shall be based upon the achievement of a performance goal or goals based on one or more of the business criteria set forth in Section 5.1(b) hereof during the given performance period, as specified by the Committee in accordance with Section 5.1(c) hereof. The Committee may specify the amount of the Performance Award pool as a percentage of any of such business criteria, a percentage thereof in excess of a threshold amount, or as another amount which need not bear a strictly mathematical relationship to such business criteria. In such case, Performance Awards may be granted as rights to payment of a specified portion of the Award pool, and such grants shall be subject to the requirements of Section 5.1(c).
Performance Award Pool
(e) . Settlement of such Performance Awards shall be in cash, Shares, other Awards, in the discretion of the Committee.
Settlement of Performance Awards; Other Terms
 
The Committee may, in its discretion, reduce the amount of a settlement otherwise to be made in connection with such Performance Awards, but may not exercise discretion to increase any such amount payable to a Covered Employee in respect of a Performance Award subject to this Section 5.1. The Committee shall specify the circumstances in which such Performance Awards shall be paid or forfeited in the event of termination of employment by the Participant prior to the end of a performance period or settlement of Performance Awards.
(f) . To the extent applicable, the determination of achievement of performance goals for Performance Awards shall be made in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and a manner consistent with the methods used in the Company's audited financial statements, and, unless the Committee decides otherwise within the period described in Section 5.1(c), without regard to (i) extraordinary items as determined by the Company's independent public accountants in accordance with GAAP, (ii) changes in accounting methods, or (iii) non-recurring acquisition expenses and restructuring charges. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in calculating operating earnings or operating income (including on a per share basis), the Committee may, within the period described in Section 5.1(c), provide that such calculation shall be made on the same basis as reflected in a release of the Company's earnings for a previously completed period as specified by the Committee.
Impact of Extraordinary Items or Changes In Accounting
5.2 . Determinations by the Committee as to the establishment of performance goals, the amount potentially payable in respect of Performance Awards, the achievement of performance goals relating to Performance Awards, and the amount of any final Performance Award shall be recorded in writing. Specifically, the Committee shall certify in writing, in a manner conforming to applicable regulations under Code Section 162(m), prior to settlement of each Performance Award, that the performance goals and other material terms of the Performance Award upon which settlement of the Performance Award was conditioned have been satisfied. The Committee may not delegate any responsibility relating to such Performance Awards, and the Board shall not perform such functions at any time that the Committee is composed solely of Qualified Members.
Written Determinations
5.3 . It is the intent of the Company that Performance Awards under Section 5.1 constitute "performance-based compensation" within the meaning of Code Section 162(m) and regulations thereunder. Accordingly, the terms of Sections 5.1, 5.2 and 5.3, including the definitions of Covered Employee and other terms used therein, shall be interpreted in a manner consistent with Code Section 162(m) and regulations thereunder. The foregoing notwithstanding, because the Committee cannot determine with certainty whether a given Participant will be a Covered Employee with respect to a fiscal year that has not yet been completed, the term "Covered Employee" as used herein shall mean only a person designated by the Committee, at the time of grant of a Performance Award, as likely to be a Covered Employee with respect to a specified fiscal year. If any provision of the Plan as in effect on the date of adoption of any agreements relating to Performance Awards does not comply or is inconsistent with the requirements of Code Section 162(m) or regulations thereunder, such provision shall be construed or deemed amended to the extent necessary to conform to such requirements.
Status of Section 5.1 Awards under Code Section 162(m)
 
6.
Limitations on Awards
6.1 . The aggregate number of Shares that may be delivered to Participants or their Beneficiaries pursuant to all Awards granted under the Plan shall not exceed 3,500,000 (the "Aggregate Share Limit").
Aggregate Number of Shares Available for Awards
6.2 . Shares of Common Stock issued under the Plan may be authorized but unissued shares of Common Stock or reacquired shares of Common Stock, including shares purchased by the Company on the open market for purposes of the Plan.
Source of Shares
6.3 .
Share Counting
(a) The Aggregate Share Limit shall be reduced as follows: (i) for each Share that is actually delivered pursuant to a Full-Value Award, the Aggregate Share Limit shall be reduced by two Shares (i.e., on a 1:2 ratio), (ii) for each Share that is actually delivered pursuant to a Share-Based Award that is not a Full-Value Award (other than a Share-Based Award that is payable in cash), the Aggregate Share Limit shall be reduced by one Share (i.e., on a 1:1 ratio), (iii) for a stock-settled stock appreciation right, in addition to the reduction described in clause (ii), upon exercise thereof, the Aggregate Share Limit shall be reduced by a number of Shares having a Fair Market Value equal to the base price or exercise price for the number of Shares so exercised, and (iv) for each Share withheld by the Company to satisfy the exercise price or withholding taxes with respect to any Award described in clause (ii), the Aggregate Share Limit shall be reduced by one Share.
(b) The Aggregate Share Limit shall be increased as follows: (i) for any Award that resulted in a reduction in the Aggregate Share Limit pursuant to Section 6.3(a), the Aggregate Share Limit shall be increased, based on the applicable ratio set forth in Section 6.3(a), if any of the Shares issued pursuant to such Award are forfeited and returned to the Company for no consideration, or are repurchased by the Company from the Participant for the price paid by the Participant for such Shares, and (ii) for any Shares that are tendered to the Company by a Participant in satisfaction of any withholding tax obligation arising in connection with an Award described in clause (i) of Section 6.3(a), the Aggregate Share Limit shall be increased by each Share so tendered.
(c) The Aggregate Share Limit shall neither be increased nor decreased in respect of (i) the grant or settlement of any Cashed-Based Award, or any Share-Based Award to the extent settled in cash, (ii) any Shares tendered by a Participant to satisfy the exercise price or withholding taxes of any Award described in clause (ii) of Section 6.3(a), (iii) Shares repurchased by the Company on the open market to satisfy the obligation to deliver Shares pursuant to Awards, or (iv) the grant or settlement of Substitute Awards, as described in Section 6.6.
6.4 . In any calendar year, no Participant may be granted any Share-Based Awards that relate to more than 500,000 Shares. If the number of Shares ultimately payable in respect of an Award is a function of future achievement of performance targets, then for purposes of this limitation, the number of Shares to
Per Participant Limitation on Share-Based Awards
 
which such Award relates shall equal the number of Shares that would be payable assuming maximum performance was achieved.
6.5 . In any calendar year, no Participant may be granted Cash-Based Awards that can be settled for more than $5,000,000 in the aggregate.
Per Participant Limitation on Cash-Based Awards
6.6 . In connection with the acquisition of any business by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, any outstanding equity grants with respect to stock of the acquired company may be assumed or replaced by Awards under the Plan upon such terms and conditions as the Committee determines in its sole discretion. Shares subject to any such outstanding grants that are assumed or replaced by Awards under the Plan in connection with an acquisition ("Substitute Awards") shall not reduce the Aggregate Share Limit, consistent with applicable stock exchange requirements. Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, Substitute Awards shall have such terms as the Committee deems appropriate, including without limitation exercise prices or base prices on different terms than those described herein. In the event that the Company assumes a shareholder-approved equity plan of an acquired company, available Shares under such assumed plan (after appropriate adjustments to reflect the transaction) may be issued pursuant to Award under this Plan and shall not reduce the Aggregate Share Limit, subject to applicable stock exchange requirements.
Acquisitions
7.
Adjustment
In the event of any change in the outstanding Shares by reason of any reorganization, recapitalization, merger, amalgamation, consolidation, spin-off, combination or exchange of Shares, repurchase, liquidation, dissolution or other corporate exchange, any large, special and non-recurring dividend or distribution to shareholders, or other similar corporate transaction (including a Change of Control), the Committee may make such substitution or adjustment, if any, as it deems to be equitable and in order to preserve, without enlarging, the rights of Participants, as to (a) the number and kind of Shares which may be delivered pursuant to Sections 6.1 and 6.4, (b) the ratios described in Section 6.3(a), (c) the number and kind of Shares subject to or deliverable in respect of outstanding Awards, and (d) the exercise price, grant price or purchase price relating to any Award. The Committee will make such substitutions or adjustments including as described in (a), (b), (c) or (d) above as it deems fair and equitable to the Participants as a result of any Share dividend or split declared by the Company. In addition, the Committee is authorized to make adjustments in the terms and conditions of, and the criteria included in, Awards (including cancellation of Awards in exchange for the intrinsic (i.e., in-the-money) value, if any, of the vested portion thereof, substitution of Awards using securities or other obligations of a successor or other entity, acceleration of the expiration date for Awards, or adjustment to performance goals in respect of Awards) in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events (including, without limitation, a Change of Control, events described in the preceding sentence, and acquisitions and dispositions of businesses and assets) affecting the Company, any Subsidiary or any business unit, or the financial statements of the Company or any Subsidiary, or in response to changes in applicable laws, regulations, or accounting principles. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any such event will result in the acquisition of all or substantially all of the Company's outstanding Shares, then if the document governing such
 
acquisition (e.g., merger agreement) specifies the treatment of outstanding Awards, such treatment shall govern without the need for any action by the Committee.
8.
General Provisions
8.1 . The Company shall not be obligated to issue or deliver Shares in connection with any Award or take any other action under the Plan in a transaction subject to the registration requirements of any applicable securities law, any requirement under any listing agreement between the Company and any securities exchange or automated quotation system, or any other law, regulation, or contractual obligation of the Company, until the Company is satisfied that such laws, regulations, and other obligations of the Company have been complied with in full. Certificates representing Shares issued under the Plan will be subject to such stop-transfer orders and other restrictions as may be applicable under such laws, regulations, and other obligations of the Company, including any requirement that a legend or legends be placed thereon.
Compliance with Laws and Obligations
8.2 . Awards and other rights under the Plan will not be transferable by a Participant except to a Beneficiary in the event of the Participant's death (to the extent any such Award, by its terms, survives the Participant's death), and, if exercisable, shall be exercisable during the lifetime of a Participant only by such Participant or his guardian or legal representative; provided, however, that, if and only to the extent permitted by the Committee, Awards and other rights hereunder may be transferred during the lifetime of the Participant, to family members (and trusts or other entities for the benefit of Participants and family members) for purposes of the Participant's estate planning, or to charities for charitable purposes (in each case as determined by the Committee), and may be exercised by such transferees in accordance with the terms of such Award. Awards and other rights under the Plan may not be pledged, mortgaged, hypothecated, or otherwise encumbered, and shall not be subject to the claims of creditors. A Beneficiary, transferee, or other person claiming any rights under the Plan from or through any Participant shall be subject to all terms and conditions of the Plan and any Award Agreement applicable to such Participant, except as otherwise determined by the Committee, and to any additional terms and conditions deemed necessary or appropriate by the Committee.
Limitations on Transferability
8.3 . Neither the Plan, the grant of any Award, nor any other action taken hereunder shall be construed as giving any employee, consultant, director, or other person the right to be retained in the employ or service of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries (for the vesting period or any other period of time), nor shall it interfere in any way with the right of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries to terminate any person's employment or service at any time. Unless otherwise specified in the applicable Award Agreement and to the extent consistent with Code Section 409A, (a) an approved leave of absence shall not be considered a termination of employment or service for purposes of an Award under the Plan, and (b) any Participant who is employed by or performs services for a Subsidiary shall be considered to have terminated employment or service for purposes of an Award under the Plan if such Subsidiary is sold or no longer qualifies as a Subsidiary of the Company, unless such Participant remains employed by the Company or another Subsidiary.
No Right to Continued Employment; Leaves of Absence
 
8.4 . The Company and any Subsidiary is authorized to withhold from any delivery of Shares in connection with an Award, any other payment relating to an Award, or any payroll or other payment to a Participant, amounts of withholding and other taxes due or potentially payable in connection with any transaction involving an Award, and to take such other action as the Committee may deem advisable to enable the Company, its Subsidiaries and Participants to satisfy obligations for the payment of withholding taxes and other tax obligations relating to any Award. This authority shall include authority to withhold or receive Shares or other consideration and to require Participants to make cash payments in respect thereof in satisfaction of withholding tax obligations.
Taxes
8.5 . The Board may amend, suspend, discontinue, or terminate the Plan or the Committee's authority to grant Awards under the Plan without the consent of shareholders or Participants, except that any amendment shall be subject to the approval of the Company's shareholders at or before the next annual meeting of shareholders for which the record date is after the date of such Board action if (a) it materially modifies the terms of the Plan or (b) such shareholder approval is required by any applicable law, regulation or stock exchange rule. The Board may otherwise, in its discretion, determine to submit other such amendments to shareholders for approval; provided, however, that, without the consent of an affected Participant, no such action may materially impair the rights of such Participant under any Award theretofore granted. The Committee may amend, suspend, discontinue, or terminate any Award theretofore granted and any Award Agreement relating thereto; provided, however, that, without the consent of an affected Participant, no such action may materially impair the rights of such Participant under such Award. Any action taken by the Committee pursuant to Section 7 shall not be treated as an action described in this Section 8.5. Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, the Board may amend the Plan and Awards in such manner as it deems appropriate in the event of a change of applicable law or regulations.
Changes to the Plan and Awards
8.6 . No Participant or other person shall have any claim to be granted any Award under the Plan, and there is no obligation for uniformity of treatment of Participants, employees, consultants, or directors. No Award shall confer on any Participant any of the rights of a shareholder of the Company unless and until Shares are duly issued or transferred and delivered to the Participant in accordance with the terms of the Award.
No Right to Awards; No Shareholder Rights
8.7 . The Plan is intended to constitute an "unfunded" plan for incentive compensation. With respect to any payments not yet made to a Participant pursuant to an Award, nothing contained in the Plan or any Award shall give any such Participant any rights that are greater than those of a general creditor of the Company; provided, however, that the Committee may authorize the creation of trusts or make other arrangements to meet the Company's obligations under the Plan to deliver cash, Shares, other Awards, or other consideration pursuant to any Award, which trusts or other arrangements shall be consistent with the "unfunded" status of the Plan unless the Committee otherwise determines.
Unfunded Status of Awards; Creation of Trusts
8.8 . Neither the adoption of the Plan by the Board nor the submission of the Plan or of any amendment to shareholders for approval shall be construed as creating any limitations on the power of the Board to adopt such other compensatory arrangements as it may deem desirable, including the granting of awards otherwise than under the Plan, and such arrangements may be either applicable generally or only in specific cases.
Nonexclusivity of the Plan
 
8.9 . No fractional Shares shall be issued or delivered pursuant to the Plan or any Award. The Committee shall determine whether cash, or Award, or other property shall be issued or paid in lieu of fractional shares or whether such fractional shares or any rights thereto shall be forfeited or otherwise eliminated.
No Fractional Shares
8.10 . All Awards granted under the Plan shall be subject to any applicable clawback or recoupment policies, share trading policies and other policies that may be implemented by the Board from time to time.
Company Policies
8.11 . The Plan and Award Agreements may be assigned by the Company to any successor to the Company's business. The Plan and any applicable Award Agreement shall be binding on all successors and assigns of the Company and a Participant, including any permitted transferee of a Participant, the Beneficiary or estate of such Participant and the executor, administrator or trustee of such estate, or any receiver or trustee in bankruptcy or representative of the Participant's creditors.
Successors and Assigns
8.12 . The Plan and all Award Agreements shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Florida, without giving effect to any choice of law or conflict of law provision or rule (whether of the State of Florida or any other jurisdiction) that would cause the application of the laws of any jurisdiction other than the State of Florida.
Governing Law
8.13 . If any provision of the Plan shall be held invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other provisions hereof, and the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if such provisions had not been included.
Severability of Provisions
8.14 . Unless earlier terminated by the Board, the Plan shall terminate on the day before the tenth anniversary of the later of the Effective Date or the date of any subsequent shareholder approval of the Plan. Upon any such termination of the Plan, no new authorizations of grants of Awards may be made, but then-outstanding Awards shall remain outstanding in accordance with their terms, and the Committee otherwise shall retain its full powers under the Plan with respect to such Awards.
Plan Termination
8.15 . Notwithstanding the other provisions hereof, the Plan and the Awards are intended to comply with the requirements of Code Section 409A, to the extent applicable. Accordingly, all provisions herein and with respect to any Awards shall be construed and interpreted such that the Award either (a) qualifies for an exemption from the requirements of Code Section 409A or (b) satisfies the requirements of Code Section 409A to the maximum extent possible; provided, however, that in no event shall the Company be obligated to reimburse a Participant or Beneficiary for any additional tax (or related penalties and interest) incurred by reason of application of Code Section 409A, and the Company makes no representations that Awards are exempt from or comply with Code Section 409A and makes no undertakings to ensure or preclude that Code Section 409A will apply to any Awards. If an Award is subject to Code Section 409A, (i) distributions shall only be made in a manner and upon an event permitted under Code Section 409A, (ii) payments to be made upon a termination of employment shall only be made upon a "separation from service" under Code Section 409A, (iii) unless the Award Agreement specifies otherwise, each installment payment shall be treated as a separate payment
Section 409A
 
for purposes of Code Section 409A, and (iv) in no event shall a participant, directly or indirectly, designate the calendar year in which a distribution is made except in accordance with Code Section 409A. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, in the event that any Awards constitute nonqualified deferred compensation under Code Section 409A, if (x) the Participant is a "specified employee" of the Company as of the specified employee identification date for purposes of Code Section 409A (as determined in accordance with the policies and procedures adopted by the Company) and (y) the delivery of any cash or Shares payable pursuant to an Award is required to be delayed for a period of six months after separation from service pursuant to Code Section 409A, such cash or Shares shall be paid within 15 days after the end of the six-month period. If the Participant dies during such six-month period, the amounts withheld on account of Code Section 409A shall be paid to the Participant's Beneficiary within 30 days of the Participant's death. The Committee shall have the discretion to provide for the payment of an amount equivalent to interest, at such rate or rates fixed by the Committee, on any delayed payment. The determination of key employees, including the number and identity of persons considered key employees and the identification date, shall be made by the Committee or its delegate each year in accordance with Code Section 416(i) and the "specified employee" requirements of Code Section 409A.
 

Exhibit 10.7(a)
The following terms and conditions apply to the non-qualified stock option ("Option") granted by Ryder System, Inc. (the "Company") under the Ryder System, Inc. 2012 Equity and Incentive Compensation Plan (the "Plan") during the 2012 calendar year, as specified in the Stock Option Award Notification (the "Notification"), to which these terms and conditions are appended. Certain terms of the Option, including the number of Shares subject to the Option, the exercise price, the vesting schedule and the expiration date, are set forth in the Notification. The terms and conditions contained herein may be amended by the Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors (the "Committee") as permitted by the Plan. Capitalized terms used herein and not defined shall have the meaning ascribed to such terms in the Plan or in the Notification.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Participant is terminated by the Company or a Subsidiary and is subsequently re-employed by the Company or a Subsidiary prior to 12:01 a.m. on the 91st day following the later of (i) the last day of employment or (ii) if applicable, the date that salary continuation is no longer payable to the Participant, but in either case, not later than the Expiration Date, then the vested, but unexercised, portion of the Options will remain exercisable until the Expiration Date, unless terminated earlier pursuant hereto.
In the event that the Participant voluntarily terminates his or her employment with the Company or a Subsidiary and is subsequently re-employed by the Company or a Subsidiary prior to 12:01 a.m. on the 91
st
day following the Participant's last day of employment (but not later than the Expiration Date), then the vested, but unexercised, portion of the Options will remain exercisable until the Expiration Date, unless terminated earlier pursuant hereto.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.7(b)
The following terms and conditions apply to the performance-based restricted stock rights (the "PBRSRs") granted by Ryder System, Inc. (the "Company") under the Ryder System, Inc. 2012 Equity and Incentive Compensation Plan (the "Plan"), as specified in the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Rights Award Notification (the "Notification"), to which these terms and conditions are appended. Certain terms of the PBRSRs including the number of Shares underlying the PBRSRs, are set forth in the Notification. The Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors (the "Committee") shall administer the PBRSRs in accordance with the Plan. Capitalized terms used herein and not defined shall have the meaning ascribed to such terms in the Plan or in the Notification.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.7(c)
The following terms and conditions apply to the 2012 performance-based cash awards (the "PBCAs") granted by Ryder System, Inc. (the "Company") under the Ryder System, Inc. 2012 Equity and Incentive Compensation Plan (the "Plan"), as specified in the Performance-Based Cash Award Notification (the "Notification"), to which these terms and conditions are appended. Certain terms of the PBCA, including the Participant's target cash opportunity, are set forth in the Notification. The Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors (the "Committee") shall administer the PBCAs in accordance with the Plan. Capitalized terms used herein and not defined shall have the meaning ascribed to such terms in the Plan or in the Notification.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.7(d)
The following terms and conditions apply to the Restricted Stock Rights (the "RSRs") granted in 2012 by Ryder System, Inc. (the "Company") under the Ryder System, Inc. 2012 Equity and Incentive Compensation Plan (the "Plan"), as specified in the Restricted Stock Rights Award Notification (the "Notification"), to which these terms and conditions are appended. Certain terms of the RSRs, including the number of Shares underlying the RSRs, are set forth in the Notification. The Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors (the "Committee") shall administer the RSRs in accordance with the Plan. Capitalized terms used herein and not defined shall have the meaning ascribed to such terms in the Plan or in the Notification.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.7(e)
The following terms and conditions apply to the Restricted Stock Units (the "RSUs") granted in 2012 by Ryder System, Inc. (the "Company") to the Company's Non-Employee Directors, under the Ryder System, Inc. 2012 Equity and Incentive Compensation Plan (the "Plan"), as specified in the Restricted Stock Units Award Notification Letter (the "Notification Letter"), to which these terms and conditions are appended. Certain terms of the RSUs, including the number of RSUs granted and the vesting date(s), are set forth in the Notification Letter. The terms and conditions contained herein may be amended by the Committee as permitted by the Plan. Capitalized terms used herein and not defined shall have the meaning ascribed to such terms in the Plan or in the Notification Letter.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


