FILE:SLM/SLM-8K-20020821162958.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
Item 5.    REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
        On August 21, 2002, SLM Corporation issued a press release stating that, in response to inquiries it has received, it has no interest in pursuing a transaction with Golden State Bancorp. The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Report.
ITEM 7.    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(a)
Not applicable.
(b)
Not applicable.
(c)
Exhibits: The following exhibit is furnished as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K:
        Exhibit 99.1    Press Release, dated August 20, 2002.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
QuickLinks
Item 5. REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
SIGNATURES
INDEX TO EXHIBIT

QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
Exhibit 99.1
        
RESTON, Va., Aug. 21, 2002
In response to inquiries, SLM Corp. (NYSE: SLM) stated today that it has no interest in pursuing a transaction with Golden State Bancorp.
Sallie Mae
(NYSE: SLM) is the nation's leading provider of education funding, managing nearly $76 billion in student loans for more than seven million borrowers. The company primarily provides federally guaranteed student loans originated under the Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELP), and offers comprehensive information and resources to guide students, parents and guidance professionals through the financial aid process. The company was founded in 1972 as a government-sponsored enterprise (GSE) called the Student Loan Marketing Association, and began the privatization process in 1997. Since then, Sallie Mae's parent company name has changed, most recently to SLM Corporation (effective May 17, 2002). Through its specialized subsidiaries and divisions, the company also provides an array of consumer credit loans, including those for lifelong learning and K-12 education, and business and technical outsourcing services for colleges and universities. More information is available at . SLM Corporation and its subsidiaries, other than the Student Loan Marketing Association, are not sponsored by or agencies of the United States.
www.salliemae.com
QuickLinks
Exhibit 99.1


