FILE:SLM/SLM-8K-20060720101554.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On July 20, 2006, SLM Corporation issued a press release with respect to its earnings for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2006, which is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K. Additional information for the quarter, which is available on the Registrant's website at http://www2.salliemae.com/investors/stockholderinfo/earningsinfo, is furnished as Exhibit 99.2.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: July 20, 2006
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 SLM Corporation (NYSE: SLM), commonly known as Sallie Mae, today reported second-quarter 2006 earnings and performance results that include $3.2 billion in preferred-channel loan originations, a 14-percent increase from the year-ago quarter's $2.8 billion.
RESTON, Va., July 20, 2006
     The company's internal lending brands originated $1.8 billion in loans during the 2006 second quarter. This represented 55 percent of all preferred-channel originations issued during the period. Preferred-channel loan originations include loans originated by the company's internal lending brands and external lending partners.
     "Our internal brand growth remains strong, and our pipeline of new school clients signals a terrific start to the new academic year," said Tim Fitzpatrick, chief executive officer. "Our fee-based businesses are also performing well. We delivered a solid quarter for our shareholders while continuing to provide increased access to higher education."
     During the second-quarter 2006, private education loan originations, a segment of preferred-channel originations, grew 32 percent from the year-ago quarter to $1.1 billion, and included more than $124 million of direct-to-consumer loans.
     Year-to-date 2006, the company has originated $10.8 billion through its preferred channel, up 13 percent from the same period last year. Preferred-channel originations in the first half of 2006 include $5.3 billion originated through internal brands and $3.3 billion of private education loan originations.
     At the end of the second-quarter 2006, the company's total managed student loan portfolio was $130.1 billion, a 12-percent increase from the end of the 2005 second quarter.
     Sallie Mae reports financial results on a GAAP basis and also presents certain "core earnings" performance measures on a basis that differs from GAAP. The company's management, equity investors, credit rating agencies and debt capital providers use these "core earnings" measures to monitor the company's business performance.
 
     Sallie Mae reported second-quarter 2006 GAAP net income of $724 million, or $1.61 per diluted share, compared to $297 million, or $.66 per diluted share, in the year-ago period. Included in these GAAP results are pre-tax gains on derivative and hedging activities of $123 million in the second quarter 2006, compared to a pre-tax loss of $(106) million in the year-ago quarter, and an increase of $409 million in gains on student loan securitizations.
     "Core earnings" net income for the second quarter 2006 was $320 million, or $.72 per diluted share, up from $279 million, or $.62 per diluted share, in the year-ago quarter. These results include a non-recurring special allowance payment accrued during the second-quarter 2006. The company began expensing stock-based compensation in 2006. Recognizing stock-based compensation expense in both the current and year-ago periods and eliminating the one-time special allowance payment, "core earnings" per diluted share were $.70 in the 2006 second quarter, up from $.60 in the same quarter in 2005, a 17-percent increase.
     For the first half of 2006, "core earnings" net income was $607 million, compared to $535 million in the first half of 2005.
     "Core earnings" net interest income was $602 million for the quarter, a 17-percent increase from the year-ago quarter's $516 million. "Core earnings" other income, which consists primarily of fees earned from guarantor servicing and collection activity, was $266 million for the 2006 second quarter, up 23 percent from $216 million in the year-ago quarter. "Core earnings" operating expenses were $299 million in the second-quarter 2006, compared to $271 million in the same quarter last year.
     Both a description of the "core earnings" treatment and a full reconciliation to the GAAP income statement can be found at: http://www2.salliemae.com/investors/stockholderinfo/earningsinfo, click on the Second Quarter 2006 Supplemental Earnings Disclosure.
     Total equity for the company at June 30, 2006, was $4.4 billion, up from $3.7 billion a year ago. The company's tangible capital at June 30, 2006, was 2.19 percent of managed assets, compared to 2.03 percent at the same time last year.
     The company will host its regular earnings conference call today at noon. Sallie Mae executives will be on hand to discuss various highlights of the quarter and to answer questions related to the company's performance. Individuals interested in participating should call the following number today, July 20, 2006, starting at 11:45 a.m. EDT: (877) 356-5689 (USA and Canada) or (706) 679-0623 (International). The conference call will be replayed continuously beginning Thursday, July 20, at 3:30 p.m. EDT and concluding at 11:59 p.m. EDT on Thursday, July 27. Please dial (800) 642-1687 (USA and Canada) or dial (706) 645-9291 (International) and use access code 2203336. In addition, there will be a live audio Web cast of the conference call, which may be accessed at . A replay will be available 30-45 minutes after the live broadcast.
www.salliemae.com
expectations as to future market share, the success of preferred channel originations and future results. These statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Because such statements inherently involve risks
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" including
 
and uncertainties, actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such risks include, among others, changes in the terms of student loans and the educational credit marketplace arising from the implementation of applicable laws and regulations, and from changes in such laws and regulations, changes in the demand for educational financing or in financing preferences of educational institutions, students and their families, and changes in the general interest rate environment. For more information, see the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
(NYSE: ), commonly known as Sallie Mae, is the nation's leading provider of education funding, managing more than $130 billion in student loans and serving 10 million customers. Sallie Mae was originally created in 1972 as a government-sponsored entity (GSE) and terminated its ties to the federal government in 2004. The company remains the country's largest originator of federally insured student loans. Through its specialized subsidiaries and divisions, Sallie Mae also provides debt management services as well as business and technical products to a range of business clients, including colleges, universities and loan guarantors. More information is available at . SLM Corporation and its subsidiaries are not sponsored by or agencies of the United States of America.
SLM Corporation
SLM
www.salliemae.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"Core Earnings"
 
In accordance with the Rules and Regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), we prepare financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America ("GAAP"). In addition to evaluating the Company's GAAP-based financial information, management evaluates the Company's business segments on a basis that, as allowed under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 131, "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information," differs from GAAP. We refer to management's basis of evaluating our segment results as "Core Earnings" presentations for each business segment and we refer to this information in our presentations with credit rating agencies and lenders. While "Core Earnings" are not a substitute for reported results under GAAP, we rely on "Core Earnings" to manage each operating segment because we believe these measures provide additional information regarding the operational and performance indicators that are most closely assessed by management.
 
Our "Core Earnings" are the primary financial performance measures used by management to evaluate performance and to allocate resources. Accordingly, financial information is reported to management on a "Core Earnings" basis by reportable segment, as these are the measures used regularly by our chief operating decision maker. Our "Core Earnings" are used in developing our financial plans and tracking results, and also in establishing corporate performance targets and determining incentive compensation. Management believes
 
this information provides additional insight into the financial performance of the Company's core business activities. Our "Core Earnings" are not defined terms within GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. "Core Earnings" reflect only current period adjustments to GAAP as described below. Accordingly, the Company's "Core Earnings" presentation does not represent another comprehensive basis of accounting. A more detailed discussion of the differences between GAAP and "Core Earnings" follows.
 
Limitations of "Core Earnings"
 
While GAAP provides a uniform, comprehensive basis of accounting, for the reasons described above, management believes that "Core Earnings" are an important additional tool for providing a more complete understanding of the Company's results of operations. Nevertheless, "Core Earnings" are subject to certain general and specific limitations that investors should carefully consider. For example, as stated above, unlike financial accounting, there is no comprehensive, authoritative guidance for management reporting. Our "Core Earnings" are not defined terms within GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Unlike GAAP, "Core Earnings" reflect only current period adjustments to GAAP. Accordingly, the Company's "Core Earnings" presentation does not represent a comprehensive basis of accounting. Investors, therefore, may not compare our Company's performance with that of other financial services companies based upon "Core Earnings." "Core Earnings" results are only meant to supplement GAAP results by providing additional information regarding the operational and performance indicators that are most closely used by management, the Company's board of directors, rating agencies and lenders to assess performance.
 
Other limitations arise from the specific adjustments that management makes to GAAP results to derive "Core Earnings" results. For example, in reversing the unrealized gains and losses that result from SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," on derivatives that do not qualify for "hedge treatment," as well as on derivatives that do qualify but are in part ineffective because they are not perfect hedges, we focus on the long-term economic effectiveness of those instruments relative to the underlying hedged item and isolate the effects of interest rate volatility, changing credit spreads and changes in our stock price on the fair value of such instruments during the period. Under GAAP, the effects of these factors on the fair value of the derivative instruments (but not on the underlying hedged item) tend to show more volatility in the short term. While our presentation of our results on a Managed Basis provides important information regarding the performance of our Managed portfolio, a limitation of this presentation is that we are presenting the ongoing spread income on loans that have been sold to a trust managed by us. While we believe that our Managed Basis presentation presents the economic substance of our Managed loan portfolio, it understates earnings volatility from securitization gains. Our "Core Earnings" results exclude certain Floor Income, which is real cash income, from our reported results and therefore may understate earnings in certain periods. Management's financial planning and valuation of operating results, however, does not take into account Floor Income because of its inherent uncertainty, except when it is economically hedged through Floor Income Contracts.
 
Pre-Tax Differences between "Core Earnings" and GAAP
 
Our "Core Earnings" are the primary financial performance measures used by management to evaluate performance and to allocate resources. Accordingly, financial information is reported to management on a "Core Earnings" basis by reportable segment, as these are the measures used regularly by our chief operating decision maker. Our "Core Earnings" are used in developing our financial plans and tracking results, and also in establishing corporate performance targets and determining incentive compensation. Management believes this information provides additional insight into the financial performance of the Company's core business activities. "Core Earnings" reflect only current period adjustments to GAAP, as described in the more detailed discussion of the differences between GAAP and "Core Earnings" that follows, which includes further detail on each specific adjustments required to reconcile our "Core Earnings" segment presentation to our GAAP earnings.
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
 
The following supplemental information should be read in connection with SLM Corporation's (the "Company") press release of second quarter 2006 earnings, dated July 20, 2006.
 
This Supplemental Financial Information release contains forward-looking statements and information that are based on management's current expectations as of the date of this document. When used in this report, the words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "intend" and "expect" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other factors that may cause the actual results to be materially different from those reflected in such forward-looking statements. These factors include, among others, changes in the terms of student loans and the educational credit marketplace arising from the implementation of applicable laws and regulations and from changes in these laws and regulations, which may reduce the volume, average term and yields on student loans under the Federal Family Education Loan Program ("FFELP") or result in loans being originated or refinanced under non-FFELP programs or may affect the terms upon which banks and others agree to sell FFELP loans to SLM Corporation, more commonly known as Sallie Mae, and its subsidiaries (collectively, "the Company"). In addition, a larger than expected increase in third party consolidations of our FFELP loans could materially adversely affect our results of operations. The Company could also be affected by changes in the demand for educational financing or in financing preferences of lenders, educational institutions, students and their families; incorrect estimates or assumptions by management in connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements; changes in the composition of our Managed FFELP and Private Education Loan portfolios; a significant decrease in our common stock price, which may result in counterparties terminating equity forward positions with us, which, in turn, could have a materially dilutive effect on our common stock; changes in the general interest rate environment and in the securitization markets for education loans, which may increase the costs or limit the availability of financings necessary to initiate, purchase or carry education loans; losses from loan defaults; changes in prepayment rates and credit spreads; and changes in the demand for debt management services and new laws or changes in existing laws that govern debt management services.
 
Definitions for capitalized terms in this document can be found in the Company's 2005 filed with the SEC on March 9, 2006.
Form 10-K
 
Certain reclassifications have been made to the balances as of and for the quarters ended March 31, 2006 and June 30, 2005, to be consistent with classifications adopted for the quarter ended June 30, 2006.
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
The following table presents the statements of income for the quarters ended June 30, 2006, March 31, 2006, and June 30, 2005 and for the six months ended June 30, 2006 and 2005.
 
Statements of Income
 
 
 
 
 
 
Earnings Release Summary
 
The following table summarizes GAAP income statement items disclosed separately in the Company's press releases of earnings or the Company's quarterly earnings conference calls for the quarters ended June 30, 2006, March 31, 2006, and June 30, 2005 and for the six months ended June 30, 2006 and 2005.
 
 
 
 
The following table summarizes "Core Earnings" income statement items disclosed separately in the Company's press releases of earnings or the Company's quarterly earnings conference calls for the quarters ended June 30, 2006, March 31, 2006, and June 30, 2005 and for the six months ended June 30, 2006 and 2005. See "BUSINESS SEGMENTS" for a discussion of "Core Earnings" and a reconciliation of "Core Earnings" net income to GAAP net income.
 
 
Stock-Based Compensation Expense
 
During the first quarter of 2006, we adopted the Financial Accounting Standards Board's ("FASB's") Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 123(R), "Share Based Payment," which is a revision of SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation." SFAS No. 123(R) requires all share based payments to employees to be recognized in the income statement based on their fair values. For the quarters ended June 30, 2006 and March 31, 2006, reported net income attributable to common stock included $9 million and $11 million, respectively, related to stock option compensation expense, net of related tax effects. The following table is a pro forma presentation of our results had SFAS No. 123(R) been in effect for all periods presented.
 
 
For the quarters ended June 30, 2006 and March 31, 2006, "Core Earnings" net income attributable to common stock included $9 million and $11 million, respectively, related to stock option compensation expense, net of related tax effects. The following table is a pro forma presentation of our "Core Earnings" results had SFAS No. 123(R) been in effect for all periods presented (see "BUSINESS SEGMENTS" for a discussion of "Core Earnings" and a reconciliation of "Core Earnings" net income to GAAP net income).
 
 
DISCUSSION OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
Consolidated Earnings Summary
 
Three Months Ended June 30, 2006 Compared to Three Months Ended March 31, 2006
 
For the three months ended June 30, 2006, net income was $724 million ($1.61 diluted earnings per common share), a 376 percent increase from the $152 million in net income for the three months ended March 31, 2006. Second quarter 2006 pre-tax income of $1.1 billion was a 282 percent increase from the $290 million in net income earned in the first quarter of 2006. The larger percentage increase in after-tax net income versus pre-tax net income is driven by the permanent impact of
quarter-over-quarter,
 
excluding non-taxable gains and losses on equity forward contracts in the Company's stock from taxable income. Under SFAS No. 150, "Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity," we are required to mark the equity forward contracts to market each quarter and recognize the change in their value in income. Conversely, these unrealized gains and losses are not recognized on a tax basis. In the second quarter of 2006, the unrealized gain on our outstanding equity forward contracts was $39 million, an increase of $161 million versus the unrealized loss of $122 million recognized in the first quarter of 2006. Excluding these gains and losses from taxable income reduced the effective tax rate from 47 percent in the first quarter of 2006 to 35 percent in the second quarter of 2006.
 
When comparing the pre-tax results of the second quarter to the first quarter, there were several factors contributing to the increase, the two largest of which were a $210 million increase in the net gains and losses on derivative and hedging activities, and an increase in securitization gains of $641 million. The increase in securitization gains can primarily be attributed to two Private Education Loan securitizations in the second quarter of 2006, which had a pre-tax gain of $648 million or 16 percent of the amount securitized, versus no such Private Education Loan gains in the first quarter of 2006. Private Education Loan securitizations generally have significantly higher gains as a percentage of assets securitized due to the higher earning spreads on those loans. The net gains and losses on derivative and hedging activities primarily relate to the unrealized gains and losses on our derivatives that do not receive hedge accounting treatment, with the greatest impact in the second quarter coming from the $161 million change in the of our equity forward contracts caused by the increase in the stock price of SLM Corporation.
mark-to-market
mark-to-market
quarter-over-quarter
 
Also in the second quarter, we recorded impairment losses in servicing and securitization income to our Retained Interests in securitizations of $91 million versus $52 million in the first quarter. These impairments were primarily the result of continued high Consolidation Loan activity and an impairment of the Embedded Floor Income included in the Retained Interest primarily due to higher interest rates. The increase in impairment losses was the major factor in the $16 million decrease in servicing and securitization revenue.
 
Net interest income decreased by $31 million or 8 percent versus the prior quarter due to a 15 basis point decrease in the net interest margin. The decrease in net interest margin is due to an 8 basis point decrease in the on-balance sheet student loan spread, caused primarily by higher Consolidation Loan activity and higher interest rates, which reduced Floor Income. The net interest margin was also negatively impacted by the build-up in funding in anticipation of record Consolidation Loan activity as borrowers locked in lower rates before the interest rate reset on FFELP Stafford loans.
 
During the second quarter we acquired $7.9 billion in student loans, including $1.7 billion in Private Education Loans. In the first quarter of 2006, we acquired $8.6 billion in student loans, of which $2.0 billion were Private Education Loans. In the second quarter of 2006, we originated $3.2 billion of student loans through our Preferred Channel compared to $7.6 billion originated in the first quarter of 2006. Within our Preferred Channel, $1.8 billion or 55 percent were originated under Sallie Mae owned brands.
 
Three Months Ended June 30, 2006 Compared to Three Months Ended June 30, 2005
 
For the three months ended June 30, 2006, net income of $724 million ($1.61 diluted earnings per share) was a 144 percent increase from net income of $297 million for the three months ended June 30, 2005. Second quarter 2006 pre-tax income of $1.1 billion was a 133 percent increase from $475 million earned in the second quarter of 2005. The larger percentage increase in after-tax net income versus pre-tax net income is driven by fluctuations in the unrealized gains and losses on equity forward contracts as described above, which decreased the effective tax rate from 37 percent in the second quarter of 2005 to 35 percent in the second quarter of 2006. In the second quarter of 2006, the unrealized gain on our outstanding equity forward contracts was $39 million versus an unrealized gain of $10 million in the second quarter of 2005, both of which were caused by an increase in the Company's stock price over each period.
year-over-year,
 
There were several factors that contributed to the increase in the pre-tax results of the second quarter of 2006 versus the year-ago quarter, the two largest of which were a $229 million increase in the net gain on derivative and hedging activities, and an increase in securitization gains of $409 million. As discussed above,
 
securitization gains in the second quarter of 2006 of $671 million were largely driven by the two Private Education Loan securitizations totaling $4 billion of student loans. In the second quarter of 2005, there was only one Private Education Loan securitization totaling $1.5 billion of student loans. The increase in net gains and losses on derivative and hedging activities primarily relates to an unrealized gain for the second quarter of 2006 versus an unrealized loss in the year-ago quarter on Floor Income Contracts. The unrealized gain in the second quarter of 2006 was due to rising forward interest rates. In the year-ago quarter, forward interest rates fell resulting in an unrealized loss.
 
We incurred impairment losses in the second quarter of 2006 to our Retained Interests in securitizations of $91 million versus $15 million in the year-ago quarter. The 2006 losses were primarily the result of the combined high level of Consolidation Loan activity and the impairment of Embedded Floor Income as a result of higher interest rates. The increase in impairment losses was the major driver of the $67 million decrease in servicing and securitization revenue.
year-over-year
 
Net interest income increased by $26 million or 8 percent due to the 18 percent increase in average interest earning assets, offset by a 15 basis point decrease in the net interest margin. The decrease in the net interest margin is due to the build-up in funding in anticipation of record Consolidation Loan activity as borrowers locked in lower rates before the interest rate reset on FFELP Stafford Loans. The net interest margin was also negatively impacted by a 4 basis point decrease in the on-balance sheet student loan spread, which was primarily due to lower Floor Income.
year-over-year
year-over-year
 
In the second quarter of 2006, fee and other income and collections revenue totaled $257 million, an increase of 25 percent over the year-ago quarter. This increase was primarily driven by the $25 million or 60 percent increase in collections revenue.
 
Our Managed student loan portfolio grew by $13.6 billion, from $116.5 billion at June 30, 2005 to $130.1 billion at June 30, 2006. This growth was fueled by the acquisition of $7.9 billion of student loans, including $1.7 billion in Private Education Loans, in the quarter ended June 30, 2006, versus $7.8 billion acquired in the year-ago quarter, of which $1.3 billion were Private Education Loans. In the quarter ended June 30, 2006, we originated $3.2 billion of student loans through our Preferred Channel, an increase of 14 percent over the $2.8 billion originated in the year-ago quarter.
 
Six Months Ended June 30, 2006 Compared to Six Months Ended June 30, 2005
 
For the six months ended June 30, 2006, our net income increased by 68 percent to $875 million ($1.96 diluted earnings per share) from net income of $520 million ($1.15 diluted earnings per share) in 2005. Pre-tax income for the six months ended June 30, 2006 increased by 57 percent to $1.4 billion versus $887 million in the first six months of 2005. The larger percentage increase in net income versus pre-tax income is primarily due to the decrease in the effective tax rate from 41 percent in the six months ended June 30, 2005 to 37 percent in the six months ended June 30, 2006, caused by the decrease in unrealized losses on equity forward contracts as described above. In the six months ended June 30, 2006, we recognized unrealized losses on our outstanding equity forward contracts of $83 million versus unrealized losses of $98 million in the first six months of 2005.
year-over-year
 
The increase in pre-tax income is primarily due to a $389 million increase in securitization gains in the six months ended June 30, 2006. The securitization gains in the first half of 2006 were primarily driven by the two second quarter Private Education Loan securitizations referenced above. In the year-ago period, there was only one Private Education Loan securitization that had a pre-tax gain of $231 million or 15 percent of the amount securitized.
 
The results were negatively impacted by impairments of our Retained Interests in securitizations of $143 million in the first half of 2006 versus $24 million for the six months ended 2005. These impairments were the primary reason for the $111 million decrease in servicing and securitization revenue.
year-over-year
year-over-year
 
The $176 million increase in the gain on derivative and hedging activities primarily relates to unrealized and realized gains and losses on derivatives that do not receive hedge accounting treatment. For the six months
 
ended June 30, 2006, realized losses decreased by $127 million versus the first six months of 2005. The majority of these losses related to net settlements on Floor Income Contracts, which were offset by Floor Income earned on student loans. Unrealized derivative gains are primarily due to the effect of higher forward interest rates on the liability for outstanding Floor Income Contracts. Forward interest rates increased during the first half of 2006 and 2005; however, during the first half of 2006, the increase in forward interest rates was greater, resulting in greater unrealized gains for the first half of 2006. These gains were partially offset by unrealized losses on basis swaps economically hedging on inflation-indexed debt.
 
Our Managed student loan portfolio grew by $13.6 billion, from $116.5 billion at June 30, 2005 to $130.1 billion at June 30, 2006. This growth was fueled by the acquisition of $16.5 billion of student loans, including $3.6 billion in Private Education Loans, in the six months ended June 30, 2006, a 7 percent increase over the $15.3 billion acquired in the year-ago period, of which $2.6 billion were Private Education Loans. In the six months ended June 30, 2006, we originated $10.8 billion of student loans through our Preferred Channel, an increase of 13 percent over the $9.5 billion originated in the year-ago period.
 
NET INTEREST INCOME
 
Taxable Equivalent Net Interest Income
 
The amounts in the following table are adjusted for the impact of certain tax-exempt and tax-advantaged investments based on the marginal federal corporate tax rate of 35 percent.
 
 
Average Balance Sheets
 
The following table reflects the rates earned on interest earning assets and paid on interest bearing liabilities for the quarters ended June 30, 2006, March 31, 2006, and June 30, 2005 and for the six months ended June 30, 2006 and 2005.
 
 
 
 
The decrease in the net interest margin for both the three and six months ended June 30, 2006 versus the year-ago periods is primarily due to fluctuations in the student loan spread as discussed under "Student Loans" and to the build-up of funding in anticipation of record Consolidation Loan activity as a result of borrowers locking in lower rates before the July 1 reset on FFELP Stafford loans.
Student Loan Spread AnalysisOn-Balance Sheet,
 
Student Loans
 
For both federally insured and Private Education Loans, we account for premiums paid, discounts received and certain origination costs incurred on the origination and acquisition of student loans in accordance with SFAS No. 91, "Accounting for Nonrefundable Fees and Costs Associated with Originating or Acquiring Loans and Initial Direct Costs of Leases." The unamortized portion of the premiums and discounts is included in the carrying value of the student loan on the consolidated balance sheet. We recognize income on our student loan portfolio based on the expected yield of the student loan after giving effect to the amortization of purchase premiums and the accretion of student loan discounts, as well as interest rate
 
reductions and rebates expected to be earned through Borrower Benefits programs. Discounts on Private Education Loans are deferred and accreted to income over the lives of the student loans. In the table below, this accretion of discounts is netted with the amortization of the premiums.
 
Student Loan Spread
 
An important performance measure closely monitored by management is the student loan spread. The student loan spread is the difference between the income earned on the student loan assets and the interest paid on the debt funding those assets. A number of factors can affect the overall student loan spread such as:
 
 
The student loan spread is highly susceptible to liquidity, funding and interest rate risk. These risks are discussed separately in our 2005 Annual Report on at "LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES" and in the "RISK FACTORS" discussion.
Form 10-K
 
Student Loan Spread AnalysisOn-Balance Sheet
 
The following table analyzes the reported earnings from student loans on-balance sheet. For an analysis of our student loan spread for the entire portfolio of Managed student loans on a similar basis to the on-balance sheet analysis, see "LENDING BUSINESS SEGMENTStudent Loan Spread AnalysisCore Earnings' Basis."
 
 
Discussion of Student Loan SpreadEffects of Floor Income and Derivative Accounting
 
One of the primary drivers of fluctuations in our on-balance sheet student loan spread is the level of gross Floor Income (Floor Income earned before payments on Floor Income Contracts) earned in the period. For the quarters ended June 30, 2006, March 31, 2006, and June, 30, 2005, we earned gross Floor Income of $8 million (4 basis points), $14 million (7 basis points) and $56 million (32 basis points), respectively. The
 
reduction in gross Floor Income is primarily due to the increase in short-term interest rates. We believe that we have economically hedged most of the Floor Income through the sale of Floor Income Contracts, under which we receive an upfront fee and agree to pay the counterparty the Floor Income earned on a notional amount of student loans. These contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment and as a result the payments on the Floor Income Contracts are included on the income statement with "gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net" rather than in student loan interest income. Payments on Floor Income Contracts associated with on-balance sheet student loans for the quarters ended June 30, 2006, March 31, 2006, and June 30, 2005 totaled $8 million (4 basis points), $14 million (7 basis points) and $52 million (30 basis points), respectively.
 
In addition to Floor Income Contracts, we also extensively use basis swaps to manage our basis risk associated with interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities. These swaps generally do not qualify as accounting hedges and are likewise required to be accounted for in the "gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net" line on the income statement. As a result, they are not considered in the calculation of the cost of funds in the above table.
 
Discussion of Student Loan SpreadEffects of Significant Events in the Quarters Presented
 
The second quarter 2006 spread includes $10 million or 5 basis points of income associated with non-recurring SAP that we accrued on PLUS loans as a result of program changes effected by the Higher Education Reconciliation Act of 2005 ("Reconciliation Legislation").
 
In the second quarters of 2006 and 2005, the increase in premium amortization is largely due to the write-off of unamortized premiums on loans consolidated with third parties. In addition, in the second quarter of 2006, we increased the Constant Prepayment Rate ("CPR") for our FFELP Stafford loan portfolio in response to the increased rate of loan prepayments occurring through consolidation.
 
In the first quarter of 2006, we updated our assumptions for the qualification for Borrower Benefits to reflect trends in borrower behavior versus qualification requirements, which resulted in a reduction of our liability for Borrower Benefits of $10 million or 5 basis points. In addition, in the second quarter of 2005, we revised our estimates regarding the qualification for Borrower Benefits which resulted in a reduction of the liability for Borrower Benefits of $7 million or 4 basis points.
 
In the second quarter of 2005, we reduced student loan interest income by $14 million or 9 basis points to reflect a revision of our estimates pertaining to our non-accrual policy for interest income.
 
In both the second quarters of 2006 and 2005, there was an increase in Consolidation Loan activity as FFELP Stafford borrowers locked in lower interest rates by consolidating their loans prior to the July 1 interest rate reset for FFELP Stafford loans. In addition, reconsolidation of Consolidation Loans through the Direct Loan Program continued in the second quarter of 2006 from the backlog of processing applications after the March 31, 2006 prohibition (see "LENDING BUSINESS SEGMENTStudent Loan Activity" for further discussion). The increase in consolidations resulted in an increase in student loan premium write-offs for both FFELP Stafford and Consolidation Loans consolidated with third parties in the second quarter. Loans lost through consolidation benefit the student loan spread to a lesser extent through the write-off of the Borrower Benefits liability associated with these loans. Furthermore, in both the second quarter of 2006 and 2005, we accrued a net write-off to our Borrower Benefits liability for loans whose consolidation applications had been received but not yet processed by June 30, 2006, resulting in reductions to Borrower Benefits expense.
 
Discussion of Student Loan SpreadOther Fluctuations
Quarter-over-Quarter
 
After giving effect to the items discussed above, the decrease in the second quarter of 2006 on-balance sheet spread as compared to the first quarter of 2006 was due primarily to the decrease in the average balance of higher yielding Private Education Loans. The average balance of on-balance sheet Private Education Loans in the second quarter of 2006 decreased 12 percent from the average balance in the first quarter of 2006 as a result of securitizing $4 billion in Private Education Loans in the second quarter of 2006. When compared to the prior year, the 2006 student loan spread benefited from the 25 percent increase in the average balance of
 
Private Education Loans, which now constitutes 10 percent of the total average balance of on-balance sheet student loans versus 9 percent in the prior year. Also, the portfolio of on-balance sheet Private Education Loans in the second quarter of 2006 had higher average spreads than the on-balance sheet Private Education Loans in the second quarter of 2005.
 
On-Balance Sheet Floor Income
 
For on-balance sheet student loans, gross Floor Income is included in student loan income whereas payments on Floor Income Contracts are included in the "gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net" line in other income. The following table summarizes the components of Floor Income from on-balance sheet student loans, net of payments under Floor Income Contracts, for the quarters ended June 30, 2006, March 31, 2006, and June 30, 2005 and for the six months ended June 30, 2006 and 2005.
 
 
 
The decrease in the second quarter 2006 net Floor Income versus the year-ago quarter is primarily due to an increase in short-term interest rates.
 
SECURITIZATION PROGRAM
 
Securitization Activity
 
The following table summarizes our securitization activity for the quarters ended June 30, 2006, March 31, 2006, and June 30, 2005 and for the six months ended June 30, 2006 and 2005.
 
 
 
 
 
The decrease in the FFELP Stafford/PLUS gain as a percentage of loans securitized from 1.4 percent for the six months ended June 30, 2005 to 0.3 percent for the six months ended June 30, 2006 is primarily due to: 1) an increase in the CPR assumption to account for continued high levels of Consolidation Loan activity; 2) an increase in the discount rate to reflect higher long term interest rates; 3) the re-introduction of Risk Sharing with the Reconciliation Legislation reauthorizing the student loan programs of the Higher Education Act; and 4) an increase in the amount of student loan premiums included in the carrying value of the loans sold. The higher premiums on these loans were primarily due to the allocation of the purchase price to student loan portfolios acquired through the acquisitions of several companies in the student loan industry. Higher premiums were also due to loans acquired through zero-fee lending and the school-as-lender channel.
 
Servicing and Securitization Revenue
 
Servicing and securitization revenue, the ongoing revenue from securitized loan pools accounted for off-balance sheet as QSPEs, includes the interest earned on the Residual Interest and the revenue we receive for servicing the loans in the securitization trusts. Interest income recognized on the Residual Interest is based on our anticipated yield determined by estimating future cash flows each quarter.
 
The following table summarizes the components of servicing and securitization revenue for the quarters ended June 30, 2006, March 31, 2006, and June 30, 2005 and for the six months ended June 30, 2006 and 2005.
 
 
Servicing and securitization revenue is primarily driven by the average balance of off-balance sheet student loans and the amount of and the difference in the timing of Embedded Floor Income recognition on off-balance sheet student loans. The increase in securitization revenue, before net Embedded Floor Income and impairment, from the first quarter of 2006 to the second quarter of 2006 is primarily due to (1) a full quarter of earnings from three off-balance sheet securitizations in the first quarter and (2) a Private Education Loan securitization settling early in the second quarter that has significantly higher ongoing revenue than FFELP Stafford/PLUS and Consolidation Loan securitizations.
 
Servicing and securitization revenue can also be negatively impacted by impairments of the value of our Retained Interest, caused primarily by the effect of higher than expected Consolidation Loan activity on FFELP Stafford/PLUS student loan securitizations and the effect of market interest rates on the Embedded Floor Income included in the Retained Interest. The majority of the consolidations bring the loans back on-balance sheet so for those loans we retain the value of the asset on-balance sheet versus in the trust. For the quarters ended June 30, 2006, March 31, 2006 and June 30, 2005, we recorded impairments to the Retained Interests of $91 million, $52 million and $15 million, respectively, and for the six months ended June 30, 2006 and 2005, we recorded impairments of $143 million and $24, respectively. These impairment charges were primarily the result of FFELP Stafford loans prepaying faster than projected through loan consolidation ($92 million and $20 million for the six months ended June 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively), and the effect of market interest rates on the Embedded Floor Income which is part of the Retained Interest ($51 million and $4 million for the six months ended June 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively). The impairment for the six months ended June 30, 2006 also reflects the increase in our CPR assumption for the remainder of 2006 from 20 percent to 40 percent for the third quarter and 30 percent for the fourth quarter, to account for the surge in Consolidation Loan applications received in the second quarter that will be processed in the third and fourth quarters of 2006. The level and timing of Consolidation Loan activity is highly volatile, and in response we continue to revise our estimates of the effects of Consolidation Loan activity on our Retained Interests and it
 
may result in additional impairment recorded in future periods if Consolidation Loan activity remains higher than projected.
 
BUSINESS SEGMENTS
 
The results of operations of the Company's Lending and Debt Management Operations ("DMO") operating segments are presented below. These defined business segments operate in distinct business environments and are considered reportable segments under SFAS No. 131, "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information," based on quantitative thresholds applied to the Company's financial statements. In addition, we provide other complementary products and services, including guarantor and student loan servicing, through smaller operating segments that do not meet such thresholds and are aggregated in the Corporate and Other reportable segment for financial reporting purposes.
 
The management reporting process measures the performance of the Company's operating segments based on the management structure of the Company as well as the methodology used by management to evaluate performance and allocate resources. In accordance with the Rules and Regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), we prepare financial statements in accordance with GAAP. In addition to evaluating the Company's GAAP-based financial information, management, including the Company's chief operation decision maker, evaluates the performance of the Company's operating segments based on their profitability on a basis that, as allowed under SFAS No. 131, differs from GAAP. We refer to management's basis of evaluating our segment results as "Core Earnings" presentations for each business segment and we refer to these performance measures in our presentations with credit rating agencies and lenders. Accordingly, information regarding the Company's reportable segments is provided herein based on "Core Earnings," which are discussed in detail below.
 
Our "Core Earnings" are not defined terms within GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. "Core Earnings" net income reflects only current period adjustments to GAAP net income as described below. Unlike financial accounting, there is no comprehensive, authoritative guidance for management reporting and as a result, our management reporting is not necessarily comparable with similar information for any other financial institution. The Company's operating segments are defined by the products and services they offer or the types of customers they serve, and they reflect the manner in which financial information is currently evaluated by management. Intersegment revenues and expenses are netted within the appropriate financial statement line items consistent with the income statement presentation provided to management. Changes in management structure or allocation methodologies and procedures may result in changes in reported segment financial information.
 
"Core Earnings" are the primary financial performance measures used by management to develop the Company's financial plans, track results, and establish corporate performance targets and incentive compensation. While "Core Earnings" are not a substitute for reported results under GAAP, the Company relies on "Core Earnings" in operating its business because "Core Earnings" permit management to make meaningful comparisons of the operational and performance indicators that are most closely assessed by management. Management believes this information provides additional insight into the financial performance of the core business activities of our operating segments. Accordingly, the tables presented below reflect "Core Earnings" which is reviewed and utilized by management to manage the business for each of the Company's reportable segments. A further discussion regarding "Core Earnings" is included under "Limitations of Core Earnings'" and "Pre-tax Differences between Core Earnings' and GAAP."
period-to-period
 
The Lending operating segment includes all discussion of income and related expenses associated with the net interest margin, the student loan spread and its components, the provisions for loan losses, and other fees earned on our Managed portfolio of student loans. The DMO operating segment reflects the fees earned and expenses incurred in providing accounts receivable management and collection services. Our Corporate and Other reportable segment includes our remaining fee businesses and other corporate expenses that do not pertain directly to the primary segments identified above.
 
In the first quarter of 2006, the Company changed its method for allocating certain Corporate and Other expenses to the other business segments. All periods presented have been updated to reflect the new allocation methodology.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reconciliation of "Core Earnings" Net Income to GAAP Net Income
 
 
 
Limitations of "Core Earnings"
 
While GAAP provides a uniform, comprehensive basis of accounting, for the reasons described above, management believes that "Core Earnings" are an important additional tool for providing a more complete understanding of the Company's results of operations. Nevertheless, "Core Earnings" are subject to certain general and specific limitations that investors should carefully consider. For example, as stated above, unlike financial accounting, there is no comprehensive, authoritative guidance for management reporting. Our "Core Earnings" are not defined terms within GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Unlike GAAP, "Core Earnings" reflect only current period adjustments to GAAP. Accordingly, the Company's "Core Earnings" presentation does not represent a comprehensive basis of accounting. Investors, therefore, may not compare our Company's performance with that of other financial services companies based upon "Core Earnings." "Core Earnings" results are only meant to supplement GAAP results by providing additional information regarding the operational and performance indicators that are most closely used by management, the Company's board of directors, rating agencies and lenders to assess performance.
 
Other limitations arise from the specific adjustments that management makes to GAAP results to derive "Core Earnings" results. For example, in reversing the unrealized gains and losses that result from SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," on derivatives that do not qualify for "hedge treatment," as well as on derivatives that do qualify but are in part ineffective because they are not perfect hedges, we focus on the long-term economic effectiveness of those instruments relative to the underlying hedged item and isolate the effects of interest rate volatility, changing credit spreads and changes in our stock price on the fair value of such instruments during the period. Under GAAP, the effects of these factors on the fair value of the derivative instruments (but not on the underlying hedged item) tend to show more volatility in the short term. While our presentation of our results on a "Core Earnings" basis provides important information regarding the performance of our Managed portfolio, a limitation of this presentation is that we are presenting the ongoing spread income on loans that have been sold to a trust managed by us. While we believe that our "Core Earnings" presentation presents the economic substance of our Managed loan portfolio, it understates earnings volatility from securitization gains. Our "Core Earnings" results exclude certain Floor Income, which is real cash income, from our reported results and therefore may understate earnings in certain periods. Management's financial planning and valuation of operating results, however, does
 
not take into account Floor Income because of its inherent uncertainty, except when it is economically hedged through Floor Income Contracts.
 
Pre-tax Differences between "Core Earnings" and GAAP
 
Our "Core Earnings" are the primary financial performance measures used by management to evaluate performance and to allocate resources. Accordingly, financial information is reported to management on a "Core Earnings" basis by reportable segment, as these are the measures used regularly by our chief operating decision maker. Our "Core Earnings" are used in developing our financial plans and tracking results, and also in establishing corporate performance targets and determining incentive compensation. Management believes this information provides additional insight into the financial performance of the Company's core business activities. "Core Earnings" net income reflects only current period adjustments to GAAP net income, as described in the more detailed discussion of the differences between "Core Earnings" and GAAP that follows, which includes further detail on each specific adjustments required to reconcile our "Core Earnings" segment presentation to our GAAP earnings.
 
1)  Under GAAP, certain securitization transactions in our Lending operating segment are accounted for as sales of assets. Under "Core Earnings" for the Lending operating segment, we present all securitization transactions on a "Core Earnings" basis as long-term non-recourse financings. The upfront "gains" on sale from securitization transactions as well as ongoing "servicing and securitization revenue" presented in accordance with GAAP are excluded from "Core Earnings" and are replaced by the interest income, provisions for loan losses, and interest expense as they are earned or incurred on the securitization loans. We also exclude transactions with our off-balance sheet trusts from "Core Earnings" as they are considered intercompany transactions on a "Core Earnings" basis.
Securitization:
 
The following table summarizes the securitization adjustments in our Lending business segment for the quarters ended June 30, 2006, March 31, 2006, and June 30, 2005 and for the six months ended June 30, 2006 and 2005.
 
 
2)  "Core Earnings" exclude periodic unrealized gains and losses arising primarily in our Lending operating segment, and to a lesser degree in our Corporate and Other reportable segment, that are caused primarily by the one-sided derivative valuations prescribed by SFAS No. 133 on derivatives that do not qualify for "hedge treatment" under GAAP. Under "Core Earnings," we recognize the economic effect of these hedges, which generally results in any cash paid or received being recognized ratably as an expense or revenue over the hedged item's life. "Core Earnings" also exclude the gain or loss on equity forward contracts that under SFAS No. 133, are required to be accounted for as derivatives and are through earnings.
Derivative Accounting:
mark-to-market
marked-to-market
 
SFAS No. 133 requires that changes in the fair value of derivative instruments be recognized currently in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria, as specified by SFAS No. 133, are met. We believe that our derivatives are effective economic hedges, and as such, are a critical element of our interest rate risk management strategy. However, some of our derivatives, primarily Floor Income Contracts, certain Eurodollar futures contracts and certain basis swaps and equity forward contracts (discussed in detail below), do not
 
qualify for "hedge treatment" as defined by SFAS No. 133, and the stand-alone derivative must be in the income statement with no consideration for the corresponding change in fair value of the hedged item. The gains and losses described in "Gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net" are primarily caused by interest rate volatility, changing credit spreads and changes in our stock price during the period as well as the volume and term of derivatives not receiving hedge treatment.
marked-to-market
 
Our Floor Income Contracts are written options that must meet more stringent requirements than other hedging relationships to achieve hedge effectiveness under SFAS No. 133. Specifically, our Floor Income Contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment because the paydown of principal of the student loans underlying the Floor Income embedded in those student loans does not exactly match the change in the notional amount of our written Floor Income Contracts. Under SFAS No. 133, the upfront payment is deemed a liability and changes in fair value are recorded through income throughout the life of the contract. The change in the value of Floor Income Contracts is primarily caused by changing interest rates that cause the amount of Floor Income earned on the underlying student loans and paid to the counterparties to vary. This is economically offset by the change in value of the student loan portfolio, including our Retained Interests, earning Floor Income but that offsetting change in value is not recognized under SFAS No. 133. We believe the Floor Income Contracts are economic hedges because they effectively fix the amount of Floor Income earned over the contract period, thus eliminating the timing and uncertainty that changes in interest rates can have on Floor Income for that period. Prior to SFAS No. 133, we accounted for Floor Income Contracts as hedges and amortized the upfront cash compensation ratably over the lives of the contracts.
 
Basis swaps are used to convert floating rate debt from one floating interest rate index to another to better match the interest rate characteristics of the assets financed by that debt. We primarily use basis swaps to change the index of our floating rate debt to better match the cash flows of our student loan assets that are primarily indexed to a commercial paper, Prime or Treasury bill index. SFAS No. 133 requires that when using basis swaps, the change in the cash flows of the hedge effectively offset both the change in the cash flows of the asset and the change in the cash flows of the liability. Our basis swaps hedge variable interest rate risk, however they do not meet this effectiveness test because our FFELP student loans can earn at either a variable or a fixed interest rate depending on market interest rates. We also have basis swaps that do not meet the SFAS No. 133 effectiveness test that economically hedge off-balance sheet instruments. As a result, under GAAP these swaps are recorded at fair value with changes in fair value reflected in the income statement.
 
Generally, a decrease in current interest rates and the respective forward interest rate curves results in an unrealized loss related to our written Floor Income Contracts which is offset by an increase in the value of the economically hedged student loans. This increase is not recognized in income. We will experience unrealized gains/losses related to our basis swaps if the two underlying indices (and related forward curve) do not move in parallel.
 
Under SFAS No. 150, equity forward contracts that allow a net settlement option either in cash or the Company's stock are required to be accounted for as derivatives in accordance with SFAS No. 133. As a result, we account for our equity forward contracts as derivatives in accordance with SFAS No. 133 and mark them to market through earnings. They do not qualify as effective SFAS No. 133 hedges, as a requirement to achieve hedge accounting is the hedged item must impact net income and the settlement of these contracts through the purchase of our own stock does not impact net income.
 
The table below quantifies the adjustments for derivative accounting under SFAS No. 133 on our net income for the quarters ended June 30, 2006, March 31, 2006 and June 30, 2005, and for the six months ended June 30, 2006 and 2005, when compared with the accounting principles employed in all years prior to the SFAS No. 133 implementation.
 
 
 
 
 
Reclassification of Realized Gains (Losses) on Derivative and Hedging Activities
 
SFAS No. 133 requires net settlement income/expense on derivatives and realized gains/losses related to derivative dispositions (collectively referred to as "realized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities") that do not qualify as hedges under SFAS No. 133 to be recorded in a separate income statement line item below net interest income. The table below summarizes the realized losses on derivative and hedging activities, and the associated reclassification on a "Core Earnings" basis for the quarters ended June 30, 2006, March 31, 2006, and June 30, 2005 and for the six months ended June 30, 2006 and 2005.
 
 
 
 
 
3)  The timing and amount (if any) of Floor Income earned in our Lending operating segment is uncertain and in excess of expected spreads. Therefore, we exclude such income from "Core Earnings" when it is not economically hedged. We employ derivatives, primarily Floor Income Contracts and futures, to economically hedge Floor Income. As discussed above in "Derivative Accounting," these derivatives do not qualify as effective accounting hedges, and therefore, under GAAP, they are through the "gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net" line on the income statement with no offsetting gain or loss recorded for the economically hedged items. For "Core Earnings," we reverse the fair value adjustments on the Floor Income Contracts and futures economically hedging Floor Income and include the amortization of net premiums received (net of Eurodollar futures contracts' realized gains or losses) in income.
Floor Income:
marked-to-market
 
The following table summarizes the Floor Income adjustments in our Lending business segment for the quarters ended June 30, 2006, March 31, 2006, and June 30, 2005 and for the six months ended June 30, 2006 and 2005.
 
 
4)  We exclude certain amortization of acquired intangibles. For the three months ended June 30, 2006, March 31, 2006, and June 30, 2005, and for the six months ended June 30, 2006 and 2005, amortization of acquired intangibles totaled $18 million, $14 million, $16 million, $32 million and $29 million, respectively.
Other items:
 
LENDING BUSINESS SEGMENT
 
In our Lending business segment, we originate and acquire federally guaranteed student loans, which are administered by the U.S. Department of Education ("ED"), and Private Education Loans, which are not federally guaranteed. The majority of our Private Education Loans is made in conjunction with a FFELP Stafford loan and as a result is marketed through the same marketing channels as FFELP Stafford loans. While FFELP student loans and Private Education Loans have different overall risk profiles due to the federal guarantee of the FFELP student loans, they share many of the same characteristics such as similar repayment terms, the same marketing channel and sales force, and are originated and serviced on the same servicing platform. Finally, where possible, the borrower receives a single bill for both the federally guaranteed and privately underwritten loans.
 
The following table includes "Core Earnings" results for our Lending business segment.
 
 
Summary of our Managed Student Loan Portfolio
 
The following tables summarize the components of our Managed student loan portfolio and show the changing composition of our portfolio.
 
Ending Balances (net of allowance for loan losses):
 
 
 
 
 
Ending Balances (net of allowance for loan losses):
 
 
 
 
Average Balances:
 
 
 
 
 
Average Balances:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Student Loan Spread Analysis  "Core Earnings" Basis
 
The following table analyzes the earnings from our portfolio of Managed student loans on a "Core Earnings" basis (see "BUSINESS SEGMENTS  Pre-tax Differences between Core Earnings' and GAAP"). The "Core Earnings" Basis Student Loan Spread Analysis presentation and certain components used in the calculation differ from the On-Balance Sheet Student Loan Spread Analysis presentation. The "Core Earnings" basis presentation, when compared to our on-balance sheet presentation, is different in that it:
 
 
 
 
As discussed above, these differences result in the "Core Earnings" basis student loan spread not being a GAAP-basis presentation. Management relies on this measure to manage our Lending business segment. Specifically, management uses the "Core Earnings" basis student loan spread to evaluate the overall economic effect that certain factors have on all student loans either on- or off-balance sheet. These factors include the overall mix of student loans in our portfolio, acquisition costs, Borrower Benefits program costs, Floor Income and funding and hedging costs. Management believes that it is important to evaluate all of these factors on a Managed Basis to gain additional information about the economic effect of these factors on all student loans under management. Management believes that this additional information assists us in making strategic decisions about the Company's business model for the Lending business segment, including among other factors, how we acquire or originate student loans, how we fund acquisitions and originations, what Borrower Benefits we offer and what type of loans we purchase or originate. While management believes that the "Core Earnings" basis student loan spread is an important tool for evaluating the Company's performance for the reasons described above, it is subject to certain general and specific limitations that investors should carefully consider. See "BUSINESS SEGMENTS  Limitations of Core Earnings.' " One specific limitation is that the "Core Earnings" basis student loan spread includes the spread on loans that we have sold to securitization trusts.
 
 
Discussion of "Core Earnings" Basis Student Loan Spread  Effects of Significant Events in the Quarters Presented
 
The second quarter 2006 spread includes $18 million or 6 basis points of income associated with non-recurring SAP that we accrued on PLUS loans in connection with the Higher Education Reconciliation Act of 2005.
 
In the second quarters of 2006 and 2005, the increase in premium amortization is largely due to the write-off of unamortized premiums on loans consolidated with third parties. In addition, in the second quarter of 2006, we increased the CPR for our FFELP Stafford Loan portfolio in response to the increased rate of loan prepayments occurring through consolidation.
 
In the first quarter of 2006, we updated our assumptions for the qualification for Borrower Benefits to reflect trends in borrower behavior versus qualification requirements. These updates resulted in a reduction of
 
our liability for Borrower Benefits of $15 million or 5 basis points. In addition, in the second quarter of 2005, we revised our estimates regarding the qualification for Borrower Benefits which resulted in a reduction of the liability for Borrower Benefits of $13 million or 5 basis points.
 
In the second quarter of 2005, we reduced student loan interest income by $16 million or 6 basis points to reflect a revision of our estimates pertaining to our non-accrual policy for interest income.
 
In both the second quarter of 2006 and 2005, there was an increase in Consolidation Loan activity as FFELP Stafford borrowers locked in lower interest rates by consolidating their loans prior to the July 1 interest rate reset for FFELP Stafford loans. In addition, reconsolidation of Consolidation Loans through the Direct Loan Program continued in the second quarter of 2006 from the backlog of processing applications after the March 31, 2006 prohibition (see "LENDING BUSINESS SEGMENT  Student Loan Activity" for further discussion). The increase in consolidations resulted in an increase in student loan premium write-offs for both FFELP Stafford and Consolidation Loans consolidated with third parties in the second quarter. Loans lost through consolidation benefit the student spread to a lesser extent through the write-off of the Borrower Benefits liability associated with these loans. Furthermore, in both the second quarter of 2006 and 2005, we accrued a net write-off to our Borrower Benefits liability for loans whose consolidation applications had been received but not yet processed by June 30, 2006, resulting in reductions to Borrower Benefits expense.
 
Discussion of "Core Earnings" Basis Student Loan Spread  Other Fluctuations
Quarter-over-Quarter
 
The average balance of Managed Private Education Loans now represents 15 percent of the average Managed student loan portfolio, up from 14 percent and 12 percent in the first quarter of 2006 and the second quarter of 2005, respectively. Private Education Loans are subject to credit risk and therefore earn higher spreads, which averaged 5.07 percent, 4.87 percent and 4.57 percent for the quarters ended June 30, 2006, March 31, 2006 and June 30, 2005, respectively, for the Managed Private Education Loan portfolio, excluding the effect of items. The spread for the Managed guaranteed student loan portfolio was 1.24 percent, 1.31 percent and 1.38 percent for the quarters ended June 30, 2006, March 31, 2005 and June 30, 2005, respectively, excluding the effect of items.
non-recurring
non-recurring
 
Private Education Loans
 
All Private Education Loans are initially acquired on-balance sheet. When we securitize Private Education Loans, we no longer own the loans and they are accounted for off-balance sheet. For our Managed presentation in the table below, we reduce the on-balance sheet allowance for amounts previously provided and then provide for these loans in the off-balance sheet section with the total of both on and off-balance sheet residing in the Managed presentation.
 
When Private Education Loans in the majority of our securitized trusts become 180 days delinquent, we typically exercise our contingent call option to repurchase these loans at par value out of the trust and record a loss for the difference in the par value paid and the fair market value of the loan at the time of purchase. If these loans reach the delinquency, a charge-off for the remaining balance of the loan is triggered. On a Managed Basis, the losses recorded under GAAP for loans repurchased at day 180 are reversed and the full amount is charged-off at day 212.
212-day
 
The off-balance sheet allowance is increasing as more loans are securitized but is lower than the on-balance sheet percentage when measured as a percentage of ending loans in repayment because of the different mix of loans on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet, as described above. Additionally, a larger percentage of the off-balance sheet loan borrowers are still in-school status and not required to make payments on their loans. Once repayment begins, the allowance requirements increase to reflect the increased risk of loss as loans enter repayment.
 
Allowance for Private Education Loan Losses
 
The following tables summarize changes in the allowance for Private Education Loan losses for the quarters ended June 30, 2006, March 31, 2006, and June 30, 2005 and for the six months ended June 30, 2006 and 2005.
 
 
 
 
The decrease in the provision in the second quarter of 2006 versus the first quarter of 2006 is primarily driven by the seasonality of loans entering repayment. The majority of loans typically enter repayment in the second and fourth quarters. This increase in loans entering repayment often leads to a near-term increase in early-stage delinquencies, or forbearance usage in the first and third quarters with some spillover effect in the fourth quarter for the affected borrowers. This in turn, leads to higher provisions for those quarters. Therefore, all other factors being equal, the provision for loan losses in the second quarter will be lower.
 
Delinquencies
 
The tables below present our Private Education Loan delinquency trends as of June 30, 2006, March 31, 2006, and June 30, 2005. Delinquencies have the potential to adversely impact earnings through increased servicing and collection costs in the event the delinquent accounts charge off.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Forbearance  Managed Basis Private Education Loans
 
Private Education Loans are made to parent and student borrowers by our lender partners in accordance with our underwriting policies. These loans generally supplement federally guaranteed student loans, which are subject to federal lending caps. Private Education Loans are not guaranteed or insured against any loss of principal or interest. Traditional student borrowers use the proceeds of these loans to obtain higher education, which increases the likelihood of obtaining employment at higher income levels than would be available without the additional education. As a result, the borrowers' repayment capability improves between the time the loan is made and the time they enter the post-education work force. We generally allow the loan repayment period on traditional Private Education Loans, except those generated by our SLM Financial subsidiary, to begin six to nine months after the student leaves school. This provides the borrower time to obtain a job to service his or her debt. For borrowers that need more time or experience other hardships, we permit additional delays in payment or partial payments (both referred to as forbearances) when we believe additional time will improve the borrower's ability to repay the loan. Forbearance is also granted to borrowers who may experience temporary hardship after entering repayment, when we believe that it will increase the likelihood of ultimate collection of the loan. Such forbearance is only granted within established guidelines and is closely monitored for compliance. Our policy does not grant any reduction in the repayment obligation (principal or interest) but does allow the borrower to stop or reduce monthly payments for an agreed period of time. When a loan that was delinquent prior to receiving forbearance ends forbearance and re-enters repayment, that loan is returned to current status.
 
Forbearance is used most heavily immediately after the loan enters repayment. As indicated in the tables below showing the composition and status of the Managed Private Education Loan portfolio by number of months aged from the first date of repayment, the percentage of loans in forbearance decreases the longer the loans have been in repayment. At June 30, 2006, loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment
 
and forbearance was 12.3 percent for loans that have been in repayment one to twenty-four months. The percentage declined to 4.4 percent for loans that have been in repayment more than 48 months. Approximately 74 percent of our Managed Private Education Loans in forbearance have been in repayment less than 24 months. These borrowers are essentially extending their grace period as they transition to the workforce. Forbearance continues to be a positive collection tool for the Private Education Loans as we believe it can provide the borrower with sufficient time to obtain employment and income to support his or her obligation. We consider the potential impact of forbearance in the determination of the loan loss reserves.
 
The tables below show the composition and status of the Private Education Loan portfolio by number of months aged from the first date of repayment:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The decrease in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance in the second quarter of 2006 is due to seasonality.
 
The table below stratifies the portfolio of Managed Private Education Loans in forbearance by the cumulative number of months the borrower has used forbearance as of the dates indicated. As detailed in the table below, 8 percent of loans currently in forbearance have deferred their loan repayment more than 24 months, which is 2 percent higher versus the prior quarter and equivalent to the year-ago period.
 
 
Total Loan Net Charge-offs
 
The following tables summarize the total loan net charge-offs on both an on-balance sheet basis and a Managed Basis for the quarters ended June 30, 2006, March 31, 2006 and June 30, 2005 and for the six months ended June 30, 2006 and 2005.
 
Total on-balance sheet loan net charge-offs
 
 
Total Managed loan net charge-offs
 
 
Student Loan Premiums as a Percentage of Principal
 
The following table presents student loan premiums paid as a percentage of the principal balance of student loans acquired for the respective periods.
 
 
 
 
The increase in premiums paid as a percentage of principal balance for Sallie Mae brands is primarily due to the increase in loans where we pay the origination fee on behalf of borrowers, a practice we call zero fee lending. The borrower origination fee will be gradually phased out by the Reconciliation Legislation from 2007 to 2010. We include in Consolidation Loan premiums the 50 basis point Consolidation Loan fee paid on each FFELP Stafford loan that we consolidate, including loans that are already in our portfolio. The Consolidation Loan premium paid percentage is calculated on only consolidation volume that is incremental to our portfolio. This percentage is largely driven by the mix of FFELP Stafford loans consolidated in this quarter.
 
Student Loan Activity
 
The following tables summarize the activity in our on-balance sheet, off-balance sheet and Managed portfolios of FFELP student loans and Private Education Loans and highlight the effects of Consolidation Loan activity on our FFELP portfolios.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The increase in consolidations to third parties from 2005 to 2006 is primarily due to some FFELP lenders reconsolidating Consolidation Loans using the Direct Lending program as a pass-through entity to circumvent the statutory prohibition on the reconsolidation of Consolidation Loans. On March 17, 2006, ED issued a "Dear Colleague" letter that prohibited this "two-step" process unless the FFELP consolidation borrower applied for a Direct Loan consolidation by March 31, 2006. Accordingly, in the second quarter of 2006, there was a temporary increase in the reconsolidation of Consolidation Loans to process the back log of FDLP applications. By the end of the quarter, consolidation activity had returned to recent historical levels. The
 
Higher Education Reconciliation Act of 2005 restricted further reconsolidation; as of July 1, 2006, borrowers with a FFELP consolidation loan may only reconsolidate with the FDLP if they are delinquent, referred to the guaranty agency for default aversion activity, and enter into the income contingent repayment program (ICR") in the FDLP.
 
Other Income  Lending Business Segment
 
The following table summarizes the components of other income for our Lending business segment for the quarters ended June 30, 2006, March 31, 2006, and June 30, 2005 and for the six months ended June 30, 2006 and 2005.
 
 
Operating Expenses  Lending Business Segment
 
Operating expenses for our Lending business segment include costs incurred to service our Managed student loan portfolio and acquire student loans, as well as other general and administrative expenses. The first and second quarter 2006 operating expenses for the Lending business segment also include $10 million and $8 million, respectively, of stock-based compensation expense, due to the implementation of SFAS No. 123(R) (see "RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  Stock-Based Compensation Expense").
 
DEBT MANAGEMENT OPERATIONS ("DMO") BUSINESS SEGMENT
 
The following table includes "Core Earnings" results for our DMO business segment.
 
 
DMO Revenue by Product
 
 
 
 
Total DMO revenue increased by $9 million in the second quarter of 2006 versus the first quarter of 2006. The $33 million, or 27 percent, increase in DMO revenue for the second quarter of 2006 compared to the second quarter of 2005 can be attributed to the growth in the purchased paper business of Arrow Financial Services and to revenue generated by GRP Financial Services (acquired in August 2005). The growth in contingency fee revenue was primarily driven by the growth in guaranty agency collections.
year-over-year
year-over-year
 
Purchased Paper  Non-Mortgage
 
 
The amount of face value of purchases in any quarter is a function of a combination of factors including the amount of receivables available for purchase in the marketplace, average age of each portfolio, the asset class of the receivables, and competition in the marketplace. As a result, the percentage of face value purchased will vary from quarter to quarter. The decrease in collections revenue as a percentage of GCC versus the prior year can primarily be attributed to the increase in new portfolio purchases in the second half of 2005. Typically, revenue recognition based on a portfolio's effective interest rate is a lower percentage of cash collections in the early stages of servicing a portfolio.
 
Purchased Paper  Mortgage/Properties
 
 
 
 
The purchase price for sub-performing and non-performing mortgage loans is generally determined as a percentage of the underlying collateral. Fluctuations in the purchase price as a percentage of collateral value can be caused by a number of factors including the percentage of second mortgages in the portfolio and the level of private mortgage insurance associated with particular assets.
 
Contingency Inventory
 
The following table presents the outstanding inventory of receivables serviced through our DMO business.
 
 
Operating Expenses  DMO Business Segment
 
Operating expenses for our DMO business segment decreased by $4 million, or 4 percent, to $85 million for the three months ended June 30, 2006 versus the prior quarter, and increased by $18 million or 27 percent versus the year-ago quarter. The increase in operating expenses versus the year-ago quarter was primarily due to increased expenses for outsourced collections and recovery costs associated with large fourth quarter portfolio purchases. The increases in DMO contingency fee expenses are consistent with the growth in revenue and accounts serviced, as a high percentage of DMO expenses are variable.
 
The first and second quarter of 2006 operating expenses for the DMO business segment also include $3 million and $2 million, respectively, of stock-based compensation expense, due to the implementation of SFAS No. 123(R) (see "RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  Stock-Based Compensation Expense").
 
CORPORATE AND OTHER BUSINESS SEGMENT
 
The following table includes "Core Earnings" results for our Corporate and Other business segment.
 
 
Fee and Other Income  Corporate and Other Business Segment
 
The following table summarizes the components of fee and other income for our Corporate and Other business segment for the quarters ended June 30, 2006, March 31, 2006, and June 30, 2005 and six months ended June 30, 2006 and 2005.
 
 
The increase in guarantor servicing fees versus the prior and year-ago quarter is due to a $10 million increase in account maintenance fees caused by a negotiated settlement with USA Funds such that USA Funds was able to cover the previous shortfall caused by the cap on payments from ED to guarantors in fiscal year 2006. This cap is removed by legislation reauthorizing the student loan programs of the Higher Education Act that will not go into effect before October 1, 2006.
 
USA Funds, the nation's largest guarantee agency, accounted for 85 percent, 82 percent and 86 percent, respectively, of guarantor servicing fees and 37 percent, 34 percent and 33 percent, respectively, of revenues associated with other products and services for the quarters ended June 30, 2006, March 31, 2006, and June 30, 2005.
 
Operating Expenses  Corporate and Other Business Segment
 
Operating expenses for our Corporate and Other business segment include direct costs incurred to service loans for unrelated third parties and to perform guarantor servicing on behalf of guarantor agencies, as well as information technology expenses related to these functions. First and second quarter 2006 operating expenses for our Corporate and Other business segment also include $5 million and $4 million, respectively, of stock-based compensation expense, due to the implementation of SFAS No. 123(R) (see "RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  Stock-Based Compensation Expense").


