FILE:SLM/SLM-8K-20070118095344.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On January 18, 2007, SLM Corporation issued a press release with respect to its earnings for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2006, which is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K. Additional information for the quarter, which is available on the Registrant's website at http://www2.salliemae.com/investors/stockholderinfo/earningsinfo, is furnished as Exhibit 99.2.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: January 18, 2007
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 SLM Corporation (NYSE: SLM), commonly known as Sallie Mae, today reported fourth-quarter and full-year 2006 earnings and performance results that include a total managed student loan portfolio of $142 billion, a 16-percent increase from the year-ago quarter.
RESTON, Va., Jan. 18, 2007
     "Core earnings" net income was $326 million, or $.74 per diluted share, for the 2006 fourth quarter, compared to $284 million, or $.63 per diluted share, in the year-ago quarter. For the full-year 2006, "core earnings" net income was $1.3 billion, or $2.83 per diluted share, up from $1.1 billion, or $2.51 per diluted share, for 2005. Recognizing stock-based compensation in both the current and year-ago periods and adjusting for one-time items, "core earnings" diluted earnings per share were $.74 in the fourth quarter 2006, a 16-percent increase from $.64 in the year-ago quarter, and $2.79 in 2006, a 17-percent increase from $2.39 in 2005.
     "We delivered a record amount of loans to help students access higher education," said Tim Fitzpatrick, CEO. "The private sector, led by Sallie Mae, continues to provide product, pricing and service innovations that deliver results to 80 percent of colleges and universities in the U.S. and help nearly 6 million students access college every year."
     Sallie Mae reports financial results on a GAAP basis and also presents certain "core earnings" performance measures on a basis that differs from GAAP. The company's management, equity investors, credit rating agencies and debt capital providers use these "core earnings" measures to monitor the company's business performance.
     During 2006, the company purchased $34.4 billion in education loans. The company originated $23.4 billion of student loans through its preferred channel last year  $13.1 billion, or 56 percent of that total, through its internal lending brands. In the fourth-quarter 2006, the company's preferred-channel loan originations totaled $4.8 billion and included $1.6 billion of private education loans. Two thirds of the preferred-channel loans originated during the 2006 fourth quarter, or $3.1 billion, was originated through the company's internal lending brands. Preferred-channel loans are originated through Sallie Mae's internal or affiliated brands.
 
     Also contributing to the company's 2006 performance results was $1.1 billion in "core earnings" total other income. The company's fee-based businesses generate non-interest income and primarily include fees earned on guarantor servicing, debt management operations and collection activities. "Core earnings" fee income and collection revenue were $183 million in the 2006 fourth quarter and $768 million for the full-year 2006, a 20-percent increase from $642 million during the full-year 2005.
     "Core earnings" net interest income was $651 million in the 2006 fourth quarter and $2.5 billion for the full-year 2006, 15-percent increases over the respective year-ago periods. "Core earnings" operating expenses were $328 million during the fourth-quarter 2006, compared to $279 million in the year-ago quarter.
     Fourth-quarter 2006 GAAP net income was $18 million, or $.02 per diluted share, compared to $431 million, or $.96 per diluted share, in the year-ago quarter. GAAP net income for 2006 totaled $1.2 billion, compared to $1.4 billion in 2005. Included in these GAAP results are pre-tax net losses on derivative and hedging activities of $(245) million in the fourth-quarter 2006 and $(339) million year-to-date 2006, compared to pre-tax net gains of $70 million and $247 million in the respective year-ago periods.
     Both a description of the "core earnings" treatment and a full reconciliation to the GAAP income statement can be found in the Fourth Quarter 2006 Supplemental Earnings Disclosure accompanying this press release, which is posted under the Investors page at http://www.salliemae.com/about/investors/stockholderinfo/earningsinfo.
     Total equity for the company at Dec. 31, 2006, was $4.4 billion, compared to $4.5 billion at Sept. 30, 2006. The company's tangible capital at the end of the 2006 fourth quarter was 1.84 percent of managed assets, compared to 2.03 percent at prior quarter end.
     The company will host its quarterly earnings conference call today at noon. Sallie Mae executives will be on hand to discuss various highlights of the quarter and to answer questions related to the company's performance. Individuals interested in participating should call the following number today, Jan. 18, 2007, starting at 11:45 a.m. EST: (877) 356-5689 (USA and Canada) or (706) 679-0623 (International). The conference call will be replayed continuously beginning Thursday, Jan. 18, at 3:00 p.m. EST and concluding at 11:59 p.m. EST on Thursday, Feb. 1. Please dial (800) 642-1687 (USA and Canada) or dial (706) 645-9291 (International) and use access code 5437459. In addition, there will be a live audio Web cast of the conference call, which may be accessed at . A replay will be available beginning 30-45 minutes after the live broadcast.
www.SallieMae.com
Forward Looking Statements:
expectations as to future market share, the success of preferred channel originations and future results. These statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Because such statements inherently involve risks and uncertainties, actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such risks include, among others, changes in the terms of student loans and the educational credit marketplace arising from the implementation of applicable laws and regulations, and from changes in such laws and regulations, changes in the demand for educational financing or in financing preferences of educational institutions, students and their families, and changes in the general interest rate environment. For more information, see the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" including
 
(NYSE: SLM), commonly known as Sallie Mae, is the nation's leading provider of saving- and paying-for-college programs. The company manages $142 billion in education loans and serves nearly 10 million student and parent customers. Through its Upromise affiliates, the company also manages $15 billion in 529 college-savings plans, and assists 7.5 million members with automatic savings through rebates on everyday purchases. Sallie Mae and its subsidiaries offer debt management services as well as business and technical products to a range of business clients, including higher education institutions, student loan guarantors and state and federal agencies. More information is available at . SLM Corporation and its subsidiaries are not sponsored by or agencies of the United States of America.
SLM Corporation
www.salliemae.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"Core Earnings"
 
In accordance with the Rules and Regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), we prepare financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America ("GAAP"). In addition to evaluating the Company's GAAP-based financial information, management evaluates the Company's business segments on a basis that, as allowed under SFAS No. 131, "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information," differs from GAAP. We refer to management's basis of evaluating our segment results as "Core Earnings" presentations for each business segment and we refer to this information in our presentations with credit rating agencies and lenders. While "Core Earnings" are not a substitute for reported results under GAAP, we rely on "Core Earnings" to manage each operating segment because we believe these measures provide additional information regarding the operational and performance indicators that are most closely assessed by management.
 
 
Our "Core Earnings" are the primary financial performance measures used by management to evaluate performance and to allocate resources. Accordingly, financial information is reported to management on a "Core Earnings" basis by reportable segment, as these are the measures used regularly by our chief operating decision maker. Our "Core Earnings" are used in developing our financial plans and tracking results, and also in establishing corporate performance targets and determining incentive compensation. Management believes this information provides additional insight into the financial performance of the Company's core business activities. Our "Core Earnings" are not defined terms within GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. "Core Earnings" reflect only current period adjustments to GAAP as described below. Accordingly, the Company's "Core Earnings" presentation does not represent another comprehensive basis of accounting. A more detailed discussion of the differences between GAAP and "Core Earnings" follows.
 
Limitations of "Core Earnings"
 
While GAAP provides a uniform, comprehensive basis of accounting, for the reasons described above, management believes that "Core Earnings" are an important additional tool for providing a more complete understanding of the Company's results of operations. Nevertheless, "Core Earnings" are subject to certain general and specific limitations that investors should carefully consider. For example, as stated above, unlike financial accounting, there is no comprehensive, authoritative guidance for management reporting. Our "Core Earnings" are not defined terms within GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Unlike GAAP, "Core Earnings" reflect only current period adjustments to GAAP. Accordingly, the Company's "Core Earnings" presentation does not represent a comprehensive basis of accounting. Investors, therefore, may not compare our Company's performance with that of other financial services companies based upon "Core Earnings." "Core Earnings" results are only meant to supplement GAAP results by providing additional information regarding the operational and performance indicators that are most closely used by management, the Company's board of directors, rating agencies and lenders to assess performance.
 
Other limitations arise from the specific adjustments that management makes to GAAP results to derive "Core Earnings" results. For example, in reversing the unrealized gains and losses that result from SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," on derivatives that do not qualify for "hedge treatment," as well as on derivatives that do qualify but are in part ineffective because they are not perfect hedges, we focus on the long-term economic effectiveness of those instruments relative to the underlying hedged item and isolate the effects of interest rate volatility, changing credit spreads and changes in our stock price on the fair value of such instruments during the period. Under GAAP, the effects of these factors on the fair value of the derivative instruments (but not on the underlying hedged item) tend to show more volatility in the short term. While our presentation of our results on a Managed Basis provides important information regarding the performance of our Managed portfolio, a limitation of this presentation is that we are presenting the ongoing spread income on loans that have been sold to a trust managed by us. While we believe that our Managed Basis presentation presents the economic substance of our Managed loan portfolio, it understates earnings volatility from securitization gains. Our "Core Earnings" results exclude certain Floor Income, which is real cash income, from our reported results and therefore may understate earnings in certain periods. Management's financial planning and valuation of operating results, however, does not take into account Floor Income because of its inherent uncertainty, except when it is economically hedged through Floor Income Contracts.
 
Pre-Tax Differences between "Core Earnings" and GAAP
 
Our "Core Earnings" are the primary financial performance measures used by management to evaluate performance and to allocate resources. Accordingly, financial information is reported to management on a "Core Earnings" basis by reportable segment, as these are the measures used regularly by our chief operating decision maker. Our "Core Earnings" are used in developing our financial plans and tracking results, and also in establishing corporate performance targets and determining incentive compensation. Management believes this information provides additional insight into the financial performance of the Company's core business
 
activities. "Core Earnings" reflect only current period adjustments to GAAP, as described in the more detailed discussion of the differences between GAAP and "Core Earnings" that follows, which includes further detail on each specific adjustment required to reconcile our "Core Earnings" segment presentation to our GAAP earnings.
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
 
The following supplemental information should be read in connection with SLM Corporation's (the "Company") press release of fourth quarter 2006 earnings, dated January 18, 2007.
 
This Supplemental Financial Information release contains forward-looking statements and information that are based on management's current expectations as of the date of this document. When used in this report, the words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "intend" and "expect" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other factors that may cause the actual results to be materially different from those reflected in such forward-looking statements. These factors include, among others, changes in the terms of student loans and the educational credit marketplace arising from the implementation of applicable laws and regulations and from changes in these laws and regulations, which may reduce the volume, average term and yields on student loans under the Federal Family Education Loan Program ("FFELP") or result in loans being originated or refinanced under non-FFELP programs or may affect the terms upon which banks and others agree to sell FFELP loans to SLM Corporation, more commonly known as Sallie Mae, and its subsidiaries (collectively, "the Company"). In addition, a larger than expected increase in third party consolidations of our FFELP loans could materially adversely affect our results of operations. The Company could also be affected by changes in the demand for educational financing or in financing preferences of lenders, educational institutions, students and their families; incorrect estimates or assumptions by management in connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements; changes in the composition of our Managed FFELP and Private Education Loan portfolios; a significant decrease in our common stock price, which may result in counterparties terminating equity forward positions with us, which, in turn, could have a materially dilutive effect on our common stock; changes in the general interest rate environment and in the securitization markets for education loans, which may increase the costs or limit the availability of financings necessary to initiate, purchase or carry education loans; losses from loan defaults; changes in prepayment rates and credit spreads; and changes in the demand for debt management services and new laws or changes in existing laws that govern debt management services.
 
Definitions for capitalized terms in this document can be found in the Company's 2005 filed with the SEC on March 9, 2006.
Form 10-K
 
Certain reclassifications have been made to the balances as of and for the quarters ended September 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005, to be consistent with classifications adopted for the quarter ended December 31, 2006.
 
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
The following table presents the statements of income for the quarters ended December 31, 2006, September 30, 2006, and December 31, 2005 and for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005.
 
Statements of Income
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Earnings Release Summary
 
The following table summarizes GAAP income statement items disclosed separately in the Company's press releases of earnings or the Company's quarterly earnings conference calls for the quarters ended December 31, 2006, September 30, 2006, and December 31, 2005 and for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005.
 
 
 
 
 
The following table summarizes "Core Earnings" income statement items disclosed separately in the Company's press releases of earnings or the Company's quarterly earnings conference calls for the quarters ended December 31, 2006, September, 30, 2006, and December 31, 2005 and for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005. See "BUSINESS SEGMENTS" for a discussion of "Core Earnings" and a reconciliation of "Core Earnings" net income to GAAP net income.
 
 
 
 
Stock Option Compensation Expense
 
During the first quarter of 2006, we adopted the Financial Accounting Standards Board's ("FASB's") Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 123(R), "Share-Based Payment," which is a revision of SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation." SFAS No. 123(R) requires all share based payments to employees to be recognized in the income statement based on their fair values. For the quarters ended December 31, 2006 and September 30, 2006, reported net income attributable to common stock included $9 million and $10 million, respectively, related to stock option compensation expense, net of related tax effects. The following table is a pro forma presentation of our results had SFAS No. 123(R) been in effect for all periods presented.
 
 
For the quarters ended December 31, 2006 and September 30, 2006, "Core Earnings" net income attributable to common stock included $9 million and $10 million, respectively, related to stock option compensation expense, net of related tax effects. The following table is a pro forma presentation of our "Core Earnings" results had SFAS No. 123(R) been in effect for all periods presented (see "BUSINESS SEGMENTS" for a discussion of "Core Earnings" and a reconciliation of "Core Earnings" net income to GAAP net income).
 
 
DISCUSSION OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
Consolidated Earnings Summary
 
Three Months Ended December 31, 2006 Compared to Three Months Ended September 30, 2006
 
For the three months ended December 31, 2006, net income was $18 million ($.02 diluted earnings per share), a decrease of 93 percent from the $263 million in net income ($.60 diluted earnings per share) for the three months ended September 30, 2006. On a pre-tax basis, fourth-quarter 2006 net income of $130 million was a 72 percent decrease from the $468 million in pre-tax net income earned in the third quarter of 2006. The larger percentage decrease in after-tax net income versus pre-tax net income is driven by the permanent impact of excluding non-taxable gains and losses on equity forward contracts in the Company's stock from taxable income. Under SFAS No. 150, "Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity," we are required to mark the equity forward contracts to market each quarter and recognize the change in their value in income. Conversely, these gains and losses are not recognized on a tax basis. In the fourth quarter of 2006, a reduction in the Company's stock price resulted in an unrealized loss on our outstanding equity forward contracts of $178 million, a $79 million increase over the unrealized loss of $99 million in the third quarter of 2006. Excluding these losses from taxable income increased the effective tax rate from 44 percent in the third quarter of 2006 to 86 percent in the fourth quarter of 2006.
quarter-over-quarter,
 
When comparing the pre-tax results of the fourth quarter to the third quarter, there were several factors contributing to the $338 million decrease, the two largest of which were a decrease in securitization gains of $201 million and an increase in the net losses on derivative and hedging activities of $114 million. In the fourth quarter, we did not complete an off-balance sheet securitization and as a result we did not recognize any securitization gains. In the third quarter, we recognized pre-tax securitization gains of $201 million, which were primarily caused by a pre-tax gain of $182 million from one Private Education Loan securitization. The increase in net losses on derivative and hedging activities primarily relates to the unrealized mark-to-market gains and losses on our derivatives that do not receive hedge accounting treatment. In the fourth quarter, there was an $88 million unrealized loss on our basis swaps versus a $98 million unrealized gain in the third quarter, which, when added together, reduced fourth quarter pre-tax income by $186 million. The unrealized loss on our basis swaps was partially offset by a $34 million fourth quarter unrealized gain on our Floor Income Contracts. In the third quarter of 2006, there was an unrealized loss of $90 million on our Floor Income Contracts, so quarter over quarter, the change in Floor Income Contracts reduced pre-tax net income by $124 million.
 
Net interest income increased by $34 million or 10 percent versus the prior quarter due to a 4 basis point increase in the net interest margin and to a $6.9 billion increase in the average balance of on-balance sheet interest earning assets. The increase in the net interest margin can be attributed to a more favorable mix of interest earning assets.
 
In the fourth quarter of 2006, fee and other income and collections revenue totaled $288 million, a decrease of $19 million versus the prior quarter. The decrease can be attributed to seasonality. In addition, the third quarter included an acceleration of revenue from a change in federal regulations governing the rehabilitated loan policy.
quarter-over-quarter
 
In the fourth quarter of 2006, our Managed student loan portfolio grew by $5.2 billion or 4 percent over the third quarter and totaled $142.1 billion at December 31, 2006. During the fourth quarter we acquired $9.6 billion in student loans, including $2.0 billion in Private Education Loans. In the third quarter of 2006, we acquired $11.3 billion in student loans, including $2.8 billion were Private Education Loans. In the fourth quarter of 2006, we originated $4.8 billion of student loans through our Preferred Channel compared to $7.8 billion originated in the third quarter of 2006. Within our fourth quarter Preferred Channel Originations, $3.1 billion or 66 percent were originated under Sallie Mae owned brands, compared to 49 percent in the quarter. The quarter over quarter decrease in acquisitions and Preferred Channel Originations was due to the seasonality of student lending.
year-ago
 
 
Three Months Ended December 31, 2006 Compared to Three Months Ended December 31, 2005
 
For the three months ended December 31, 2006, net income of $18 million ($.02 diluted earnings per share) was a decrease of 96 percent from net income of $431 million ($.96 diluted earnings per share) for the three months ended December 31, 2005. Fourth quarter 2006 pre-tax income of $130 million was an 80 percent decrease from $648 million earned in the fourth quarter of 2005. The larger percentage decrease in current quarter over year-ago quarter, after-tax net income versus pre-tax net income is driven by fluctuations in the unrealized gains and losses on equity forward contracts as described above. Excluding the unrealized loss of $178 million in the fourth quarter of 2006 and the unrealized gain of $56 million in the fourth quarter of 2005, taxable income increased the effective tax rate from 33 percent in the fourth quarter of 2005 to 86 percent in the fourth quarter of 2006.
 
When comparing the pre-tax results of the fourth quarter of 2006 versus the year-ago quarter, there were several factors contributing to the decrease, the two largest of which were a decrease in securitization gains of $241 million and a decrease in the net gains on derivative and hedging activities of $315 million. In the fourth quarter of 2006, we did not complete an off-balance sheet securitization and as a result we did not recognize any securitization gains. In the fourth quarter of 2005, we recognized pre-tax securitization gains of $241 million, which was primarily caused by a pre-tax gain of $222 million from one Private Education Loan securitization. The decrease in net gains on derivative and hedging activities is primarily due to the $178 million unrealized loss on equity forward contracts versus a $56 million unrealized gain in the year-ago quarter, which reduced pre-tax income by $234 million. This unrealized loss was caused by a decrease in the Company's stock price as discussed above. In addition, there was an $81 million increase in unrealized losses on our basis swaps and a decrease of $68 million in the unrealized gains on our Floor Income Contracts. Both of these fluctuations are due to changing interest rates.
quarter-over-quarter
 
Offsetting the losses discussed above was a $105 million increase in the servicing and securitization income over the year-ago quarter. This increase can primarily be attributed to $65 million of impairments to our Retained Interests in securitizations recorded in the fourth quarter of 2005, and to the higher average balance of off-balance sheet student loans in 2006. These impairments were primarily caused by the effect of higher than expected Consolidation Loan activity on our off-balance sheet FFELP Stafford securitization. In anticipation of higher Consolidation Loan activity, in the second quarter of 2006 we increased our CPR assumption for FFELP Stafford and PLUS loans, which resulted in minimal impairments in the fourth quarter of 2006.
 
The $18 million, or 5 percent, decrease in net interest income is due to a 26 basis point decrease in the net interest margin, partially offset by an $11 billion increase in average interest earning assets. The decrease in the net interest margin is due to higher average interest rates which reduced Floor Income by $20 million, the continued shift in the mix of FFELP student loans from Stafford to Consolidation Loans and to the increase in the average balance of cash and investments.
year-over-year
year-over-year
 
In the fourth quarter of 2006, fee and other income and collections revenue totaled $288 million, an increase of 22 percent over the year-ago quarter. This increase was primarily driven by a full quarter of revenue from Upromise, acquired in August 2006 and to higher guarantor servicing fees.
 
In the fourth quarter of 2006, we acquired $9.6 billion of student loans, a 48 percent increase versus the $6.5 billion acquired in the year-ago quarter. The fourth quarter acquisitions included $2.0 of Private Education Loans, a 33 percent increase over the $1.5 billion acquired in 2006. In the quarter ended December 31, 2006, we originated $4.8 billion of student loans through our Preferred Channel, versus $4.6 billion originated in the year-ago quarter.
 
Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2005
 
For the year ended December 31, 2006, net income was $1.2 billion ($2.63 diluted earnings per share), a 16 percent decrease from the $1.4 billion in net income ($3.05 diluted earnings per share) for the year ended December 31, 2005. On a pre-tax basis, 2006 net income of $2.0 billion was a 6 percent decrease from the $2.1 billion in pre-tax net income earned in the year ended December 31, 2005. The larger
year-to-date
 
percentage decrease in after-tax net income versus pre-tax net income is driven by the permanent impact of excluding $360 million in unrealized equity forward losses from 2006 taxable income and excluding $121 million of unrealized equity forward gains from 2005 taxable income. The net effect from excluding non-taxable gains and losses on equity forward contracts from taxable income was an increase in the effective tax rate from 34 percent in the year ended December 31, 2005 to 42 percent in the year ended December 31, 2006.
year-over-year,
 
Securitization gains increased by $350 million in the year ended December 31, 2006 versus 2005. The securitization gains for 2006 were primarily driven by the three Private Education Loan securitizations, which had total pre-tax gains of $830 million or 16 percent of the amount securitized, versus two Private Education Loan securitizations in 2005, which had pre-tax gains of $453 million or 15 percent of the amount securitized.
 
For the year ended December 31, 2006, servicing and securitization revenue increased by $196 million to $553 million. The increase in servicing and securitization revenue can be attributed to $103 million in lower impairments on our Retained Interests and the growth in the average balance of off-balance sheet student loans. Impairments are primarily caused by the effect of Consolidation Loan activity on our FFELP Stafford securitization trusts. Pre-tax impairments on our Retained Interests in securitizations totaled $157 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 versus $260 million for the year ended December 31, 2005.
 
In 2006, net losses on derivative and hedging activities were $339 million, a decrease of $586 million from the net gains of $247 million in 2005. This decrease primarily relates to $230 million of unrealized losses in 2006, versus unrealized gains of $634 million in the prior year, which resulted in a year-over-year reduction in pre-tax income of $864 million. The effect of the unrealized losses was partially offset by a $278 million reduction in realized losses on derivatives and hedging activities on instruments that were not accounted for as hedges. The decrease in unrealized gains was primarily due to the impact of a lower SLM stock price on our equity forward contracts which resulted in a unrealized loss of $360 million in 2006 versus an unrealized gain of $121 million in the year-ago period, and to a decrease of $305 million in unrealized gains on Floor Income Contracts. Interest rates continued to rise in 2006 resulting in an unrealized gain on the Floor Income Contracts. The smaller unrealized gains on our Floor Income Contracts were primarily caused by fewer contracts being "in the money" during 2006 versus 2005.
mark-to-market
 
interest income is roughly unchanged as the $12 billion increase in average interest earning assets was offset by a 23 basis point decrease in the net interest margin. The decrease in the net interest margin is due to higher average interest rates which reduced gross Floor Income by $155 million, the continued shift in the mix of FFELP student loans from Stafford to Consolidation Loans and to the increase in the average balance of cash and investments.
Year-over-year
year-over-year
 
Our Managed student loan portfolio grew by $19.6 billion (or 16 percent), from $122.5 billion at December 31, 2005 to $142.1 billion at December 31, 2006. In 2006 we acquired $37.4 billion of student loans, a 24 percent increase over the $30.2 billion acquired in the year-ago period. The 2006 acquisitions included $8.4 million in Private Education Loans, a 31 percent increase over the $6.4 billion acquired in 2005. In the year ended December 31, 2006, we originated $23.4 billion of student loans through our Preferred Channel, an increase of 9 percent over the $21.4 billion originated in the year-ago period.
 
 
NET INTEREST INCOME
 
Average Balance Sheets
 
The following table reflects the rates earned on interest earning assets and paid on interest bearing liabilities for the quarters ended December 31, 2006, September 30, 2006, and December 31, 2005 and for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005.
 
 
 
 
The decrease in the net interest margin for both the three months and year ended December 31, 2006 versus the year-ago periods is primarily due to fluctuations in the student loan spread as discussed under "Student Loans  " The net interest margin was also negatively impacted by the increase in lower yielding cash and investments being held as collateral for on-balance sheet securitization trusts and by the higher average balance of non-interest earning assets.
Student Loan Spread Analysis  On-Balance Sheet.
 
Student Loans
 
For both federally insured and Private Education Loans, we account for premiums paid, discounts received and certain origination costs incurred on the origination and acquisition of student loans in accordance with SFAS No. 91, "Accounting for Nonrefundable Fees and Costs Associated with Originating or Acquiring Loans and Initial Direct Costs of Leases." The unamortized portion of the premiums and discounts is included in the carrying value of the student loan on the consolidated balance sheet. We recognize income on our student loan portfolio based on the expected yield of the student loan after giving effect to the amortization of purchase premiums and the accretion of student loan discounts, as well as interest rate reductions and rebates expected to be earned through Borrower Benefits programs. Discounts on Private Education Loans are deferred and accreted to income over the lives of the student loans. In the table below, this accretion of discounts is netted with the amortization of the premiums.
 
Student Loan Spread
 
An important performance measure closely monitored by management is the student loan spread. The student loan spread is the difference between the income earned on the student loan assets and the interest paid on the debt funding those assets. A number of factors can affect the overall student loan spread such as:
 
 
 
 
During 2006, we implemented a new loan acquisition strategy under which we began purchasing a significant amount of Consolidation Loans, primarily via the spot market, which augments our traditional Consolidation Loan origination process. We refer to this new loan acquisition strategy as our Wholesale Consolidation Channel. Consolidation Loans acquired through this channel are considered incremental volume to our core acquisition channels, which are focused on the retail marketplace with an emphasis on our brand strategy. Consolidation Loans acquired through the Wholesale Consolidation channel generally command significantly higher premiums than our originated Consolidation Loans, and as a result, Wholesale Consolidation Loans have lower spreads. Since Wholesale Consolidation Loans are acquired outside of our core loan acquisition channels and have different yields and return expectations than the rest of our Consolidation Loan portfolio, we have excluded the impact of the Wholesale Consolidation Loan volume from the student loan spread analysis to provide more meaningful comparisons on the performance of our student loan portfolio. We will therefore discuss the volume and spread results of the Wholesale Consolidation Loan portfolio separately.
period-over-period
 
The student loan spread is highly susceptible to liquidity, funding and interest rate risk. These risks are discussed separately in our 2005 Annual Report on at "LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES" and in the "RISK FACTORS" discussion.
Form 10-K
 
Student Loan Spread Analysis  On-Balance Sheet
 
The following table analyzes the reported earnings from student loans on-balance sheet. For an analysis of our student loan spread for the entire portfolio of Managed student loans on a similar basis to the on-balance sheet analysis, see "LENDING BUSINESS SEGMENT  Student Loan Spread Analysis  Core Earnings' Basis."
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion of Student Loan Spread  Effects of Floor Income and Derivative Accounting
 
In low interest rate environments, one of the primary drivers of fluctuations in our on-balance sheet student loan spread is the level of gross Floor Income (Floor Income earned before payments on Floor Income Contracts) earned in the period. In 2006, short-term interest rates increased to a level that significantly reduced the level of gross Floor Income earned in the period. We believe that we have economically hedged most of the Floor Income through the sale of Floor Income Contracts, under which we receive an upfront fee and agree to pay the counterparty the Floor Income earned on a notional amount of student loans. These contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment and as a result the payments on the Floor Income Contracts are included on the income statement with "gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net" rather than in student loan interest income.
 
In addition to Floor Income Contracts, we also extensively use basis swaps to manage our basis risk associated with interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities. These swaps generally do not qualify as accounting hedges and are likewise required to be accounted for in the "gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net" line on the income statement. As a result, they are not considered in the calculation of the cost of funds in the above table.
 
Discussion of Student Loan Spread  Other Fluctuations
Quarter-over-Quarter
 
As discussed above, the on-balance sheet student loan spread above excludes the impact of our Wholesale Consolidation Loan portfolio whose average balances were $2.4 billion and $332 million for the fourth and third quarters of 2006, respectively. Had the impact of the Wholesale Consolidation Loan volume been included in the on-balance sheet student loan spread it would have reduced the spread by approximately 3 basis points and 1 basis point for the fourth and third quarters of 2006, respectively. As of December 31, 2006, Wholesale Consolidation Loans totaled $3.6 billion, or 5.9 percent, of our total on-balance sheet Consolidation Loan portfolio.
 
For the three months ended December 31, 2006, the on-balance sheet student loan spread benefited by 2 basis points to account for the cumulative effect of an update in our prepayment estimate, which impacted student loan premium and discount amortization. When comparing the fourth quarter of 2006 spread versus the year-ago quarter, the decrease is primarily due to high interest rates which reduced gross Floor Income by 10 basis points, and by the continued shift in the mix of student loans from FFELP Stafford to Consolidation Loans. The negative effect of the shift to Consolidation Loans is partially offset by the higher average balance of Private Education Loans.
 
On-Balance Sheet Floor Income
 
For on-balance sheet student loans, gross Floor Income is included in student loan income whereas payments on Floor Income Contracts are included in the "gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net" line in other income. The following table summarizes the components of Floor Income from on-balance sheet student loans, net of payments under Floor Income Contracts, for the quarters ended December 31, 2006, September 30, 2006, and December 31, 2005 and for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005.
 
 
 
 
Floor Income is primarily earned on fixed rate Consolidation Loans. During the first nine months of 2006, FFELP lenders reconsolidated Consolidation Loans using the Direct Loan program as a pass-through entity. This reconsolidation has left us in a slightly oversold position on our Floor Income Contracts and as a result net Floor Income was a loss of $1 million for the quarter. The Higher Education Act of 2005 has severely restricted the use of reconsolidation as of July 1, 2006 so we do not foresee any material impact on our Floor Income in the future.
 
Special Allowance Payments on 9.5 Percent Loans
 
The Company maintains a portfolio of loans that, in accordance with the Higher Education Act ("HEA") and other regulatory guidance, is entitled to receive SAP equal to a minimum rate of return of 9.5 percent ("9.5 percent SAP loans"). In the fourth quarter of 2006, the Company earned $2.4 million in interest income in excess of income based upon the standard special allowance rate on this portfolio, as compared to $2.9 million and $8.7 million in the third quarter of 2006 and the fourth quarter of 2005, respectively. As of December 31, 2006, our portfolio of loans subject to the 9.5 percent minimum rate totaled approximately $470 million.
 
SECURITIZATION PROGRAM
 
Securitization Activity
 
The following table summarizes our securitization activity for the quarters ended December 31, 2006, September 30, 2006, and December 31, 2005 and for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005.
 
 
 
 
 
 
The decrease in the FFELP Stafford/PLUS loans gain as a percentage of loans securitized from 1.1 percent for the year ended December 31, 2005 to .3 percent for the year ended December 31, 2006 is primarily due to: 1) an increase in the CPR assumption to account for continued high levels of Consolidation Loan activity; 2) an increase in the discount rate to reflect higher long-term interest rates; 3) the re-introduction of Risk Sharing with the Reconciliation Legislation during 2005 reauthorizing the student loan programs of the Higher Education Act; and 4) an increase in the amount of student loan premiums included in the carrying value of the loans sold. The higher premiums also affected Consolidation Loan securitizations and were primarily due to the securitization of loans previously acquired through acquisitions of several companies in the student loan industry. These loans carried higher premiums based on the allocation of the purchase price through purchase accounting. Higher premiums were also due to loans acquired through zero-fee lending and the school-as-lender channel.
 
The increase in the Private Education Loans gain as a percentage of loans securitized from 15.1 percent for the year ended December 31, 2005 to 16.3 percent for the year ended December 31, 2006 is primarily due to a higher spread earned on the assets securitized.
 
Key economic assumptions used in estimating the fair value of Residual Interests at the date of securitization resulting from the student loan securitization sale transactions completed during the quarters ended December 31, 2006, September 30, 2006, and December 31, 2005 and for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 were as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Retained Interest in Securitized Receivables
 
The following tables summarize the fair value of the Company's Residual Interests, included in the Company's Retained Interest (and the assumptions used to value such Residual Interests), along with the underlying off-balance sheet student loans that relate to those securitizations in transactions that were treated as sales as of December 31, 2006, September 30, 2006, and December 31, 2005.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Servicing and Securitization Revenue
 
Servicing and securitization revenue, the ongoing revenue from securitized loan pools accounted for off-balance sheet as QSPEs, includes the interest earned on the Residual Interest and the revenue we receive for servicing the loans in the securitization trusts. Interest income recognized on the Residual Interest is based on our anticipated yield determined by estimating future cash flows each quarter.
 
The following table summarizes the components of servicing and securitization revenue for the quarters ended December 31, 2006, September 30, 2006, and December 31, 2005 and for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005.
 
 
Servicing and securitization revenue is primarily driven by the average balance of off-balance sheet student loans, the amount of and the difference in the timing of Embedded Floor Income recognition on off-balance sheet student loans and Retained Interest impairments. The increase in securitization revenue, before net Embedded Floor Income and impairment, from 2005 to 2006 and from the third quarter of 2006 to the fourth quarter, is primarily due to (1) the continued increase in 2006 in the amount of Private Education Loan Residual Interests which generate a higher yield than FFELP loan Residual Interests, and (2) in the comparison, an increase in the amount of off-balance sheet loans during 2006.
year-over-year
 
 
Servicing and securitization revenue can be negatively impacted by impairments of the value of our Retained Interest, caused primarily by the effect of higher than expected Consolidation Loan activity on FFELP Stafford/PLUS student loan securitizations and the effect of market interest rates on the Embedded Floor Income included in the Retained Interest. The majority of the consolidations bring the loans back on-balance sheet, so for those loans, we retain the value of the asset on-balance sheet versus in the trust. For the quarters ended December 31, 2006, September 30, 2006, and December 31, 2005, we recorded impairments to the Retained Interests of $10 million, $4 million and $65 million, respectively, and for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, we recorded impairments of $157 million and $260 million, respectively. These impairment charges were primarily the result of FFELP Stafford loans prepaying faster than projected through loan consolidation ($106 million and $256 million for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively), and the effect of market interest rates on the Embedded Floor Income which is part of the Retained Interest ($51 million and $4 million for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively). The level and timing of Consolidation Loan activity is highly volatile, and in response we continue to revise our estimates of the effects of Consolidation Loan activity on our Retained Interests and it may result in additional impairment recorded in future periods if Consolidation Loan activity remains higher than projected.
 
BUSINESS SEGMENTS
 
The results of operations of the Company's Lending and Debt Management Operations ("DMO") operating segments are presented below. These defined business segments operate in distinct business environments and are considered reportable segments under SFAS No. 131, "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information," based on quantitative thresholds applied to the Company's financial statements. In addition, we provide other complementary products and services, including guarantor and student loan servicing, through smaller operating segments that do not meet such thresholds and are aggregated in the Corporate and Other reportable segment for financial reporting purposes.
 
The management reporting process measures the performance of the Company's operating segments based on the management structure of the Company as well as the methodology used by management to evaluate performance and allocate resources. In accordance with the Rules and Regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), we prepare financial statements in accordance with GAAP. In addition to evaluating the Company's GAAP-based financial information, management, including the Company's chief operating decision maker, evaluates the performance of the Company's operating segments based on their profitability on a basis that, as allowed under SFAS No. 131, differs from GAAP. We refer to management's basis of evaluating our segment results as "Core Earnings" presentations for each business segment and we refer to these performance measures in our presentations with credit rating agencies and lenders. Accordingly, information regarding the Company's reportable segments is provided herein based on "Core Earnings," which are discussed in detail below.
 
Our "Core Earnings" are not defined terms within GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. "Core Earnings" net income reflects only current period adjustments to GAAP net income as described below. Unlike financial accounting, there is no comprehensive, authoritative guidance for management reporting and as a result, our management reporting is not necessarily comparable with similar information for any other financial institution. The Company's operating segments are defined by the products and services they offer or the types of customers they serve, and they reflect the manner in which financial information is currently evaluated by management. Intersegment revenues and expenses are netted within the appropriate financial statement line items consistent with the income statement presentation provided to management. Changes in management structure or allocation methodologies and procedures may result in changes in reported segment financial information.
 
"Core Earnings" are the primary financial performance measures used by management to develop the Company's financial plans, track results, and establish corporate performance targets and incentive compensation. While "Core Earnings" are not a substitute for reported results under GAAP, the Company relies on "Core Earnings" in operating its business because "Core Earnings" permit management to make meaningful comparisons of the operational and performance indicators that are most closely assessed by management. Management believes this information provides additional insight into the financial performance
period-to-period
 
of the core business activities of our operating segments. Accordingly, the tables presented below reflect "Core Earnings," which is reviewed and utilized by management to manage the business for each of the Company's reportable segments. A further discussion regarding "Core Earnings" is included under "Limitations of Core Earnings' " and "Pre-tax Differences between Core Earnings' and GAAP."
 
The Lending operating segment includes all discussion of income and related expenses associated with the net interest margin, the student loan spread and its components, the provisions for loan losses, and other fees earned on our Managed portfolio of student loans. The DMO operating segment reflects the fees earned and expenses incurred in providing accounts receivable management and collection services. Our Corporate and Other reportable segment includes our remaining fee businesses and other corporate expenses that do not pertain directly to the primary segments identified above.
 
In the first quarter of 2006, the Company changed its method for allocating certain Corporate and Other expenses to the other business segments. All periods presented have been updated to reflect the new allocation methodology.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reconciliation of "Core Earnings" Net Income to GAAP Net Income
 
 
 
Limitations of "Core Earnings"
 
While GAAP provides a uniform, comprehensive basis of accounting, for the reasons described above, management believes that "Core Earnings" are an important additional tool for providing a more complete understanding of the Company's results of operations. Nevertheless, "Core Earnings" are subject to certain general and specific limitations that investors should carefully consider. For example, as stated above, unlike financial accounting, there is no comprehensive, authoritative guidance for management reporting. Our "Core Earnings" are not defined terms within GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Unlike GAAP, "Core Earnings" reflect only current period adjustments to GAAP. Accordingly, the Company's "Core Earnings" presentation does not represent a comprehensive basis of accounting. Investors, therefore, may not compare our Company's performance with that of other financial services companies based upon "Core Earnings." "Core Earnings" results are only meant to supplement GAAP results by providing additional information regarding the operational and performance indicators that are most closely used by management, the Company's board of directors, rating agencies and lenders to assess performance.
 
Other limitations arise from the specific adjustments that management makes to GAAP results to derive "Core Earnings" results. For example, in reversing the unrealized gains and losses that result from SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," on derivatives that do not qualify for "hedge treatment," as well as on derivatives that do qualify but are in part ineffective because they are not perfect hedges, we focus on the long-term economic effectiveness of those instruments relative to the underlying hedged item and isolate the effects of interest rate volatility, changing credit spreads and changes in our stock price on the fair value of such instruments during the period. Under GAAP, the effects of these factors on the fair value of the derivative instruments (but not on the underlying hedged item) tend to show more volatility in the short term. While our presentation of our results on a "Core Earnings" basis provides
 
important information regarding the performance of our Managed portfolio, a limitation of this presentation is that we are presenting the ongoing spread income on loans that have been sold to a trust managed by us. While we believe that our "Core Earnings" presentation presents the economic substance of our Managed loan portfolio, it understates earnings volatility from securitization gains. Our "Core Earnings" results exclude certain Floor Income, which is real cash income, from our reported results and therefore may understate earnings in certain periods. Management's financial planning and valuation of operating results, however, does not take into account Floor Income because of its inherent uncertainty, except when it is economically hedged through Floor Income Contracts.
 
Pre-tax Differences between "Core Earnings" and GAAP
 
Our "Core Earnings" are the primary financial performance measures used by management to evaluate performance and to allocate resources. Accordingly, financial information is reported to management on a "Core Earnings" basis by reportable segment, as these are the measures used regularly by our chief operating decision maker. Our "Core Earnings" are used in developing our financial plans and tracking results, and also in establishing corporate performance targets and determining incentive compensation. Management believes this information provides additional insight into the financial performance of the Company's core business activities. "Core Earnings" net income reflects only current period adjustments to GAAP net income, as described in the more detailed discussion of the differences between "Core Earnings" and GAAP that follows, which includes further detail on each specific adjustment required to reconcile our "Core Earnings" segment presentation to our GAAP earnings.
 
1)  Under GAAP, certain securitization transactions in our Lending operating segment are accounted for as sales of assets. Under "Core Earnings" for the Lending operating segment, we present all securitization transactions on a "Core Earnings" basis as long-term non-recourse financings. The upfront "gains" on sale from securitization transactions as well as ongoing "servicing and securitization revenue" presented in accordance with GAAP are excluded from "Core Earnings" and are replaced by the interest income, provisions for loan losses, and interest expense as they are earned or incurred on the securitization loans. We also exclude transactions with our off-balance sheet trusts from "Core Earnings" as they are considered intercompany transactions on a "Core Earnings" basis.
Securitization:
 
The following table summarizes the securitization adjustments in our Lending business segment for the quarters ended December 31, 2006, September 30, 2006, and December 31, 2005 and for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005.
 
 
2)  "Core Earnings" exclude periodic unrealized gains and losses arising primarily in our Lending operating segment, and to a lesser degree in our Corporate and Other reportable segment, that are caused primarily by the one-sided derivative valuations prescribed by SFAS No. 133 on derivatives that do not qualify for "hedge treatment" under GAAP. Under "Core Earnings," we recognize the economic effect of these hedges, which generally results in any cash paid or received being
Derivative Accounting:
mark-to-market
 
recognized ratably as an expense or revenue over the hedged item's life. "Core Earnings" also exclude the gain or loss on equity forward contracts that under SFAS No. 133, are required to be accounted for as derivatives and are through earnings.
marked-to-market
 
SFAS No. 133 requires that changes in the fair value of derivative instruments be recognized currently in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria, as specified by SFAS No. 133, are met. We believe that our derivatives are effective economic hedges, and as such, are a critical element of our interest rate risk management strategy. However, some of our derivatives, primarily Floor Income Contracts, certain basis swaps and equity forward contracts (discussed in detail below), do not qualify for "hedge treatment" as defined by SFAS No. 133, and the stand-alone derivative must be in the income statement with no consideration for the corresponding change in fair value of the hedged item. The gains and losses described in "Gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net" are primarily caused by interest rate volatility, changing credit spreads and changes in our stock price during the period as well as the volume and term of derivatives not receiving hedge treatment.
marked-to-market
 
Our Floor Income Contracts are written options that must meet more stringent requirements than other hedging relationships to achieve hedge effectiveness under SFAS No. 133. Specifically, our Floor Income Contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment because the paydown of principal of the student loans underlying the Floor Income embedded in those student loans does not exactly match the change in the notional amount of our written Floor Income Contracts. Under SFAS No. 133, the upfront payment is deemed a liability and changes in fair value are recorded through income throughout the life of the contract. The change in the value of Floor Income Contracts is primarily caused by changing interest rates that cause the amount of Floor Income earned on the underlying student loans and paid to the counterparties to vary. This is economically offset by the change in value of the student loan portfolio, including our Retained Interests, earning Floor Income but that offsetting change in value is not recognized under SFAS No. 133. We believe the Floor Income Contracts are economic hedges because they effectively fix the amount of Floor Income earned over the contract period, thus eliminating the timing and uncertainty that changes in interest rates can have on Floor Income for that period. Prior to SFAS No. 133, we accounted for Floor Income Contracts as hedges and amortized the upfront cash compensation ratably over the lives of the contracts.
 
Basis swaps are used to convert floating rate debt from one floating interest rate index to another to better match the interest rate characteristics of the assets financed by that debt. We primarily use basis swaps to change the index of our floating rate debt to better match the cash flows of our student loan assets that are primarily indexed to a commercial paper, Prime or Treasury bill index. SFAS No. 133 requires that when using basis swaps, the change in the cash flows of the hedge effectively offset both the change in the cash flows of the asset and the change in the cash flows of the liability. Our basis swaps hedge variable interest rate risk, however they generally do not meet this effectiveness test because most of our FFELP student loans can earn at either a variable or a fixed interest rate depending on market interest rates. We also have basis swaps that do not meet the SFAS No. 133 effectiveness test that economically hedge off-balance sheet instruments. As a result, under GAAP these swaps are recorded at fair value with changes in fair value reflected currently in the income statement.
 
Generally, a decrease in current interest rates and the respective forward interest rate curves results in an unrealized loss related to our written Floor Income Contracts which is offset by an increase in the value of the economically hedged student loans. This increase is not recognized in income. We will experience unrealized gains/losses related to our basis swaps if the two underlying indices (and related forward curve) do not move in parallel.
 
Under SFAS No. 150, equity forward contracts that allow a net settlement option either in cash or the Company's stock are required to be accounted for as derivatives in accordance with SFAS No. 133. As a result, we account for our equity forward contracts as derivatives in accordance with SFAS No. 133 and mark them to market through earnings. These contracts do not qualify as effective SFAS No. 133 hedges, because a requirement to achieve hedge accounting under SFAS No. 133 is the hedged item must impact net income and transactions related to our own stock are accounted for in equity, not net income.
 
 
The table below quantifies the adjustments for derivative accounting under SFAS No. 133 on our net income for the quarters ended December 31, 2006, September 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005, and for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, when compared with the accounting principles employed in all years prior to the SFAS No. 133 implementation.
 
 
 
 
 
Reclassification of Realized Gains (Losses) on Derivative and Hedging Activities
 
SFAS No. 133 requires net settlement income/expense on derivatives and realized gains/losses related to derivative dispositions (collectively referred to as "realized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities") that do not qualify as hedges under SFAS No. 133 to be recorded in a separate income statement line item below net interest income. The table below summarizes the realized losses on derivative and hedging activities, and the associated reclassification on a "Core Earnings" basis for the quarters ended December 31, 2006, September 30, 2006, and December 31, 2005 and for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005.
 
 
 
 
 
Unrealized gains and losses on Floor Income Contracts are primarily caused by changes in interest rates. In general, an increase in interest rates results in an unrealized gain and vice versa. Unrealized gains and losses on Equity Forward Contracts fluctuate with changes in the Company's stock price. Unrealized gains and losses on basis swaps result from changes in the spread between indices, primarily as it relates to Consumer Price Index ("CPI") swaps economically hedging debt issuances indexed to CPI.
 
3)  The timing and amount (if any) of Floor Income earned in our Lending operating segment is uncertain and in excess of expected spreads. Therefore, we exclude such income from "Core Earnings" when it is not economically hedged. We employ derivatives, primarily Floor Income Contracts and futures, to economically hedge Floor Income. As discussed above in "Derivative Accounting," these derivatives
Floor Income:
 
do not qualify as effective accounting hedges, and therefore, under GAAP, they are through the "gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net" line on the income statement with no offsetting gain or loss recorded for the economically hedged items. For "Core Earnings," we reverse the fair value adjustments on the Floor Income Contracts and futures economically hedging Floor Income and include the amortization of net premiums received in income.
marked-to-market
 
The following table summarizes the Floor Income adjustments in our Lending business segment for the quarters ended December 31, 2006, September 30, 2006, and December 31, 2005 and for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005.
 
 
4)  Our "Core Earnings" exclude goodwill and intangible impairment and the amortization of acquired intangibles. For the quarters ended December 31, 2006, September 30, 2006, and December 31, 2005, and for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, goodwill and intangible impairment and the amortization of acquired intangibles totaled $25 million, $37 million, $16 million, $94 million and $61 million, respectively. In the third quarter of 2006, we recognized an intangible impairment of $21 million due to an increase in interest rates since the July 1, 2006 reset and to a regulatory change related to our 9.5 percent SAP loans.
Acquired Intangibles:
 
LENDING BUSINESS SEGMENT
 
In our Lending business segment, we originate and acquire federally guaranteed student loans, which are administered by the U.S. Department of Education ("ED"), and Private Education Loans, which are not federally guaranteed. The majority of our Private Education Loans is made in conjunction with a FFELP Stafford loan and as a result is marketed through the same marketing channels as FFELP Stafford loans. While FFELP student loans and Private Education Loans have different overall risk profiles due to the federal guarantee of the FFELP student loans, they share many of the same characteristics such as similar repayment terms, the same marketing channel and sales force, and are originated and serviced on the same servicing platform. Finally, where possible, the borrower receives a single bill for both the federally guaranteed and privately underwritten loans.
 
 
The following table includes "Core Earnings" results for our Lending business segment.
 
 
Summary of our Managed Student Loan Portfolio
 
The following tables summarize the components of our Managed student loan portfolio and show the changing composition of our portfolio.
 
Ending Balances (net of allowance for loan losses):
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ending Balances (net of allowance for loan losses):
 
 
 
 
Average Balances:
 
 
 
 
 
Average Balances:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Student Loan Spread Analysis  "Core Earnings" Basis
 
The following table analyzes the earnings from our portfolio of Managed student loans on a "Core Earnings" basis (see "BUSINESS SEGMENTS  Pre-tax Differences between Core Earnings' and GAAP"). The "Core Earnings" Basis Student Loan Spread Analysis presentation and certain components used in the calculation differ from the On-Balance Sheet Student Loan Spread Analysis presentation. The "Core Earnings" basis presentation, when compared to our on-balance sheet presentation, is different in that it:
 
 
 
 
As discussed above, these differences result in the "Core Earnings" basis student loan spread not being a GAAP-basis presentation. Management relies on this measure to manage our Lending business segment. Specifically, management uses the "Core Earnings" basis student loan spread to evaluate the overall economic effect that certain factors have on our student loans either on- or off-balance sheet. These factors include the overall mix of student loans in our portfolio, acquisition costs, Borrower Benefits program costs, Floor Income and funding and hedging costs. Management believes that it is important to evaluate all of these factors on a Managed Basis to gain additional information about the economic effect of these factors on our student loans under management. Management believes that this additional information assists us in making strategic decisions about the Company's business model for the Lending business segment, including among other factors, how we acquire or originate student loans, how we fund acquisitions and originations, what Borrower Benefits we offer and what type of loans we purchase or originate. While management believes that the "Core Earnings" basis student loan spread is an important tool for evaluating the Company's performance for the reasons described above, it is subject to certain general and specific limitations that investors should carefully consider. See "BUSINESS SEGMENTS  Limitations of Core Earnings'. " "One specific limitation is that the "Core Earnings" basis student loan spread includes the spread on loans that we have sold to securitization trusts.
 
 
 
 
Discussion of "Core Earnings" Basis Student Loan Spread  Other Fluctuations
Quarter-over-Quarter
 
As discussed under "Student Loans  Student Loan Spread," the student loan spread analysis above also excludes the impact of our Wholesale Consolidation Loan portfolio whose average balances were $2.4 billion and $332 million for the fourth and third quarters of 2006, respectively. Had the impact of the Wholesale Consolidation Loan volume been included in the "Core Earnings" Basis Student Loan Spread Analysis, it would have reduced the spread by approximately 3 basis points and 1 basis point for the fourth and third
 
quarters of 2006, respectively. As of December 31, 2006, Wholesale Consolidation Loans totaled $3.6 billion, or 4.5 percent, of our total Managed Consolidation Loan portfolio.
 
For the three months ended December 31, 2006, the student loan spread benefited by 2 basis points to account for the cumulative effect of a refinement in our prepayment estimate impacting student loan premium amortization.
 
"Core Earnings" Basis Student Loan Spreads by Loan Type
 
The student loan spread continues to reflect the changing mix of loans in our portfolio, specifically the shift from FFELP Stafford loans to Consolidation Loans and the higher overall growth rate in Private Education Loans as a percentage of the total portfolio. (See "LENDING BUSINESS SEGMENT  Summary of our Managed Student Loan Portfolio  Average Balances.")
 
The following table reflects the "Core Earnings" basis student loan spreads by product, excluding both the impact of the Wholesale Consolidation Loan portfolio as discussed above and the impact of items disclosed separately (see "RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  Earnings Release Summary"), for the quarters ended December 31, 2006, September 30, 2006, and December 31, 2005 and for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005.
 
 
Private Education Loans
 
All Private Education Loans are initially acquired on-balance sheet. In securitizations of Private Education Loans that are treated as sales, the loans are no longer owned by us, and they are accounted for off-balance sheet. For our Managed Basis presentation in the table below, when Private Education Loans are sold to securitization trusts, we reduce the on-balance sheet allowance for loan losses for amounts previously provided and then re-establish the allowance for these loans in the off-balance sheet section. The total allowance of both on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet loan losses results in the Managed Basis allowance for loan losses. The off-balance sheet allowance is lower than the on-balance sheet allowance when measured as a percentage of ending loans in repayment because of the different mix of loans on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet.
 
When Private Education Loans in the majority of our securitized trusts become 180 days delinquent, we typically exercise our contingent call option to repurchase these loans at par value out of the trust and record a loss for the difference in the par value paid and the fair market value of the loan at the time of purchase. If these loans reach the delinquency, a charge-off for the remaining balance of the loan is triggered. On a Managed Basis, the losses recorded under GAAP for loans repurchased at day 180 are reversed and the full amount is charged off in the month in which the loan is 212 days delinquent.
212-day
 
 
Allowance for Private Education Loan Losses
 
The following tables summarize changes in the allowance for Private Education Loan losses for the quarters ended December 31, 2006, September 30, 2006, and December 31, 2005 and for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005.
 
 
 
 
The allowance for Private Education Loan losses at December 31, 2006 grew 40 percent versus the year-ago period, which was in direct proportion to the 40 percent growth in the balance of loans in repayment, while net charge-offs increased 18 percent This resulted in an improvement in the ratio of net charge-offs to ending loans in repayment from 1.89 percent at December 31, 2005 to 1.62 percent at December 31, 2006. The ending balance of the allowance for Private Education Loans at December 31, 2006 resulted in an average coverage of annual net charge-offs ratio of 2.44, which is an 18 percent increase over the December 31, 2005 ratio of 2.06.
year-over-year.
 
Net charge-offs on a Managed Basis in the quarter increased to $60 million up from $41 million in the prior quarter and $36 million in the year-ago quarter. The seasoning, the changing mix of loans in the portfolio and the higher repayment levels associated with the growth in our private credit portfolio have contributed to the higher levels of charge-offs and provision. Charge-off and delinquency levels are factored into our current estimation of the allowance for Private Education losses. The higher level of charge-offs is consistent with the higher levels of delinquencies greater than 90 days displayed in the following section.
 
 
Delinquencies
 
The tables below present our Private Education Loan delinquency trends as of December 31, 2006, September 30, 2006, and December 31, 2005. Delinquencies have the potential to adversely impact earnings through increased servicing and collection costs in the event the delinquent accounts charge off.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Forbearance  Managed Basis Private Education Loans
 
Private Education Loans are made to parent and student borrowers in accordance with our underwriting policies. These loans generally supplement federally guaranteed student loans, which are subject to federal lending caps. Private Education Loans are not federally guaranteed nor insured against any loss of principal or interest. Traditional student borrowers use the proceeds of these loans to obtain higher education, which increases the likelihood of obtaining employment at higher income levels than would be available without the additional education. As a result, the borrowers' repayment capability improves between the time the loan is made and the time they enter the post-education work force. We generally allow the loan repayment period on traditional higher education Private Education Loans to begin six months after the borrower leaves school (consistent with our federally regulated FFELP loans). This provides the borrower time after graduation to obtain a job to service the debt. For borrowers that need more time or experience other hardships, we permit additional delays in payment or partial payments (both referred to as forbearances) when we believe additional time will improve the borrower's ability to repay the loan. Forbearance is also granted to borrowers who may experience temporary hardship after entering repayment, when we believe that it will increase the likelihood of ultimate collection of the loan. Such forbearance is granted within established policies that include limits on the number of forbearance months granted consecutively and limits on the total number of forbearance months granted over the life of the loan. In some instances of forbearance, we require good-faith payments or continuing partial payments. Exceptions to forbearance policies are permitted in limited circumstances and only when such exceptions are judged to increase the likelihood of ultimate collectibility of the loan.
 
Forbearance does not grant any reduction in the total repayment obligation (principal or interest) but does allow for the temporary cessation of borrower payments (on a prospective retroactive basis) or a reduction in monthly payments for an agreed period of time. The forbearance period extends the original term
and/or
 
of the loan. While the loan is in forbearance, interest continues to accrue and is capitalized as principal upon the loan re-entering repayment status. Loans exiting forbearance into repayment status are considered current regardless of their previous delinquency status.
 
Forbearance is used most heavily immediately after the loan enters repayment. As indicated in the tables below that show the composition and status of the Managed Private Education Loan portfolio by number of months aged from the first date of repayment, the percentage of loans in forbearance decreases the longer the loans have been in repayment. At December 31, 2006, loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance is 11.7 percent for loans that have been in repayment one to twenty-four months. The percentage drops to 3.4 percent for loans that have been in repayment more than 48 months. Approximately 76 percent of our Managed Private Education Loans in forbearance have been in repayment less than 24 months. These borrowers are essentially extending their grace period as they transition to the workforce. Forbearance continues to be a positive collection tool for the Private Education Loans as we believe it can provide the borrower with sufficient time to obtain employment and income to support his or her obligation. We consider the potential impact of forbearance in the determination of the loan loss reserves.
 
The tables below show the composition and status of the Private Education Loan portfolio by number of months aged from the first date of repayment:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There were $1.2 billion of loans in forbearance status at December 31, 2006, or 9.2 percent of loans in repayment and forbearance versus 11.5 percent for the third quarter of 2006 and 9.9 percent for the year-ago fourth quarter. This is consistent with our expectation of higher forbearances in the third quarter based on the large increase in the number of loans entering repayment in the second quarter. Student loan borrowers have typically used forbearance shortly after entering repayment to extend their grace periods as they establish themselves in the workforce.
 
 
The table below stratifies the portfolio of loans in forbearance by the cumulative number of months the borrower has used forbearance as of the dates indicated. As detailed in the table below, 4 percent of loans currently in forbearance have deferred their loan repayment more than 24 months, which is 3 percent lower versus the prior quarter and the year-ago quarter.
 
 
Total Loan Net Charge-offs
 
The following tables summarize the total loan net charge-offs on both an on-balance sheet basis and a Managed Basis for the quarters ended December 31, 2006, September 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005 and for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005.
 
Total on-balance sheet loan net charge-offs
 
 
Total Managed loan net charge-offs
 
 
The increase in net charge-offs on FFELP Stafford and Other student loans in the fourth quarter of 2006 is the result of the legislative changes which lower the federal guaranty on claims filed after July 1, 2006 to 97 percent from 98 percent (or 99 percent from 100 percent for lenders and servicers with the Exceptional Performer designation). At December 31, 2005, we began providing for this increase in charge-off expectation through our FFELP allowance for loan loss.
 
 
Student Loan Premiums Paid as a Percentage of Principal
 
The following table presents student loan premiums paid as a percentage of the principal balance of student loans acquired for the respective periods.
 
 
 
 
The increase in premiums paid as a percentage of principal balance for Sallie Mae brands is primarily due to the increase in loans where we pay the origination fee federal guaranty fee on behalf of borrowers, a practice we call zero-fee lending. Premiums paid on lender partners were similarly impacted by zero-fee lending. The borrower origination fee will be gradually phased out by the Reconciliation Legislation from 2007 to 2010.
and/or
 
The "Other purchases" category includes the acquisition of Wholesale Consolidation loans which totaled $1.9 billion at a rate of 5.72 percent and $1.4 billion at a rate of 4.11 percent for the quarters ended December 31, 2006 and September 30, 2006, respectively. At December 31, 2006, Wholesale Consolidation Loans totaled $3.6 billion and had an average premium percentage of 5.07 percent.
 
We include in Consolidation originations premiums the 50 basis point Consolidation origination fee paid on each FFELP Stafford loan that we consolidate, including loans that are already in our portfolio. The Consolidation originations premium paid percentage is calculated on only consolidation volume that is incremental to our portfolio. This percentage is largely driven by the mix of FFELP Stafford loans consolidated in this quarter.
 
Preferred Channel Originations
 
We originated $4.8 billion in student loan volume through our Preferred Channel in the quarter ended December 31, 2006 versus $7.8 billion in the quarter ended September 30, 2006 and $4.6 billion in the quarter ended December 31, 2005.
 
For the quarter ended December 31, 2006, our internal lending brands grew 40 percent over the year-ago quarter, and comprised 66 percent of our Preferred Channel Originations, up from 49 percent in the year-ago quarter. Our internal lending brands combined with our other lender partners comprised 91 percent of our Preferred Channel Originations for the current quarter, versus 79 percent for the year-ago quarter; together these two segments of our Preferred Channel grew 19 percent over the year-ago quarter.
 
 
Our Managed loan acquisitions for the current quarter totaled $9.6 billion, an increase of 47 percent over the year-ago quarter. The following tables further break down our Preferred Channel Originations by type of loan and source.
 
 
 
 
Student Loan Activity
 
The following tables summarize the activity in our on-balance sheet, off-balance sheet and Managed portfolios of FFELP student loans and Private Education Loans and highlight the effects of Consolidation Loan activity on our FFELP portfolios.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The increase in consolidations to third parties in 2006 reflects FFELP lenders reconsolidating Consolidation Loans using the Direct Loan program as a pass-through entity to circumvent the statutory prohibition on the reconsolidation of Consolidation Loans. The Higher Education Reconciliation Act of 2005 restricted further reconsolidation; as of July 1, 2006, borrowers with a FFELP Consolidation Loan may only reconsolidate with the FDLP if they are delinquent, referred to the guaranty agency for default aversion activity, and enter into the income contingent repayment program ("ICR") in the FDLP. Borrowers may also reconsolidate an existing Consolidation Loan with a new FFELP Stafford loan. The increase to consolidations to third parties also reflects the effect of the repeal of the single holder rule, which was effective for applications received on or after June 15, 2006 and which required a borrower whose loans were held by a single lender to obtain, in most cases, a Consolidation Loan from that lender.
 
During 2006, Private Education Loan consolidations were introduced as a separate product line and during the year we had $50 million of net incremental volume on a Managed Basis. We expect this product line to grow in the future and will aggressively protect our portfolio against third-party consolidation of Private Education Loans.
 
Other Income  Lending Business Segment
 
The following table summarizes the components of other income for our Lending business segment for the quarters ended December 31, 2006, September 30, 2006, and December 31, 2005 and for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005.
 
 
Other income in 2006 includes a settlement received on the final disposition of leveraged leases for which we had previously reserved. The net losses on securities in fiscal year 2005 primarily related to the $39 million leveraged lease impairment for an aircraft leased to Northwest Airlines, which declared bankruptcy in September 2005.
 
Operating Expenses  Lending Business Segment
 
Operating expenses for our Lending business segment include costs incurred to service our Managed student loan portfolio and acquire student loans, as well as other general and administrative expenses. Both the third and fourth quarter 2006 operating expenses for the Lending business segment also include $8 million, respectively, of stock option compensation expense, due to the implementation of SFAS No. 123(R) (see "RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  Stock Option Compensation Expense").
 
 
DEBT MANAGEMENT OPERATIONS ("DMO") BUSINESS SEGMENT
 
The following table includes "Core Earnings" results for our DMO business segment.
 
 
DMO Revenue by Product
 
 
 
 
Total DMO revenue decreased by $29 million in the fourth quarter of 2006 versus the third quarter of 2006, primarily due to a change in the third quarter of 2006 in the federal regulations governing the rehabilitated loan policy. Under this change, the number of payments to qualify for a rehabilitated loan was reduced to nine months from twelve months, so all loans that had made nine to eleven consecutive payments at the time of the change immediately qualified as a rehabilitated loan. The "contingency  other" line in the fourth quarter of 2005 includes revenue from a non-recurring state tax collection contract. The increase in contingency fee revenue was primarily driven by the growth in guaranty agency collections, along with the change in the rehabilitation loan policy.
year-over-year
 
 
Purchased Paper  Non-Mortgage
 
 
The amount of face value of purchases in any quarter is a function of a combination of factors including the amount of receivables available for purchase in the marketplace, average age of each portfolio, the asset class of the receivables, and competition in the marketplace. As a result, the percentage of face value purchased will vary from quarter to quarter.
 
Purchased Paper  Mortgage/Properties
 
 
 
 
The purchase price for and non-performing mortgage loans is generally determined as a percentage of the underlying collateral. Fluctuations in the purchase price as a percentage of collateral value can be caused by a number of factors including the percentage of second mortgages in the portfolio and the level of private mortgage insurance associated with particular assets.
sub-performing
 
Contingency Inventory
 
The following table presents the outstanding inventory of receivables serviced through our DMO business.
 
 
Operating Expenses  DMO Business Segment
 
Operating expenses for our DMO business segment increased by $2 million, or 2 percent, to $93 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2006 versus the prior quarter, and increased by $9 million or 11 percent versus the year-ago quarter. The increase in operating expenses versus the year-ago quarter was primarily due to the increase in accounts serviced and to higher expenses for outsourced collections and recovery costs.
 
The third and fourth quarter of 2006 operating expenses for the DMO business segment also include $4 million and $3 million, respectively, of stock option compensation expense, due to the implementation of SFAS No. 123(R) (see "RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  Stock Option Compensation Expense").
 
CORPORATE AND OTHER BUSINESS SEGMENT
 
The following table includes "Core Earnings" results for our Corporate and Other business segment.
 
 
Fee and Other Income  Corporate and Other Business Segment
 
The following table summarizes the components of fee and other income for our Corporate and Other business segment for the quarters ended December 31, 2006, September 30, 2006, and December 31, 2005 and years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005.
 
 
The decrease in guarantor servicing fees versus the prior quarter is due to seasonality. The increase in guarantor servicing fees versus the prior year is due to a cap on the payment of account maintenance fees imposed by ED in the fourth quarter of 2005. In the second quarter of 2006 we negotiated a settlement with USA Funds such that USA Funds was able to cover the previous shortfall caused by the cap on payments from ED to guarantors. This cap was removed by legislation reauthorizing the student loan programs of the Higher Education Act on October 1, 2006. Also, the fourth quarter of 2006 "other" line item reflects a full quarter of fees from Upromise, acquired in August 2006.
 
 
USA Funds, the nation's largest guarantee agency, accounted for 86 percent, 81 percent and 79 percent, respectively, of guarantor servicing fees and 16 percent, 24 percent and 23 percent, respectively, of revenues associated with other products and services for the quarters ended December 31, 2006, September 30, 2006, and December 31, 2005.
 
Operating Expenses  Corporate and Other Business Segment
 
Operating expenses for our Corporate and Other business segment include direct costs incurred to service loans for unrelated third parties and to perform guarantor servicing on behalf of guarantor agencies, as well as information technology expenses related to these functions. Both the second and third quarter 2006 operating expenses for our Corporate and Other business segment also include $4 million, respectively, of stock option compensation expense, due to the implementation of SFAS No. 123(R) (see "RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  Stock Option Compensation Expense"). Also, the third quarter of 2006 reflects two months of expenses of Upromise, acquired in August 2006.
 
RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
 
College Student Relief Act of 2007
 
On Wednesday, January 17, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 5, the College Student Relief Act of 2007. The bill was principally designed to lower student loan interest rates paid by borrowers of subsidized undergraduate FFELP and FDLP loans over a five year period beginning July 1, 2007, from 6.8 percent to 3.4 percent in 2011. Because the lender rate is separate from the borrower rate, the interest rate cut does not affect lenders. The interest rate cut, however, does have a sizable budget effect because the federal government pays to the lender any positive difference between the lender rate and the borrower rate. To offset the additional budget cost, the legislation makes several changes to increase costs to lenders and guaranty agencies. The legislation would reduce default insurance from 97 percent to 95 percent, eliminate exceptional performer, double the lender origination fee on all new loans from 0.5 percent to 1 percent, reduce special allowance formula on all new Stafford, PLUS, and Consolidation loans by 0.1 percent (exempting the smallest lenders) and increase the offset fee that consolidation lenders pay, to 1.3 percent for consolidation loan holders whose portfolio contains more than 90 percent consolidation loans. The legislation would reduce the amount that guaranty agencies may retain upon collecting on defaulted claim-paid loans.
 
The legislation will be transmitted in the Senate, where it will be referred to the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee and is unlikely to be considered as a stand-alone bill. The Senate HELP committee is expected to begin consideration of the reauthorization of the Higher Education Act prior to its expiration in June and sections of H.R. 5 could be considered as part of that legislation.
 
New York Attorney General Informal Request
 
On December 28, 2006, we received an informal request for information and documents from New York's Office of the Attorney General concerning schools' use of preferred lender lists and our marketing practices as they relate to preferred lender lists. We are cooperating with the New York Attorney General's Office in order to provide information and documents responsive to their request. We cannot predict the outcome of this request or its effect on our financial position or results of operation.
 
Extension of the Higher Education Act
 
On September 30, 2006, the President signed into law P.L. the Third Extension of the Higher Education Act ("HEA"), temporarily authorizing the rest of HEA until June 30, 2007. Included in the extension were several modifications to provisions passed in the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005. The first provision further limited the ability of schools to act as lenders in the FFELP, requiring that the statutory restrictions on "school as lender" apply to schools using "eligible lender trusts." Another provision clarified the rate for the Account Maintenance Fee paid to guaranty agencies.
109-292,
 
 
Inspector General Audit of Nelnet on Special Allowance Payments
 
On September 29, 2006, the U.S. Department of Education's Office of Inspector General ("OIG") issued a Final Audit Report on "Special Allowance Payments to Nelnet for Loans Funded by Tax-Exempt Obligations." In the report, the OIG concluded that Nelnet may have been improperly paid more than $278 million in special allowance payments ("SAP") from January 1, 2003 to June 30, 2005. Under the HEA, FFELP student loans funded by tax-exempt obligations originally issued before October 1, 1993 are only eligible to receive one-half of the SAP rate that would otherwise be payable, but the quarterly SAP rate must not be less than 9.5 percent, less the interest the lender receives from the borrower or the government, divided by four ("9.5 percent SAP"). In the report, the OIG claims that the loans were not acquired with funds from an eligible source in compliance with the HEA or the regulations or guidance issued by the Department of Education ("ED"). We believe that the OIG's legal analysis is incorrect and is inconsistent with well established ED guidance. The Secretary of ED may reject the OIG's findings and as of January 17, 2007 the Secretary of ED had not yet responded to the OIG report. In May 2005, the OIG issued a Final Audit Report on 9.5 percent SAP payments to New Mexico Educational Assistance Foundation that contained findings on different issues but that were also inconsistent with well established guidance; the Secretary subsequently rejected those findings. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that the Secretary will reject the OIG's findings and recommendations that Nelnet return past and forgo prospective 9.5 percent SAP payments. In the event the Secretary accepts the OIG's finding regarding Nelnet, it is possible that other holders of 9.5 percent SAP loans, including Sallie Mae, could be directed to calculate SAP in accordance with the OIG's interpretation and return funds to ED. At this time, we cannot predict the likelihood of such an outcome or the time period it might cover. As of December 31, 2006, Sallie Mae held approximately $470 million in 9.5 percent SAP loans, which were inherited by acquiring four non-profit lending agencies.


