FILE:SLM/SLM-8K-20080123093329.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On January 23, 2008, SLM Corporation issued a press release with respect to its earnings for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2007, which is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K. Additional information for the quarter, which is available on the Registrant's website at http://www.salliemae.com/about/investors/stockholderinfo/earningsinfo/, is furnished as Exhibit 99.2.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: January 23, 2008
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 SLM Corporation (NYSE: SLM), commonly known as Sallie Mae, today reported "core earnings" results that include a fourth-quarter 2007 net loss of $139 million, or $.36 diluted loss per share, and full-year 2007 net income of $560 million, or $1.23 diluted earnings per share.
RESTON, Va., Jan. 23, 2008
     Student loan originations totaled $5.0 billion in the 2007 fourth quarter and $25.5 billion during the full-year 2007. Student loans originated through Sallie Mae's internal brands, the most profitable segment of total student loan originations, grew 27 percent year over year to $16.6 billion.
     The company recorded a loan loss provision of $575 million on a GAAP basis, or $750 million on a "core earnings" basis, in the 2007 fourth quarter that contributed to a net loss for the quarter and reduced earnings for the year. The increase in the provision relates primarily to the actual and expected performance of the non-traditional, higher-risk portion of the company's managed student loan portfolio.
     "While there were some bright spots, we are obviously disappointed by our fourth-quarter results overall. Our cost of funds and loan loss expectations were impacted by weakening credit markets," said Albert Lord, chief executive officer. "We faced significant distractions in 2007, but we have taken several of the necessary steps to position the company for a return to strong, quality asset and earnings growth. Our business trends point in the right direction. In 2007, a challenging
 
year for our industry, we helped students with a record amount of financing to pay for college. In 2008 and beyond, our market leadership position will continue to grow together with the demand for higher education."
     Sallie Mae reports financial results on a GAAP basis and also presents certain "core earnings" performance measures. The company's management, equity investors, credit rating agencies and debt capital providers use these "core earnings" measures to monitor the company's business performance.
     Sallie Mae reported a fourth-quarter 2007 GAAP net loss of $1.6 billion, or $3.98 diluted loss per share, including a $1.5 billion mark-to-market loss on the company's equity forward contract, which was physically settled in full in January 2008. This compares to net income of $18 million, or $.02 diluted earnings per share, in the year-ago period.
     The GAAP net loss for 2007 totaled $896 million, compared to GAAP net income of $1.2 billion in 2006. The 2007 GAAP results include principally the forward contract mark-to-market loss and private loan loss provision of $884 million.
     Fourth-quarter 2007 "core earnings" net loss was $139 million, or $.36 diluted loss per share, compared to net income of $326 million, or $.74 diluted earnings per share, in the year-ago period. Driving the 2007 fourth-quarter's loss were provisions for loan losses of $750 million. This compares to $88 million in the year-ago quarter.
     For the full-year 2007, "core earnings" net income was $560 million, compared to $1.3 billion in 2006.
     "Core earnings" net interest income was $612 million for the 2007 fourth quarter, compared to the year-ago quarter's $651 million. "Core earnings" other income, which consists primarily of fees earned from guarantor servicing and collection activity, was $306 million in the fourth-quarter 2007, up from $283 million in the year-ago period.
     In 2007, "core earnings" net interest income was $2.6 billion, up from $2.5 billion in 2006. "Core earnings" other income was $1.2 billion in 2007, compared to $1.1 billion in 2006.
     "Core earnings" operating expenses were $388 million in the fourth-quarter 2007, compared to $328 million in the fourth-quarter 2006. "Core earnings" operating expenses were $1.4 billion in 2007 and $1.3 billion in 2006.
     Both a description of the "core earnings" treatment and a full reconciliation to the GAAP income statement can be found at: http://www.salliemae.com/about/investors/stockholderinfo/earningsinfo/, click on the Fourth Quarter 2007 Supplemental Earnings Disclosure.
The company will host a quarterly earnings conference call and shareholder conference today at 10 a.m. EST. Sallie Mae executives will be on hand to discuss the company's 2007 results and future outlook. Individuals interested in participating should call the following number today, Jan. 23, 2008, starting at 9:45 a.m. EST: (877) 356-5689 (USA and Canada) or (706) 679-0623 (International). The conference call will be replayed continuously beginning at 3 p.m.
 
EST on Wednesday, Jan. 23, 2008, and concluding at midnight, Feb. 6, 2008. To access the replay, please dial (800) 642-1687 (USA and Canada) or dial (706) 645-9291 (International) and use access code 30431411. In addition, there will be a live audio Web cast of the conference, which may be accessed at . A replay will be available immediately following the conference until midnight, Feb. 6, 2008.
www.SallieMae.com
expectations as to future market share, the success of preferred channel originations and future results. These statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Because such statements inherently involve risks and uncertainties, actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such risks include, among others, changes in the terms of student loans and the educational credit marketplace arising from the implementation of applicable laws and regulations, and from changes in such laws and regulations, adverse results in legal disputes, changes in the demand for educational financing or in financing preferences of educational institutions, students and their families, and changes in the general interest rate environment. For more information, see the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the forward-looking statements contained in the company's Supplemental Financial Information Fourth Quarter 2007. All information in this release is as of Jan. 23, 2008. The Company does not undertake any obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements to conform the statement to actual results or changes in the Company's expectations.
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" including
(NYSE: SLM), commonly known as Sallie Mae, is the nation's leading provider of saving- and paying-for-college programs. The company manages nearly $164 billion in education loans and serves 10 million student and parent customers. Through its Upromise affiliates, the company also manages $19 billion in 529 college-savings plans, and is the largest private source of college funding contributions in America with 8.5 million members and $400 million in member rewards. Sallie Mae and its subsidiaries offer debt management services as well as business and technical products to a range of business clients, including higher education institutions, student loan guarantors and state and federal agencies. More information is available at . SLM Corporation and its subsidiaries are not sponsored by or agencies of the United States of America.
SLM Corporation
www.salliemae.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"Core Earnings"
 
In accordance with the Rules and Regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), we prepare financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America ("GAAP"). In addition to evaluating the Company's GAAP-based financial information, management evaluates the Company's business segments on a basis that, as allowed under SFAS No. 131, "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information," differs from GAAP. We refer to management's basis of evaluating our segment results as "Core Earnings" presentations for each business segment and we refer to this information in our presentations with credit rating agencies and lenders. While "Core Earnings" are not a substitute for reported results under GAAP, we rely on "Core Earnings" to manage each operating segment because we believe these measures provide additional information regarding the operational and performance indicators that are most closely assessed by management.
 
Our "Core Earnings" are not defined terms within GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. "Core Earnings" net income reflects only current period adjustments to GAAP net income as described below. Unlike financial accounting, there is no comprehensive, authoritative guidance for management reporting and as a result, our management reporting is not necessarily comparable with similar information for any other financial institution. Our operating segments are defined by the products and services they offer or the types of customers they serve, and they reflect the manner in which financial information is currently evaluated by management. Intersegment revenues and expenses are netted within the appropriate financial statement line items consistent with the income statement presentation provided to management. Changes in management structure or allocation methodologies and procedures may result in
 
changes in reported segment financial information. A more detailed discussion of the differences between GAAP and "Core Earnings" follows.
 
Limitations of "Core Earnings"
 
While GAAP provides a uniform, comprehensive basis of accounting, for the reasons described above, management believes that "Core Earnings" are an important additional tool for providing a more complete understanding of the Company's results of operations. Nevertheless, "Core Earnings" are subject to certain general and specific limitations that investors should carefully consider. For example, as stated above, unlike financial accounting, there is no comprehensive, authoritative guidance for management reporting. Our "Core Earnings" are not defined terms within GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Unlike GAAP, "Core Earnings" reflect only current period adjustments to GAAP. Accordingly, the Company's "Core Earnings" presentation does not represent a comprehensive basis of accounting. Investors, therefore, may not compare our Company's performance with that of other financial services companies based upon "Core Earnings." "Core Earnings" results are only meant to supplement GAAP results by providing additional information regarding the operational and performance indicators that are most closely used by management, the Company's board of directors, rating agencies and lenders to assess performance.
 
Other limitations arise from the specific adjustments that management makes to GAAP results to derive "Core Earnings" results. For example, in reversing the unrealized gains and losses that result from SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," on derivatives that do not qualify for "hedge treatment," as well as on derivatives that do qualify but are in part ineffective because they are not perfect hedges, we focus on the long-term economic effectiveness of those instruments relative to the underlying hedged item and isolate the effects of interest rate volatility, changing credit spreads and changes in our stock price on the fair value of such instruments during the period. Under GAAP, the effects of these factors on the fair value of the derivative instruments (but not on the underlying hedged item) tend to show more volatility in the short term. While our presentation of our results on a "Core Earnings" basis provides important information regarding the performance of our Managed portfolio, a limitation of this presentation is that we are presenting the ongoing spread income on loans that have been sold to a trust managed by us. While we believe that our "Core Earnings" presentation presents the economic substance of our Managed loan portfolio, it understates earnings volatility from securitization gains. Our "Core Earnings" results exclude certain Floor Income, which is real cash income, from our reported results and therefore may understate earnings in certain periods. Management's financial planning and valuation of operating results, however, does not take into account Floor Income because of its inherent uncertainty, except when it is economically hedged through Floor Income Contracts.
 
Pre-Tax Differences between "Core Earnings" and GAAP
 
Our "Core Earnings" are the primary financial performance measures used by management to evaluate performance and to allocate resources. Accordingly, financial information is reported to management on a "Core Earnings" basis by reportable segment, as these are the measures used regularly by our chief operating decision maker. Our "Core Earnings" are used in developing our financial plans and tracking results, and also in establishing corporate performance targets and determining incentive compensation. Management believes this information provides additional insight into the financial performance of the Company's core business activities. "Core Earnings" net income reflects only current period adjustments to GAAP net income, as described in the more detailed discussion of the differences between "Core Earnings" and GAAP that follows, which includes further detail on each specific adjustment required to reconcile our "Core Earnings" segment presentation to our GAAP earnings.
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
 
This Supplemental Financial Information release contains forward-looking statements and information that are based on management's current expectations as of the date of this document. When used in this report, the words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "intend" and "expect" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other factors that may cause the actual results to be materially different from those reflected in such forward-looking statements. These factors include, among others, the occurrence of any event, change or other circumstances that could give rise to the termination of the merger agreement (the "Merger Agreement") for the buyer group (the "Buyer Group") led by J.C. Flowers & Co. ("J.C. Flowers"), Bank of America (NYSE:BAC) and JPMorgan Chase (NYSE:JPM) to acquire (the "Merger") SLM Corporation, more commonly known as Sallie Mae, and its subsidiaries (collectively, "the Company"); the outcome of any legal proceedings that may be instituted by us or against us and others related to the Merger Agreement; our ability to cost-effectively refinance the interim asset-backed commercial paper facilities extended by Bank of America and JPMorgan Chase for use during the period between executing the Merger Agreement, including any potential foreclosure on the student loans under those facilities following their termination if the Merger Agreement is terminated, increased financing costs and more limited liquidity; any adverse outcomes in any significant litigation to which we are a party; changes in the terms of student loans and the educational credit marketplace arising from the implementation of applicable laws and regulations and from changes in these laws and regulations, which may reduce the volume, average term and yields on student loans under the Federal Family Education Loan Program ("FFELP") or result in loans being originated or refinanced under non-FFELP programs or may affect the terms upon which banks and others agree to sell FFELP loans to the Company. In addition, a larger than expected increase in third-party consolidations of our FFELP loans could materially adversely affect our results of operations. The Company could also be affected by changes in the demand for educational financing or in financing preferences of lenders, educational institutions, students and their families; incorrect estimates or assumptions by management in connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements; changes in the composition of our Managed FFELP and Private Education Loan portfolios; changes in the general interest rate environment and in the securitization markets for education loans, which may increase the costs or limit the availability of financings necessary to initiate, purchase or carry education loans; changes in general economic conditions; changes in projections of losses from loan defaults; changes in prepayment rates and credit spreads; and changes in the demand for debt management services and new laws or changes in existing laws that govern debt management services. The Company does not undertake any obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements to conform the statement to actual results or changes in the Company's expectations.
 
Definitions for capitalized terms in this document can be found in the Company's 2006 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on March 1, 2007.
Form 10-K
 
Certain reclassifications have been made to the balances as of and for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2006, to be consistent with classifications adopted for the quarter ended December 31, 2007.
 
CURRENT BUSINESS TRENDS
 
Our management team is evaluating certain aspects of our business as a response to the impact of The College Cost Reduction and Access Act of 2007 ("CCRAA"), and current challenges in the capital markets. The CCRAA has a number of important implications for the profitability of our FFELP business, including a reduction in Special Allowance Payments, the elimination of the Exceptional Performer designation and the corresponding reduction in default payments to 97 percent through 2012 and 95 percent thereafter, an increase in the lender paid origination fees for certain loan types and reduction in default collections retention fees and account maintenance fees related to guaranty agency activities. As a result, we expect that the CCRAA will significantly reduce and, combined with higher financing costs, could possibly eliminate the profitability of new FFELP loan originations, while increasing our Risk Sharing in connection with our FFELP loan portfolio.
 
In response to the CCRAA, capital market conditions, and the lower credit rating of the Company, we plan to be more selective in pursuing origination activity, in both FFELP loans and Private Education Loans. We plan to curtail less profitable student loan acquisition activities such as spot purchases and Wholesale Consolidation Loan purchases, which will reduce our funding needs. We expect to see lenders exit the student loan industry in response to the CCRAA and current conditions in the credit markets, and we therefore expect to partially offset declining loan volumes caused by our more selective lending policies with increased market share taken from participants exiting the industry. We expect to continue to focus on generally higher-margin Private Education Loans, both through our school channel and our direct-to-consumer channel, with particular attention to continuing more stringent underwriting standards. We also expect to adjust our Private Education Loan pricing to reflect the current financing and market conditions. In addition, we plan to eliminate offering certain Borrower Benefits in connection with both our FFELP loans and our Private Education Loans. We plan to significantly curtail our Private Education lending to students attending schools where loan performance, due in large part to high withdrawal rates and other factors, is materially below our original expectations. We will further de-emphasize pursuing incremental Consolidation Loans, as a result of significant margin erosion for FFELP Consolidation Loans created by the combined effect of the CCRAA and the increased cost of borrowing in the current capital markets. We will, however, continue our efforts to protect selected FFELP assets existing in our portfolio. We expect to continue to aggressively pursue other FFELP-related fee income opportunities such as FFELP loan servicing, guarantor servicing and collections.
 
DISCUSSION OF CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
Three Months Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Three Months Ended September 30, 2007
 
For the three months ended December 31, 2007, our net loss was $1.6 billion, or $3.98 diluted loss per share, compared to a net loss of $344 million, or $.85 diluted loss per share for the three months ended September 30, 2007. The effective tax rate for those periods was 5 percent and (33) percent, respectively. The movement in the effective tax rate was primarily driven by the permanent tax impact of excluding non-taxable gains and losses on the equity forward contracts which are marked to market through earnings under the Financial Accounting Standards Board's ("FASB's") Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities." Pre-tax income decreased by $1.5 billion versus the prior quarter primarily due to an $850 million increase in net losses on derivative and hedging activities, which was mostly comprised of losses on our equity forward contracts. Losses on derivative and hedging activities were $1.3 billion in the fourth quarter of 2007 compared to $487 million in the prior quarter. The Company settled all of its outstanding equity forward contracts in January 2008 (see "LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES").
 
There were no gains on student loan securitizations in either period because we did not complete any off-balance sheet securitizations. Our servicing and securitization revenue decreased by $6 million from $29 million in the third quarter of 2007 to $23 million in the fourth quarter of 2007. This decrease was primarily due to a $27 million increase in impairment losses, which was mainly a result of FFELP Stafford Consolidation Loan activity exceeding expectations, increases in Private Education Loan expected default activity, and an increase in the discount rate used to value Private Education Loan Residual Interests (see "LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES  Retained Interest in Securitized Receivables").
 
Net interest income after provisions for loan losses decreased by $538 million in the fourth quarter versus the third quarter. This decrease was due to a $107 million decrease in net interest income, as well as a $431 million increase in provisions for loan losses. The decrease in net interest income was primarily due to a decrease in the student loan spread, including the impact of Wholesale Consolidation Loans (see "LENDING BUSINESS SEGMENT  Net Interest Income   "). The increase in provisions for loan losses relates to higher provision amounts for Private Education Loans, FFELP loans, and mortgage loans primarily due to a weakening U.S. economy (see "LENDING BUSINESS SEGMENT  Allowance for Private Education Loan Losses; and  Total Provisions for Loan Losses").
Student Loan Spread Analysis
On-Balance Sheet
 
In the fourth quarter of 2007, fee and other income and collections revenue totaled $302 million, a $20 million increase from $282 million in the prior quarter. Operating expenses increased by $85 million from $356 million in the third quarter of 2007 to $441 million in the fourth quarter of 2007. The increase in operating expenses was primarily due to severance costs of $23 million, goodwill and acquired intangible impairments of $37 million, and an increase in Merger-related expenses of $11 million over the third quarter. As part of the Company's cost reduction efforts, these severance costs were related to the elimination of approximately 350 positions (representing three percent of the overall employee population) across all areas of the Company. Goodwill and intangible impairments primarily related to our mortgage business.
 
Three Months Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Three Months Ended December 31, 2006
 
For the three months ended December 31, 2007, our net loss was $1.6 billion, or $3.98 diluted loss per share, compared to net income of $18 million, or $.02 diluted earnings per share, for the three months ended December 31, 2006. The effective tax rate in those periods was 5 percent and 86 percent, respectively. The movement in the effective tax rate was primarily driven by the permanent tax impact of excluding non-taxable gains and losses on our equity forward contracts as discussed above. Pre-tax income decreased by $1.9 billion versus the year-ago quarter, primarily due to a $1.1 billion increase in net losses on derivative and hedging activities, which was comprised primarily of losses on our equity forward contracts. Losses on derivative and hedging activities were $1.3 billion in the fourth quarter of 2007 compared to $245 million in the year-ago quarter.
 
In the current and year-ago quarters, we did not complete any off-balance sheet securitizations, and as a result, we did not recognize any securitization gains. In the fourth quarter of 2007, servicing and securitization income was $23 million, a $161 million decrease from the year-ago quarter. This decrease was primarily due to a $108 million increase in impairment losses and to a $20 million increase in the unrealized fair value loss adjustment related to a portion of our Retained Interests that we account for under SFAS No. 155, "Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments," whereby we carry the Retained Interest at fair value and record changes to fair value through earnings. Both of these changes were primarily a result of FFELP Stafford Consolidation Loan activity exceeding expectations, increases in Private Education Loan expected default activity and an increase in the discount rate used to value our Private Education Loan Residual Interests (see "LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES  Retained Interest in Securitized Receivables").
 
Net interest income after provisions for loan losses decreased by $520 million versus the fourth quarter of 2006. The decrease was due to a $38 million decrease in net interest income and a $482 million increase in the provisions for loan losses. The decrease in net interest income was primarily due to a decrease in the student loan spread, including the impact of Wholesale Consolidation Loans (see "LENDING BUSINESS SEGMENT  Net Interest Income   "), partially offset by a $30 billion increase in the average balance of student loans. The increase in provisions for loan losses relates to higher provision amounts for Private Education Loans, FFELP loans, and mortgage loans primarily due to a weakening U.S. economy (see "LENDING BUSINESS SEGMENT  Allowance for Private Education Loan Losses; and  Total Provisions for Loan Losses").
Student Loan Spread Analysis
On-Balance Sheet
 
Fee and other income and collections revenue increased $15 million from $287 million in the fourth quarter of 2006 to $302 million in the fourth quarter of 2007. Operating expenses were $441 million for the fourth quarter of 2007, an increase of $88 million compared to $353 million for the fourth quarter of 2006. The increase in operating expenses was primarily due to current-quarter severance costs of $23 million,
 
goodwill and acquired intangible impairments of $37 million, primarily related to our mortgage business, and Merger-related expenses of $15 million.
 
Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006
 
For the year ended December 31, 2007, our net loss was $896 million, or $2.26 diluted loss per share, compared to net income of $1.2 billion, or $2.63 diluted earnings per share, in the year-ago period. The effective tax rate in those periods was 86 percent and 42 percent, respectively. Pre-tax income decreased by $2.5 billion versus the year ended December 31, 2006 primarily due to a $1.0 billion increase in net losses on derivative and hedging activities, which was mostly comprised of losses on our equity forward contracts. Losses on derivative and hedging activities were $1.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to $339 million for the year ended December 31, 2006.
 
Pre-tax income for the year ended December 31, 2007 also decreased versus the year ended December 31, 2006 due to a $535 million decrease in gains on student loan securitizations. The securitization gain in 2007 was the result of one Private Education Loan securitization that had a pre-tax gain of $367 million or 18.4 percent of the amount securitized. In the year-ago period, there were three Private Education Loan securitizations that had total pre-tax gains of $830 million or 16.3 percent of the amount securitized. For the year ended December 31, 2007, servicing and securitization income was $437 million, a $116 million decrease from the year ended December 31, 2006. This decrease was primarily due to a $97 million increase in impairment losses which was mainly the result of FFELP Stafford Consolidation Loan activity exceeding expectations, increased Private Education Consolidation Loan activity, increased Private Education Loan expected default activity, and an increase in the discount rate used to value the Private Education Loan Residual Interests (see "LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES  Retained Interest in Securitized Receivables").
 
Net interest income after provisions for loan losses decreased by $594 million versus the year ended December 31, 2006. The decrease was due to the year-over-year increase in the provisions for loan losses of $728 million, which offset the year-over-year $134 million increase in net interest income. The increase in net interest income was primarily due to an increase of $30.8 billion in the average balance of on-balance sheet interest earning assets offset by a decrease in the student loan spread, including the impact of Wholesale Consolidation Loans (see "LENDING BUSINESS SEGMENT  Net Interest Income   "). The increase in provisions for loan losses relates to higher provision amounts for Private Education Loans, FFELP loans, and mortgage loans primarily due to a weakening U.S. economy (see "LENDING BUSINESS SEGMENT  Allowance for Private Education Loan Losses; and  Total Provisions for Loan Losses").
Student Loan Spread Analysis
On-Balance Sheet
 
Fee and other income and collections revenue increased $42 million from $1.11 billion for the year ended December 30, 2006 to $1.15 billion for the year ended December 31, 2007. Operating expenses increased by $206 million year-over-year. This increase in operating expenses was primarily due to $56 million in Merger-related expenses and $23 million in severance costs incurred in 2007. Operating expenses in 2007 also included $93 million related to a full year of expenses for Upromise compared to $33 million incurred in 2006 subsequent to the August 2006 acquisition of this subsidiary.
 
EARNINGS RELEASE SUMMARY
 
The following table summarizes GAAP income statement items that are disclosed separately in the Company's press releases of earnings or the Company's quarterly earnings conference calls for the quarters ended December 31, 2007 and September 30, 2007, and for the year ended December 31, 2007.
 
 
 
 
 
The following table summarizes "Core Earnings" income statement items that are disclosed separately in the Company's press releases of earnings or the Company's quarterly earnings conference calls for the quarters ended December 31, 2007 and September, 30, 2007, and for the year ended December 31, 2007.
 
 
 
 
BUSINESS SEGMENTS
 
The results of operations of the Company's Lending, Asset Performance Group ("APG"), formerly known as Debt Management Operations ("DMO"), and Corporate and Other business segments are presented below.
 
The Lending business segment section includes all discussion of income and related expenses associated with the net interest margin, the student loan spread and its components, the provisions for loan losses, and other fees earned on our Managed portfolio of student loans. The APG business segment reflects the fees earned and expenses incurred in providing accounts receivable management and collection services. Our Corporate and Other reportable segment includes our remaining fee businesses and other corporate expenses that do not pertain directly to the primary segments identified above.
 
LENDING BUSINESS SEGMENT
 
In our Lending business segment, we originate and acquire federally guaranteed student loans, which are administered by the U.S. Department of Education ("ED"), and Private Education Loans, which are not federally guaranteed. The majority of our Private Education Loans is made in conjunction with a FFELP Stafford loan and as a result is marketed through the same marketing channels as FFELP Stafford loans. While FFELP loans and Private Education Loans have different overall risk profiles due to the federal guarantee of
 
the FFELP loans, they share many of the same characteristics such as similar repayment terms, the same marketing channel and sales force, and are originated and serviced on the same servicing platform. Finally, where possible, the borrower receives a single bill for both the federally guaranteed and privately underwritten loans.
 
The following table includes "Core Earnings" results for our Lending business segment.
 
 
Net Interest Income
 
The changes in net interest income are primarily due to fluctuations in the student loan spread discussed below, as well as the growth of our student loan portfolio and the level of cash and investments we may hold on our balance sheet for liquidity purposes. In connection with the Merger Agreement, we increased our liquidity portfolio to higher than historical levels. The liquidity portfolio has a negative net interest margin, and as a result, the increase in this portfolio reduced net interest income by $10 million and $8 million for the three months ended December 31, 2007 and September 30, 2007, respectively.
 
Student Loan Spread Analysis  On-Balance Sheet
 
The following table analyzes the reported earnings from student loans on-balance sheet, before provision and before the effect of Wholesale Consolidation Loans.
 
 
The decrease in the student loan spread was primarily due to an increase in our cost of funds. Our cost of funds for on-balance sheet student loans excludes the impact of basis swaps that economically hedge the re-pricing and basis mismatch between our funding and student loan asset indices, but do not receive hedge accounting treatment under SFAS No. 133. We extensively use basis swaps to manage our basis risk associated with our interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities. These swaps generally do not qualify as accounting hedges, and as a result, are required to be accounted for in the "gains (losses) on derivatives and hedging activities, net" line on the income statement, as opposed to being accounted for in interest expense. As a result, these basis swaps are not considered in the calculation of the cost of funds in the above table. As a result, in times of volatile movements of interest rates like those experienced in the fourth quarter of 2007, the student loan spread in the above table can significantly change. See
"Student Loan Spread Analysis  Core
 
Earnings' Basis," in the following table, which reflects these basis swaps in interest expense, and demonstrates the economic hedge effectiveness of these basis swaps.
 
The decrease in the student loan spread was also due to an increase in the estimate of uncollectible accrued interest related to our Private Education Loans (see in the following table).
"Student Loan Spread Analysis  Core Earnings' Basis,"
 
Student Loan Spread Analysis  "Core Earnings" Basis
 
The following table reflects the "Core Earnings" basis student loan spreads by product, before provision and before the effect of Wholesale Consolidation Loans.
 
 
The Company's "Core Earnings" basis student loan spread before Interim ABCP Facility Fees and the impact of Wholesale Consolidation Loans decreased 14 basis points from the prior quarter primarily due to the interest income reserve on our Private Education Loans. We estimate the amount of Private Education Loan accrued interest on our balance sheet that is not reasonably expected to be collected in the future using a methodology consistent with the status-based migration analysis used for the allowance for Private Education Loans. We use this estimate to offset accrued interest in the current period through a charge to student loan interest income. As our provision for loan losses increased significantly in the fourth quarter of 2007, we had a similar rise in the estimate of uncollectible accrued interest receivable.
 
The Company's "Core Earnings" basis student loan spread before Interim ABCP Facility Fees and the impact of Wholesale Consolidation Loans remained relatively consistent over all periods presented above, excluding the impact of the interest reserving method discussed above. The primary drivers of changes in the spread are changes in portfolio composition, Borrower Benefits, premium amortization, and cost of funds. The FFELP loan spread declined over all periods presented above primarily as the mix of the FFELP portfolio shifted toward the lower yielding Consolidation Loan product. The Private Education Loan spreads before provision, excluding the impact of the interest reserving method discussed above, continued to increase due primarily to a change in the mix of the portfolio to more direct-to-consumer loans (Tuition Answer loans). The changes in the Private Education Loan spreads after provision for all periods was primarily due to the timing and amount of provision associated with our allowance for Private Education Loan Losses as discussed below in "Allowance for Private Education Loan Losses"
sm
.
 
Allowance for Private Education Loan Losses
 
The following tables summarize changes in the allowance for Private Education Loan losses for the quarters ended December 31, 2007, September 30, 2007, and December 31, 2006, and for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006.
 
 
 
As the Private Education Loan portfolio seasons and due to shifts in its mix and certain economic factors, we expected and have seen charge-off rates increase from the historically low levels experienced in prior years. Additionally, this increase was significantly impacted by other factors. Toward the end of 2006 and through mid-2007, we experienced lower pre-default collections, resulting in increased levels of charge-off activity in our Private Education Loan portfolio. In the second half of 2006, we relocated responsibility for certain Private Education Loan collections from our Nevada call center to a new call center in Indiana. This transfer presented us with unexpected operational challenges that resulted in lower collections that have negatively impacted the Private Education Loan portfolio. In addition, in late 2006, we revised certain procedures, including our use of forbearance, to better optimize our long-term collection strategies. These developments resulted in lower pre-default collections, increased later stage delinquency levels and higher charge-offs. Due to the remedial actions in place, we anticipate the negative trends caused by the operational difficulties will improve in 2008.
 
In the fourth quarter of 2007 the Company recorded provision expense of $667 million related to the Managed Private Education Portfolio. This significant increase in provision primarily relates to the non-traditional (higher risk) portion of our loan portfolio which is particularly impacted by the weakening U.S. economy as evidenced by recently released economic indicators, certain credit-related trends in our portfolio and a further tightening of forbearance practices. We charge off loans after 212 days of delinquency. Accordingly, we believe current quarter charge-offs represent losses incurred at the onset of the current
 
economic downturn and do not incorporate the general economic downturn that became evident in the fourth quarter of 2007. In addition, with loans to traditional schools and students, we have been able to mitigate our losses during varying economic environments through the use of forbearance and other collection management strategies. With the continued weakening of the U.S. economy and the projected continued recessionary conditions, we believe that those strategies as they relate to the non-traditional portion of the loan portfolio will not be as effective as they have been in the past. For these reasons, we recorded additional provision in the fourth quarter, raising our allowance for Private Education Loans to over 8 percent of loans in repayments as of December 31, 2007.
 
The Company's Private Education lending programs have historically focused on traditional students attending traditional degree granting programs. In the past few years, the Company began to expand its lending activities to non-traditional students and to students attending non-traditional schools. We have taken actions to terminate these non-traditional loan programs because the performance of these loans is materially different from that of the loans in our traditional loan programs. As a result, we have provided for losses that we believe to exist in the portfolio as a result of our additional data, our plans to terminate certain programs and the current economic conditions.
 
Private Education Loan Delinquencies
 
The tables below present our Private Education Loan delinquency trends as of December 31, 2007, September 30, 2007, and December 31, 2006.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Forbearance policies were tightened in late 2006 and again in late 2007. The increase in use of forbearance is attributed to both a weakening of the U.S. economy, as previously discussed, as well as improved borrower contact procedures. In the majority of situations forbearance continues to be a positive collection tool for Private Education Loans as we believe it can provide the borrower with sufficient time to obtain employment and income to support his or her obligation. However, as discussed earlier, we believe that forbearance will be less effective for non traditional loans during a weakened U.S. economy. Loans in forbearance are reserved commensurate with the default expectation of this specific loan status.
 
Total Provisions for Loan Losses
 
The following tables summarize the total loan provisions on both an on-balance sheet basis and a Managed Basis for the quarters ended December 31, 2007, September 30, 2007, and December 31, 2006, and for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006.
 
Total on-balance sheet loan provisions
 
 
Total Managed Basis loan provisions
 
 
Provision expense for Private Education Loans was previously discussed above (see "Allowance for Private Education Loan Losses").
 
The third quarter 2007 FFELP provision included $30 million and $44 million for on-balance sheet and Managed student loans, respectively, related to the repeal of the Exceptional Performer program (and the resulting increase in our Risk Sharing percentage) due to the passage of the CCRAA on September 27, 2007. These amounts are additional, non-recurring provision expenses required to cumulatively increase the allowance for loan losses for the increase in the Company's Risk Sharing percentage related to the Company's loans as of September 30, 2007. The fourth quarter 2007 FFELP provision included $19 million and $27 million for on-balance sheet student loans and Managed student loans, respectively, related to the increase in our default expectations due to an increase in recent delinquencies and charge-offs.
 
The increase in provisions related to mortgage and consumer loans primarily relates to a weakening U.S. economy and the deterioration of certain real estate markets related to our mortgage portfolio. As of December 31, 2007, our mortgage portfolio totaled $289 million.
 
Total Loan Net Charge-offs
 
The following tables summarize the total loan net charge-offs on both an on-balance sheet basis and a Managed Basis for the quarters ended December 31, 2007, September 30, 2007, and December 31, 2006, and for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006.
 
Total on-balance sheet loan net charge-offs
 
 
Total Managed loan net charge-offs
 
 
The increase in net charge-offs on FFELP Stafford and Other student loans for the year ended December 31, 2007 versus the year ended December 31, 2006 was primarily the result of legislatives changes occurring in 2006 and again in 2007, which have ultimately lowered the federal guaranty on claims filed to either 97 percent or 98 percent (depending on date of disbursement). See "Allowance for Private Education Loan Losses" for a discussion of net charge-offs related to our Private Education Loans.
 
Other Income  Lending Business Segment
 
The following table summarizes the components of other income for our Lending business segment for the quarters ended December 31, 2007, September 30, 2007, and December 31, 2006, and for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006.
 
 
The Company periodically sells student loans. The timing and amount of loan sales impacts the amount of recognized gains on sales of student loans. The decrease in the "Other" category versus the prior year is primarily due to the shift of origination volume to Sallie Mae Bank. Prior to this shift, we earned servicing fees for originated Private Education Loans on behalf of third-party lenders prior to our acquisition of those loans. This revenue stream has been more than offset by capturing the net interest income earned by acquiring these loans earlier.
 
Operating Expenses  Lending Business Segment
 
Operating expenses for our Lending business segment include costs incurred to service our Managed student loan portfolio and acquire student loans, as well as other general and administrative expenses. For the quarters ended December 31, 2007, September 30, 2007, and December 31, 2006, operating expenses for the Lending business segment also included $5 million, $4 million, and $8 million, respectively, of stock option compensation expense and $31 million and $34 million, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006.
 
Preferred Channel Originations
 
We originated $5.0 billion in student loan volume through our Preferred Channel in the quarter ended December 31, 2007 versus $8.9 billion in the quarter ended September 30, 2007 and $4.8 billion in the quarter ended December 31, 2006.
 
For the quarter ended December 31, 2007, our internal lending brands grew 15 percent over the year-ago quarter, and comprised 71 percent of our Preferred Channel Originations, up from 66 percent in the year-ago quarter. Our internal lending brands combined with our other lender partners comprised 94 percent of our Preferred Channel Originations for the current quarter, versus 91 percent for the year-ago quarter; together these two segments of our Preferred Channel grew 10 percent over the year-ago quarter.
 
The following tables further break down our Preferred Channel Originations by type of loan and source.
 
 
 
 
ASSET PERFORMANCE GROUP ("APG") BUSINESS SEGMENT
 
The following table includes "Core Earnings" results for our APG business segment.
 
 
The increase in contingency fee income for the fourth quarter of 2007 versus the prior quarter was primarily due to an increase in the amount of FFELP loans that were successfully rehabilitated during the current quarter. The decrease in contingency fee income from the full year 2006 to 2007 was primarily due to a 2006 legislative change that reduced fees paid for collections via loan consolidation and direct collections. In addition, the 2006 legislation changed the policy governing rehabilitated loans by reducing the number of consecutive payments to qualify for a loan rehabilitation from twelve months to nine months. This accelerated process added approximately $15 million of incremental revenue in 2006. To a lesser extent, 2007 was negatively impacted by lower performance in default prevention.
 
The increase in collections revenue for the fourth quarter of 2007 versus the prior quarter was primarily due to growth in the purchased paper asset balances, resulting in an increase in yield income, and to less impairment recognized during the current quarter related to these purchased paper portfolios. Declines in real estate values and the weakening U.S. economy as well as lengthening the assumed lifetime collection period have resulted in write-downs related to the mortgage purchased paper portfolio. Specifically, the mortgage purchased paper portfolio had impairments of $8 million and $11 million in the quarters ended December 31, 2007 and September 30, 2007, respectively. General economic uncertainty has also resulted in lengthening the assumed lifetime collection period related to our non-mortgage, purchased paper portfolio. The increase in
 
collections revenue for the fourth quarter of 2007 versus the year-ago quarter was primarily due to the growth in the purchased paper asset balances resulting in an increase in yield income.
 
Purchased Paper  Non-Mortgage
 
 
The amount of face value of purchases in any quarter is a function of a combination of factors including the amount of receivables available for purchase in the marketplace, average age of each portfolio, the asset class of the receivables, and competition in the marketplace. As a result, the percentage of face value purchased will vary from quarter to quarter. The increase in collections revenue as a percentage of GCC in the quarter ended December 31, 2007 compared to the prior quarter is primarily due to the lower impairments in the current quarter as noted above. The decrease in collections revenue as a percentage of GCC versus the prior year can primarily be attributed to the increase in new portfolio purchases in the second half of 2007. Typically, revenue recognition based on a portfolio's effective interest rate is a lower percentage of cash collections in the early stages of servicing a portfolio.
 
Purchased Paper  Mortgage/Properties
 
 
The purchase price for sub-performing and non-performing mortgage loans is generally determined as a percentage of the underlying collateral, but we also consider a number of factors in pricing mortgage loan portfolios to attain a targeted yield. Therefore, the purchase price as a percentage of collateral value can
 
fluctuate depending on the mix of sub-performing versus non-performing mortgages in the portfolio, the projected timeline to resolution of loans in the portfolio and the level of private mortgage insurance associated with particular assets. The purchase price as a percentage of collateral value for the quarter ended December 31, 2007 compared to the same quarter in the prior year, as well as the same comparison for full year results, is generally reflective of the overall decrease in purchase prices for such loans.
 
Contingency Inventory
 
The following table presents the outstanding inventory of receivables that are currently being serviced through our APG business segment.
 
 
Operating Expenses  APG Business Segment
 
For the quarters ended December 31, 2007, September 30, 2007, and December 31, 2006, operating expenses for the APG business segment totaled $106 million, $94 million, and $93 million, respectively, and included $2 million, $2 million, and $3 million, respectively, of stock option compensation expense. For the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, operating expenses for this segment totaled $390 million and $358 million, respectively, and included $11 million and $12 million, respectively, of stock option compensation expense.
 
CORPORATE AND OTHER BUSINESS SEGMENT
 
The following table includes "Core Earnings" results for our Corporate and Other business segment.
 
 
The decrease in guarantor servicing fees versus the prior quarter was primarily due to the seasonality of loan disbursements and related guarantee issuance fees earned, as well as a decrease in account maintenance fees earned in the current quarter, due to legislative changes effective October 1, 2007 as a result of the passage of the CCRAA. These decreases were partially offset by the recognition of $15 million of previously deferred guarantee issuance fee revenue related to a negotiated settlement with United Student Aid Funds, Inc. ("USA Funds") in the second quarter of 2006. The negotiated settlement with USA Funds would have resulted
 
in the Company having to return the $15 million to USA Funds, if certain events occurred prior to December 31, 2007. These events did not occur prior to December 31, 2007, as stipulated in the negotiated settlement. As a result, all such contingencies were removed, resulting in the recognition of this deferred revenue in the current quarter. This amount is non-recurring in nature.
 
USA Funds, the nation's largest guarantee agency, accounted for 87 percent, 83 percent and 86 percent, respectively, of guarantor servicing fees and 14 percent, 16 percent and 16 percent, respectively, of revenues associated with other products and services for the quarters ended December 31, 2007, September 30, 2007, and December 31, 2006.
 
The increase in fees from Upromise for the year ended December 31, 2007 versus the year ended December 31, 2006 was due to the acquisition of Upromise in August 2006.
 
Operating Expenses  Corporate and Other Business Segment
 
Operating expenses for our Corporate and Other business segment include direct costs incurred to service loans for unrelated third parties and to perform guarantor servicing on behalf of guarantor agencies, as well as information technology expenses related to these functions. The $11 million increase in operating expenses versus the prior quarter was primarily due to an increase in Merger-related expenses. For the quarters ended December 31, 2007, September 30, 2007, and December 31, 2006, operating expenses for this segment also included $28 million, $24 million, and $25 million, respectively, of expenses related to Upromise, which was acquired in August 2006. Stock option compensation expense included in operating expenses for this segment totaled $3 million, $2 million and $3 million, respectively, for the quarters ended December 31, 2007, September 30, 2007, and December 31, 2006, and totaled $15 million and $17 million, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006.
 
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
 
Our primary funding objective is to maintain cost-effective liquidity to fund the growth in our Managed portfolio of student loans. Upon the announcement of the Merger on April 16, 2007, credit spreads on our unsecured debt widened considerably, significantly increasing our cost of accessing the unsecured debt markets. As a result, in the near term, student loan securitizations are expected to be our primary source of cost-effective financing. We securitized $25.4 billion in student loans in nine transactions in the year ended December 31, 2007, compared to $32.1 billion in thirteen transactions in the year-ago period. Secured borrowings, including securitizations, ABCP borrowings and indentured trusts, comprised 75 percent of our Managed debt outstanding at December 31, 2007, versus 69 percent at December 31, 2006.
 
More recently, as with similarly sized financial companies, adverse conditions in the securitization markets increased the cost of issuance and borrowing spreads in the market for student loan asset-backed securities ("ABS"). In the third quarter of 2007, we completed only one $2.5 billion securitization transaction, compared to four securitization transactions totaling $13.0 billion in the first quarter of 2007, the last full quarter before we entered into the Merger Agreement. In the fourth quarter of 2007, we completed three securitization transactions totaling $4.9 billion. Although we expect ABS financings to remain our primary source of funding, we expect our transaction volumes in the ABS market to be more limited and pricing terms less favorable than in the past, with significantly reduced opportunities to issue subordinated tranches of ABS. Consequently, in order to meet our financing needs, we are exploring other sources of funding, including unsecured debt, a financing source we have not used to fund our core businesses since the announcement of the Merger. We expect the terms and conditions of new unsecured debt issues, including pricing terms and covenant requirements, will be less favorable to us than our recent ABS financings and other unsecured debt we incurred in the past. In addition, our ability to access the unsecured market on attractive terms, or at all, will depend on our credit rating and prevailing market conditions.
 
On April 30, 2007, in connection with the Merger, we entered into an aggregate interim $30 billion asset-backed commercial paper conduit facilities (collectively, the "Interim ABCP Facility"), which provided us with significant additional liquidity. The Merger agreement contemplated a significant amount of whole loan sales as a main source of repayment for this Interim ABCP Facility. In light of the decision of the Buyer Group not
 
to close the Merger, our management team has been working to refinance the $30 billion Interim ABCP Facility entered into in connection with the Merger and to secure additional financing in order to fund our business, to strengthen our balance sheet and to support our credit ratings. Our Interim ABCP Facility will effectively terminate on May 16, 2008, but our cost of funding under the Interim ABCP Facility will increase substantially, to Prime plus two percent, if the Interim ABCP Facility is not refinanced on or prior to February 15, 2008, and we will not be able to incur additional borrowings thereunder after that date. We are in substantive discussions with a number of financial institutions to provide warehouse funding in excess of $30 billion with the goal of replacing the Interim ABCP Facility before February 15, 2008. In addition to the May 16, 2008 termination date of our Interim ABCP Facility, we have an aggregate of $8.6 billion of unsecured debt maturing in 2008.
 
We also fund our liquidity needs through our existing $6.0 billion asset-backed commercial paper, or ABCP facility, our cash and investment portfolio and by selectively disposing of FFELP student loans in the secondary market. In addition, we maintain, to supplement our funding sources, $6.5 billion in unsecured revolving credit facilities. We have not in the past relied upon, and do not expect to rely on, our unsecured revolving credit facilities as a primary source of liquidity. Although we have never borrowed under these facilities, they provide liquidity support for general corporate purposes.
 
Our ability to access our unsecured revolving credit facilities will depend upon our ability to meet financial covenants set forth in the credit agreements, including a covenant to maintain consolidated tangible net worth of at least $1.38 billion, compliance with which will be affected by a variety of factors, including accounting adjustments applied principally to our derivatives and our residual interests in off-balance sheet securitized loans. If we fail to comply with the consolidated tangible net worth covenant in our revolving credit facilities at that date or in the future, the banks party to the facilities (which include Bank of America and JPMorgan Chase, members of the Buyer Group, as lenders and agents under the facilities) may elect to terminate their commitments, and if they did elect to terminate the facilities, our available liquidity could be materially impaired. Our tangible net worth for covenant purposes at December 31, 2007 was $3.5 billion.
mark-to-market
 
Beginning on November 29, 2007, we amended or closed out certain equity forward contracts. On December 19, 2007, we entered into a series of transactions with our equity forward counterparties and Citibank, N.A. ("Citibank") to assign all of our remaining equity forward contracts, covering 44,039,890 shares, to Citibank. In connection with the assignment of the equity forward contracts, we and Citibank amended the terms of the equity forward contract to eliminate all stock price triggers (which had previously allowed the counterparty to terminate the contacts prior to their scheduled maturity date) and termination events based on our credit ratings. The strike price of the equity forward contract on December 19, 2007 was $45.25 with a maturity date of February 22, 2008. The new Citibank equity forward contract was 100 percent collateralized with cash.
 
On December 31, 2007, we closed public offerings of our common stock and 7.25 percent mandatory convertible preferred stock, Series C, resulting in total net proceeds of approximately $2.9 billion. We sold 101,781,170 shares of our common stock at a price of $19.65 per share and 1,000,000 shares of our 7.25 percent mandatory convertible preferred stock, Series C. Each share of mandatory convertible preferred stock, Series C, has a $1,000 liquidation preference and is subject to mandatory conversion on December 15, 2010, into between 41.7188 and 50.8906 shares of the company's common stock, unless previously converted at the option of the holder. On January 9, 2008, we closed a second public offering of our 7.25 percent mandatory convertible preferred stock, Series C, as a result of the underwriters exercising their overallotment option. We sold 150,000 shares of the preferred stock related to this overallotment and the closing resulted in net proceeds of $145.5 million. We used approximately $2.0 billion of the net proceeds of the December 31, 2007 closings to settle our outstanding equity forward contract with Citibank and repurchase the 44,039,890 shares of common stock deliverable to us under the contract. On December 31, 2007, the Company and Citibank agreed to physically settle the contract and the Company paid Citibank approximately $1.1 billion, the difference between the contract purchase price and the previous market closing price on the
 
44 million shares. Consequently, the common shares outstanding and shareholders' equity on the Company's year-end balance sheet reflect the shares issued in the public offerings and the physical settlement of the equity forward contract. As of December 31, 2007, the 44 million shares under this equity forward contract are reflected in treasury stock. The Company paid Citibank the remaining balance of approximately $0.9 billion due under the contract on January 9, 2008. The Company now has no outstanding equity forward positions. The remaining proceeds from the public offerings will be used for general corporate purposes.
 
The following table details our primary sources of liquidity and the available capacity at December 31, 2007, September 30, 2007, and December 31, 2006.
 
 
 
 
We believe our unencumbered FFELP loan portfolio provides an excellent source of potential or stand-by liquidity because of the well-developed market for securitizations and whole loan sales of government guaranteed student loans. In addition to the assets listed in the table above, we hold on-balance sheet a number of other unencumbered assets, consisting primarily of Private Education Loans, Retained Interests and other assets. At December 31, 2007, we had a total of $51.7 billion of unencumbered assets, including goodwill and acquired intangibles.
 
The following tables present the ending balances of our Managed borrowings at December 31, 2007, September 30, 2007, and December 31, 2006.
 
 
The following table presents the senior unsecured credit ratings assigned by major rating agencies as of December 31, 2007. Each of the rating agencies has the Company's current ratings on review for potential downgrade.
 
 
Retained Interest in Securitized Receivables
 
The following tables summarize the fair value of the Company's Residual Interests, included in the Company's Retained Interest (and the assumptions used to value such Residual Interests), along with the underlying off-balance sheet student loans that relate to those securitizations in transactions that were treated as sales as of December 31, 2007, September 30, 2007 and December 31, 2006.
 
 
 
 
The Company recorded impairments to the Retained Interests of $117 million, $90 million and $10 million, respectively, for the quarters ended December 31, 2007, September 30, 2007 and December 31, 2006, and $254 million and $157 million, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006. The impairment charges were the result of FFELP loans prepaying faster than projected through loan consolidations ($56 million, $31 million and $10 million for the quarters ended December 31, 2007, September 30, 2007 and December 31, 2006, respectively, and $110 million and $104 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively), impairment to the Floor Income component of the Company's Retained Interest due to increases in interest rates during the period ($0 million for each of the quarters ended December 31, 2007, September 30, 2007, and December 31, 2006, and $24 million and $53 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively), and increases in prepayments, defaults, and the discount rate related to Private Education Loans ($61 million and $59 million for the quarters ended December 31, 2007 and September 30, 2007, respectively, and $120 million for the year ended December 31, 2007).
 
The Company assessed the appropriateness of the current risk premium, which is added to the risk free rate, for the purpose of arriving at a discount rate in light of the current economic and credit uncertainty that exists in the market as of December 31, 2007. This discount rate is applied to the projected cash flows to arrive at a fair value representative of the current economic conditions. The Company increased the risk premium by 100 basis points to better take into account the current level of cash flow uncertainty and lack of liquidity that exists with the Private Education Residual Interests. The significant allowance for loan loss recorded in the fourth quarter of 2007 was primarily related to the non-traditional or higher-risk loans within our Private Education Loan portfolio that the Company does not generally securitize. As a result, the default rates used for the Residual Interest valuations were not directly impacted by the provision expense related to the non-traditional Private Education Loans recorded in the fourth quarter of 2007.
 
RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
 
Legislative Developments
 
On October 10, 2007, The House of Representatives passed H.R. 3056, the Tax Collection Responsibility Act of 2007. If enacted, this legislation would repeal the authority of the Internal Revenue Service (the "IRS") to contract with private collection agencies for certain federal tax collections. The Company's subsidiary, Pioneer Credit Recovery, is one of two agencies participating in the IRS pilot, testing the use of private collectors in improving federal tax collections. The Senate is not expected to act on corresponding repeal legislation this year. On December 2007, the House and Senate passed an FY2008 omnibus spending bill that did not eliminate or reduce funding for private debt collection, effectively keeping the program alive. Fee income generated from federal tax collections activity is currently de minimis to our APG business segment results of operations.
17-18,
 
On October 30, 2007, the House and Senate passed S. 2258, "The Third Higher Education Extension Act of 2007," which extends the authorization of the Higher Education Act through March 31, 2008. The reauthorization of the Higher Education Act remains one of the outstanding issues for this Congress.
 
On November 15, 2007, the House Education and Labor Committee ordered H.R. 4137, the College Opportunity and Affordability Act of 2007, reauthorizing the Higher Education Act. It is expected that the legislation will be considered by the House of Representatives in February 2008. The Senate passed its version of the reauthorization, S. 1642, on July 24, 2007, and the differences between the two versions will be resolved in conference. As expected, the House legislation includes the previously-passed Student Loan Sunshine Act (H.R. 890). In addition, the House legislation includes provisions similar to Senate Banking Committee legislation, Private Student Loan Transparency, which provides for certain disclosures and prohibits certain activities in connection with Private Education Loans.
 
Merger-Related Developments
 
On October 8, 2007, the Company filed a lawsuit in Delaware Chancery Court against the Buyer Group, which includes J.C. Flowers & Co., JPMorgan Chase, and Bank of America. The lawsuit seeks a declaration that the Buyer Group has repudiated the Merger Agreement, that no Material Adverse Effect has occurred and that the Company may terminate the agreement and collect the $900 million termination fee. On November 21, 2007, we withdrew our October 19, 2007 motion for partial summary judgment on the pleadings. Discovery proceedings have commenced and the Court has indicated that the trial will commence in early December 2008.
 
On December 12, 2007, we announced an update of the transaction with the Buyer Group. Over the eight weeks prior to December 12, 2007, in a series of discussions between the Company and senior representatives of the Buyer Group, to resolve the dispute between the parties, we offered to consider an alternative transaction with the Buyer Group, and to give them the opportunity to update their due diligence and submit a new proposal to acquire the Company with no pre-conditions. The Buyer Group responded that it did not wish to pursue these opportunities.
 
On December 14, 2007, we sent a letter to the Buyer Group in which we asked the Buyer Group either to confirm that it had terminated the Merger Agreement or provide adequate assurances that the Buyer Group intended to close the Merger. Our letter further asserted that the Buyer Group had breached the Merger Agreement in a variety of ways and gave the Buyer Group notice as provided for under the Merger Agreement that if such breaches were not timely cured, we reserved the right to terminate the Merger Agreement and to seek damages thereunder for such breaches. The Buyer Group responded to us in a letter dated December 21, 2007, in which the Buyer Group failed to provide the requested adequate assurances of its intent to consummate the Merger and failed to address the notices of default in our letter. In its letter the Buyer Group asserted that the "required information" previously provided by us pursuant to the Merger Agreement had proven to be inaccurate, that the Buyer Group nevertheless continued to seek FDIC approval for the change of control of Sallie Mae Bank in connection with the Merger and that, were the conditions to closing of the Merger be measured as of the date of the Buyer Group letter, such conditions precedent would not be satisfied.
 
Ratings
 
Our management team intends to focus on maintaining, and ultimately improving, our credit ratings. Our credit ratings may affect, among other things, our cost of funding, especially in the unsecured debt markets, and, to a lesser extent, the volume and price of securitization transactions we can execute. Also, as discussed in "Risk factors" in our Quarterly Report on for the quarter ended September 30, 2007, a decrease in our credit ratings may affect the ability of counterparties to terminate our swap contracts. We cannot provide any assurance that our recent offerings of common stock and Series C preferred stock, or any other amount of equity capital will be sufficient to maintain our ratings at any particular level. We may issue additional equity in the form of common stock as we deem necessary to maintain, and ultimately improve, our credit ratings.
Form 10-Q
 
Dividends
 
We have not paid dividends on our common stock since the execution of the Merger Agreement with the Buyer Group in April 2007. While the restriction on the payment of dividends under the Merger Agreement has been terminated, we expect to continue not paying dividends in the near term in order to focus on balance sheet improvement and expect to re-examine our dividend policy in the second half of 2008.
 
Management Changes and Sales of Securities
 
On December 12, 2007, the Company announced that Kevin F. Moehn, executive vice president, sales and originations, and June M. McCormack, executive vice president, servicing, technology and sales marketing, would be leaving the Company.
 
On December 14, 2007, we announced that our Board of Directors added the Chief Executive Officer title and responsibilities to our Executive Chairman Albert L. Lord. C.E. Andrews, our previous CEO, assumed the role of President.
 
On the same date, we announced we had opened our trading window for directors and executive officers for the first time since we commenced discussions with the Buyer Group in March 2007. Mr. Lord sold approximately 1.3 million shares of our common stock, or approximately 97 percent of the common stock that he owned before the sale, on the open market on December 14, 2007. Also on December 14, 2007, Mr. Charles Daley, a director, sold approximately 80,023 shares of our common stock or approximately 68 percent of the common stock that he owned before the sale. Messrs. Lord and Daley have advised us that these actions were required under their respective borrowing arrangements.
 
On December 19, 2007, the Corporation and Mr. Moehn agreed on the terms and conditions of a separation agreement. The material terms of the separation agreement are detailed in the Company's filed with the SEC on December 26, 2007.
Form 8-K
 
On December 22, 2007, the Company and Ms. McCormack agreed on the terms and conditions of a separation agreement. The material terms of the separation agreement are detailed in the Company's filed with the SEC on December 28, 2007.
Form 8-K
 
On January 7, 2008, the Board of Directors of the Company appointed Anthony P. Terracciano as Chairman of the Board. Mr. Terracciano was also appointed Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Board. Albert L. Lord was appointed Vice Chairman of the Board and its Executive Committee and continues to serve as Chief Executive Officer. In addition, the Board announced the appointment of John (Jack) F. Remondi as Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer, effective January 8, 2008.
 
On January 17, 2008, the SEC requested that the Company provide information and documents regarding disclosures and actions taken by the Company in December 2007 before and after stock sales of SLM Corporation common stock by Company directors and executives. We are cooperating with the SEC in order to provide the requested information and documents.
 
Legal Proceedings
 
On April 6, 2007, the Company was served with a putative class action suit by several borrowers in federal court in California. The complaint, which was amended on April 12, 2007, alleges violations of California Business & Professions Code 17200, breach of contract, breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing, violation of consumer legal remedies act and unjust enrichment. The complaint challenges the Company's FFELP billing practices as they relate to use of the simple daily interest method for calculating interest. On June 19, 2007, the Company filed a Motion to Dismiss the amended complaint. On September 14, 2007, the court entered an order denying Sallie Mae's Motion to Dismiss. The court did not comment on the merits of the allegations or the plaintiffs' case but instead merely determined that the allegations stated a claim sufficient under the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. The Company filed an answer on September 28, 2007 and on November 26, 2007 filed a motion for judgment on the pleadings. On January 4, 2008, the court entered an order denying the Company's motion without ruling on the merits of plaintiffs' claims. On September 17, 2007, the court entered a scheduling order that set July 8, 2008, as the start date for the trial. Discovery has commenced and is scheduled to continue through May 30, 2008. The Company believes these allegations lack merit and will continue to vigorously defend itself in this case, and notes that ED and the applicable guarantor of plaintiffs' loans have confirmed that simple daily interest is the proper method for calculating interest under the FFELP.
 
On September 11, 2007, the Office of the Inspector General ("OIG"), of ED, confirmed that they planned to conduct an audit to determine if the Company billed for special allowance payments, under the 9.5 percent floor calculation, in compliance with the Higher Education Act, regulations and guidance issued by ED. The audit covers the period from 2005 through 2006. We ceased billing under the 9.5 percent floor calculation at the end of 2006. We believe that our billing practices were consistent with longstanding ED guidance, but there can be no assurance that the OIG will not advocate an interpretation that differs from the ED's previous guidance. The OIG has audited other industry participants who billed for 9.5 percent SAP and in certain cases ED has disagreed with the OIG's recommendation.
 
In August 2005, Rhonda Salmeron (the "Plaintiff") filed a qui tam whistleblower case under the False Claims Act against collection company Enterprise Recovery Systems, Inc., or ERS. In the fall of 2006, Plaintiff amended her complaint and added USA Funds, as a defendant. On September 17, 2007, Plaintiff filed a second amended complaint adding USA Group Guarantee Services Inc., USA Servicing Corp., Sallie Mae Servicing L.P. and Scott J. Nicholson, an officer and employee of ERS as defendants. Plaintiff alleges that the various defendants submitted false claims created false records to support claims in connection with collection activity on federally guaranteed student loans. The allegations against USA Funds and Sallie Mae are that they allowed the creation of false records and the submission of false claims by failing to take adequate measures in connection with audits of ERS. We expect that plaintiff will serve Sallie Mae with a Third Amended Complaint and at this time we intend to vigorously defend the case. Plaintiff claims that the U.S. government has been damaged in an amount greater than $12 million. The False Claims Act provides for the award of treble damages and $5,500 to $11,000 per false claim in successful qui tam lawsuits. We intend to vigorously defend this action.
and/or
 
On December 17, 2007, Sasha Rodriguez and Cathelyn Gregoire filed a putative class action claim on behalf of themselves and persons similarly situated against us in the United States District Court for the District of Connecticut, alleging an intentional violation of civil rights laws (42 U.S.C.  1981, 1982), the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and the Truth in Lending Act. Plaintiffs allege that we engaged in underwriting practices on private loans which resulted, among other things, in certain applicants being directed into substandard and more expensive student loans on the basis of race. No amount in controversy is stated in the complaint. We intend to vigorously defend this action.


