FILE:SLM/SLM-8K-20090422172847.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On April 22, 2009, SLM Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release with respect to its earnings for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2009, which is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K. The Supplemental Financial Information Release for the First Quarter 2009 is available on the Company's Web site at . Presentation slides used during the Company's investor conference call, set for April 23, 2009, at 8:00 a.m. EDT., may be accessed at no later than the starting time of the conference call.
www.salliemae.com/about/investors/stockholderinfo/earningsinfo
www.salliemae.com/about/investors/stockholderinfo/webcast
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: April 22, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
 SLM Corporation (NYSE: SLM), commonly known as Sallie Mae, reported net income on a core earnings basis of $14 million for the first quarter ended March 31, 2009. After payment of dividends to holders of the company's preferred stock, the company reported a core earnings diluted loss per common share of $.03. The loss was the direct result of ongoing dislocation in the commercial paper (CP) market and a feature of the U.S. Department of Education (ED) participation program. These two items reduced core earnings by $.24 per diluted share.
RESTON, Va., April 22, 2009
     The majority of the company's federal student loan portfolio earns interest based on CP rates and is funded with borrowings based on LIBOR. Dislocations in the capital markets continued to distort CP rates in the quarter so that the company's asset yield was 42 basis points lower than normal. This reduced net interest income by $139 million, or $.19 per diluted share. In the fourth-quarter 2008, ED made an adjustment to mitigate the dislocation in the CP market and to better match money-market conditions. ED did not make a similar adjustment for the first-quarter 2009.
     Additionally, although the liability rate for loans funded through ED's participation program is based on the prior quarter's CP rates, the yield on the student loan is based on current quarter CP rates. The sharp decline in CP rates reduced net interest income by $40 million in the first quarter, or $.05 per diluted share.
     "Ironically, positive action taken by the federal government to stabilize the commercial paper markets is adversely impacting student loans and student-loan backed securities. The inordinately low CP rate also undermines the $400 billion student loan ABS market the U.S. Treasury and the Federal Reserve have been working to stabilize. We do not believe this result was intended and are working with Members of Congress to resolve the issue. We are also working with Congress and the Administration to help put in place a federal student loan infrastructure consistent with President Obama's proposal to vastly expand Pell Grants," said Albert L. Lord, vice chairman and CEO.
     During the first quarter, new extensions of credit remained strong. The company originated a record $6.6 billion of FFELP loans, compared to $6.0 billion in the year-ago quarter. "Our ability to continue to meet students' needs in this environment is the direct result of the ECASLA legislation championed by Chairmen Miller and Kennedy," Mr. Lord said.
 
     Private education loan originations were $1.5 billion, compared to $2.5 billion in the year-ago quarter. The decrease in private credit loan originations was due to a tightening of underwriting standards and the elimination of non-traditional private loan originations.
     The company provided $297 million for managed private education loan losses in the first quarter due in part to growth in loans in repayment status and higher delinquencies resulting from a continued weakening in the overall economy and a managed reduction of loans in forbearance status. The company charged off $202 million of managed private education loans during the quarter, an increase from $159 million in the prior quarter.
     Core earnings fee income, which consists primarily of fees earned from guarantor servicing and collection activity, was $239 million in the quarter, compared to $200 million in the prior quarter, and included a $74 million impairment in the purchased mortgage portfolio, due to continued weakening of the real estate market.
     Operating expenses were $296 million in the quarter, including $5 million in restructuring charges, compared to $360 million, including $21 million in restructuring charges, in the year-ago quarter.
     In addition to presenting certain core earnings performance measures, Sallie Mae reports financial results on a GAAP basis. The company's management, equity investors, credit rating agencies and debt capital providers use core earnings measures to monitor the company's business performance. Both a description of the core earnings treatment and a full reconciliation to the GAAP income statement can be found at: http://www.salliemae.com/about/investors/stockholderinfo/earningsinfo/, click on the First Quarter 2009 Supplemental Earnings Disclosure.
     Sallie Mae reported a first-quarter 2009 GAAP net loss of $21 million, or $.10 diluted loss per share. These results include the impact of the CP-related issues discussed above. The company provided $203 million for private education loan losses and charged off $139 million of private education loans during the quarter.
The company will host earnings conference call tomorrow, April 23 at 8 a.m. EDT. Sallie Mae executives will be on hand to discuss various highlights of the quarter and to answer questions related to the company's performance. Individuals interested in participating should call the following number tomorrow, April 23, 2009, starting at 7:45 a.m. EDT: (877) 356-5689 (USA and Canada) or (706) 679-0623 (International) and use access code 91859703. The conference call will be replayed continuously beginning at 11 a.m. EDT on Thursday, April 23, 2009, and concluding at midnight on May 7, 2009. To access the replay, please dial (800) 642-1687 (USA and Canada) or dial (706) 645-9291 (International) and use access code 91859703. In addition, there will be a live audio Web cast of the conference call, which may be accessed at www.salliemae.com.
. These statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Because such statements inherently involve risks and uncertainties, actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such risks include, among others, general economic conditions, changes in the terms of student loans and the educational credit marketplace arising from the implementation of applicable laws and regulations, and from changes in such laws and regulations, adverse results in legal disputes, changes in the demand for educational financing or in financing preferences of
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" based on management's current expectations as of the date of this release
 
educational institutions, students and their families, limited liquidity, increased financing costs and changes in the general interest rate environment. For more information, see the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the forward-looking statements contained in the company's Supplemental Financial Information First Quarter 2009. All information in this release is as of March 31, 2009. The Company does not undertake any obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements to conform the statement to actual results or changes in the Company's expectations.
SLM Corporation (NYSE: SLM), commonly known as Sallie Mae, is the nation's leading provider of saving- and paying-for-college programs. Through its subsidiaries, the company manages $185 billion in education loans and has 10 million student and parent customers. Through its Upromise affiliates, the company also manages $17 billion in 529 college-savings plans, and is a major, private source of college funding contributions in America with 10 million members and more than $475 million in member rewards. Sallie Mae and its subsidiaries offer debt management services as well as business and technical products to a range of business clients, including higher education institutions, student loan guarantors and state and federal agencies. More information is available at . SLM Corporation and its subsidiaries are not sponsored by or agencies of the United States of America.
www.salliemae.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"Core Earnings"
 
In accordance with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), we prepare financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America ("GAAP"). In addition to evaluating the Company's GAAP-based financial information, management evaluates the Company's business segments on a basis that, as allowed under the Financial Accounting Standards Board's Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 131, "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information," differs from GAAP. We refer to management's basis of evaluating our segment results as "Core Earnings" presentations for each business segment and we refer to this information in our presentations with credit rating agencies and lenders. While "Core Earnings" are not a substitute for reported results under GAAP, we rely on "Core Earnings" to manage each operating segment because we believe these measures provide additional information regarding the operational and performance indicators that are most closely assessed by management.
 
Our "Core Earnings" are not defined terms within GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. "Core Earnings" net income reflects only current period adjustments to GAAP net income as described below. Unlike financial accounting, there is no comprehensive, authoritative guidance for management reporting and as a result, our management reporting is not necessarily comparable with similar information for any other financial institution. Our operating segments are defined by products and services or by types of customers, and reflect the manner in which financial information is currently evaluated by management. Intersegment revenues and expenses are netted within the appropriate financial statement line items consistent with the income statement presentation provided to management. Changes in management structure or allocation methodologies and procedures may result in changes in reported segment financial information.
 
Limitations of "Core Earnings"
 
While GAAP provides a uniform, comprehensive basis of accounting, for the reasons described above, management believes that "Core Earnings" are an important additional tool for providing a more complete
 
understanding of the Company's results of operations. Nevertheless, "Core Earnings" are subject to certain general and specific limitations that investors should carefully consider. For example, as stated above, unlike financial accounting, there is no comprehensive, authoritative guidance for management reporting. Our "Core Earnings" are not defined terms within GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Unlike GAAP, "Core Earnings" reflect only current period adjustments to GAAP. Accordingly, the Company's "Core Earnings" presentation does not represent a comprehensive basis of accounting. Investors, therefore, may not compare our Company's performance with that of other financial services companies based upon "Core Earnings." "Core Earnings" results are only meant to supplement GAAP results by providing additional information regarding the operational and performance indicators that are most closely used by management, the Company's board of directors, rating agencies and lenders to assess performance.
 
Other limitations arise from the specific adjustments that management makes to GAAP results to derive "Core Earnings" results. For example, in reversing the unrealized gains and losses that result from SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," on derivatives that do not qualify for "hedge treatment," as well as on derivatives that do qualify but are in part ineffective because they are not perfect hedges, we focus on the long-term economic effectiveness of those instruments relative to the underlying hedged item and isolate the effects of interest rate volatility and changing credit spreads on the fair value of such instruments during the period. Under GAAP, the effects of these factors on the fair value of the derivative instruments (but not on the underlying hedged item) tend to show more volatility in the short term. While our presentation of our results on a "Core Earnings" basis provides important information regarding the performance of our Managed portfolio, a limitation of this presentation is that we are presenting the ongoing spread income on loans that have been sold to a trust managed by us. While we believe that our "Core Earnings" presentation presents the economic substance of our Managed loan portfolio, it understates earnings volatility from securitization gains. Our "Core Earnings" results exclude certain Floor Income, which is real cash income, from our reported results and therefore may understate earnings in certain periods. Management's financial planning and valuation of operating results, however, does not take into account Floor Income because of its inherent uncertainty, except when it is economically hedged through Floor Income Contracts.
 
Pre-Tax Differences between "Core Earnings" and GAAP
 
Our "Core Earnings" are the primary financial performance measures used by management to evaluate performance and to allocate resources. Accordingly, financial information is reported to management on a "Core Earnings" basis by reportable segment, as these are the measures used regularly by our chief operating decision makers. Our "Core Earnings" are used in developing our financial plans and tracking results, and also in establishing corporate performance targets and incentive compensation. Management believes this information provides additional insight into the financial performance of the Company's core business activities. "Core Earnings" net income reflects only current period adjustments to GAAP net income, as described in the more detailed discussion of the differences between "Core Earnings" and GAAP that follows, which includes further detail on each specific adjustment required to reconcile our "Core Earnings" segment presentation to our GAAP earnings.
 
 
 


