FILE:SLM/SLM-8K-20090721171323.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On July 21, 2009, SLM Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release with respect to its earnings for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2009, which is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K. The Supplemental Financial Information Release for the Second Quarter 2009 is available on the Company's Web site at . Presentation slides used during the Company's investor conference call, set for July 22, 2009, at 8:00 a.m. EDT., may be accessed at no later than the starting time of the conference call.
www.salliemae.com/about/investors/stockholderinfo/earningsinfo
www.salliemae.com/about/investors/stockholderinfo/webcast
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: July 21, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
 SLM Corporation (NYSE: SLM), commonly known as Sallie Mae, reported net income on a core earnings basis of $170 million, or $.31 per diluted share, for the second quarter ended June 30, 2009, vs. net income of $156 million, or $.27 per diluted share, in the year-ago quarter.
RESTON, Va., July 21, 2009
This quarter's results included $325 million ($.44 per diluted share) of gains on debt repurchases, $362 million provision for private credit losses, and a $105 million ($.13 per diluted share) reduction of net interest income caused by commercial paper market dislocation. Excluded from core earnings is $141 million ($.17 per diluted share) of floor income.
In the quarter, the company added significantly to its liquidity by:
Also during the second quarter, the company was awarded a contract with ED for loan servicing.
With the conclusion of the 2008-2009 academic lending season, the company originated nearly $20 billion in federal student loans, an increase over the 2007-2008 academic year's $18 billion.
"We met our 2008 commitment to make every federal student loan to every student at every school last academic year," said Albert L. Lord, vice chairman & CEO. "We were prepared for a
 
significant increase in federal loan applications, and our loan origination team delivered outstanding service. We again expect to handle a sizeable increase this year and look forward to providing the first-rate loan origination service our students and schools rely on."
During the quarter, the company originated $3.7 billion in federal student loans, compared to $2.4 billion in the year-ago quarter, a 53-percent increase. The company implemented its new private education loan product, the SMART Option Student Loan, raised credit quality standards and originated $387 million in private education loans in the quarter.
The company charged off $355 million of managed private education loans in the quarter, an increase from $202 million in this year's first quarter. Approximately half of the charged-off loans were non-traditional private education loans, a market segment that the company discontinued 18 months ago. The related loan loss provision was $362 million, compared to $297 million in the prior quarter.
While 90-day plus delinquencies rose during the quarter, early stage delinquencies declined. The loan loss allowance totaled nearly $2 billion at the end of the second-quarter 2009 and covers expected charge-offs for the next two years.
Core earnings fee income, which consists primarily of fees earned from guarantor servicing and collection activity, was $201 million in the second quarter, compared to $221 million in the year-ago quarter.
Operating expenses were $305 million for the quarter, a decrease from $339 million in the year-ago quarter.
Sallie Mae reports financial results on a GAAP basis and also presents certain core earnings performance measures. The company's management, equity investors, credit rating agencies and debt capital providers use these core earnings measures to monitor the company's business performance. Both a description of the core earnings treatment and a full reconciliation to the GAAP income statement can be found at: http://www.salliemae.com/about/investors/stockholderinfo/earningsinfo/, click on the Second Quarter 2009 Supplemental Earnings Disclosure.
Sallie Mae reported a second-quarter 2009 GAAP net loss of $123 million, or $.32 diluted loss per share, compared to net income of $266 million, or $.50 diluted earnings per share, in the 2008 second quarter. This loss was primarily driven by a $484 million unrealized, mark-to-market loss on derivative and hedging activities. Such mark-to-market gains and losses are volatile, temporary and will generally reverse so that there is no cumulative, unrealized gain or loss at the respective maturity dates of the derivatives.
The GAAP provision for loan losses was $278 million, compared to the year-ago quarter's $143
 
million. Under GAAP accounting, the provision for loan losses is based only on on-balance sheet loans, while the comparable core earnings figure is based on total managed loans.
Presentation slides for the conference call discussed below may be accessed on www.salliemae.com/about/investors/stockholderinfo/webcast.
The company will host an earnings conference call tomorrow, July 22 at 8 a.m. EDT. Sallie Mae executives will be on hand to discuss various highlights of the quarter and to answer questions related to the company's performance. Individuals interested in participating should call the following number tomorrow, July 22, 2009, starting at 7:45 a.m. EDT: (877) 356-5689 (USA and Canada) or (706) 679-0623 (International) and use access code 15501913. The conference call will be replayed continuously beginning at 11 a.m. EDT on July 22, 2009, and concluding at midnight on Aug. 5, 2009. To access the replay, please dial (800) 642-1687 (USA and Canada) or dial (706) 645-9291 (International) and use access code 15501913. In addition, there will be a live audio Web cast of the conference call, which may be accessed at www.salliemae.com. A replay will be available 30 to 45 minutes after the live broadcast.
. These statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Because such statements inherently involve risks and uncertainties, actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such risks include, among others, changes in the terms of student loans and the educational credit marketplace arising from the implementation of applicable laws and regulations, and from changes in such laws and regulations, adverse results in legal disputes, changes in the demand for educational financing or in financing preferences of educational institutions, students and their families, changes in liquidity, financing costs and in the general interest rate environment. For more information, see the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the forward-looking statements contained in the company's Supplemental Financial Information Second Quarter 2009. All information in this release is as of July 21, 2009. The Company does not undertake any obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements to conform the statement to actual results or changes in the Company's expectations.
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" based on management's current expectations as of the date of this release
(NYSE: SLM), commonly known as Sallie Mae, is the nation's leading provider of saving, planning and paying for education programs. Through its subsidiaries, the company manages $188 billion in education loans and serves 10 million student and parent customers. Through its Upromise affiliates, the company also manages more than $19 billion in 529 college-savings plans, and is a major, private source of college funding contributions in America with 10 million members and nearly $500 million in member rewards. Sallie Mae and its subsidiaries offer debt management services as well as business and technical products to a range of business clients, including higher education institutions, student loan guarantors and state and federal agencies. More information is available at www.SallieMae.com. SLM Corporation and its subsidiaries are not sponsored by or agencies of the United States of America.
SLM Corporation
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"Core Earnings"
 
In accordance with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), we prepare financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America ("GAAP"). In addition to evaluating the Company's GAAP-based financial information, management evaluates the Company's business segments on a basis that, as allowed under the Financial Accounting Standards Board's Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 131, "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information," differs from GAAP. We refer to management's basis of evaluating our segment results as "Core Earnings" presentations for each business segment and we refer to this information in our presentations with credit rating agencies and lenders. While "Core Earnings" are not a substitute for reported results under GAAP, we rely on "Core Earnings" to manage each operating segment because we believe these measures provide additional information regarding the operational and performance indicators that are most closely assessed by management.
 
Our "Core Earnings" are not defined terms within GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. "Core Earnings" net income reflects only current period adjustments to GAAP net income as described below. Unlike financial accounting, there is no comprehensive, authoritative
 
guidance for management reporting and as a result, our management reporting is not necessarily comparable with similar information for any other financial institution. Our operating segments are defined by products and services or by types of customers, and reflect the manner in which financial information is currently evaluated by management. Intersegment revenues and expenses are netted within the appropriate financial statement line items consistent with the income statement presentation provided to management. Changes in management structure or allocation methodologies and procedures may result in changes in reported segment financial information.
 
Limitations of "Core Earnings"
 
While GAAP provides a uniform, comprehensive basis of accounting, for the reasons described above, management believes that "Core Earnings" are an important additional tool for providing a more complete understanding of the Company's results of operations. Nevertheless, "Core Earnings" are subject to certain general and specific limitations that investors should carefully consider. For example, as stated above, unlike financial accounting, there is no comprehensive, authoritative guidance for management reporting. Our "Core Earnings" are not defined terms within GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Unlike GAAP, "Core Earnings" reflect only current period adjustments to GAAP. Accordingly, the Company's "Core Earnings" presentation does not represent a comprehensive basis of accounting. Investors, therefore, may not compare our Company's performance with that of other financial services companies based upon "Core Earnings." "Core Earnings" results are only meant to supplement GAAP results by providing additional information regarding the operational and performance indicators that are most closely used by management, the Company's board of directors, rating agencies and lenders to assess performance.
 
Other limitations arise from the specific adjustments that management makes to GAAP results to derive "Core Earnings" results. For example, in reversing the unrealized gains and losses that result from SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," on derivatives that do not qualify for "hedge treatment," as well as on derivatives that do qualify but are in part ineffective because they are not perfect hedges, we focus on the long-term economic effectiveness of those instruments relative to the underlying hedged item and isolate the effects of interest rate volatility and changing credit spreads on the fair value of such instruments during the period. Under GAAP, the effects of these factors on the fair value of the derivative instruments (but not on the underlying hedged item) tend to show more volatility in the short term. While our presentation of our results on a "Core Earnings" basis provides important information regarding the performance of our Managed portfolio, a limitation of this presentation is that we are presenting the ongoing spread income on loans that have been sold to a trust managed by us. While we believe that our "Core Earnings" presentation presents the economic substance of our Managed loan portfolio, it understates earnings volatility from securitization gains. Our "Core Earnings" results exclude certain Floor Income, which is real cash income, from our reported results and therefore may understate earnings in certain periods. Management's financial planning and valuation of operating results, however, does not take into account Floor Income because of its inherent uncertainty, except when it is Fixed-Rate Floor Income that is economically hedged through Floor Income Contracts.
 
Pre-Tax Differences between "Core Earnings" and GAAP
 
Our "Core Earnings" are the primary financial performance measures used by management to evaluate performance and to allocate resources. Accordingly, financial information is reported to management on a "Core Earnings" basis by reportable segment, as these are the measures used regularly by our chief operating decision makers. Our "Core Earnings" are used in developing our financial plans and tracking results, and also in establishing corporate performance targets and incentive compensation. Management believes this information provides additional insight into the financial performance of the Company's core business activities. "Core Earnings" net income reflects only current period adjustments to GAAP net income, as described in the more detailed discussion of the differences between "Core Earnings" and GAAP that follows, which includes further detail on each specific adjustment required to reconcile our "Core Earnings" segment presentation to our GAAP earnings.
 


