FILE:SLM/SLM-8K-20091020163133.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On October 20, 2009, SLM Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release with respect to its earnings for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2009, which is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K. The Supplemental Financial Information Release for the Third Quarter 2009 is available on the Company's Web site at . Presentation slides used during the Company's investor conference call, set for October 21, 2009, at 8:00 a.m. EDT., may be accessed at no later than the starting time of the conference call.
www.salliemae.com/about/investors/stockholderinfo/earningsinfo
www.salliemae.com/about/investors/stockholderinfo/webcast
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: October 20, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
 SLM Corporation (NYSE: SLM), commonly known as Sallie Mae, reported net income on a core earnings basis of $164 million ($.26 per diluted share) for the third quarter ended Sept. 30, 2009, compared to $170 million ($.31 per diluted share) for the prior quarter, and $117 million ($.19 per diluted share) for the year-ago quarter.
RESTON, Va., Oct. 20, 2009
The current quarter's results included a $74 million gain on debt repurchases, vs. the prior quarter's $325 million, and a $55 million accounting adjustment to reflect slower loan prepayments, and were reduced by $20 million for the early conversion of a portion of the company's Series C Preferred Stock into common stock. Floor income, not included in core earnings, totaled $36 million in the quarter.
"The return of the CP-LIBOR relationship to more normal levels helped this quarter's results; we expect credit quality to improve earnings in subsequent periods," said Albert L. Lord, vice chairman & CEO. "Obviously we are very engaged with other loan providers and schools to reform student lending. We can achieve all the President's objectives without transition risk, with first-class origination service and without thousands of private sector job losses."
The 2009-2010 academic lending season opened with strong growth in federal student loan originations. The company originated $6.9 billion in federal student loans, an increase of 25 percent from the year-ago quarter. These loans are eligible for the U.S. Department of Education's (ED) purchase program. The company expects to service these and other accounts under the ED servicing contract.
During the quarter, the company originated $893 million in private education loans, a significant but not unexpected decrease from the year-ago quarter's $2.1 billion. The decrease is principally due to tightened underwriting standards and reduced demand caused by increased federal student loan limits.
 
The third-quarter 2009 private education loan loss provision was $413 million, net charge-offs were $443 million. Management anticipates loan charge-offs to decline from the current quarter but to remain at historically elevated levels. Loans in late-stage delinquency decreased, and loans in forbearance significantly decreased to $1.3 billion from a high of nearly $3.0 billion in early 2008.
In the quarter, the company significantly improved its liquidity by:
Core fee income, which included the gain on debt repurchases noted above, was $331 million in the third quarter. Year-ago core fee income was $64 million, which included a $242 million impairment in the company's purchased-paper line of business.
Operating expenses were $309 million for the quarter, a decrease from $317 million in the year-ago quarter.
Sallie Mae officially reports financial results on a GAAP basis and also presents certain core earnings performance measures. The company's management, equity investors, credit rating agencies and debt capital providers use these core earnings measures to monitor the company's business performance. Both a description of the core earnings treatment and a full reconciliation to the GAAP income statement can be found at: http://www.salliemae.com/about/investors/stockholderinfo/earningsinfo/, click on the Third Quarter 2009 Supplemental Earnings Disclosure.
Sallie Mae reported third-quarter 2009 GAAP net income of $159 million, or $.25 diluted earnings per share, compared to net losses of $159 million, or $.40 diluted loss per share, in the 2008 third quarter.
The GAAP provision for loan losses was $321 million, compared to the year-ago quarter's $187 million. Under GAAP accounting, the provision for loan losses is based solely upon on-balance sheet loans; the comparable "core earnings" figure is based on total managed loans.
 
Presentation slides for the conference call discussed below may be accessed on www.salliemae.com/about/investors/stockholderinfo/webcast.
The company will host an earnings conference call tomorrow, Oct. 21 at 8 a.m. EDT. Sallie Mae executives will be on hand to discuss various highlights of the quarter and to answer questions related to the company's performance. Individuals interested in participating should call the following number tomorrow, Oct. 21, 2009, starting at 7:45 a.m. EDT: (877) 356-5689 (USA and Canada) or (706) 679-0623 (International) and use access code 35188825. The conference call will be replayed continuously beginning at 11 a.m. EDT on Oct. 21, 2009, and concluding at midnight on Nov. 4, 2009 EST. To access the replay, please dial (800) 642-1687 (USA and Canada) or dial (706) 645-9291 (International) and use access code 35188825. In addition, there will be a live audio Web cast of the conference call, which may be accessed at www.salliemae.com. A replay will be available 30 to 45 minutes after the live broadcast.
. These statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Because such statements inherently involve risks and uncertainties, actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such risks include, among others, changes in the terms of student loans and the educational credit marketplace arising from the implementation of applicable laws and regulations, and from changes in such laws and regulations, adverse results in legal disputes, changes in the demand for educational financing or in financing preferences of educational institutions, students and their families, limited liquidity, increased financing costs and changes in the general interest rate environment. For more information, see the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the forward-looking statements contained in the company's Supplemental Financial Information Third Quarter 2009. All information in this release is as of Oct. 20, 2009. The Company does not undertake any obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements to conform the statement to actual results or changes in the Company's expectations.
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" based on management's current expectations as of the date of this release
(NYSE: SLM), commonly known as Sallie Mae, is the nation's leading provider of saving, planning and paying for education programs. Through its subsidiaries, the company manages $192 billion in education loans and serves 10 million student and parent customers. Through its Upromise affiliates, the company also manages more than $21 billion in 529 college-savings plans, and is a major, private source of college funding contributions in America with 11 million members and more than $500 million in member rewards. Sallie Mae and its subsidiaries offer debt management services as well as business and technical products to a range of business clients, including higher education institutions, student loan guarantors and state and federal agencies. More information is available at www.SallieMae.com. SLM Corporation and its subsidiaries are not sponsored by or agencies of the United States of America.
SLM Corporation
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FASB Accounting Standards Codification
 
The Company adopted, as of July 1, 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board's ("FASB's") Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") as the source of authoritative accounting principles recognized by the FASB to be applied by nongovernmental entities in the preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America ("GAAP"). The ASC does not change authoritative guidance. Accordingly, implementing the ASC did not change any of the Company's accounting, and therefore, did not have an impact on the consolidated results of the Company. References to authoritative GAAP literature have been updated accordingly.
 
"Core Earnings"
 
In accordance with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), we prepare financial statements in accordance with GAAP. In addition to evaluating the Company's GAAP-based financial information, management evaluates the Company's business segments on a basis that, as allowed under ASC 280, "Segment Reporting," differs from GAAP. We refer to management's basis of evaluating our segment results as "Core Earnings" presentations for each business segment and we refer to this information in our presentations with credit rating agencies and lenders. While "Core Earnings" are not a substitute for
 
reported results under GAAP, we rely on "Core Earnings" to manage each operating segment because we believe these measures provide additional information regarding the operational and performance indicators that are most closely assessed by management.
 
Our "Core Earnings" are not defined terms within GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. "Core Earnings" net income reflects only current period adjustments to GAAP net income as described below. Unlike financial accounting, there is no comprehensive, authoritative guidance for management reporting and as a result, our management reporting is not necessarily comparable with similar information for any other financial institution. Our operating segments are defined by products and services or by types of customers, and reflect the manner in which financial information is currently evaluated by management. Intersegment revenues and expenses are netted within the appropriate financial statement line items consistent with the income statement presentation provided to management. Changes in management structure or allocation methodologies and procedures may result in changes in reported segment financial information.
 
Limitations of "Core Earnings"
 
While GAAP provides a uniform, comprehensive basis of accounting, for the reasons described above, management believes that "Core Earnings" are an important additional tool for providing a more complete understanding of the Company's results of operations. Nevertheless, "Core Earnings" are subject to certain general and specific limitations that investors should carefully consider. For example, as stated above, unlike financial accounting, there is no comprehensive, authoritative guidance for management reporting. Our "Core Earnings" are not defined terms within GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Unlike GAAP, "Core Earnings" reflect only current period adjustments to GAAP. Accordingly, the Company's "Core Earnings" presentation does not represent a comprehensive basis of accounting. Investors, therefore, may not compare our Company's performance with that of other financial services companies based upon "Core Earnings." "Core Earnings" results are only meant to supplement GAAP results by providing additional information regarding the operational and performance indicators that are most closely used by management, the Company's board of directors, rating agencies and lenders to assess performance.
 
Other limitations arise from the specific adjustments that management makes to GAAP results to derive "Core Earnings" results. For example, in reversing the unrealized gains and losses that result from ASC 815, "Derivatives and Hedging," on derivatives that do not qualify for "hedge treatment," as well as on derivatives that do qualify but are in part ineffective because they are not perfect hedges, we focus on the long-term economic effectiveness of those instruments relative to the underlying hedged item and isolate the effects of interest rate volatility and changing credit spreads on the fair value of such instruments during the period. Under GAAP, the effects of these factors on the fair value of the derivative instruments (but not on the underlying hedged item) tend to show more volatility in the short term. While our presentation of our results on a "Core Earnings" basis provides important information regarding the performance of our Managed portfolio, a limitation of this presentation is that we are presenting the ongoing spread income on loans that have been sold to a trust managed by us. While we believe that our "Core Earnings" presentation presents the economic substance of our Managed loan portfolio, it understates earnings volatility from securitization gains. Our "Core Earnings" results exclude certain Floor Income, which is real cash income, from our reported results and therefore may understate earnings in certain periods. Management's financial planning and valuation of operating results, however, does not take into account Floor Income because of its inherent uncertainty, except when it is Fixed Rate Floor Income that is economically hedged through Floor Income Contracts.
 
Pre-Tax Differences between "Core Earnings" and GAAP
 
Our "Core Earnings" are the primary financial performance measures used by management to evaluate performance and to allocate resources. Accordingly, financial information is reported to management on a "Core Earnings" basis by reportable segment, as these are the measures used regularly by our chief operating decision makers. Our "Core Earnings" are used in developing our financial plans and tracking results, and also
 
in establishing corporate performance targets and incentive compensation. Management believes this information provides additional insight into the financial performance of the Company's core business activities. "Core Earnings" net income reflects only current period adjustments to GAAP net income, as described in the more detailed discussion of the differences between "Core Earnings" and GAAP that follows, which includes further detail on each specific adjustment required to reconcile our "Core Earnings" segment presentation to our GAAP earnings.
 


