FILE:SLM/SLM-8K-20100308163958.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
The stock and option agreements governing performance stock and option grants under the Corporations 2009-2012 Incentive Plan were finalized March 2010 and are furnished or filed as applicable in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

C. . The date of grant of these Options is (the "Grant Date").
Grant Date
      
H. . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, including Section (D):
Vesting Upon Change In Control
If to the Optionee, to (i) the last address maintained in the Corporation's Human Resources files for the Optionee or (ii) the Optionee's mail delivery code or place of work at the Corporation.
The Optionee must contact Merrill Lynch to accept the terms of this grant. Merrill Lynch can be contacted at or by phone at 1-877-SLM-ESOP. If Optionee fails to accept the terms of this grant, the Options may not be exercised.
www.benefits.ml.com

Pursuant to the terms and conditions of the SLM Corporation 2009-2012 Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), the Committee hereby grants to (the "Grantee") a Performance Stock Award consisting of shares of common stock of SLM Corporation ("Performance Stock") on ("Grant Date") subject to the following terms and conditions:
      
      
     
If compensation paid to the Grantee of the Performance Stock might be subject to the tax deduction limitations of section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, actual vesting of the Performance Stock will occur upon certification by the Compensation and Personnel Committee that applicable performance targets have been met.
If not previously vested, the Performance Stock will vest upon death, or Disability, or as provided for in the SLM Corporation Change in Control Severance Plan for Senior Officers. If the Grantee becomes a "covered employee" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, any applicable provision regarding acceleration of vesting of Performance Stock, if any, shall not apply.
All shares of Performance Stock, whether vested or unvested, shall be forfeited upon termination of employment due to Misconduct, as defined in the Plan.
Dividends declared on unvested shares of Performance Stock will not be paid currently. Instead, amounts equal to such dividends will be credited to an account established on behalf of the Grantee and such amounts will be deemed to be invested in additional shares of SLM common stock ("Dividend Equivalents"). Such Dividend Equivalents will be subject to the same vesting schedule to which the Performance Stock is subject. At the time that the underlying Performance Stock vests, the amount of Dividend Equivalents allocable to such Performance Stock (and any fractional share amount) will also vest and will be payable to the Grantee in shares of SLM common stock. Dividend Equivalents are not subject to income tax until vesting, at which time they are taxed as ordinary income.


