FILE:SLM/SLM-8K-20100720170718.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On July 20, 2010, SLM Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release with respect to its earnings for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2010, which is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K. The Supplemental Financial Information Release for the Second Quarter 2010 is available on the Company's Web site at . Presentation slides used during the Company's investor conference call, set for July 21, 2010, at 8:00 a.m. EDT., may be accessed at no later than the starting time of the conference call.
www.salliemae.com/about/investors/stockholderinfo/earningsinfo
www.salliemae.com/about/investors/stockholderinfo/webcast
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: July 20, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.1
SLM Corporation (NYSE: SLM), commonly known as Sallie Mae, reported core earnings net income of $209 million ($.39 per diluted share) for the second quarter 2010, which included an after-tax gain of $57 million ($.11 per diluted share) from $1.4 billion of unsecured debt repurchases. These results compare to core earnings net income of $170 million ($.31 per diluted share) in the second quarter 2009. On a GAAP basis, net income was $338 million ($.63 per diluted share) in the second-quarter 2010, vs. a net loss of $123 million ($.32 per diluted share) in the year-ago period.
RESTON, Va., July 20, 2010
Core earnings net interest income after provision for loan losses was $377 million in the second quarter, compared to $343 million in the prior quarter and $55 million in the year-ago quarter.
CEO Albert Lord said, "Second quarter earnings were much improved from one year ago. On the credit front, it is quite evident that economic conditions continue to weigh heavily on our out-of-school customers, almost 20 percent of whom entered repayment in the last 8 months. We will continue to concentrate on service, quality private loan growth and new businesses that help families invest in college."
Lord continued, "Management is intensely focused on refitting the company to its changed circumstances and enhancing value for our shareholders."
The company originated $3.1 billion in federal student loans in the 2010 second quarter, compared to $3.7 billion in the year-ago period. The decrease was the result of the termination of the guaranteed loan program effective June 30 and institutions' transition to the government's loan program.
During the second-quarter 2010, the company originated $219 million of private student loans, compared to $387 million in the year-ago period. Private student loan originations continue to be affected by increased federal student loan availability and more students' enrollment at lower-cost institutions.
Managed private education loan charge-offs were $336 million in the second quarter compared to $284 million in the previous quarter and $355 million in the year-ago quarter. Delinquencies as a percentage of private education loans in repayment declined to 11.9 percent from the previous quarter's 12.2 percent. The core earnings provision for private education loan losses was $349 million in the second quarter, compared to $325 million in the first quarter.
 
The company completed a $1.2 billion long-term federal student loan securitization during the quarter and had $11.8 billion of primary liquidity at June 30, 2010.
Core earnings fee income, which includes the gain on debt repurchases, was $308 million in the second quarter, compared to the year-ago quarter's $528 million.
Core earnings operating expenses excluding restructuring and related asset impairments were $331 million for the quarter, compared to $298 million in the year-ago quarter. With the passage of legislation that ended federal loan originations, the company accelerated the strategic restructuring of its business and initiated several investments to improve future operating efficiencies and position the company for additional growth. Restructuring ($24 million) and other litigation expenses totaled $43 million in the quarter.
Sallie Mae officially reports financial results on a GAAP basis and also presents certain core earnings performance measures. The company's management, equity investors, credit rating agencies and debt capital providers use these core earnings measures to monitor the company's business performance. Both a description of the core earnings treatment and a full reconciliation to the GAAP income statement can be found at: www.salliemae.com/about/investors/stockholderinfo/earningsinfo/, click on the Second Quarter 2010 Supplemental Earnings Disclosure.
The company adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board updates as of Jan. 1, 2010, and as a result, the company's GAAP and core earnings presentations for securitization accounting are the same, and managed and on-balance sheet (GAAP) student loan portfolios are now the same size.
The primary difference between the company's second-quarter 2010 core earnings and GAAP results is the impact of derivative and hedge accounting. Second-quarter 2010 GAAP results include the net impact of a $301 million unrealized, mark-to-market, pre-tax gain on certain derivative contracts that are recognized in GAAP, but not in core earnings, results.
Presentation slides for the conference call discussed below may be accessed on www.salliemae.com/about/investors/stockholderinfo/webcast.
The company will host an earnings conference call tomorrow, July 21, 2010, at 8 a.m. EDT. Sallie Mae executives will discuss various highlights of the quarter and to answer questions related to the company's performance. Individuals interested in participating should call the following number tomorrow, July 21, starting at 7:45 a.m. EDT: (877) 356-5689 (USA and Canada) or (706) 679-0623 (International) and use access code 83583661. The conference call will be replayed continuously beginning at 11:30 a.m. EDT on July 21, 2010, and concluding at midnight EDT on Aug. 4, 2010. To access the replay, please dial (800) 642-1687 (USA and Canada) or dial (706) 645-9291 (International) and use access code 83583661. In addition, there will be a live audio Web cast of the conference call, which may be accessed at . A replay will be available 30 to 45 minutes after the live broadcast.
www.SallieMae.com
 
. These statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Because such statements inherently involve risks and uncertainties, actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such risks include, among others, changes in the terms of student loans and the educational credit marketplace arising from the implementation of applicable laws and regulations, and from changes in such laws and regulations, adverse results in legal disputes, changes in the demand for educational financing or in financing preferences of educational institutions, students and their families, limited liquidity, increased financing costs and changes in the general interest rate environment. For more information, see the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the forward-looking statements contained in the company's Supplemental Financial Information Second Quarter 2010. All information in this release is as of July 20, 2010. The Company does not undertake any obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements to conform the statement to actual results or changes in the Company's expectations.
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" based on management's current expectations as of the date of this release
(NYSE: SLM), commonly known as Sallie Mae, is the nation's leading saving, planning and paying for education company. Sallie Mae's saving programs, planning resources and financing options have helped more than 31 million people make the investment in higher education. Through its subsidiaries, the company manages $184 billion in education loans and serves 10 million student and parent customers. In addition, the company's Upromise program has enabled 12 million members to earn more than $550 million in rewards to help pay for college. Its Upromise affiliates also manage more than $23 billion in 529 college-savings plans. Sallie Mae offers services to a range of institutional clients, including colleges and universities, student loan guarantors and state and federal agencies. More information is available at www.SallieMae.com. SLM Corporation and its subsidiaries are not sponsored by or agencies of the United States of America.
SLM Corporation
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Supplemental information  assets and liabilities of variable interest entities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"Core Earnings"
 
In accordance with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), we prepare financial statements in accordance with GAAP. In addition to evaluating the Company's GAAP-based financial information, management evaluates the Company's business segments on a basis that, as allowed under the Financial Accounting Standards Board's ("FASB's") Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 280, "Segment Reporting," differs from GAAP. We refer to management's basis of evaluating our segment results as "Core Earnings" presentations for each business segment and we refer to this information in our presentations with credit rating agencies and lenders. While "Core Earnings" are not a substitute for reported results under GAAP, we rely on "Core Earnings" to manage each operating segment because we believe these measures provide additional information regarding the operational and performance indicators that are most closely assessed by management.
 
Our "Core Earnings" are not defined terms within GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. "Core Earnings" net income reflects only current period adjustments to GAAP net income as described below. Unlike financial accounting, there is no comprehensive, authoritative guidance for management reporting and as a result, our management reporting is not necessarily comparable
 
with similar information for any other financial institution. Our operating segments are defined by products and services or by types of customers, and reflect the manner in which financial information is currently evaluated by management. Intersegment revenues and expenses are netted within the appropriate financial statement line items consistent with the income statement presentation provided to management. Changes in management structure or allocation methodologies and procedures may result in changes in reported segment financial information.
 
Limitations of "Core Earnings"
 
While GAAP provides a uniform, comprehensive basis of accounting, for the reasons described above, management believes that "Core Earnings" are an important additional tool for providing a more complete understanding of the Company's results of operations. Nevertheless, "Core Earnings" are subject to certain general and specific limitations that investors should carefully consider. For example, as stated above, unlike financial accounting, there is no comprehensive, authoritative guidance for management reporting. Our "Core Earnings" are not defined terms within GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Unlike GAAP, "Core Earnings" reflect only current period adjustments to GAAP. Accordingly, the Company's "Core Earnings" presentation does not represent a comprehensive basis of accounting. Investors, therefore, may not compare our Company's performance with that of other financial services companies based upon "Core Earnings." "Core Earnings" results are only meant to supplement GAAP results by providing additional information regarding the operational and performance indicators that are most closely used by management, the Company's board of directors, rating agencies and lenders to assess performance.
 
Other limitations arise from the specific adjustments that management makes to GAAP results to derive "Core Earnings" results. For example, in reversing the unrealized gains and losses that result from ASC 815, "Derivatives and Hedging," on derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment, as well as on derivatives that do qualify but are in part ineffective because they are not perfect hedges, we focus on the long-term economic effectiveness of those instruments relative to the underlying hedged item and isolate the effects of interest rate volatility and changing credit spreads on the fair value of such instruments during the period. Under GAAP, the effects of these factors on the fair value of the derivative instruments (but often not on the underlying hedged item) tend to show more volatility in the short term. While our presentation of our results on a "Core Earnings" basis provides important information regarding the performance of our Managed portfolio, a limitation of this presentation is that we are presenting the ongoing spread income on loans that have been sold off-balance sheet for GAAP purposes to a trust managed by us. While we believe that our "Core Earnings" presentation presents the economic substance of our Managed loan portfolio, it understates earnings volatility from securitization gains, securitization servicing income and Residual Interest Income. Our "Core Earnings" results exclude certain Floor Income, which is real cash income, from our reported results and therefore may understate earnings in certain periods. Management's financial planning and valuation of operating results, however, does not take into account Floor Income because of its inherent uncertainty, except when it is Fixed Rate Floor Income that is economically hedged through Floor Income Contracts.
 
Pre-Tax Differences between "Core Earnings" and GAAP
 
Our "Core Earnings" are the primary financial performance measures used by management to evaluate performance and to allocate resources. Accordingly, financial information is reported to management on a "Core Earnings" basis by reportable segment, as these are the measures used regularly by our chief operating decision makers. Our "Core Earnings" are used in developing our financial plans and tracking results, and also in establishing corporate performance targets and incentive compensation. Management believes this information provides additional insight into the financial performance of the Company's core business activities. "Core Earnings" net income reflects only current period adjustments to GAAP net income, as described in the more detailed discussion of the differences between "Core Earnings" and GAAP that follows, which includes further detail on each specific adjustment required to reconcile our "Core Earnings" segment presentation to our GAAP earnings.
 
 
Upon the adoption of topic updates to ASC 810, the Company removed the $1.8 billion of Residual Interests (associated with its off-balance sheet securitization trusts as of December 31, 2009) from the consolidated balance sheet and the Company consolidated $35.0 billion of assets ($32.6 billion of which are student loans, net of a $550 million allowance for loan losses) and $34.4 billion of liabilities (primarily trust debt), which resulted in an approximate $750 million after-tax reduction of stockholders' equity (recorded as a cumulative effect adjustment to retained earnings). After the adoption of topic updates to ASC 810, the Company's results of operations no longer reflect securitization servicing and Residual Interest revenue (loss) related to these securitization trusts, but instead report interest income, provisions for loan losses associated with the securitized assets and interest expense associated with the debt issued from the securitization trusts to third parties, consistent with the Company's accounting treatment of prior on-balance securitization trusts.
 


