FILE:SLM/SLM-8K-20110119163244.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On January 19, 2011, SLM Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release with respect to its earnings for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2010, which is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K. The Supplemental Financial Information Release for the Fourth Quarter 2010 is available on the Company's Web site at . Presentation slides used during the Company's investor conference call, set for January 20, 2011, at 8:00 a.m. EST., may be accessed at no later than the starting time of the conference call.
www.salliemae.com/about/investors/stockholderinfo/earningsinfo
www.salliemae.com/about/investors/stockholderinfo/webcast
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: January 19, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Sallie Mae (NYSE: SLM), the nation's No. 1 financial services company specializing in education, today announced its fourth-quarter and full-year operating results, achieving higher earnings and substantially enhancing its liquidity and capital position from one year ago.
RESTON, Va., Jan. 19, 2011
Sallie Mae's core earnings were $401 million ($.75 diluted earnings per share) for the fourth-quarter 2010, compared to $268 million ($.44 diluted earnings per share) for the year-ago quarter. These results include the following after-tax items: $74 million of debt repurchase gains, $27 million of restructuring costs, and $52 million of losses from the discontinuation of the purchased paper business. The change from the year-ago quarter is driven by decreases in loan loss provisions and discontinued operations losses, and increases in loan margins, loan sale gains, debt repurchase gains, and restructuring costs.
For the full-year 2010, core earnings rose to $1.03 billion ($1.92 per diluted share), compared to $807 million ($1.40 per diluted share) in 2009. The increase from the prior year was primarily driven by improved federal student loan margins and decreased provisions for loan losses.
On a GAAP basis, fourth-quarter 2010 net income was $447 million ($.84 diluted earnings per share), vs. $309 million ($.52 diluted earnings per share) in the same quarter last year. For the full-year 2010, GAAP net income was $530 million ($.94 per diluted share), compared to $324 million ($.38 per diluted share) in 2009.
"We entered 2011 financially strong, and ready to serve our customers and bring value to our shareholders," said Albert L. Lord, vice chairman and CEO.
During the quarter, the company repurchased $1.3 billion of debt with gains of $118 million realized. Debt repurchased in 2010 totaled $4.9 billion and generated gains of $317 million.
Subsequent to year end, the company raised $2 billion in senior unsecured debt.
With the elimination of the federally guaranteed student loan origination business last July, the company updated its reporting to reflect the primary operating segments described below. Management believes investors value the federally guaranteed loan segment on the cash it generates, and therefore the
 
company modified its calculation of core earnings to include unhedged floor income. Past core earnings were restated.
Core earnings from the consumer lending segment were $24 million in the 2010 fourth-quarter, compared to $20 million in the year-ago quarter.
In 2010, consumer lending segment core earnings were $13 million, compared to core earnings net losses of $33 million in 2009. These figures include the effect of $1.3 billion of provisions for loan losses in 2010 and $1.4 billion in 2009.
Originations of private education loans were $413 million, up from $381 million in the year-ago quarter.
During 2010, the company originated $2.3 billion of private education loans, compared to $3.2 billion in 2009.
Private education loans are originated and funded at Sallie Mae Bank. With the successful launch of its direct banking business in 2010, including online consumer savings accounts and CDs, the bank extended the mission to help families save for college while expanding and diversifying its deposit-gathering capabilities.
At Dec. 31, 2010, the company had $3.5 billion more private education loans in repayment compared to one year earlier. Private loan delinquencies declined to 10.6 percent in the 2010 fourth quarter from 12.1 percent in the year-ago quarter. Charge-offs declined to 4.8 percent in the fourth-quarter 2010, from 5.1 percent in the same quarter last year.
Core earnings from Sallie Mae's business services segment, which includes fees from servicing, collections and college savings businesses, were $118 million in the fourth-quarter 2010, compared to $136 million in the year-ago quarter.
In 2010, core earnings from the segment were $515 million, vs. $570 million in 2009.
The company now services 3.3 million accounts under the servicing contract with the U.S. Department of Education (ED). During 2010, the company began to provide administrative services to five new states and now administers $34.5 billion in 529 college savings plans on behalf of 16 states.
The Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELP) business segment produced 2010 fourth-quarter core earnings of $289 million, compared to $246 million in the year-ago quarter.
 
For 2010, the segment earned core earnings of $557 million, up from $340 million in 2009, the difference primarily driven by an unstable CP-LIBOR spread in the prior year.
The company successfully completed the acquisition of $26 billion in securitized federal student loan assets from The Student Loan Corporation (SLC) on Dec. 31. Also during the quarter, the company sold $20.4 billion of federal loans originated under the ED loan participation program recognizing a $321 million gain.
In the fourth-quarter 2010, the company began marketing for sale its non-mortgage purchased paper business resulting in a $52 million core earnings, after-tax loss, due to adjusting the value of that business to its estimated fair value.
Core earnings operating expenses excluding restructuring, related asset impairments and fees connected to the recent SLC federal student loan acquisition were $289 million in the fourth-quarter 2010, compared to $302 million in the previous quarter and $264 million in the year-ago quarter. The increase from the year-ago quarter reflects investments made in the consumer lending and loan servicing businesses.
For the full-year, core earnings operating expenses excluding restructuring and related asset impairments were $1.2 billion, compared to $1.0 billion in 2009.
GAAP expenses, but not core earnings total expenses, also include the amortization and impairment of goodwill and intangible expenses, which was $10 million and $46 million in the 2010 and 2009 fourth quarters, respectively, $699 million in 2010, and $76 million in 2009.
Sallie Mae reports financial results on a GAAP basis and also presents certain core earnings performance measures. The company's management, equity investors, credit rating agencies and debt capital providers use these core earnings measures to monitor the company's business performance. Both a description of the core earnings treatment and a full reconciliation to the GAAP income statement can be found at by clicking on Earnings.
www.SallieMae.com/investors
The company adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board updates as of Jan. 1, 2010, and as a result, the company's GAAP and core earnings presentations for securitization accounting are the same, and managed and on-balance sheet (GAAP) student loan portfolios are now the same size.
In the fourth-quarter, the primary difference between the company core earnings and GAAP results is the impact of a $74 million unrealized, mark-to-market, pre-tax gain on certain derivative contracts, which is recognized in GAAP but not in core earnings results.
 
For 2010, the primary difference between the company's core earnings and GAAP results is the impact of $699 million of goodwill and acquired intangible asset pre-tax impairment and amortization recognized in GAAP but not in core earnings. Of this, $660 million was an impairment recognized in the third quarter as a result of new market data and the business impact of recent legislation.
Presentation slides for the conference call discussed below, as well as additional information about the company's loan portfolios, new operating segments, and other details, may be accessed at www.SallieMae.com/investors under the webcasts tab.
The company will host an earnings conference call tomorrow, Jan. 20, at 8 a.m. EST. Sallie Mae executives will be on hand to discuss various highlights of the quarter and to answer questions related to the company's performance. Individuals interested in participating in the call should dial (877) 356-5689 (USA and Canada) or dial (706) 679-0623 (international) and use access code 35277584 starting at 7:45 a.m. EST. A live audio webcast of the conference call may be accessed at . Investors may access a replay of the conference call via the company's website within one hour after the call's conclusion. A telephone replay may be accessed two hours after the call's conclusion through Feb. 3 by dialing (800) 642-1687 (USA and Canada) or (706) 645-9291 (international) with access code 35277584.
www.SallieMae.com/investors
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" based on management's current expectations
. These statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Because such statements inherently involve risks and uncertainties, actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such risks include, among others, changes in the terms of student loans and the educational credit marketplace arising from the implementation of applicable laws and regulations, and from changes in such laws and regulations, adverse results in legal disputes, changes in the demand for educational financing or in financing preferences of educational institutions, students and their families, limited liquidity, increased financing costs and changes in the general interest rate environment. For more information, see the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the forward-looking statements contained in the company's Supplemental Financial Information Fourth Quarter 2010. All information in this release is as of Jan. 19, 2011. The company does not undertake any obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements to conform the statement to actual results or changes in the company's expectations.
as of the date of this release
(NYSE: SLM) is the nation's No. 1 financial services company specializing in education. Serving 23 million customers, Sallie Mae offers innovative savings tools, tuition payment plans and education loans that promote responsible financial habits and reward success. The company manages or services $235 billion in education loans and administers $35 billion in 529 college savings plans. Members of its Upromise college savings rewards program have earned $600 million to help pay for college. Sallie Mae is also one of the leading financial service providers for universities and governments at all levels. More information is available at www.SallieMae.com. Commonly known as Sallie Mae, SLM Corporation and its subsidiaries are not sponsored by or agencies of the United States of America.
Sallie Mae
 
 
 
 
 
 
Change in Reportable Operating Segments
 
Effective July 1, 2010, legislation eliminated the authority to originate new loans under FFELP. Consequently, we no longer originate FFELP loans. Net interest income from our FFELP loan portfolio and fees associated with servicing FFELP loans and collecting on delinquent and defaulted FFELP loans on behalf of Guarantors has been our largest source of income. In response, we conducted a broad-based assessment of the effect the legislation would have on our business. As a result, we changed the way we regularly monitor and assess our ongoing operations and results during the fourth quarter of 2010 by realigning our operating segments into four reportable segments: (1) FFELP Loans, (2) Consumer Lending, (3) Business Services and (4) Other. Prior to this change we had three reportable segments  (1) Lending (2) APG and (3) Other.
 
The following table shows the realignment of our business lines from the old reportable segments to the new reportable segments:
 
 
Management views the Company as consisting of three primary segments comprised of one amortizing business and two ongoing businesses that have the potential to grow in the future. As a result of the legislation discussed above, our FFELP Loan business is now viewed as an amortizing business. Consumer Lending (primarily our Private Education Loan business) and Business Services (primarily our businesses) are viewed by management as ongoing businesses with growth opportunities. The Other reportable segment represents the financial performance of our other smaller wind-down business activities as well as debt repurchase gains, the net interest margin from our corporate liquidity portfolio and all overhead expenses. This change in reporting allows us to separately evaluate our four operating segments.
fee-for-services
 
We have three primary operating segments  the FFELP Loan operating segment, Consumer Lending operating segment and the Business Services operating segment. These three operating segments meet the quantitative thresholds for reportable segments. Accordingly, the results of operations of our FFELP Loans, Consumer Lending and Business Services segments are presented separately. We have smaller operating segments that consist of business operations that have either been discontinued or are winding down. These operating segments do not meet the quantitative thresholds to be considered reportable segments. As a result, the results of operations for these operating segments (Purchased Paper business and mortgage and other loan business) are combined with gains/losses from the repurchase of debt, the financial results of our corporate liquidity portfolio and all overhead expenses within the Other reportable segment. The management reporting process measures the performance of our operating segments based on our management structure, as well as the methodology we used to evaluate performance and allocate resources. Management, including our chief operating decision makers, evaluates the performance of our operating segments based on their profitability. As discussed further below, we measure the profitability of our operating segments based on "Core Earnings" net income. Accordingly, information regarding our reportable segments is provided based on a "Core Earnings" basis.
 
As a result of the change in segment reporting that occurred in the fourth quarter 2010, past periods have been recast for comparison purposes. In connection with changing the reportable segments the following lists other significant changes we made related to the new segment presentation:
 
 
As part of the change in the reportable segments in the fourth quarter of 2010, we also changed our calculation of "Core Earnings." When our FFELP loan portfolio was growing, management and investors in the Company valued it based on recurring income streams. Given the uncertain and volatile nature of unhedged Floor Income, little value was attributed to it by the financial markets; therefore we excluded unhedged Floor Income from "Core Earnings." Now that our FFELP loan portfolio is winding down, management and investors are focused on the total amount of cash the FFELP portfolio generates including unhedged Floor Income. As a result, we now include unhedged Floor Income in "Core Earnings" net income and have recast past "Core Earnings" financial results to reflect this change.
 
The following table shows the effect of including unhedged Floor Income, net of tax, in our "Core Earnings" and recasting our "Core Earnings" on past periods:
 
 
 
 
 
Supplemental information  assets and liabilities of consolidated variable interest entities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"Core Earnings"
 
In accordance with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), we prepare financial statements in accordance with GAAP. In addition to evaluating our GAAP-based financial information, management evaluates our business segments on a basis that, as allowed under the Financial Accounting Standards Board's ("FASB's") Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 280, "Segment Reporting," differs from GAAP. We refer to management's basis of evaluating our segment results as "Core Earnings" presentations for each business segment and we refer to this information in our presentations with credit rating agencies, lenders and investors. While "Core Earnings" are not a substitute for reported results under GAAP, we rely on "Core Earnings" to manage each operating segment because we believe these measures provide additional information regarding the operational and performance indicators that are most closely assessed by management.
 
Our "Core Earnings" are not defined terms within GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. "Core Earnings" net income reflects only current period adjustments to GAAP net income as described below. Unlike financial accounting, there is no comprehensive, authoritative guidance for management reporting and as a result, our management reporting is not necessarily comparable with similar information for any other financial institution. Our operating segments are defined by products and services or by types of customers, and reflect the manner in which financial information is currently evaluated by management. Intersegment revenues and expenses are netted within the appropriate financial statement line items consistent with the income statement presentation provided to management. Changes in management structure or allocation methodologies and procedures may result in changes in reported segment financial information.
 
Limitations of "Core Earnings"
 
While GAAP provides a uniform, comprehensive basis of accounting, for the reasons described above, management believes that "Core Earnings" are an important additional tool for providing a more complete
 
understanding of our results of operations. Nevertheless, "Core Earnings" are subject to certain general and specific limitations that investors should carefully consider. For example, as stated above, unlike financial accounting, there is no comprehensive, authoritative guidance for management reporting. Our "Core Earnings" are not defined terms within GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Unlike GAAP, "Core Earnings" reflect only current period adjustments to GAAP. Accordingly, our "Core Earnings" presentation does not represent a comprehensive basis of accounting. Investors, therefore, may not be able to compare our performance with that of other financial services companies based upon "Core Earnings." "Core Earnings" results are only meant to supplement GAAP results by providing additional information regarding the operational and performance indicators that are most closely used by management, our board of directors, rating agencies, lenders and investors to assess performance.
 
Other limitations arise from the specific adjustments that management makes to GAAP results to derive "Core Earnings" results. For example, in reversing the unrealized gains and losses that result from ASC 815, "Derivatives and Hedging," on derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment, as well as on derivatives that do qualify but are in part ineffective because they are not perfect hedges, we focus on the long-term economic effectiveness of those instruments relative to the underlying hedged item and isolate the effects of interest rate volatility and changing credit spreads on the fair value of such instruments during the period. Under GAAP, the effects of these factors on the fair value of the derivative instruments (but often not on the underlying hedged item) tend to show more volatility in the short term. While presentation of our results on a "Core Earnings" basis provides important information regarding the performance of our Managed portfolio, a limitation of this presentation is that we are presenting the ongoing spread income on loans that have been sold off-balance sheet for GAAP purposes to a trust managed by us. While we believe that our "Core Earnings" presentation presents the economic substance of our Managed loan portfolio, it understates earnings volatility from securitization gains, securitization servicing income and Residual Interest Income. As a result of adopting ASC 810, "Consolidation," on January 1, 2010, this difference between our GAAP earnings and "Core Earnings" related to securitization accounting no longer exists.
 
Pre-Tax Differences between "Core Earnings" and GAAP
 
Our "Core Earnings" are the primary financial performance measures used by management to evaluate performance and to allocate resources. Accordingly, financial information is reported to management on a "Core Earnings" basis by reportable segment, as these are the measures used regularly by our chief operating decision makers. Our "Core Earnings" are used in developing our financial plans and tracking results, and also in establishing corporate performance targets and incentive compensation. Management believes this information provides additional insight into the financial performance of our core business activities.
 
"Core Earnings" net income reflects only current period adjustments to GAAP net income, as described in the more detailed discussion of the differences between "Core Earnings" and GAAP that follows, which includes further detail on each specific adjustment required to reconcile our "Core Earnings" segment presentation to our GAAP earnings.
 
 
 
Upon the adoption of topic updates to ASC 810, we removed the $1.8 billion of Residual Interests (associated with our off-balance sheet securitization trusts as of December 31, 2009) from the consolidated balance sheet and we consolidated $35.0 billion of assets ($32.6 billion of which are student loans, net of a $550 million allowance for loan losses) and $34.4 billion of liabilities (primarily trust debt), which resulted in an approximate $750 million after-tax reduction of stockholders' equity (recorded as a cumulative effect adjustment to retained earnings). After the adoption of topic updates to ASC 810, our results of operations no longer reflect securitization servicing and Residual Interest revenue (loss) related to these securitization trusts, but instead report interest income, provisions for loan losses associated with the securitized assets and interest expense associated with the debt issued from the securitization trusts to third parties, consistent with our accounting treatment of prior on-balance securitization trusts.
 


