FILE:SLM/SLM-8K-20110720172654.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On July 20, 2011, SLM Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2011. A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) .
Exhibits
 
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
  Sallie Mae (NYSE: SLM) today released second-quarter 2011 financial results that reflected increased student loan originations and improved student loan delinquencies.
NEWARK, Del., July 20, 2011
 
"We today report solid second quarter performance. I am particularly pleased we continue to reduce credit costs and operating expenses as expected. I am also encouraged by private credit growth in a subdued economy," said Albert L. Lord, vice chairman and CEO. "Sallie Mae is focused on our customers' financial needs and enthusiastically builds new products to help students and families save and pay for college."
 
GAAP second-quarter 2011 net loss was $6 million ($.02 diluted loss per share), compared to net income of $338 million ($.63 diluted earnings per share) in the same quarter last year. The decrease was due to a pre-tax $414 million unrealized, loss on certain derivative contracts recognized in GAAP but not in core earnings results, compared to a $211 million unrealized, gain in the year-ago quarter.
mark-to-market
mark-to-market
 
Core earnings were $260 million ($.48 diluted earnings per share) in second-quarter 2011, compared to $211 million ($.39 diluted earnings per share) in the year-ago period. Improved credit quality and operating expenses combined more than offset lower debt repurchase gains. The company manages its business segments on a core earnings basis, as described further below.
 
 
In the consumer lending segment, Sallie Mae originates, finances and services private education loans.
 
Core earnings were $49 million, compared to a net loss of $12 million in the second quarter last year. The improvement was primarily due to a decreased loan loss provision. Loan delinquencies and charge-offs both improved.
 
Highlights vs. second-quarter 2010 included:
 
 
 
Sallie Mae's business services segment includes fees from servicing, collections and college savings businesses.
 
Core earnings were $140 million in second-quarter 2011, compared to $127 million in the year-ago quarter. The improvement was driven by substantial FFELP loan acquisitions last year that increased FFELP loan servicing revenue.
 
 
This segment represents earnings from Sallie Mae's amortizing FFELP portfolio.
 
Core earnings were $108 million in second-quarter 2011, compared to $95 million in the year-ago quarter. Second-quarter 2011 net interest margin was 0.98 percent, compared to 0.95 percent in the year-ago quarter. These increases were primarily driven by last year's substantial FFELP loan portfolio acquisitions.
 
 
Operating expenses were $268 million in second-quarter 2011, compared to $303 million in first-quarter 2011 and $309 million in the year-ago quarter.
 
Operating expenses in second-quarter 2011 included $13 million of servicing costs related to the $25 billion student loan portfolio acquisition at the end of last year and $2 million for litigation contingencies. The company expects these servicing costs to decline as the acquired portfolio converts to the company's loan servicing system in 2011.
 
 
During the quarter, the company issued an $821 million FFELP asset-backed securitization and two private loan securitizations totaling $1.4 billion.
 
The company also repurchased $60 million of debt and realized $0.3 million of gains in second-quarter 2011, compared with $1.4 billion and $91 million in the year-ago quarter.
 
 
In second-quarter 2011, Sallie Mae paid a common stock dividend of $.10 per share and repurchased 9.6 million common shares for $156 million as part of its previously announced $300 million share repurchase program.
 
 
The company expects its results to be as follows:
 
 
 
Sallie Mae reports financial results on a GAAP basis and also presents certain core earnings performance measures. The primary difference between the company's pre-tax core earnings and GAAP results for the quarter was unrealized, losses on certain derivative contracts. The company's management, equity investors, credit rating agencies and debt capital providers use these core earnings measures to monitor the company's business performance. See "Core Earnings  Definition and Limitations" for a further discussion and a complete reconciliation between GAAP net income and core earnings. Given the significant variability of valuations of derivative instruments on expected GAAP net income, the company does not provide a GAAP equivalent for its core earnings per share guidance.
mark-to-market
 
Definitions for capitalized terms in this document can be found in the company's Annual Report on for the year ended Dec. 31, 2010 (filed with the SEC on Feb. 28, 2011).
Form 10-K
 
 
Presentation slides for the conference call discussed below, as well as additional information about the company's loan portfolios, new operating segments, and other details, may be accessed at www.SallieMae.com/investors under the webcasts tab.
 
The company will host an earnings conference call tomorrow, July 21, at 8 a.m. EDT. Sallie Mae executives will be on hand to discuss various highlights of the quarter and to answer questions related to the company's
 
performance. Individuals interested in participating in the call should dial (USA and Canada) or dial (international) and use access code 75902491 starting at 7:45 a.m. EDT. A live audio webcast of the conference call may be accessed at . Investors may access a replay of the conference call via the company's website within one hour after the call's conclusion. A telephone replay may be accessed two hours after the call's conclusion through August 4, by dialing (USA and Canada) or (international) with access code 75902491.
(877) 356-5689
(706) 679-0623
www.SallieMae.com/investors
(800) 642-1687
(706) 645-9291
 
Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about the company's beliefs or expectations and statements that assume or are dependent upon future events, are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other factors that may cause actual results to be materially different from those reflected in such forward-looking statements. These factors include, among others, the risks and uncertainties set forth in Item 1A "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in the company's Annual Report on for the year ended Dec. 31, 2010, and subsequent filings with the SEC; increases in financing costs; limits on liquidity; increases in costs associated with compliance with laws and regulations; changes in accounting standards and the impact of related changes in significant accounting estimates; any adverse outcomes in any significant litigation to which the company is a party; credit risk associated with the company's exposure to third parties, including counterparties to the company's derivative transactions; and changes in the terms of student loans and the educational credit marketplace (including changes resulting from new laws and the implementation of existing laws). The company could also be affected by, among other things: changes in its funding costs and availability; reductions to its credit ratings; failures of its operating systems or infrastructure, including those of third-party vendors; damage to its reputation; failures to successfully implement cost-cutting and restructuring initiatives and adverse effects of such initiatives on its business; changes in the demand for educational financing or in financing preferences of lenders, educational institutions, students and their families; changes in law and regulations with respect to the student lending business and financial institutions generally; increased competition from banks and other consumer lenders; the creditworthiness of its customers; changes in the general interest rate environment, including the rate relationships among relevant money-market instruments and those of its earning assets vs. its funding arrangements; changes in general economic conditions; and changes in the demand for debt management services. The preparation of the company's consolidated financial statements also requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions including estimates and assumptions about future events. These estimates or assumptions may prove to be incorrect. All forward-looking statements contained in this release are qualified by these cautionary statements and are made only as of the date of this release. The company does not undertake any obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements to conform the statement to actual results or changes in its expectations.
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" and information based on management's current expectations as of the date of this release.
Form 10-K
 
 
(NYSE:  SLM) is the nation's No. 1 saving, planning and paying for college company. Serving 23 million customers, Sallie Mae offers innovative savings tools, tuition payment plans and education loans that promote responsible financial habits and reward success. Through its subsidiaries, the company manages or services $234 billion in education loans and administers $38 billion in 529 college savings plans. Members of its Upromise college savings rewards program have earned $600 million to help pay for college. Sallie Mae is also one of the leading financial service providers for universities and governments at all levels, including supporting $8 billion in ecommerce transactions annually at nearly 1,000 campuses. More information is available at SLM Corporation and its subsidiaries, commonly known as Sallie Mae, are not sponsored by or agencies of the United States of America.
Sallie Mae
www.SallieMae.com.
 
 
CONTACTS:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results of Operations
 
We present the results of operations below on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP. The presentation of our results on a segment basis is not in accordance with GAAP. We have four business segments: FFELP Loans, Consumer Lending, Business Services and Other. Since these segments operate in distinct business environments and we manage and evaluate the financial performance of these segments using non-GAAP financial measures, these segments are presented on a "Core Earnings" basis (see "Core Earnings' Definitions and Limitations").
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Earnings Summary  GAAP-basis
 
Three Months Ended June 30, 2011 Compared with Three Months Ended June 30, 2010
 
For the three months ended June 30, 2011 and 2010, net income (loss) was $(6) million, or $(.02) diluted loss per common share, and $338 million, or $.63 diluted earnings per common share, respectively. The decrease in net income was primarily due to a $605 million increase in net losses on derivative and hedging activities and a $91 million decrease in gains on debt repurchases. These reductions were partially offset by a $63 million increase in net interest income after provisions for loan losses and a $61 million decrease in total expenses.
 
The primary contributors to each of the identified drivers of changes in net income for the current quarter compared with the year-ago quarter are as follows:
 
 
 
Six Months Ended June 30, 2011 Compared with Six Months Ended June 30, 2010
 
For the six months ended June 30, 2011 and 2010, net income was $169 million, or $.30 diluted earnings per common share, and $578 million, or $1.08 diluted earnings per common share, respectively. The decrease in net income for the six months ended June 30, 2011 as compared with the prior year period was primarily due to a $765 million increase in net losses on derivative and hedging activities and a $143 million decrease in gains on debt repurchases. These were partially offset by a $163 million increase in net interest income after provisions for loans losses and a $70 million decrease in total expenses.
 
The primary contributors to each of the identified drivers of changes in net income for the current six-month period compared with the year-ago six-month period are as follows:
 
 
 
 
"Core Earnings"  Definition and Limitations
 
We prepare financial statements in accordance with GAAP. However, we also evaluate our business segments on a basis that differs from GAAP. We refer to this different basis of presentation as "Core Earnings." We provide this "Core Earnings" basis of presentation on a consolidated basis for each business segment because this is what we internally review when making management decisions regarding our performance and how we allocate resources. We also refer to this information in our presentations with credit rating agencies, lenders and investors. Because our "Core Earnings" basis of presentation corresponds to our segment financial presentations, we are required by GAAP to provide "Core Earnings" disclosure in the notes to our consolidated financial statements for our business segments.
 
"Core Earnings" are not a substitute for reported results under GAAP. We use "Core Earnings" to manage each business segment because "Core Earnings" reflect adjustments to GAAP financial results for two items, discussed below, that create significant volatility mostly due to timing factors generally beyond the control of management. Accordingly, we believe that "Core Earnings" provide management with a useful basis from which to better evaluate results from ongoing operations against the business plan or against results from prior periods. Consequently, we disclose this information as we believe it provides investors with additional information regarding the operational and performance indicators that are most closely assessed by management. The two items adjusted for in our "Core Earnings" presentations are: (1) our use of derivatives instruments to hedge our economic risks that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment or do qualify for hedge accounting treatment but result in ineffectiveness and (2) the accounting for goodwill and acquired intangible assets.
 
While GAAP provides a uniform, comprehensive basis of accounting, for the reasons described above, our "Core Earnings" basis of presentation does not. "Core Earnings" are subject to certain general and specific limitations that investors should carefully consider. For example, there is no comprehensive, authoritative guidance for management reporting. Our "Core Earnings" are not defined terms within GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Accordingly, our "Core Earnings" presentation does not represent a comprehensive basis of accounting. Investors, therefore, may not be able to compare our performance with that of other financial services companies based upon "Core Earnings." "Core Earnings" results are only meant to supplement GAAP results by providing additional information regarding the operational and performance indicators that are most closely used by management, our board of directors, rating agencies, lenders and investors to assess performance.
 
Specific adjustments that management makes to GAAP results to derive our "Core Earnings" basis of presentation are described in detail in the section entitled "Core Earnings'  Definition and Limitations  " below.
Differences between Core Earnings' and GAAP
 
The following tables show "Core Earnings" for each business segment and our business as a whole along with the adjustments made to the income/expense items to reconcile the amounts to our reported GAAP results as required by GAAP.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Differences between "Core Earnings" and GAAP
 
The following discussion summarizes the differences between "Core Earnings" and GAAP net income, and details each specific adjustment required to reconcile our "Core Earnings" segment presentation to our GAAP earnings.
 
 
 
The table below quantifies the adjustments for derivative accounting on our net income for the quarters ended June 30, 2011, March 31, 2011 and June 30, 2010 and for the six months ended June 30, 2011 and 2010, when compared with the accounting principles employed in all years prior to the adoption of ASC 815 related to accounting for derivative financial instruments.
 
 
 
 
 
Reclassification of Realized Gains (Losses) on Derivative and Hedging Activities
 
The derivative accounting requires net settlement income/expense on derivatives and realized gains/losses related to derivative dispositions (collectively referred to as "realized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities") that do not qualify as hedges to be recorded in a separate income statement line item below net interest income. The table below summarizes the realized losses on derivative and hedging activities and the associated reclassification on a "Core Earnings" basis for the quarters ended June 30, 2011, March 31, 2011 and June 30, 2010 and for the six months ended June 30, 2011 and 2010.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Segment Earnings Summary  "Core Earnings" Basis
 
FFELP Loans Segment
 
The following table includes "Core Earnings" results for our FFELP Loans segment.
 
 
FFELP Loans "Core Earnings" Basis Net Interest Margin
 
The following table shows the FFELP Loans "Core Earnings" basis net interest margin along with reconciliation to the GAAP-basis FFELP Loans net interest margin.
 
 
 
 
 
The "Core Earnings" basis FFELP Loans net interest margin for the six months ended June 30, 2011 compared with the prior year period increased nine basis points which was primarily the result of an increase in Floor Income.
 
As of June 30, 2011, our FFELP Loan portfolio totaled approximately $142.6 billion, comprised of $52.8 billion of FFELP Stafford and $89.8 billion of FFELP Consolidation Loans. The weighted-average life of these portfolios is 4.9 years and 9.3 years, respectively, assuming a Constant Prepayment Rate ("CPR") of 6 percent and 3 percent, respectively.
 
FFELP Provisions for Loan Losses and Loan Charge-Offs
 
The following tables summarize the FFELP Loan provisions for loan losses and FFELP Loan charge-offs for the quarters ended June 30, 2011, March 31, 2011 and June 30, 2010 and for the six months ended June 30, 2011 and 2010.
 
 
Operating Expenses  FFELP Loans Segment
 
Operating expenses for our FFELP Loans segment primarily include the contractual rates we pay to service loans in term asset-backed securitization trusts or a similar rate if a loan is not in a term financing facility (which is presented as an intercompany charge from the Business Services segment who services the loans), the fees we pay for third-party loan servicing and costs incurred to acquire loans. The increases in operating expenses in the three and six months ended June 30, 2011 compared with the three and six months ended June 30, 2010 were primarily the result of the increase in servicing costs related to the $25 billion loan portfolio acquisition on December 31, 2010. Operating expenses, excluding restructuring-related asset impairments, were 53 basis points and 49 basis points of average FFELP Loans in the quarters ended June 30, 2011 and June 30, 2010, respectively, and 54 basis points and 51 basis points for the six months ended June 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 
 
Consumer Lending Segment
 
The following table includes "Core Earnings" results for our Consumer Lending segment.
 
 
Consumer Lending "Core Earnings" Basis Net Interest Margin
 
The following table shows the Consumer Lending "Core Earnings" net interest margin along with reconciliation to the GAAP-basis Consumer Lending net interest margin before provisions for loan losses.
 
 
 
 
 
The Private Education Loan spread remained relatively consistent across all periods presented. The increase in the net interest margin for both the comparable prior year quarter and six month period was primarily the result of a decline in the average balance of our Other asset portfolio. The size of the Other asset portfolio, which is primarily securitization trust restricted cash and cash held at Sallie Mae Bank (the "Bank"), has decreased significantly since the first quarter 2010. This Other asset portfolio earns a negative yield and as a result, when its relative weighting decreases compared to the Private Education Loan portfolio, the overall net interest margin increases.
 
Private Education Loans Provisions for Loan Losses and Loan Charge-Offs
 
The following tables summarize the total Private Education Loans provisions for loan losses and charge-offs for the quarters ended June 30, 2011, March 31, 2011 and June 30, 2010 and for the six months ended June 30, 2011 and 2010.
 
 
The continuing improvements for all periods presented above are primarily a result of the improving credit quality of the portfolio as well as an overall improvement to the U.S. economy. The Private Education Loan portfolio experienced a significant increase in delinquencies through the first quarter of 2010 (delinquencies as a percentage of loans in repayment were 12.2 percent at March 31, 2010); since then delinquencies as a percentage of loans in repayment have declined to 10.0 percent at June 30, 2011. Private Education Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance increased to 4.7 percent from the prior quarter's 4.6 percent and decreased from the year-ago quarter's 5.3 percent. Charge-offs as a percentage of loans in repayment have declined significantly from 5.3 percent in the second quarter 2010 to 3.7 percent in the second quarter of 2011. The Private Education Loan allowance coverage of annual charge-offs ratio was 1.9 at June 30, 2011 compared with 1.5 at June 30, 2010. The allowance for loan losses as a percentage of ending Private Education Loans in repayment decreased from 7.9 percent at June 30, 2010 to 7.1 percent at June 30, 2011. We analyzed changes in the key ratios when determining the appropriate Private Education Loan allowance for loan losses.
 
Operating Expenses  Consumer Lending Segment
 
Operating expenses for our Consumer Lending segment include costs incurred to originate Private Education Loans and to service and collect on our Private Education Loan portfolio. The decreases in operating expenses in the three and six months ended June 30, 2011 compared with the three and six months ended June 30, 2010 were primarily the result of our cost cutting initiatives. Operating expenses, excluding restructuring-related asset impairments, were 80 basis points and 95 basis points of average Private Education Loans in the quarters ended June 30, 2011 and June 30, 2010, respectively, and 85 basis points and 92 basis points of average Private Education Loans in the six months ended June 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 
Business Services Segment
 
The following tables include "Core Earnings" results for our Business Services segment.
 
 
Our Business Services segment earns intercompany loan servicing fees from servicing the FFELP Loans in our FFELP Loans segment. The average balance of this portfolio was $142 billion and $134 billion for the quarters ended June 30, 2011 and June 30, 2010 and $143 billion and $133 billion for the six months ended June 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The increase in intercompany loan servicing revenue from the year-ago periods is primarily the result of the acquisition of the $25 billion FFELP Loan portfolio on December 31, 2010 which was partially offset by the amortization of the underlying portfolio as well as the FFELP Loans sold to ED as part of the Participation Program in 2010.
 
We are servicing approximately 3 million accounts under the ED Servicing Contract as of June 30, 2011. Loan servicing fees in the second quarter of 2011 and the second quarter of 2010 included $15 million and $10 million, respectively, of servicing revenue related to the ED Servicing Contract.
 
Account asset servicing revenue represents fees earned on program management, transfer and servicing agent services and administration services for our various 529 college-savings plans. Assets under administration in our 529 college savings plans totaled $38 billion as of June 30, 2011, a 59 percent increase from the year-ago quarter.
 
Campus Solutions revenue is earned from our Campus Solutions business whose services include comprehensive financing and transaction processing solutions that we provide to college financial aid offices and students to streamline the financial aid process.
 
The decrease in Guarantor servicing revenue compared with the year-ago quarter and six-month period was primarily due to the elimination of the FFELP in 2010 and our no longer earning Guarantor issuance fees as well as the lower balance of outstanding FFELP Loans on which we earn additional fees.
 
The following table presents the outstanding inventory of contingent collections receivables that our Business Services segment will collect on behalf of others.
 
 
Transaction fees are earned in conjunction with our rewards program from participating companies based on member purchase activity, either online or in stores, depending on the contractual arrangement with the participating company. Typically, a percentage of the purchase price of the consumer members' eligible purchases with participating companies is set aside in an account maintained by us on behalf of our members.
 
Revenues related to services performed on FFELP Loans accounted for 79 percent and 80 percent of total segment revenues for the quarters ended June 30, 2011 and June 30, 2010, respectively, and 79 percent and 80 percent, for the six months ended June 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 
We recently launched Sallie Mae Insurances Services, which will offer directly to college students and higher education institutions tuition insurance, renters insurance and student health insurance. In conjunction with this initiative, on June 30, 2011, we acquired a 45 percent stake in Next Generation Insurance Company, a nationally licensed insurance agency. We also include a Tuition Insurance Benefit with our Smart Option Student Loan.
 
Operating Expenses  Business Services Segment
 
Operating expenses for the three and six months ended June 30, 2011 decreased from the three and six months ended June 30, 2011 primarily as a result of our cost cutting initiatives. Included in operating expenses for 2011 are approximately $12 million per quarter in third-party servicing costs associated with our acquisition of $25 billion in loans at the end of 2010. As we transition those loans onto our own servicing platform in second half of 2011 we expect the servicing costs associated with these loans to decline significantly as the loans are converted onto our servicing platform.
 
Other Segment
 
The following table includes "Core Earnings" results of our Other segment.
 
 
Purchased Paper Business
 
Our Purchased Paper businesses are presented as discontinued operations for the current and prior periods. (See "Consolidated Earnings Summary  GAAP-basis" for further discussion.)
 
The following table summarizes the carrying value of the Purchased Paper  Non-Mortgage portfolio:
 
 
Gains on Debt Repurchases
 
We began repurchasing our outstanding debt in the second quarter of 2008. We repurchased $60 million and $1.4 billion face amount of our senior unsecured notes for the quarters ended June 30, 2011 and June 30, 2010, respectively, and $885 million and $2.7 billion for the six months ended June 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 
Overhead
 
Corporate overhead is comprised of costs related to executive management, the board of directors, accounting, finance, legal, human resources and stock option expense. Unallocated information technology costs are related to infrastructure and operations.
 
The increase in corporate overhead for the six-month period ended June 30, 2011 compared with the six-month period ended June 30, 2010, was primarily the result of a change in the terms of our stock compensation plans and restructuring-related consulting expenses incurred in the first half of 2011. In the first
 
quarter of 2011, we changed our stock compensation plans so that retirement eligible employees would not forfeit unvested stock compensation upon their retirement. This change had the effect of accelerating the future stock compensation expenses associated with these unvested stock grants into the current period for those employees that are retirement-eligible. This change in terms was the primary reason for the decrease in corporate overhead of $11 million from the prior quarter.
 
Financial Condition
 
This section provides additional information regarding the changes related to our loan portfolio assets and related liabilities as well as credit performance indicators related to our Consumer Lending portfolio.
 
Subsequent to the adoption of the new consolidation accounting guidance on January 1, 2010, our GAAP and "Core Earnings" loan portfolios are identical, as all of our securitization trusts are treated as on-balance sheet for GAAP now. Hence, in referencing the total loan portfolio, ending and average loan balances, provision for loan losses and charge-offs, we no longer distinguish between the two as they are the same, unless otherwise noted.
 
Summary of our Student Loan Portfolio
 
Ending Student Loan Balances, net
 
 
 
 
 
Average Student Loan Balances (net of unamortized premium/discount)
 
 
 
 
 
 
Student Loan Activity
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Private Education Loan Originations
 
Total Private Education Loan originations increased 21 percent from the year-ago quarter to $264 million in the quarter ended June 30, 2011 and 14 percent in the first six months of 2011 compared with the year-ago period.
 
The following table summarizes our Private Education Loan originations.
 
 
Consumer Lending Portfolio Performance
 
Private Education Loan Delinquencies and Forbearance
 
 
 
 
 
Allowance for Private Education Loan Losses
 
The following table summarizes changes in the allowance for Private Education Loan losses for the quarters ended June 30, 2011, March 31, 2011 and June 30, 2010 and for the six months ended June 30, 2011 and 2010.
 
 
 
 
 
The following table provides detail for the traditional and non-traditional Private Education Loans at June 30, 2011, December 31, 2010 and June 30, 2010.
 
 
 
 
 
The tables below show the composition and status of the Private Education Loan portfolio aged by number of months in active repayment status (months for which a scheduled monthly payment was due). As indicated in the tables, the percentage of loans in forbearance status decreases the longer the loans have been in active repayment status. At June 30, 2011, loans in forbearance status as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance were 6.8 percent for loans that have been in active repayment status for less than 25 months. The percentage drops to 1.3 percent for loans that have been in active repayment status for more than 48 months. Approximately 83 percent of our "Core Earnings" basis Private Education Loans in forbearance status has been in active repayment status less than 25 months.
 
 
 
 
 
As we have obtained further experience about the effectiveness of forbearance, we have reduced the amount of time a loan will spend in forbearance, thereby increasing our ongoing contact with the borrower to encourage consistent repayment behavior once the loan is returned to a current repayment status. As a result, the balance of loans in a forbearance status as of month-end has decreased since 2008. The monthly average number of loans granted forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance increased to 5.0 percent in the second quarter of 2011 compared with the year-ago quarter of 4.5 percent. As of June 30, 2011, 2.5 percent of loans in current status were delinquent as of the end of the prior month, but were granted a forbearance that made them current as of June 30, 2011 (borrowers made payments on approximately 20 percent of these loans immediately prior to being granted forbearance).
 
Receivable for Partially Charged-Off Private Education Loans
 
At the end of each month, for loans that are 212 days past due, we charge off the estimated loss of a defaulted loan balance. Actual recoveries are applied against the remaining loan balance that was not charged off. We refer to this remaining loan balance as the "receivable for partially charged-off loans." If actual periodic recoveries are less than expected, the difference is immediately charged off through provision expense with an offsetting reduction in the receivable for partially charged-off Private Education Loans. If actual periodic recoveries are greater than expected, they will be reflected as a recovery through the allowance for Private Education Loan losses once the cumulative recovery amount exceeds the cumulative amount originally expected to be recovered.
 
The following table summarizes the activity in the receivable for partially charged-off Private Education Loans for the quarters ended June 30, 2011, March 31, 2011 and June 30, 2010 and the six months ended June 30, 2011 and 2010.
 
 
 
 
Funding, Liquidity and Capital
 
We expect to fund our ongoing liquidity needs, including the origination of new Private Education Loans and the repayment of $2.5 billion of senior unsecured notes to mature in the next twelve months, primarily through our current cash and investment position and very predictable operating cash flows provided by earnings and repayment of principal on unencumbered student loan assets, distributions from our securitization trusts (including servicing fees which are priority payments within the trusts), as well as drawdowns under the FFELP ABCP Facilities and the facility with the Federal Home Loan Bank in Des Moines (the "FHLB-DM Facility"), the issuance of term ABS, the collection of additional term bank deposits and the issuance of unsecured debt.
 
Currently, new Private Education Loan originations are initially funded through deposits and subsequently securitized to term on a programmatic basis. We have $1.4 billion of cash at the Bank as of June 30, 2011 available to fund future originations.
 
Sources of Liquidity and Available Capacity
 
The following tables detail our main sources of primary liquidity and our main sources of secondary liquidity (unused secured credit facilities contingent upon obtaining eligible collateral) outstanding at June 30, 2011, March 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 and the average balances for the three months ended June 30, 2011, March 31, 2011 and June 30, 2010 and for the six months ended June 30, 2011 and 2010.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition to the assets listed in the table above, we hold a number of other unencumbered assets, consisting primarily of Private Education Loans and other assets. At June 30, 2011, we had a total of $21.4 billion of unencumbered assets (which includes the assets that comprise our primary liquidity and are available to serve as collateral for our secondary liquidity), excluding goodwill and acquired intangibles. Total student loans, net, comprised $11.4 billion of our unencumbered assets of which $10.5 billion and $.9 billion related to Private Education Loans, net and FFELP Loans, net, respectively.
 
The following table reconciles encumbered and unencumbered assets and their net impact on total tangible equity.
 
 
 
 
"Core Earnings" Basis Borrowings
 
The following table presents the ending balances of our "Core Earnings" basis borrowings at June 30, 2011, March 31, 2011 and June 30, 2010.
 
 
 
 
 
Transactions during the Second-Quarter 2011
 
On June 30, 2011, we completed an $825 million Private Education Loan ABS transaction at an all-in LIBOR equivalent cost of one-month LIBOR plus 1.89 percent. This issue has a weighted average life of 4.0 years and an initial overcollateralization of approximately 18 percent.
 
On May 26, 2011, we completed an $821 million FFELP ABS transaction at an all-in LIBOR equivalent cost of one-month LIBOR plus 1.15 percent. This issue has a weighted average life of 5.8 years and an initial overcollateralization of approximately 3 percent.
 
On April 26, 2011, we completed a $562 million Private Education Loan ABS transaction at an all-in LIBOR equivalent cost of one-month LIBOR plus 1.99 percent. This issue has a weighted average life of 3.8 years and an initial overcollateralization of approximately 21 percent.
 
We also repurchase our outstanding unsecured debt in both open-market repurchases and public tender offers. Repurchasing debt helps us to better manage our short-term and long-term funding needs by utilizing current excess liquidity to reduce future obligations related to our unsecured borrowings at favorable pricing. In the second quarter of 2011 we repurchased $60 million face amount of our senior unsecured notes in the aggregate, with maturity dates ranging from 2011 to 2014, which resulted in a total gain of $0.3 million.
 
In the second-quarter 2011, we utilized $156 million to repurchase 9.6 million common shares on the open market as part of our $300 million share repurchase program announced in April. We declared and paid a $.10 per share dividend during the second quarter of 2011.
 
Recently Issued Accounting Standards  Troubled Debt Restructurings
 
In April 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Accounting Standards Update Receivables (Topic 310), "A Creditor's Determination of Whether a Restructuring Is a Troubled Debt Restructuring." This new guidance clarifies when a loan restructuring constitutes a trouble debt restructuring. Under the new guidance, student loans for which we have granted concessions may now be considered troubled debt restructurings that were previously not and this may require us to increase the amount of our allowance for loan losses. This guidance is effective July 1, 2011, applied retrospectively to January 1, 2011. The most likely effect of implementing this new guidance would be to increase the size of our allowance for losses. At this time we have not completed the estimate of the change in our allowance for loan losses that could result from implementing this new guidance.
No. 2011-02,


