FILE:SLM/SLM-8K-20120718163726.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On July 18, 2012, SLM Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2012. A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) .
Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

  Sallie Mae (NASDAQ: SLM), formally SLM Corporation, today released second-quarter 2012 financial results that included increased private education loan originations and lower operating expenses compared with the year-ago period.
NEWARK, Del., July 18, 2012
"We continue to grow our private credit business and find productivity gains in challenging economic conditions," said Albert L. Lord, vice chairman and CEO. "We head into this academic year with loan products that promote and reward in-school payments. The performance of these loans over recent years foreshadows better credit ratings for our customers and lower defaults for Sallie Mae."
For the second-quarter 2012, GAAP net income was $292 million ($.59 diluted earnings per share), compared with net loss of $6 million ($.02 diluted loss per share) for the year-ago quarter.
Core earnings for the quarter were $243 million ($.49 per diluted share), compared with $260 million ($.48 per diluted share) in the year-ago period. Versus the prior-year quarter, earnings benefited from a $48 million lower loan loss provision and a $29 million operating expense reduction. Debt repurchase gains were $20 million higher. However, the acceleration of $50 million of non-cash loan premium amortization in the quarter contributed to offset these improvements. This amount is attributable to approximately $4.5 billion of federally guaranteed student loans (approximately 3 percent of that portfolio) expected to be consolidated under the recently completed Special Direct Consolidation Loan Initiative. Net interest income declined by an additional $56 million primarily due to higher funding costs, which in turn was partly due to refinancing debt into longer term liabilities, and lower federally guaranteed student loan balances.
The company provides results on a core earnings basis because management utilizes this information in making management decisions. The changes in GAAP net income are driven by the same core earnings items discussed above as well as changes in mark-to-market unrealized gains and losses on derivative contracts and amortization and impairment of goodwill and intangible assets that are recognized in GAAP, but not in core earnings, results. Second-quarter 2012 and 2011 GAAP results included an $82 million gain and a $414 million loss, respectively, resulting from derivative accounting treatment compared to core earnings results.
Consumer Lending
In the consumer lending segment, Sallie Mae originates, finances and services private education loans.
Quarterly core earnings improved to $85 million from $49 million in 2011, driven primarily by lower loan loss provision.
Private education loan portfolio highlights vs. second-quarter 2011 included:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Business Services
Sallie Mae's business services segment includes fees from servicing, collections and college savings businesses.
Business Services core earnings were $138 million in second-quarter 2012, compared with $140 million in the year-ago quarter.
Federally Guaranteed Student Loans (FFELP)
This segment represents earnings from Sallie Mae's amortizing portfolio of federally guaranteed student loans.
Core earnings for the segment were $44 million in second-quarter 2012, compared with the year-ago quarter's $108 million. This quarter's net interest income included the acceleration of $50 million of non-cash loan premium amortization as described above. The remaining decrease was primarily due to higher funding costs and lower net interest income resulting from the declining balance of the FFELP loan portfolio.
During the second-quarter 2012, the company acquired $1.9 billion of FFELP loans. At June 30, 2012, the company held $133 billion of FFELP loans compared with $143 billion at June 30, 2011.
Operating Expenses
Second-quarter operating expenses were $239 million in 2012, down from $268 million in the year-ago quarter primarily due to the current year benefit of cost-cutting efforts.
Funding and Liquidity
During second-quarter 2012, the company issued $2.7 billion in FFELP asset-backed securities (ABS), $2.0 billion in private education loan ABS, and $350 million of unsecured bonds.
Shareholder Distributions
In second-quarter 2012, Sallie Mae paid a common stock dividend of $0.125 per share, and authorized an additional $400 million to be utilized in its ongoing share repurchase program. In second-quarter 2012, the company repurchased 23.8 million shares of common stock at an aggregate purchase price of $341 million. During the first six months of 2012, the company repurchased 40.5 million shares at an aggregate purchase price of $609 million. At June 30, 2012, the company had $291 million of remaining share repurchase authorization.
Guidance
The company updated its guidance for 2012 results as follows:
 
 
Sallie Mae reports financial results on a GAAP basis and also provides certain core earnings performance measures. The difference between the company's core earnings and GAAP results for the periods presented were the unrealized, mark-to-market gains/losses on derivative contracts and the goodwill and acquired intangible
 
 
 
asset amortization and impairment. These items are recognized in GAAP but not in core earnings results. The company provides core earnings measures because this is what management uses when making management decisions regarding the company's performance and the allocation of corporate resources. In addition, the company's equity investors, credit rating agencies and debt capital providers use these core earnings measures to monitor the company's business performance. See "Core Earnings  Definition and Limitations" for a further discussion and a complete reconciliation between GAAP net income and core earnings. Given the significant variability of valuations of derivative instruments on expected GAAP net income, the company does not provide a GAAP equivalent for its core earnings per share guidance.
Definitions for capitalized terms in this document can be found in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2011 (filed with the SEC on Feb. 27, 2012). Certain reclassifications have been made to the balances as of and for the three and six months ended June 30, 2011, to be consistent with classifications adopted for 2012, and had no effect on net income, total assets or total liabilities.
The company will host an earnings conference call tomorrow, July 19, at 8 a.m. EDT. Sallie Mae executives will be on hand to discuss various highlights of the quarter and to answer questions related to the company's performance. Individuals interested in participating in the call should dial (877) 356-5689 (USA and Canada) or dial (706) 679-0623 (international) and use access code 91287061 starting at 7:45 a.m. EDT. A live audio webcast of the conference call may be accessed at www.SallieMae.com/investors. A replay of the conference call via the company's website will be available within two hours after the call's conclusion. A telephone replay may be accessed two hours after the call's conclusion through Aug. 1, by dialing (855) 859-2056 (USA and Canada) or (404) 537-3406 (international) with access code 91287061.
Presentation slides for the conference call, as well as additional information about the company's loan portfolios, operating segments, and other details, may be accessed at www.SallieMae.com/investors under the webcasts tab.
Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about the company's beliefs or expectations and statements that assume or are dependent upon future events, are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other factors that may cause actual results to be materially different from those reflected in such forward-looking statements. These factors include, among others, the risks and uncertainties set forth in Item 1A "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2011, first-quarter Form 10-Q and subsequent filings with the SEC; increases in financing costs; limits on liquidity; increases in costs associated with compliance with laws and regulations; changes in accounting standards and the impact of related changes in significant accounting estimates; any adverse outcomes in any significant litigation to which the company is a party; credit risk associated with the company's exposure to third parties, including counterparties to the company's derivative transactions; and changes in the terms of student loans and the educational credit marketplace (including changes resulting from new laws and the implementation of existing laws). The company could also be affected by, among other things: changes in its funding costs and availability; reductions to its credit ratings or the credit ratings of the United States of America; failures of its operating systems or infrastructure, including those of third-party vendors; damage to its reputation; failures to successfully implement cost-cutting and restructuring initiatives and adverse effects of such initiatives on its business; changes in the demand for educational financing or in financing preferences of lenders, educational institutions, students and their families; changes in law and regulations with respect to the student lending business and financial institutions generally; increased competition from banks and other consumer lenders; the creditworthiness of its customers; changes in the general interest rate environment, including the rate relationships among relevant money-market instruments and those of its earning assets vs. its funding arrangements; changes in general economic conditions; and changes in the demand for debt management services. The preparation of the company's consolidated financial statements also requires management to make
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" and information based on management's current expectations as of the date of this release.
 
 
 
certain estimates and assumptions including estimates and assumptions about future events. These estimates or assumptions may prove to be incorrect. All forward-looking statements contained in this release are qualified by these cautionary statements and are made only as of the date of this release. The company does not undertake any obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements to conform the statement to actual results or changes in its expectations.
(NASDAQ: SLM) is the nation's No. 1 financial services company specializing in education. Whether college is a long way off or just around the corner, Sallie Mae turns education dreams into reality for its 25 million customers. With products and services that include college savings programs, scholarship search tools, education loans, insurance, and online banking, Sallie Mae offers solutions that help families save, plan, and pay for college. Sallie Mae also provides financial services to hundreds of college campuses as well as to federal and state governments. Learn more at SallieMae.com. Commonly known as Sallie Mae, SLM Corporation and its subsidiaries are not sponsored by or agencies of the United States of America.
Sallie Mae
Contact:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results of Operations
We present the results of operations below on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP. The presentation of our results on a segment basis is not in accordance with GAAP. We have four business segments: Consumer Lending, Business Services, FFELP Loans and Other. Since these segments operate in distinct business environments and we manage and evaluate the financial performance of these segments using non-GAAP financial measures, these segments are presented on a "Core Earnings" basis (see "Core Earnings'  Definition and Limitations").
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Earnings Summary  GAAP-basis
Three Months Ended June 30, 2012 Compared with Three Months Ended June 30, 2011
For the three months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, net income (loss) was $292 million, or $.59 diluted earnings per common share, and $(6) million, or $(.02) diluted (loss) per common share, respectively. The increase in net income was primarily due to a $516 million difference in net gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, a $48 million decrease in provisions for loan losses, a $29 million decrease in operating expenses, and a $20 million increase in gains on debt repurchases, which was partially offset by a $122 million decline in net interest income.
The primary contributors to each of the identified drivers of changes in net income for the current quarter compared with the year-ago quarter are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Six Months Ended June 30, 2012 Compared with Six Months Ended June 30, 2011
For the six months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, net income was $403 million, or $.79 diluted earnings per common share, and $169 million, or $.30 diluted earnings per common share, respectively. The increase in net income was primarily due to a $386 million decrease in net losses on derivative and hedging activities, a $98 million decrease in provisions for loan losses and a $71 million decrease in operating expenses, which was partially offset by a $210 million decline in net interest income.
The primary contributors to each of the identified drivers of changes in net income for the current six-month period compared with the year-ago six-month period are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"Core Earnings"  Definition and Limitations
We prepare financial statements in accordance with GAAP. However, we also evaluate our business segments on a basis that differs from GAAP. We refer to this different basis of presentation as "Core Earnings." We provide this "Core Earnings" basis of presentation on a consolidated basis for each business segment because this is what we internally review when making management decisions regarding our performance and how we allocate resources. We also refer to this information in our presentations with credit rating agencies, lenders and investors. Because our "Core Earnings" basis of presentation corresponds to our segment financial presentations, we are required by GAAP to provide "Core Earnings" disclosure in the notes to our consolidated financial statements for our business segments.
"Core Earnings" are not a substitute for reported results under GAAP. We use "Core Earnings" to manage each business segment because "Core Earnings" reflect adjustments to GAAP financial results for two items, discussed below, that create significant volatility mostly due to timing factors generally beyond the control of management. Accordingly, we believe that "Core Earnings" provide management with a useful basis from which to better evaluate results from ongoing operations against the business plan or against results from prior periods. Consequently, we disclose this information as we believe it provides investors with additional information regarding the operational and performance indicators that are most closely assessed by management. The two items for which we adjust our "Core Earnings" presentations are (1) our use of derivative instruments to hedge our economic risks that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment or do qualify for hedge accounting treatment but result in ineffectiveness and (2) the accounting for goodwill and acquired intangible assets.
 
While GAAP provides a uniform, comprehensive basis of accounting, for the reasons described above, our "Core Earnings" basis of presentation does not. "Core Earnings" are subject to certain general and specific limitations that investors should carefully consider. For example, there is no comprehensive, authoritative guidance for management reporting. Our "Core Earnings" are not defined terms within GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Accordingly, our "Core Earnings" presentation does not represent a comprehensive basis of accounting. Investors, therefore, may not be able to compare our performance with that of other financial services companies based upon "Core Earnings." "Core Earnings" results are only meant to supplement GAAP results by providing additional information regarding the operational and performance indicators that are most closely used by management, our board of directors, rating agencies, lenders and investors to assess performance.
Specific adjustments that management makes to GAAP results to derive our "Core Earnings" basis of presentation are described in detail in the section titled "Core Earnings'  Definition and Limitations  Differences between Core Earnings' and GAAP" below.
 
The following tables show "Core Earnings" for each business segment and our business as a whole along with the adjustments made to the income/expense items to reconcile the amounts to our reported GAAP results as required by GAAP.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Differences between "Core Earnings" and GAAP
The following discussion summarizes the differences between "Core Earnings" and GAAP net income (loss) and details each specific adjustment required to reconcile our "Core Earnings" segment presentation to our GAAP earnings.
 
 
The table below quantifies the adjustments we make for derivative accounting.
 
 
 
 
 
Reclassification of Realized Gains (Losses) on Derivative and Hedging Activities
Derivative accounting requires net settlement income/expense on derivatives and realized gains/losses related to derivative dispositions (collectively referred to as "realized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities") that do not qualify as hedges to be recorded in a separate income statement line item below net interest income. Under our "Core Earnings" presentation, these gains and losses are reclassified to the income statement line item of the economically hedged item. For our "Core Earnings" net interest margin, this would primarily include: (a) reclassifying the net settlement amounts related to our Floor Income Contracts to student loan interest income and (b) reclassifying the net settlement amounts related to certain of our basis swaps to debt interest expense. The table below summarizes the realized losses on derivative and hedging activities and the associated reclassification on a "Core Earnings" basis.
 
 
 
 
Cumulative Impact of Derivative Accounting under GAAP compared to "Core Earnings"
As of June 30, 2012, derivative accounting has reduced GAAP equity by approximately $1.1 billion as a result of approximately $1.1 billion (after tax) of cumulative net unrealized losses recognized for GAAP, but not in "Core Earnings." The following table rolls forward the cumulative impact to GAAP equity due to these unrealized net losses related to derivative accounting.
 
In addition, net Floor premiums received on Floor Income Contracts that have not been amortized into "Core Earnings" as of the respective year-ends are presented in the table below. These net premiums will be recognized in "Core Earnings" in future periods and are presented below net of tax. As of June 30, 2012, the remaining amortization term of the net Floor premiums was approximately 4 years on existing contracts.
 
 
 
 
 
Business Segment Earnings Summary  "Core Earnings" Basis
Consumer Lending Segment
The following table shows "Core Earnings" results for our Consumer Lending segment.
 
Consumer Lending Net Interest Margin
The following table shows the Consumer Lending "Core Earnings" net interest margin along with reconciliation to the GAAP-basis Consumer Lending net interest margin before provisions for loan losses.
 
 
 
 
The increase in the "Core Earnings" basis Consumer Lending net interest margin for the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2012 over the year-ago periods was primarily due to a benefit from the decline in the average balance of our other asset portfolio. The size of the other asset portfolio, which is primarily securitization trust restricted cash and cash held at Sallie Mae Bank (the "Bank"), has decreased significantly. This other asset portfolio earns a negative yield and as a result, when its relative weighting decreases compared to the Private Education Loan portfolio, the overall net interest margin increases.
Private Education Loan Provision for Loan Losses and Charge-Offs
The following table summarizes the total Private Education Loan provision for loan losses and charge-offs.
 
In establishing the allowance for Private Education Loan losses as of June 30, 2012, we considered several factors with respect to our Private Education Loan portfolio. In particular, we continue to see improving credit quality and continuing positive delinquency and charge-off trends in connection with this portfolio. Improving credit quality is seen in higher FICO scores and cosigner rates as well as a more seasoned portfolio compared with the year-ago quarter. Loans delinquent greater than 90 days has declined to 4.5 percent from 4.6 percent and charge-off rate has declined to 3.09 percent from 3.71 percent compared with the year-ago quarter. Apart from these overall improvements, Private Education Loans that have defaulted between 2008 and 2011 for which we have previously charged off estimated losses have, to varying degrees, not met our post-default recovery expectations to date and may continue not to do so. Our allowance for loan losses takes into account these potential recovery uncertainties.
For a more detailed discussion of our policy for determining the collectability of Private Education Loans and maintaining our allowance for Private Education Loan losses, see "Critical Accounting Policies and EstimatesAllowance for Loan Losses" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011.
Operating Expenses  Consumer Lending Segment
Operating expenses for our Consumer Lending segment include costs incurred to originate Private Education Loans and to service and collect on our Private Education Loan portfolio. The decreases in operating expenses in the quarter ended June 30, 2012 compared with the quarter ended June 30, 2011 were primarily the result of the current-year benefit of the cost-cutting efforts we implemented throughout 2011. Operating expenses were 69 basis points and 80 basis points of average Private Education Loans in the quarters ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and 71 basis points and 85 basis points of average Private Education Loans in the six months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
 
Business Services Segment
The following table shows "Core Earnings" results for our Business Services segment.
 
Our Business Services segment earns intercompany loan servicing fees from servicing the FFELP Loans in our FFELP Loans segment. The average balance of this portfolio was $133 billion and $142 billion for the quarters ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and $134 billion and $143 billion for the six months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The decline in intercompany loan servicing revenue from the year-ago period is primarily the result of a lower outstanding principal balance in the underlying portfolio.
We are servicing approximately 3.8 million accounts under the ED Servicing Contract as of June 30, 2012 compared with 3.7 million and 3.0 million accounts at March 31, 2012 and June 30, 2011, respectively. The increase in the third-party loan servicing fees for the current quarter and six-month period compared with the prior-year periods was driven by the increase in the number of accounts serviced as well as an increase in ancillary servicing fees earned. The second quarters of 2012 and 2011 included $22 million and $15 million, respectively, of servicing revenue related to the ED Servicing Contract.
Other servicing revenue includes account asset servicing revenue and Campus Solutions revenue. Account asset servicing revenue represents fees earned on program management, transfer and servicing agent services and administration services for 529 college savings plans we service. Assets under administration of 529 college savings plans totaled $41.4 billion as of June 30, 2012, a 10 percent increase from the year-ago quarter. Campus Solutions revenue is earned from our Campus Solutions business whose services include comprehensive financing and transaction processing solutions that we provide to college financial aid offices and students to streamline the financial aid process.
 
The following table presents the outstanding inventory of contingent collections receivables that our Business Services segment will collect on behalf of others. We expect the inventory of contingent collections receivables to decline over time as a result of the elimination of FFELP in July 2010.
 
Other Business Services revenue is primarily transaction fees that are earned in conjunction with our rewards program from participating companies based on member purchase activity, either online or in stores, depending on the contractual arrangement with the participating company. Typically, a percentage of the purchase price of the consumer members' eligible purchases with participating companies is set aside in an account maintained by us on behalf of our members.
Revenues related to services performed on FFELP Loans accounted for 77 percent and 79 percent, respectively, of total segment revenues for the quarters ended June 30, 2012 and 2011 and 76 percent and 78 percent, respectively, of total segment revenues for the six months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011.
Operating Expenses  Business Services Segment
Operating expenses for the quarter and six month periods ended June 30, 2012 decreased from the prior-year periods, primarily as a result of the current-year benefit of the cost-cutting efforts we implemented throughout 2011.
FFELP Loans Segment
The following table shows "Core Earnings" results for our FFELP Loans segment.
 
 
FFELP Loans Net Interest Margin
The following table shows the FFELP Loans "Core Earnings" basis net interest margin along with reconciliation to the GAAP-basis FFELP Loans net interest margin.
 
 
 
The decrease in the "Core Earnings" basis FFELP Loans net interest margin of 15 basis points for the quarter ended June 30, 2012 compared with the quarter ended March 31, 2012 and of 28 basis points for the quarter ended and 20 basis points for the six months ended June 30, 2012 compared with the year-ago periods was primarily the result of the ED's Special Direct Consolidation Loan Initiative that occurred in 2012 as well as a widening of our asset and liability basis indices and a general increase in our funding costs related to unsecured and ABS debt issuances over the last year.
During the fourth-quarter 2011, the Administration announced a Special Direct Consolidation Loan Initiative. The initiative provided an incentive to borrowers who have at least one student loan owned by the Department of Education and at least one held by a FFELP lender to consolidate the FFELP lender's loans into the Direct Loan program by providing a 0.25 percentage point interest rate reduction on the FFELP loans that are eligible for consolidation. The program was available from January 17, 2012 through June 30, 2012.
We expect approximately $4.5 billion of our FFELP loans will consolidate to ED during the second and third quarters of 2012, of which $2.2 billion had consolidated as of June 30, 2012. The remaining volume we expect to consolidate in the third-quarter 2012 relates to loans where consolidation applications have been received and are in process for consolidation as of June 30, 2102. The expected consolidation of these loans resulted in the acceleration of $42 million of non-cash loan premium amortization and $8 million of non-cash
 
debt discount amortization during second-quarter 2012. This combined $50 million acceleration of non-cash amortization related to this activity reduced the FFELP Loans net interest margin by 14 basis points and 7 basis points for the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2012, respectively. The Special Direct Consolidation Loan Initiative ended June 30, 2012. As such, we do not expect the "Core Earnings" basis FFELP Loans net interest margin to be materially affected in the future by any significant additional loan premium expense or debt discount expense related to this initiative.
On December 23, 2011, the President signed the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2012 into law. This law includes changes that permit FFELP lenders or beneficial holders to change the index on which the Special Allowance Payments ("SAP") are calculated for FFELP Loans first disbursed on or after January 1, 2000. We elected to use the one-month LIBOR rate rather than the CP rate commencing on April 1, 2012 in connection with our entire $128 billion of CP indexed loans. This change will help us to better match loan yields with our financing costs. This election did not materially affect our results for the second quarter of 2012. As a result of the current low interest rate environment, only $84.2 billion of loans were affected by this change during the second quarter of 2012.
As of June 30, 2012, our FFELP Loan portfolio totaled approximately $132.8 billion, comprised of $48.1 billion of FFELP Stafford and $84.7 billion of FFELP Consolidation Loans. The weighted-average life of these portfolios is 4.9 years and 9.1 years, respectively, assuming a Constant Prepayment Rate ("CPR") of 5 percent and 3 percent, respectively.
FFELP Loan Provision for Loan Losses and Charge-Offs
The following table summarizes the FFELP Loan provision for loan losses and charge-offs.
 
Operating Expenses  FFELP Loans
Operating expenses for our FFELP Loans segment primarily include the contractual rates we pay to service loans in term asset-backed securitization trusts or a similar rate if a loan is not in a term financing facility (which is presented as an intercompany charge from the Business Services segment who services the loans), the fees we pay for third-party loan servicing and costs incurred to acquire loans. The intercompany revenue charged from the Business Services segment and included in those amounts was $172 million and $187 million for the quarters ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and $348 million and $376 million for the six month period ended June 30, 2012 and June 30, 2011, respectively. These amounts exceed the actual cost of servicing the loans. Operating expenses were 54 basis points and 53 basis points of average FFELP Loans in the quarters ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively and 54 basis points and 54 basis points for the six months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The decline in operating expenses from the prior-year quarter was primarily the result of the reduction in the average outstanding balance of our FFELP Loans portfolio.
 
Other Segment
The following table shows "Core Earnings" results of our Other segment.
 
Net Interest Income (Loss) after Provision for Loan Losses
Net interest income (loss) after provision for loan losses includes net interest income related to our corporate liquidity portfolio as well as net interest income and provision expense related to our mortgage and consumer loan portfolios. The improvement in the current quarter and six-month periods compared with the prior-year periods was primarily the result of our not recording any provision for loan losses related to our mortgage and consumer loan portfolios in 2012. Each quarter we perform an analysis regarding the adequacy of the loan loss allowance for these portfolios and we determined that no additional allowance for loan losses was required related to this $157 million portfolio.
Gains on Debt Repurchases
We began repurchasing our outstanding debt in 2008. We repurchased $85 million and $60 million face amount of our debt for the quarters ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and $290 million and $885 million face amount of our debt for the six months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
Overhead
Corporate overhead is comprised of costs related to executive management, the board of directors, accounting, finance, legal, human resources and stock-based compensation expense. Unallocated information technology costs are related to infrastructure and operations.
The decrease in overhead for the quarter and six-month periods ending June 30, 2012 compared with the prior-year periods was primarily the result of the current-year benefit of the cost-cutting efforts we implemented throughout 2011.
 
Financial Condition
This section provides additional information regarding the changes related to our loan portfolio assets and related liabilities as well as credit quality and performance indicators related to our Consumer Lending portfolio.
Summary of our Student Loan Portfolio
Ending Student Loan Balances, net
 
 
 
 
Average Student Loan Balances (net of unamortized premium/discount)
 
 
Student Loan Activity
 
 
Private Education Loan Originations
Total Private Education Loan originations increased 22 percent from the year-ago quarter to $321 million in the quarter ended June 30, 2012.
The following table summarizes our Private Education Loan originations.
 
 
Consumer Lending Portfolio Performance
Private Education Loan Delinquencies and Forbearance
 
 
 
 
 
 
Allowance for Private Education Loan Losses
The following table summarizes changes in the allowance for Private Education Loan losses.
 
 
 
 
The following table provides detail for our traditional and non-traditional Private Education Loans.
 
 
 
As part of concluding on the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses, we review key allowance and loan metrics. The most significant of these metrics considered are the allowance coverage of charge-offs ratio; the allowance as a percentage of total loans and of loans in repayment; and delinquency and forbearance percentages.
Receivable for Partially Charged-Off Private Education Loans
At the end of each month, for loans that are 212 days past due, we charge off the estimated loss of a defaulted loan balance. Actual recoveries are applied against the remaining loan balance that was not charged off. We refer to this remaining loan balance as the "receivable for partially charged-off loans." If actual periodic recoveries are less than expected, the difference is immediately charged off through the allowance for loan losses with an offsetting reduction in the receivable for partially charged-off Private Education Loans. If actual periodic recoveries are greater than expected, they will be reflected as a recovery through the allowance for loan losses once the cumulative recovery amount exceeds the cumulative amount originally expected to be recovered.
 
The following table summarizes the activity in the receivable for partially charged-off Private Education Loans.
 
 
 
 
The tables below show the composition and status of the Private Education Loan portfolio aged by number of months in active repayment status (months for which a scheduled monthly payment was due). As indicated in the tables, the percentage of loans in forbearance status decreases the longer the loans have been in active repayment status. At June 30, 2012, loans in forbearance status as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance were 6.8 percent for loans that have been in active repayment status for less than 25 months. The percentage drops to 1.3 percent for loans that have been in active repayment status for more than 48 months. Approximately 77 percent of our Private Education Loans in forbearance status has been in active repayment status less than 25 months.
 
 
 
The monthly average number of loans granted forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance decreased to 4.5 percent in the second quarter of 2012 compared with the year-ago quarter of 5.0 percent. As of June 30, 2012, 2.1 percent of loans in current status were delinquent as of the end of the prior month, but were granted a forbearance that made them current as of June 30, 2012 (borrowers made payments on approximately 28 percent of these loans immediately prior to being granted forbearance).
Liquidity and Capital Resources
We expect to fund our ongoing liquidity needs, including the origination of new Private Education Loans and the repayment of $2.4 billion of senior unsecured notes that mature in the next twelve months, primarily through our current cash and investment portfolio, the issuance of additional bank deposits, the very predictable
 
operating cash flows provided by earnings, the repayment of principal on unencumbered student loan assets and the distributions from our securitization trusts (including servicing fees which are priority payments within the trusts). We may also draw down on our FFELP ABCP Facilities and the facility with the Federal Home Loan Bank in Des Moines (the "FHLB-DM Facility"); and we may also issue term ABS and unsecured debt.
Currently, new Private Education Loan originations are initially funded through deposits and subsequently securitized to term. We have $362 million of cash at the Bank as of June 30, 2012 available to fund future originations. We no longer originate FFELP Loans and therefore no longer have liquidity requirements for new FFELP Loan originations.
The acquisition of loan portfolios may require additional funding. Additionally, it is our intent to refinance, primarily through securitizations, the FFELP Loans that are currently in the ED Conduit Program by its January 2014 maturity date. We currently have $15.9 billion of collateral in the ED Conduit Program. While the assets in this facility can be put to ED at the conclusion of the program thus eliminating a call on our liquidity, we intend to refinance these assets in the term ABS market prior to the facility's expiration. In addition, capacity is maintained in our FFELP ABCP Facility and our FHLB-DM Facility to finance a portion of this collateral should term financing not be achieved or available.
Sources of Liquidity and Available Capacity
The following tables detail our main sources of primary liquidity.
Ending Balances
 
Average Balances
 
 
We may also have liquidity available under secured credit facilities to the extent we have eligible collateral and capacity available. Current borrowing capacity under the FFELP ABCP Facility and FHLB-DM Facility is determined based on each facility's size, current usage and qualifying collateral from the unencumbered FFELP Loans reported as primary liquidity in the tables above. Additional borrowing capacity could be used to fund FFELP Loan portfolio acquisitions and to refinance FFELP Loans used as collateral in the ED Conduit Program
 
Facility. As of June 30, 2012, March 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, the maximum additional amount we could borrow under these facilities was $10.5 billion, $10.5 billion and $11.3 billion, respectively. For the three months ended June 30, 2012, March 31, 2012 and June 30, 2011, the average maximum amount we could borrow under these facilities was $10.7 billion, $12.1 billion and $11.4 billion, respectively. For the six months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011 the average maximum amount we could borrow under these facilities was $11.4 billion and $11.7 billion, respectively. These maximum total amounts we can borrow are contingent upon obtaining eligible FFELP Loan collateral. If we use our unencumbered FFELP Loans as collateral to borrow against these facilities, the available capacity is reduced accordingly.
We also hold a number of other unencumbered assets, consisting primarily of Private Education Loans and other assets. At June 30, 2012, we had a total of $20.2 billion of unencumbered assets (which includes the assets that comprise our primary liquidity listed in the table above and are available to serve as collateral for our secured credit facilities discussed in the preceding paragraph), excluding goodwill and acquired intangibles. Total unencumbered student loans, net, comprised $11.5 billion of our unencumbered assets of which $10.1 billion and $1.4 billion related to Private Education Loans, net and FFELP Loans, net, respectively.
The following table reconciles encumbered and unencumbered assets and their net impact on total tangible equity.
 
 
 
 
"Core Earnings" Basis Borrowings
The following table presents the ending balances of our "Core Earnings" basis borrowings.
 
 
 
Transactions during the Second-Quarter 2012
The following financing transactions have taken place in the second quarter of 2012:
FFELP Financings:
 
Private Education Loan Financings:
 
Unsecured Financings:
 
In addition, we paid a common stock dividend of $0.125 per share on June 15, 2012, and authorized an additional $400 million to be utilized in our ongoing share repurchase program. In second-quarter 2012, we repurchased 23.8 million shares of common stock at an aggregate purchase price of $341 million. During the first six months of 2012, we repurchased a total of 40.5 million shares at an aggregate purchase price of $609 million. At June 30, 2012, we had $291 million of remaining share repurchase authorization.
Recent Third-Quarter 2012 Transactions
The following financing transactions have taken place in the third quarter of 2012:
FFELP Financings:
 
 


