FILE:SLM/SLM-8K-20120118170800.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On January 18, 2012, SLM Corporation (the "Company"), commonly known as Sallie Mae, issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2011. A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) .
Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
  Sallie Mae (NASDAQ: SLM), formally SLM Corporation, today released fourth-quarter and full-year 2011 financial results highlighting increased student loan originations, lower delinquency and charge-off rates, and declining operating expenses, as compared with both the fourth-quarter and full-year 2010.
NEWARK, Del., Jan. 18, 2012
"We achieved each of 2011's major objectives  significant lending growth, reduced operating expense, higher fee income; we also reinstated quarterly dividend payments and began to repurchase shares," said Albert L. Lord, vice chairman & CEO, Sallie Mae. "The franchise is strong and positioned for solid earnings growth in 2012."
For the fourth-quarter 2011, GAAP net income rose to $511 million ($.99 per diluted share), compared with $447 million ($.84 per diluted share) for the year-ago quarter.
For 2011, GAAP net income rose to $633 million ($1.18 per diluted share), compared with $530 million ($.94 per diluted share) in 2010.
Core earnings for the quarter were $268 million ($.51 per diluted share), compared with $401 million ($.75 per diluted share) in the year-ago period.
Core earnings for the year were $977 million ($1.83 per diluted share), compared with $1.03 billion ($1.92 per diluted share) in 2010.
Core earnings were down due to a decrease ($436 million or $.52 per diluted share in the fourth-quarter 2011, and $574 million or $.69 per diluted share in 2011) in gains on loan sales and debt repurchases from prior-year periods. Excluding these gains on loan sales and debt repurchases, core earnings were up due to improvements in net interest income, loan loss provision, expenses and discontinued operations.
The company reports results on a core earnings basis because management utilizes this information in making key business decisions.
The changes in GAAP net income are driven by the same core earnings items discussed above as well as changes in "mark-to-market" unrealized gains and losses on derivative contracts and impairment of goodwill and intangible assets that are recognized in GAAP but not in core earnings results. Fourth-quarter 2011 and full-year 2011 results had a $302 million increase in gains and a $623 million increase in losses, respectively, in unrealized "mark-to-market" gains/losses on derivative contracts compared to year-ago periods. Full-year 2011 results also had $660 million less goodwill and intangible impairment compared to 2010.
Consumer Lending
In the consumer lending segment, Sallie Mae originates, finances and services private education loans. During 2011, the company originated $2.7 billion in private education loans, up 19 percent from 2010's $2.3 billion.
Core earnings for the quarter were $63 million, compared with core earnings of $24 million in the fourth-quarter 2010. This improvement is primarily the result of reduced loan loss provision. Loan delinquency and charge-off rates improved 5 percent and 27 percent, respectively, from the year-ago quarter, the sixth consecutive quarter of such improvements.
 
Highlights vs. fourth-quarter 2010 included:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Core earnings for 2011 were $128 million, compared with $13 million in 2010.
Business Services
Sallie Mae's business services segment includes fees from servicing, collections and college savings businesses.
Core earnings were $158 million in fourth-quarter 2011, compared to $118 million in the year-ago quarter. The improvement was primarily driven by federally guaranteed loan acquisitions in 2010, including $25 billion in the fourth quarter of 2010, that increased loan servicing revenue. Core earnings were $570 million in 2011, compared to $515 million in 2010.
Sallie Mae provides service to 3.6 million loan customers on behalf of the Department of Education. The company earned $63 million in servicing revenue in 2011 from its Department of Education loan servicing contract, compared to $44 million in 2010.
Federally Guaranteed Loans (FFELP)
This segment represents earnings from Sallie Mae's amortizing portfolio of federally guaranteed loans.
Core earnings were $109 million in fourth-quarter 2011, compared to the year-ago quarter's $289 million that reflected a $318 million gain from the sale of loans.
During 2011 the company acquired $1.6 billion of federally guaranteed loans.
For 2011, core earnings were $434 million compared to $557 million in 2010.
Operating Expenses
Fourth-quarter operating expenses were $243 million in 2011, down from $308 million in the year-ago quarter.
Funding and Liquidity
During fourth-quarter 2011, the company issued an $812 million federally guaranteed loan asset-backed securitization and a $721 million private loan securitization. During 2011, the company issued both federally guaranteed and private loan ABS totaling $2.4 billion and $2.1 billion, respectively, and expects to be a programmatic issuer throughout 2012.
Also during the fourth-quarter 2011, the company closed on a $3.4 billion private education loan asset-backed commercial paper facility that matures in January 2014. This facility was used to finance the call of private education loan securities in fourth-quarter 2011 and early in 2012 at a reduced cost of funds.
Subsequent to quarter-end, the company amended its 2010 federally guaranteed loan ABCP facility to expand its capacity and extend its maturity to 2015. For 2012, the facility amount is $7.5 billion, an increase of $2.5 billion available for federally guaranteed loan acquisition or refinancing. Also in January 2012, the company issued $765 million in federally guaranteed loan ABS.
 
 
Shareholder Distributions
In fourth-quarter 2011, Sallie Mae paid a common stock dividend of $.10 per share.
During 2011, the company repurchased 19.1 million shares of common stock at a cost of $300 million.
Guidance
The company expects 2012 results to be as follows:
 
 
Sallie Mae reports financial results on a GAAP basis and also presents certain core earnings performance measures. The primary differences between the company's pre-tax core earnings and GAAP results for the periods presented were the unrealized, mark-to-market losses on certain derivative contracts and the treatment of goodwill and acquired intangible asset amortization and impairment. The company's management, equity investors, credit rating agencies and debt capital providers use these core earnings measures to monitor the company's business performance. See "Core Earnings  Definition and Limitations" for a further discussion and a complete reconciliation between GAAP net income and core earnings. Given the significant variability of valuations of derivative instruments on expected GAAP net income, the company does not provide a GAAP equivalent for its core earnings per share guidance.
Definitions for capitalized terms in this document can be found in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2010 (filed with the SEC on Feb. 28, 2011). Certain reclassifications have been made to the balances as of and for the three months and year ended Dec. 31, 2010, to be consistent with classifications adopted for 2011, and had no effect on net income, total assets or total liabilities.
The company will host an earnings conference call tomorrow, Jan. 19, at 8 a.m. EST. Sallie Mae executives will be on hand to discuss various highlights of the quarter and to answer questions related to the company's performance. Individuals interested in participating in the call should dial (877) 356-5689 (USA and Canada) or dial (706) 679-0623 (international) and use access code 36327098 starting at 7:45 a.m. EST. A live audio webcast of the conference call may be accessed at www.SallieMae.com/investors. Investors may access a replay of the conference call via the company's website within two hour after the call's conclusion. A telephone replay may be accessed two hours after the call's conclusion through Feb. 2, by dialing (855) 859-2056 (USA and Canada) or (404) 537-3406 (international) with access code 36327098.
Presentation slides for the conference call, as well as additional information about the company's loan portfolios, operating segments, and other details, may be accessed at www.SallieMae.com/investors under the webcasts tab.
Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about the company's beliefs or expectations and statements that assume or are dependent upon future events, are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other factors that may cause actual results to be materially different from those reflected in such forward-looking statements. These factors include, among others, the risks and uncertainties set forth in Item 1A "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2010 and subsequent filings with the SEC, including the company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2011; increases in financing costs; limits on liquidity; increases in costs associated with compliance with laws and regulations; changes in accounting standards and the impact of related changes in significant accounting estimates; any adverse outcomes in any significant litigation to which the company is a party; credit risk associated with the company's exposure to third parties, including counterparties to the company's derivative transactions; and changes in the terms of student loans and the educational credit marketplace
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" and information based on management's current expectations as of the date of this release.
 
 
(including changes resulting from new laws and the implementation of existing laws). The company could also be affected by, among other things: changes in its funding costs and availability; reductions to its credit ratings or the credit ratings of the United States of America; failures of its operating systems or infrastructure, including those of third-party vendors; damage to its reputation; failures to successfully implement cost-cutting and restructuring initiatives and adverse effects of such initiatives on its business; changes in the demand for educational financing or in financing preferences of lenders, educational institutions, students and their families; changes in law and regulations with respect to the student lending business and financial institutions generally; increased competition from banks and other consumer lenders; the creditworthiness of its customers; changes in the general interest rate environment, including the rate relationships among relevant money-market instruments and those of its earning assets vs. its funding arrangements; changes in general economic conditions; and changes in the demand for debt management services. The preparation of the company's consolidated financial statements also requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions including estimates and assumptions about future events. These estimates or assumptions may prove to be incorrect. All forward-looking statements contained in this release are qualified by these cautionary statements and are made only as of the date of this release. The company does not undertake any obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements to conform the statement to actual results or changes in its expectations.
(NASDAQ: SLM) is the nation's No. 1 financial services company specializing in education. Whether college is a long way off or just around the corner, Sallie Mae turns education dreams into reality for its 25 million customers. With products and services that include college savings programs, scholarship search tools, education loans, tuition insurance, and online banking, Sallie Mae offers solutions that help families save, plan, and pay for college. Sallie Mae also provides financial services to hundreds of college campuses as well as to federal and state governments. Learn more at SallieMae.com. Commonly known as Sallie Mae, SLM Corporation and its subsidiaries are not sponsored by or agencies of the United States of America.
Sallie Mae
Contact:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results of Operations
We present the results of operations below on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP. The presentation of our results on a segment basis is not in accordance with GAAP. We have four business segments: FFELP Loans, Consumer Lending, Business Services and Other. Since these segments operate in distinct business environments and we manage and evaluate the financial performance of these segments using non-GAAP financial measures, these segments are presented on a "Core Earnings" basis (see "Core Earnings'  Definitions and Limitations").
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Earnings Summary  GAAP-basis
Three Months Ended December 31, 2011 Compared with Three Months Ended December 31, 2010
For the three months ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, net income was $511 million, or $.99 diluted income per common share, and $447 million, or $.84 diluted earnings per common share, respectively. The increase in net income was primarily due to a $301 million increase in net gains on derivative and hedging activities, a $28 million decrease in provision for loan losses and $100 million of lower expenses. This was partially offset by $353 million of lower net gains on loans and investments and a $118 million decrease in gains on debt repurchases.
The primary contributors to each of the identified drivers of changes in net income for the current quarter compared with the year-ago quarter are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared with Year Ended December 31, 2010
For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, net income was $633 million, or $1.18 diluted earnings per common share, and $530 million, or $.94 diluted earnings per common share, respectively. The increase in net income for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared with the prior year period was primarily due to $660 million of goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges, which were partially non-tax deductible, recorded in the year-ago period, a $124 million decrease in the provisions for loan losses, a $100 million increase in income from discontinued operations and $108 million of lower operating expenses. This was partially offset by a $598 million increase in net losses on derivative and hedging activities, a $279 million decrease in gains on debt repurchases and a $360 million decrease in net gains on loans and investments.
The primary contributors to each of the identified drivers of changes in net income for the current twelve-month period compared with the year-ago period are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"Core Earnings"  Definition and Limitations
We prepare financial statements in accordance with GAAP. However, we also evaluate our business segments on a basis that differs from GAAP. We refer to this different basis of presentation as "Core Earnings." We provide this "Core Earnings" basis of presentation on a consolidated basis for each business segment because this is what we internally review when making management decisions regarding our performance and how we allocate resources. We also refer to this information in our presentations with credit rating agencies, lenders and investors. Because our "Core Earnings" basis of presentation corresponds to our segment financial presentations, we are required by GAAP to provide "Core Earnings" disclosure in the notes to our consolidated financial statements for our business segments.
"Core Earnings" are not a substitute for reported results under GAAP. We use "Core Earnings" to manage each business segment because "Core Earnings" reflect adjustments to GAAP financial results for two items, discussed below, that create significant volatility mostly due to timing factors generally beyond the control of management. Accordingly, we believe that "Core Earnings" provide management with a useful basis from which to better evaluate results from ongoing operations against the business plan or against results from prior periods. Consequently, we disclose this information as we believe it provides investors with additional information regarding the operational and performance indicators that are most closely assessed by management. The two items adjusted for in our "Core Earnings" presentations are: (1) our use of derivatives instruments to hedge our economic risks that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment or do qualify for hedge accounting treatment but result in ineffectiveness and (2) the accounting for goodwill and acquired intangible assets.
While GAAP provides a uniform, comprehensive basis of accounting, for the reasons described above, our "Core Earnings" basis of presentation does not. "Core Earnings" are subject to certain general and specific limitations that investors should carefully consider. For example, there is no comprehensive, authoritative guidance for management reporting. Our "Core Earnings" are not defined terms within GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Accordingly, our "Core Earnings" presentation does not represent a comprehensive basis of accounting. Investors, therefore, may not be able to compare our performance with that of other financial services companies based upon "Core Earnings." "Core Earnings" results are only meant to supplement GAAP results by providing additional information regarding the operational and performance indicators that are most closely used by management, our board of directors, rating agencies, lenders and investors to assess performance.
Specific adjustments that management makes to GAAP results to derive our "Core Earnings" basis of presentation are described in detail in the section entitled "Core Earnings'  Definition and Limitations  " below.
Differences between Core Earnings' and GAAP
 
The following tables show "Core Earnings" for each business segment and our business as a whole along with the adjustments made to the income/expense items to reconcile the amounts to our reported GAAP results as required by GAAP.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Differences between "Core Earnings" and GAAP
The following discussion summarizes the differences between "Core Earnings" and GAAP net income (loss), and details each specific adjustment required to reconcile our "Core Earnings" segment presentation to our GAAP earnings.
 
 
The table below quantifies the adjustments we make for derivative accounting.
 
 
 
 
Reclassification of Realized Gains (Losses) on Derivative and Hedging Activities
Derivative accounting requires net settlement income/expense on derivatives and realized gains/losses related to derivative dispositions (collectively referred to as "realized gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities") that do not qualify as hedges to be recorded in a separate income statement line item below net interest income. The table below summarizes the realized losses on derivative and hedging activities and the associated reclassification on a "Core Earnings" basis.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Business Segment Earnings Summary  "Core Earnings" Basis
FFELP Loans Segment
The following table includes "Core Earnings" results for our FFELP Loans segment.
 
 
FFELP Loans Net Interest Margin
The following table shows the FFELP Loans "Core Earnings" basis net interest margin along with reconciliation to the GAAP-basis FFELP Loans net interest margin.
 
 
 
The increase in the "Core Earnings" basis FFELP Loans net interest margin of 5 basis points for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared with the year ended December 31, 2010 was primarily the result of an increase in Floor Income due to lower interest rates.
As of December 31, 2011, our FFELP Loan portfolio totaled approximately $138.1 billion, comprised of $50.4 billion of FFELP Stafford and $87.7 billion of FFELP Consolidation Loans. The weighted-average life of these portfolios is 5.0 years and 9.2 years, respectively, assuming a Constant Prepayment Rate ("CPR") of 5 percent and 3 percent, respectively.
On December 23, 2011, the President signed the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2012 into law. This Act includes changes to the FFELP student lender payment index from the Commercial Paper ("CP") Rate to the one-month LIBOR rate for the Special Allowance Payment ("SAP") calculation on outstanding FFELP loans held by student loan lenders. As of December 31, 2011, we had $130 billion of loans where we intend to elect the change. This change will restore our ability to better match lender payments with our financing costs. We currently expect the new formula to be developed and available for use in the second quarter of 2012.
During the fourth-quarter 2011, the White House announced a Special Direct Consolidation Loan Initiative. The initiative provides an incentive to borrowers who have at least one student loan owned by the Department of Education and at least one held by a FFELP lender to consolidate the FFELP lender's loans into the Direct Loan program by providing a 0.25 percentage point interest rate reduction on the FFELP loans that are eligible for consolidation. The program is available from January 17, 2012 through June 30, 2012. We currently do not foresee the initiative having a significant impact on our FFELP segment.
 
FFELP Provisions for Loan Losses and Loan Charge-Offs
The following table summarizes the FFELP Loan provision for loan losses and FFELP Loan charge-offs.
 
Other Income  FFELP Loans
Other income declined from the year-ago periods primarily as a result of a $321 million gain recorded in the fourth quarter of 2010 from the sale of FFELP loans to ED as part of ED's Purchase Program which ended in 2010.
Operating Expenses  FFELP Loans
Operating expenses for our FFELP Loans segment primarily include the contractual rates we pay to service loans in term asset-backed securitization trusts or a similar rate if a loan is not in a term financing facility (which is presented as an intercompany charge from the Business Services segment who services the loans), the fees we pay for third-party loan servicing and costs incurred to acquire loans. The increases in operating expenses in the three months and years ended December 31, 2011 compared with the three months and years ended December 31, 2010 were primarily the result of the increase in servicing costs related to the $25 billion loan portfolio acquisition on December 31, 2010. Operating expenses, excluding restructuring-related asset impairments, were 53 basis points and 54 basis points of average FFELP Loans in the quarters ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and 53 basis points and 51 basis points for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
Consumer Lending Segment
The following table includes "Core Earnings" results for our Consumer Lending segment.
 
 
Consumer Lending Net Interest Margin
The following table shows the Consumer Lending "Core Earnings" net interest margin along with reconciliation to the GAAP-basis Consumer Lending net interest margin before provisions for loan losses.
 
The increase in the "Core Earnings" basis Consumer Lending net interest margin over both the year-ago quarter and prior year was primarily the result of a benefit from the decline in the average balance of our other asset portfolio. The size of the other asset portfolio, which is primarily securitization trust restricted cash and cash held at Sallie Mae Bank (the "Bank"), has decreased significantly. This other asset portfolio earns a negative yield and as a result, when its relative weighting decreases compared to the Private Education Loan portfolio, the overall net interest margin increases.
 
Private Education Loans Provision for Loan Losses and Charge-Offs
The following table summarizes the total Private Education Loans provision for loan losses and charge-offs.
 
 
In establishing the allowance for Private Education Loan losses as of December 31, 2011, we considered several factors with respect to our Private Education Loan portfolio. In particular, we continue to see improving credit quality and continuing positive delinquency and charge-off trends in connection with this portfolio. Improving credit quality is seen in higher FICO scores and cosigner rates as well as a more seasoned portfolio compared with the year-ago quarter. The overall delinquency rate has declined to 10.1 percent from 10.6 percent and the charge-off rate has declined to 3.5 percent from 4.8 percent compared with the year-ago quarter.
Apart from these overall improvements in credit quality, delinquency and charge off trends, Private Education Loans which defaulted between 2008 and 2011 for which we have previously charged off estimated losses have, to varying degrees, not met our recovery expectations to date and may continue not to do so. We have been charging off these periodic shortfalls in expected recoveries against our allowance for Private Education Loan losses and the related receivable for partially charged-off Private Education Loans and we will continue to do so. Differences in actual future recoveries on these defaulted loans could affect our receivable for partially charged-off Private Education Loans. In the third quarter of 2011, we increased our provision for Private Education Loan losses for the quarter in the amount of $143 million to reflect these uncertainties. Continuing historically high unemployment rates may negatively affect future Private Education Loan default and recovery expectations over our estimated two-year loss confirmation period. Consequently, we have also given consideration to these factors in projecting charge-offs for this period and establishing our allowance for Private Education Loan losses. We will continue to monitor defaults and recoveries in light of the continuing weak economy and high unemployment rates. For a more detailed discussion of our policy for determining the collectability of Private Education Loan and maintaining our allowance for Private Education Loan losses, see Note 2, "Significant Accounting Policies" to our Consolidated Financial Statements contained in our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010.
Other Income  Consumer Lending Segment
Included in other income for the fourth quarter 2011 was a $9 million mark-to-market loss related to classifying $12 million of non-U.S. dollar-denominated student loans as held-for-sale. This $12 million portfolio is our entire non-U.S. dollar-denominated loan portfolio.
Operating Expenses  Consumer Lending Segment
Operating expenses for our Consumer Lending segment include costs incurred to originate Private Education Loans and to service and collect on our Private Education Loan portfolio. The decreases in operating expenses in the three months and year ended December 31, 2011 compared with the three months and year ended December 31, 2010 were primarily the result of our cost cutting initiatives. Operating expenses, excluding restructuring-related asset impairments, were 72 basis points and 92 basis points of average Private Education Loans in the quarters ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and 82 basis points and 96 basis points of average Private Education Loans in the year ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 
Business Services Segment
The following tables include "Core Earnings" results for our Business Services segment.
 
Our Business Services segment earns intercompany loan servicing fees from servicing the FFELP Loans in our FFELP Loans segment. The average balance of this portfolio was $138 billion and $112 billion for the quarters ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 and $141 billion and $128 billion for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The increase in intercompany loan servicing revenue from the year-ago periods is primarily the result of the acquisition of the $25 billion FFELP Loan portfolio on December 31, 2010 which was partially offset by the amortization of the underlying portfolio as well as the FFELP Loans sold to ED as part of ED's Purchase Program in 2010.
We are servicing approximately 3.6 million accounts under the ED Servicing Contract as of December 31, 2011. Third-party loan servicing fees in the fourth quarter of 2011 and the fourth quarter of 2010 included $17 million and $16 million, respectively, of servicing revenue related to the ED Servicing Contract. Our allocation of loans awarded for servicing under the ED contract increased from 22 percent to 26 percent for the contract year ending August 2012. The increase was driven primarily by our top ranking for default prevention performance results.
The decrease in Guarantor servicing revenue compared with the year-ago periods was primarily due to 2010 legislation that eliminated the origination of new FFELP Loans, thereby eliminating Guarantor issuance fees we earn on new FFELP Loans. Outstanding FFELP Loans on which we earn additional fees also declined.
Other servicing revenue includes account asset servicing revenue and Campus Solutions revenue. Account asset servicing revenue represents fees earned on program management, transfer and servicing agent services and administration services for our various 529 college-savings plans. Assets under administration in our 529 college savings plans totaled $37.5 billion as of December 31, 2011, a 9 percent increase from the year-ago quarter. Campus Solutions revenue is earned from our Campus Solutions business whose services include comprehensive financing and transaction processing solutions that we provide to college financial aid offices and students to streamline the financial aid process.
 
The following table presents the outstanding inventory of contingent collections receivables that our Business Services segment will collect on behalf of others. We expect the inventory of contingent collections receivables to decline over time as a result of the elimination of FFELP.
 
Other Business Services revenue is primarily transaction fees that are earned in conjunction with our rewards program from participating companies based on member purchase activity, either online or in stores, depending on the contractual arrangement with the participating company. Typically, a percentage of the purchase price of the consumer members' eligible purchases with participating companies is set aside in an account maintained by us on behalf of our members. In fourth quarter 2011, we terminated our credit card affiliation program with a third-party bank and concurrently entered into an affiliation program with a new bank. In terminating the old program we recognized a $25 million gain which primarily represented prior cash advances we received that were previously recorded as deferred revenue.
Revenues related to services performed on FFELP loans accounted for 71 percent and 76 percent of total segment revenues for the quarters ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and 77 percent and 79 percent for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
Operating Expenses  Business Services Segment
Operating expenses for the three months and year ended December 31, 2011 decreased from the three months and year ended December 31, 2010, primarily as a result of our cost cutting initiatives. Included in operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2011 is approximately $33 million in third-party servicing costs associated with our acquisition of $25 billion in loans at the end of 2010. During third-quarter 2011, we began transitioning these loans to our own servicing platform and completed the transfer in October 2011. With the portfolio fully transitioned, the servicing costs associated with these loans will be significantly less.
 
Other Segment
The following table includes "Core Earnings" results of our Other segment.
 
Purchased Paper Business
Our Purchased Paper businesses are presented as discontinued operations for the current and prior periods (see "Consolidated Earnings Summary  GAAP-basis" for a further discussion). We sold our Purchased Paper  Non-Mortgage business, resulting in a $23 million after-tax gain in the third quarter of 2011.
Gains on Debt Repurchases
We began repurchasing our outstanding debt in the second quarter of 2008. We repurchased $0 and $1.3 billion face amount of our senior unsecured notes for the quarters ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and $894 million and $4.9 billion for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
Other Income
The fourth quarter of 2011 has $26 million of impairment recorded related to our investments in leveraged leases. The impairment was primarily related to American Airlines filing for bankruptcy in the fourth quarter of 2011. As a result of their bankruptcy filing we fully impaired the related leveraged lease investments. We also have $13 million in operating leases at December 31, 2011 with American Airlines which we have determined are not impaired. As of December 31, 2011, our total remaining investment in airline leases is $40 million.
 
Overhead
Corporate overhead is comprised of costs related to executive management, the board of directors, accounting, finance, legal, human resources and stock option expense. Unallocated information technology costs are related to infrastructure and operations.
The decrease in overhead for the three-month period ended December 31, 2011 compared with the three-month period ended December 31, 2010 was primarily the result of our cost cutting initiatives.
The increase in overhead for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared with the year ended December 31, 2010, was primarily the result of a change in the terms of our stock compensation plans, additional expense related to the termination of our defined benefit pension plan, and restructuring-related consulting expenses incurred in the first half of 2011. In the first quarter of 2011, we changed our stock compensation plans so that retirement eligible employees would not forfeit unvested stock compensation upon their retirement. This change had the effect of accelerating the future stock compensation expenses associated with these unvested stock grants into the current period for those retirement-eligible employees. We also recognized $16 million of additional expense in 2011 related to the termination of our defined benefit pension plan due to changes in estimates related to the employee termination benefits as well as changes in interest rates.
Financial Condition
This section provides additional information regarding the changes related to our loan portfolio assets and related liabilities as well as credit performance indicators related to our Consumer Lending portfolio.
Subsequent to the adoption of the new consolidation accounting guidance on January 1, 2010, our GAAP and "Core Earnings" loan portfolios are identical, as all of our securitization trusts are treated as on-balance sheet for GAAP now. Hence, in referencing the total loan portfolio, ending and average loan balances, provisions for loan losses and charge-offs, we no longer distinguish between the two as they are the same, unless otherwise noted.
Summary of our Student Loan Portfolio
Ending Student Loan Balances, net
 
 
 
 
 
Average Student Loan Balances (net of unamortized premium/discount)
 
 
 
 
 
Student Loan Activity
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Private Education Loan Originations
Total Private Education Loan originations increased 11 percent from the year-ago quarter to $457 million in the quarter ended December 31, 2011 and 19 percent in 2011 compared with the year-ago period.
The following table summarizes our Private Education Loan originations.
 
Consumer Lending Portfolio Performance
Private Education Loan Delinquencies and Forbearance
 
 
 
 
 
 
Allowance for Private Education Loan Losses
The following table summarizes changes in the allowance for Private Education Loan losses.
 
 
 
 
 
The following table provides detail for the traditional and non-traditional Private Education Loans.
 
 
 
As part of concluding on the adequacy of the allowance for loan loss, we review key allowance and loan metrics. The most significant of these metrics considered are the allowance coverage of charge-offs ratio; the allowance as a percentage of total loans and of loans in repayment; and delinquency and forbearance percentages.
 
The tables below show the composition and status of the Private Education Loan portfolio aged by number of months in active repayment status (months for which a scheduled monthly payment was due). As indicated in the tables, the percentage of loans in forbearance status decreases the longer the loans have been in active repayment status. At December 31, 2011, loans in forbearance status as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance were 6.9 percent for loans that have been in active repayment status for less than 25 months. The percentage drops to 1.3 percent for loans that have been in active repayment status for more than 48 months. Approximately 80 percent of our Private Education Loans in forbearance status has been in active repayment status less than 25 months.
 
 
 
The monthly average number of loans granted forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance remained steady at 5.3 percent in the fourth quarter of 2011 compared with the year-ago quarter. As of December 31, 2011, 2.6 percent of loans in current status were delinquent as of the end of the prior month, but were granted a forbearance that made them current as of December 31, 2011 (borrowers made payments on approximately 22 percent of these loans immediately prior to being granted forbearance).
Receivable for Partially Charged-Off Private Education Loans
At the end of each month, for loans that are 212 days past due, we charge off the estimated loss of a defaulted loan balance. Actual recoveries are applied against the remaining loan balance that was not charged off. We refer to this remaining loan balance as the "receivable for partially charged-off loans." If actual periodic recoveries are less than expected, the difference is immediately charged off through the allowance for loan losses with an offsetting reduction in the receivable for partially charged-off Private Education Loans. If actual periodic recoveries are greater than expected, they will be reflected as a recovery through the allowance for Private Education Loan losses once the cumulative recovery amount exceeds the cumulative amount originally expected to be recovered. There was $143 million in the provision for Private Education Loan losses recorded in the third quarter of 2011 to reflect possible additional future charge-offs related to the receivable for partially charged-off Private Education Loans (see "Consumer Lending Segment  Private Education Loans Provision for Loan Losses and Charge-Offs" for a further discussion).
 
The following table summarizes the activity in the receivable for partially charged-off Private Education Loans.
 
 
 
 
 
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Recent market volatility has elevated the potential cost of capital markets issuance. Regardless, we continue to expect to fund our ongoing liquidity needs, including the origination of new Private Education Loans and the repayment of $1.8 billion of senior unsecured notes to mature in the next twelve months, primarily through our current cash and investment position and the collection of additional bank deposits, the very predictable operating cash flows provided by earnings and repayment of principal on unencumbered student loan assets, distributions from our securitization trusts (including servicing fees which are priority payments within the trusts). We may also draw down on FFELP ABCP Facilities and the facility with the Federal Home Loan Bank in Des Moines (the "FHLB-DM Facility"); and we may also issue term ABS and unsecured debt.
Currently, new Private Education Loan originations are initially funded through deposits and subsequently securitized to term on a programmatic basis. We have $1.5 billion of cash at the Bank as of December 31, 2011 available to fund future originations.
 
Sources of Liquidity and Available Capacity
The following tables detail our main sources of primary liquidity and our main sources of secondary liquidity (unused secured credit facilities contingent upon obtaining eligible collateral).
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition to the assets listed in the table above, we hold a number of other unencumbered assets, consisting primarily of Private Education Loans and other assets. At December 31, 2011, we had a total of
 
$20.2 billion of unencumbered assets (which includes the assets that comprise our primary liquidity and are available to serve as collateral for our secondary liquidity), excluding goodwill and acquired intangibles. Total student loans, net, comprised $12.0 billion of our unencumbered assets of which $11.0 billion and $1.0 billion related to Private Education Loans, net and FFELP Loans, net, respectively.
The following table reconciles encumbered and unencumbered assets and their net impact on total tangible equity.
 
 
 
"Core Earnings" Basis Borrowings
The following table presents the ending balances of our "Core Earnings" basis borrowings.
 
 
 
Transactions during the Fourth-Quarter 2011
On October 5, 2011, we closed on a $3.4 billion asset-backed commercial paper facility which matures in January 2014 to fund the call of certain Private Education Loan trust securities issued under the TALF program. The cost of borrowing under the facility is expected to be commercial paper issuance cost plus 1.10 percent, excluding up-front commitment and unused fees. On November 15, 2011, the facility provided the financing to call the outstanding securities issued by SLM Private Education Loan Trust 2009-B ($2.5 billion principal) at its
 
call price of 93 percent of par. On January 17, 2012 the facility was also used to call the outstanding securities issued by SLM Private Education Loan Trust 2009-C ($1.0 billion principal) at its call price of 94 percent of par.
On November 18, 2011, we completed an $812 million FFELP ABS transaction. The AAA bonds were priced at one-month LIBOR plus 1.28 percent with a weighted average life of 7.76 years.
On November 29, 2011, we completed a $721 million Private Education Loan ABS transaction. The AAA bonds were priced at one-month LIBOR plus 2.99 percent with a weighted average life of 3.38 years.
Recent First-Quarter 2012 Transactions
On January 11, 2012, we priced a $765 million FFELP ABS transaction to settle January 19, 2012. The AAA bonds were priced at one-month LIBOR plus 0.96 percent with a weighted average life of 4.55 years.
On January 13, 2012, we amended the 2010 FFELP ABCP Facility extending the step-down dates on the amount available for borrowing and the final maturity date of the facility, which will continue to provide funding for our federally-guaranteed student loans. The facility amount is now $7.5 billion, reflecting an increase of $2.5 billion over the previously scheduled facility reduction. The scheduled maturity date of the facility is January 9, 2015. We paid an extension fee of $2 million. The usage fee for the facility remains unchanged at .50 percent over the applicable funding rate. The amended facility features two contractual step-down reductions on the amount available for borrowing. The first reduction is on January 11, 2013, to $6.5 billion. The second reduction is on January 10, 2014, to $5.5 billion. If we fail to reduce the facility at either trigger point, the usage fee increases to a maximum of 2.00 percent over the applicable funding rate. If liquidity agreements are not renewed on the trigger dates, the usage fee increases to 1.00 percent over the applicable funding rate on January 11, 2013 and 1.50 percent over the applicable funding rate on January 10, 2014. All other terms are consistent with the original 2010 Facility.
Recently Adopted Accounting Standard  Troubled Debt Restructurings
On July 1, 2011, we adopted Accounting Standards Update No. 2011-02, Receivables (Topic 310), "A Creditor's Determination of Whether a Restructuring Is a Troubled Debt Restructuring." This new guidance clarifies when a loan restructuring constitutes a troubled debt restructuring. In applying the new guidance we have determined that certain Private Education Loans for which we have granted forbearance of greater than three months are troubled debt restructurings. If a loan meets the criteria for troubled debt accounting then an allowance for loan loss is established which represents the present value of the losses that are expected to occur over the remaining life of the loan. This accounting results in a higher allowance for loan losses than our previously established allowance for these loans as our previous allowance for these loans represented an estimate of charge-offs expected to occur over the next two years (two years being our loss confirmation period). The new accounting guidance was effective as of July 1, 2011 but was required to be applied retrospectively to January 1, 2011. This resulted in $124 million of additional provision for loan losses in the third quarter of 2011 from approximately $3.8 billion of student loans being classified as troubled debt restructurings. This new accounting guidance is only applied to certain borrowers who use their fourth or greater month of forbearance during the time period this new guidance is effective. This new accounting guidance has the effect of accelerating the recognition of expected losses related to our Private Education Loan portfolio. The increase in the provision for losses as a result of this new accounting guidance does not reflect a decrease in credit expectations of the portfolio or an increase in the expected life of loan losses related to this portfolio. We believe forbearance is an accepted and effective collections and risk management tool for private student loans (see "Financial Condition  Consumer Lending Portfolio Performance  Allowance for Private Education Loan Losses" for a further discussion). As a result, we expect to have additional loans treated as troubled debt restructurings in the future.
 


