Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, are statements of future expectations and other forward looking statements (within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 or Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each as amended) that are based on managements current views and assumptions, and are conditioned upon and also involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those in such statements due to, among other factors: the impact of the variable demand and the aggressive pricing environment for disc drives, particularly in view of current domestic and global economic uncertainty; our dependence on our ability to successfully qualify, manufacture and sell our disc drive products in increasing volumes on a cost effective basis and with acceptable quality, particularly the new disc drive products with lower cost structures; the impact of competitive product announcements and possible excess industry supply with respect to particular disc drive products; market conditions; our ability to achieve potential cost savings from restructuring activities; and alternative cash imperatives which could impact our ability to repurchase stock. Such forward looking statements are based on current expectations, forecasts and assumptions involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual risks to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated by such forward looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control. Certain forward looking statements can be identified by the use of forward looking terminology, such as believes, expects, may, are expected to, will, will continue, should, would be, seeks or anticipates or similar expressions or the negative thereof or other variations thereof or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy, plans or intentions. Some of these risk factors are set forth and are discussed in more detail in Item 1A. Risk Factors. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described in this Annual Report on Form 10 K as anticipated, believed or expected. We do not intend, and do not 3 Table of Contents assume any obligation, to update any industry information or forward looking statements set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10 K to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. We encourage you to read that section in this Form 10 K carefully. Unfavorable changes in the above or other factors listed under Item 1A. Risk Factors from time to time in our Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings, could have a material adverse effect on our business, and financial condition and or results of operations. 4 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS We are the worlds leading provider of hard disc drives, based on revenue and units shipped. We design, manufacture, market and sell hard disc drives. Hard disc drives, commonly referred to as disc drives or hard drives, are devices that store digitally encoded data on rapidly rotating platters or discs with magnetic surfaces. The performance attributes of disc drives, including their cost effectiveness and high storage capacities has resulted in disc drives being used as the primary medium for storing electronic data in systems ranging from desktop and notebook computers, and consumer electronics devices to data centers delivering electronic data over corporate networks and the Internet. We produce a broad range of disc drive products addressing enterprise applications, where our products are used in enterprise servers, mainframes and workstations; desktop applications, where our products are used in desktop computers; mobile computing applications, where our products are used in notebook computers; and consumer electronics applications, where our products are used in a wide variety of devices such as digital video recorders (DVRs), gaming devices and other consumer electronic devices that require storage. We also sell our branded storage solutions under both the Seagate and Maxtor brands. In addition to manufacturing and selling disc drives, we provide data storage services for small to medium sized businesses, including online backup, data protection and recovery solutions. We sell our disc drives primarily to major original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and we also market to distributors under our globally recognized brand names. We have longstanding relationships with many of our OEM customers including Hewlett Packard Company (HP), Dell Inc. (Dell), EMC Corporation (EMC), International Business Machines Corporation (IBM) and Lenovo Group Limited (Lenovo). For the fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006 approximately 67%, 64% and 72%, respectively, of our disc drive revenue was from sales to OEMs. We also have key relationships with major distributors who sell our disc drive products to small OEMs, dealers, system integrators and retailers throughout most of the world. Shipments to distributors were approximately 26%, 30% and 25% of our disc drive revenue in fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Retail sales of our branded storage products in fiscal year 2008, as a percentage of our disc drive revenue, were 7%, compared to 6% and 3% in fiscal years 2007 and 2006, respectively. For fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006, approximately 30% of our disc drive revenue came from customers located in North America, approximately 27% came from customers located in Europe and approximately 43% came from customers located in the Far East. The only customer exceeding 10% of our disc drive revenue for fiscal years 2006 through 2008 was HP. Dell exceeded 10% of our disc drive revenue in fiscal years 2008 and 2006. Substantially all of our revenue is denominated in U.S. dollars. Industry Overview Electronic Data Storage Industry The electronic data storage industry is comprised of companies that provide storage solutions through a variety of technologies such as disc drives, tape storage, as well as semiconductor based storage technologies such as flash memory. Participants in the electronic data storage industry include: Major subcomponent manufacturers. Companies that manufacture components or subcomponents used in electronic data storage devices or solutions include companies such as TDK Corporation (TDK), Fuji Electric Device Technology Co., Ltd. (Fuji), and Showa Denko K.K. (Showa), that supply heads and media to disc drive manufacturers as well as semiconductor companies such as Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd (Samsung), SanDisk Corporation (SanDisk), Micron Technology, Inc. (Micron), and Intel Corporation (Intel), who each manufacture flash memory. Hardware storage solutions manufactures. Companies that transform components into storage products include disc drive manufacturers such as Seagate Technology, Western Digital Corporation (Western Digital), 5 Table of Contents Samsung, Fujitsu Limited (Fujitsu), Hitachi Global Storage Technologies (Hitachi) and Toshiba Corporation (Toshiba), magnetic tape storage manufacturers such as Quantum Corporation (Quantum), and semiconductor storage manufacturers such as Samsung, SanDisk, STEC Inc. (STEC), and Intel, whose operations include integrating flash memory into storage products such as solid state drives (SSDs). SSDs are storage applications that use flash technology as an alternative to disc drives. System integrators. Companies that bundle and package storage components such as storage hardware and software into end user, consumer electronics or enterprise applications include OEMs such as HP, Dell, Acer Inc., Lenovo and Apple, Inc. (Apple); consumer electronics OEMs such as Apple, Sony, Microsoft Corporation (Microsoft), Motorola, Inc. (Motorola), Directv Group, Inc., Tivo Inc. and Scientific Atlanta Inc., a subsidiary of Cisco Systems Inc. company; enterprise storage system OEMs such as HP, EMC and Network Appliance, Inc. (Net App); and distributors who in turn integrate storage hardware and software into end user applications. Storage services. An emerging area within the electronic data storage industry is services and solutions related to the backup, archiving, recovery and discovery of electronic data. Demand for Electronic Data Storage The electronic data storage industry has traditionally been focused on compute applications for the enterprise market. We believe that technological advances in storage technology and a proliferation of non compute applications in the consumer electronics market such as digital video recorders (DVRs), gaming devices, digital music players and digital cameras is increasingly driving the broad, global proliferation of digital content through the: creation and sharing of all types of digital content, including digital photos, video, movies and music by consumers and electronic data by enterprises; aggregation and distribution of digital content through services and other offerings by companies such as YouTube by Google Inc. (Google), Flickr by Yahoo! Inc. (Yahoo), iTunes by Apple and MySpace by News Corporation (News Corp.); network infrastructure, including broadband, cable and satellite that has enabled the access, hosting and distribution of such digital content; enjoyment and consumption of digital content through DVRs, handheld applications, gaming consoles and in automobiles; and protection of digital content through storage on backup devices and storage services. We believe that growth in digital content is being driven by: media rich content, such as high definition video, digital photos, movies and music; an increase in user generated content, such as online video sharing, blogging and podcasting; the digitization of content previously stored in analog format such as paper filing systems; the duplication of content in multiple locations, including consumers replication of digital photos, video and other media. As a result of these factors, the nature and amount of content being created requires increasingly higher storage capacity in order to store, manage, distribute, utilize and back up such content. This in turn has resulted in the rapid growth in demand for electronic data storage applications and solutions. We believe that demand for electronic data storage in the enterprise and traditional compute markets continues to grow as increasing legal and regulatory requirements and changes in the nature and amount of data being stored has necessitated additional storage. Additionally, the proliferation of digital content in the consumer space has resulted in additional demand for storage by enterprises, including those that host, aggregate, distribute or share such content. 6 Table of Contents Demand for Disc Drives While the disc drive industry has traditionally been focused on applications for the enterprise and compute markets, we believe advances in disc drive capacity, cost per gigabyte, power and ruggedness have enabled growth in demand for digital content. These technological advances, as well as a proliferation of non compute applications in the consumer electronics market, has increased the demand for disc drives used in consumer electronics applications or has indirectly driven the demand for additional disc drives to store, host or back up related media content created by such applications. Disc drives are presently the most common storage solution in enterprise, desktop, mobile and higher capacity consumer electronics applications. We are particularly focused on the following areas of growing demand for disc drives: Disc Drives for Mobile Computing. The mobile computing market is growing faster than the market for desktop computers as price and performance continue to improve. Notebook systems are increasingly becoming the preference for both consumers and enterprises as the need for mobility increases and wireless adoption continues to advance. We estimate that in fiscal year 2008, industry disc drive shipments for mobile compute applications grew approximately 45% from fiscal year 2007. The disc drive industry has recently seen the introduction of alternative technologies that directly compete with mobile disc drives. For example, certain manufacturers have introduced SSDs, using flash memory technology, which is an alternative to disc drives in certain applications. Due to the high capital requirements and capacity required to manufacture flash memory, we believe the perceived benefits of SSDs are not currently realized at an attractive cost relative to hard disc drives, particularly in higher capacity applications. We believe that the market for these alternative technologies is still developing and because of the current high cost per gigabyte of these storage solutions, we do not expect these solutions to have a significant near term impact on the overall market for disc drives for mobile computing. Disc Drives for Enterprise Storage. The need to address the expansion in data storage management requirements has spurred the evolution of new storage and data management technologies for both mission critical and business critical enterprise storage. Mission critical enterprise storage is defined by the use of high performance, high capacity disc drives for use in applications which are vital to the operation of enterprises. We expect the market for mission critical enterprise storage solutions to grow, driven by many enterprises continuing to move network traffic to dedicated storage area networks (SANs). In addition, many enterprises are moving away from the use of server attached storage to network attached storage (NAS). Both of these solutions are comprised principally of high performance, high capacity disc drives with sophisticated software and communications technologies. In addition, many enterprises are also consolidating data centers, aiming to increase speed and reliability within a smaller space, reducing network complexity and increasing energy savings, which has led to an increased demand for more energy efficient, small form factor disc drives. SSD storage applications have been introduced as a potential alternative to redundant system startup or boot disc drives. In addition, enterprises are considering the use of SSDs in applications where rapid processing is required for high volume transaction data. The timing of the adoption of SSDs in these applications is currently unknown as enterprises weigh the cost benefits of mission critical enterprise disc drives relative to the perceived performance benefits of SSDs. Business critical enterprise storage is an emerging and growing application in enterprise storage whereby enterprises are using higher capacity disc drives to store less frequently accessed, less time critical, but capacity intensive data. Because of recent decreases in cost per gigabyte, business critical electronic data, which historically has been stored on tape or other backup and archival technologies, are now being stored on these high capacity disc drives. In the long term, however, we believe that this trend towards business critical systems that utilize high capacity, enterprise class serial advanced technology architecture (SATA) and serial attached small computer system interface (SAS) will, in addition to expanding the overall enterprise market, likely shift some demand from disc drives used in traditional mission critical enterprise storage. 7 Table of Contents Disc Drives for Branded Solutions. We believe that the proliferation of media rich digital content has increased consumer demand for storage to augment their current desktop or notebook disc drive capacities. Consumers are also using external branded storage solutions to backup and secure data in case of disaster or system failure. Disc Drives for Desktop Computing. We believe growth in disc drives for desktop computing has recently moderated, in part due to the growth in demand for notebook computers, particularly in developed countries. We believe that current growth in demand for disc drives in desktop computing is focused on developing markets where price remains a primary consideration. Demand for inexpensive, high capacity external storage has also driven growth of 3.5 inch desktop disc drives. Disc Drives for Consumer Electronics. Disc drives in the consumer electronics markets are primarily used in high capacity solutions, such as DVRs, that require more storage capability than can be provided in a cost effective manner through alternative technologies such as flash memory, which is used in lower capacity consumer electronics applications. We believe the demand for disc drives in consumer electronics will become more pronounced with the increased amount of high definition content that requires larger amounts of storage capacity. Although solid state or flash memory has largely replaced disc drives in handheld applications, we believe that the demand for disc drives to store, hold or back up related media content from such handheld devices, continues to grow. Success in the Disc Drive Industry Depends on Technology and Manufacturing Leadership, High Levels of Capital and Research and Development Investments and Large Scale Operations The design and manufacturing of disc drives depends on highly advanced technology and manufacturing techniques, especially in the areas of read/write heads and recording media, thereby requiring high levels of capital and significant research and development investments. Disc drive manufacturers are distinguished by their level of vertical integration, which is the degree to which they control the technology used in their products, and by whether they are captive, producing disc drives for their own computer systems, or independent, producing disc drives as a stand alone product. Integrated manufacturers are companies that design and produce the critical technologies, including read/write heads and recording media, used in their disc drives. An integrated approach enables them to lower manufacturing costs and to improve the functionality of components so that they work together efficiently. In contrast, manufacturers that are not integrated purchase most of their components from third party suppliers, upon whom they depend for key elements of their technological innovation and differentiation. This can limit their ability to coordinate technology roadmaps and optimize the component design process for manufacturing efficiency and product reliability while making them reliant on the technology investment decisions of their suppliers. Independent manufacturers can enjoy a competitive advantage over captive manufacturers in working with OEMs because they do not compete with OEMs for computer system sales. We believe the competitive dynamics of the disc drive industry favor integrated, independent manufacturers with the scale to make substantial technology investments and apply them across a broad product portfolio and set of customers. Due to the significant challenges posed by the need to continually innovate and improve manufacturing efficiency and because of the increasing amounts of capital and research and development investments required, the disc drive industry has undergone significant consolidation as disc drive manufacturers and component manufacturers merged with other companies or exited the industry. Through such combinations, disc drive manufacturers have also become increasingly vertically integrated. While recent combinations have limited the opportunity for additional industry consolidation, the increasing technological challenges, associated levels of investment and competitive necessity of large scale operations, may still drive future industry consolidation. Disc Drive Technology Overview All of our disc drive products incorporate certain components, including a head disc assembly and a printed circuit board, which are sealed inside a rigid base and top cover containing these components in a contamination controlled environment. 8 Table of Contents The head disc assembly consists of one or more discs attached to a spindle assembly powered by a spindle motor that rotates the discs at a high constant speed around a hub. The discs, or recording media, are the components on which data is stored and from which it is retrieved. Each disc typically consists of a substrate of finely machined aluminum or glass with a layer of a thin film magnetic material. Read/write heads, mounted on an arm assembly similar in concept to that of a record player, fly extremely close to each disc surface and record data on and retrieve it from concentric tracks in the magnetic layers of the rotating discs. The read/write heads are mounted vertically on an E shaped assembly. The E block and the recording media are mounted inside a metal casing, called the base casing. The printed circuit board contains standard and custom application specific integrated circuits (ASICs) and ancillary electronic control chips. ASICs move data to and from the read/write head and the internal controller, or interface, which communicates with the host computer. The ASICs and control chips form an electronic circuitry that delivers instructions to a head positioning mechanism called an actuator to guide the heads to the selected track of a disc where the data is recorded or retrieved. Disc drive manufacturers typically use one or more of several industry standard interfaces such as advanced technology architecture (ATA); SATA, which provides higher data transfer rates than the previous ATA standard; small computer system interface (SCSI); SAS; and Fibre Channel. Disc Drive Performance Disc drive performance is commonly differentiated by six key characteristics: storage capacity, commonly expressed in gigabytes (GB) or terabytes (TB), which is the amount of data that can be stored on the disc; spindle rotation speed, commonly expressed in revolutions per minute (RPM), which has an effect on speed of access to data; interface transfer rate, commonly expressed in megabytes per second, which is the rate at which data moves between the disc drive and the computer controller; average seek time, commonly expressed in milliseconds, which is the time needed to position the heads over a selected track on the disc surface, data transfer rate, commonly expressed in megabytes per second, which is the rate at which data is transferred to and from the disc; and product quality and reliability, commonly expressed in annualized return rates (ARR). Areal Density Areal density is a measure of storage capacity per square inch on the recording surface of a disc. Current areal densities are sufficient to meet the requirements of most applications today. The capacity of a disc drive is determined by the number of discs it contains as well as the areal density of these discs. We expect the long term demand for increased disc drive capacities will continue to grow proportionately with the shift in storage applications from predominantly compute applications to more media rich content. In particular, audio, video and photo storage data continue to increase in size, with high definition video content an example of data requiring many multiples of the storage capacity of standard video. We believe that demand will further intensify by the proliferation of these forms of content. We have pursued, and expect to continue to pursue, a number of technologies to increase areal densities across the entire range of our products to increase disc drive capacities allowing us to use fewer discs per disc drive and potentially reduce product costs overtime. Manufacturing We pursue a vertically integrated business strategy based on the ownership of critical component technologies, allowing us to maintain control over our product roadmap and component cost, quality and availability. We believe that because of our vertical design and manufacturing strategy, we are well suited to 9 Table of Contents meet the challenges posed by the close interdependence of components for disc drives. Our manufacturing efficiency and flexibility are critical elements of our integrated business strategy. We continuously seek to improve our manufacturing efficiency and cost by: employing manufacturing automation to enhance our efficiency and flexibility; improving product quality and reliability, and reducing costs; integrating our supply chain with suppliers and customers to enhance our demand visibility and reduce our working capital requirements; coordinating between our manufacturing group and our research and development organization to rapidly achieve volume manufacturing; and rationalizing the facilities we operate and reducing the number of personnel we employ. Manufacturing our disc drives is a complex process that begins with the production of individual components and ends with a fully assembled unit. We design, fabricate and or assemble a number of the most important components found in our disc drives, including read/write heads and recording media. Our design and manufacturing operations are based on technology platforms that are used to produce various disc drive products that serve multiple disc drive applications and markets. As an example, our 3.5 inch SATA disc drive with perpendicular recording technology platform is sold to customers for use in desktop, enterprise and consumer electronics applications. Our main technology platforms are primarily focused around areal density of media and read/write head technologies. Our integrated platform technologies and manufacturing allow our set of disc drive products to be used in a wide range of electronic data storage applications and in a wide range of industries. Read/Write Heads. The function of the read/write head is to scan across the disc as it spins, magnetically recording or reading information. The tolerances of recording heads are extremely demanding and require state of the art equipment and processes. Our read/write heads are manufactured with thin film and photolithographic processes similar to those used to produce semiconductor integrated circuits, though challenges in magnetic film properties and topographical structures are unique to the disc drive industry. Beginning with six and eight inch round ceramic wafers, we process more than 30,000 head elements at one time. Each of these head elements goes through more than 500 steps, all in clean room environments. We have upgraded our fabrication facilities in capital equipment and systems to deliver the required complexity and precision needed to complete our product transition to perpendicular recording technology, which we achieved during fiscal year 2008. Additional capital investments will be driven primarily by volume. We perform all primary stages of design and manufacture of read/write heads at our facilities. We currently manufacture all of our read/write heads. We are currently evaluating third party read/write head for use in future products. Recording Heads and Media. The percentage of our requirements for recording media that we produce internally varies from quarter to quarter. Our long term strategy is to externally purchase approximately 10% of total recording media requirements. In July 2008, we announced the proposed closure of our recording media manufacturing facility in Milpitas, California. The closure is part of our ongoing focus on cost efficiencies in all areas of our business. We plan to cease production at the Milpitas manufacturing facility in October 2008. We are continuing to expand our recording media production facilities in Singapore. We expect meaningful output from our new media facility in Singapore beginning the first quarter of fiscal year 2009 and we believe we will have adequate internal and external supply plans in place to support our requirements. Similar to our long term strategy on recording media supply, our future plans include the evaluation and external purchase of approximately 10% of recording heads requirements. We purchase all of our glass substrates from third parties (mainly in Japan), which are used to manufacture our disc drives for mobile and small form factor consumer electronics products. Historically, we purchase approximately 70% of our aluminum substrates for recording media production from third parties. In December 2007, we announced the proposed closure of our substrate manufacturing facility in Limavady, Northern Ireland. 10 Table of Contents The proposed closure is part of our ongoing focus on cost efficiencies in all areas of our business. We plan to cease production at our Limavady facility during the first quarter of fiscal year 2009. We are in the process of adding an aluminum substrate manufacturing facility in Johor, Malaysia which will allow us to be more cost competitive and position us for future expansion, and reduce our external substrate purchases to approximately 50%. We expect meaningful output from our Johor facility in during the first quarter of fiscal year 2009. Commodity and Other Manufacturing Costs. The production of disc drives requires precious metals, scarce alloys and industrial commodities, that are subject to fluctuations in prices, and the supply of which has at times been constrained. Recent increases in the price of many commodities have resulted in higher material costs for our products. Additionally, adverse economic conditions such as rising fuel costs may further increase our costs related to commodities, manufacturing and freight. Should we not be able to pass these increased costs onto our customers, our gross margins may be impacted. In order to mitigate susceptibility to these conditions, we may maintain increased inventory of precious metals, scarce alloys and industrial commodities. In addition, we have increased our use of ocean shipments to help offset the increase in freight costs. Printed Circuit Boards. Printed circuit boards are the boards that contain the electronic circuitry and ASICs that provide the electronic controls of the disc drive and on which the head disc assembly is mounted. During fiscal year 2008, we completed the outsourcing of the manufacture and assembly of the printed circuit boards used in our disc drives to third parties. Spindle Motors. We participate in the design of many of our spindle motors and purchase them principally from outside vendors in Asia, whom we have licensed to use our intellectual property and technology. ASICs. We participate in the design of many of the ASICs used in our disc drives for motor and actuator control, such as interface controllers, read/write channels and pre amplifiers. We do not manufacture any ASICs but, rather, buy them from third party suppliers. Disc Drive Assembly. Following the production of the individual components of the disc drive, the first step in the manufacture of a disc drive itself is the assembly of the actuator arm, read/write heads, discs and spindle motor in a housing to form the head disc assembly. The production of the head disc assembly involves largely automated processes. Printed circuit boards are then mated to the head disc assembly and the completed unit is tested prior to packaging and shipment. Disc drive assembly and test operations occur primarily at facilities located in China, Singapore and Thailand. We perform subassembly and component manufacturing operations at our facilities in China, Malaysia, Northern Ireland, Singapore, Thailand, and in the United States, in California and Minnesota. In addition, third parties manufacture and assemble components for us in various Asian countries, including China, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Taiwan, Thailand and Vietnam, in Europe and the United States. Products We offer a broad range of disc drive products for the enterprise, mobile computing, desktop, consumer electronics and branded solutions markets of the disc drive industry. We now utilize perpendicular recording technology in all the major markets described below. In addition, we intend to introduce SSD products for select markets in the future. We offer more than one product within each product family, and differentiate products on the basis of price/performance and form factor, the dimensions of the disc drive, capacity, interface, power consumption efficiency, security features like full disc encryption and other customer integration requirements. More than ever, our industry is characterized by continuous and significant advances in technology, which contributes to rapid product life cycles. We list below our main current product offerings. 11 Table of Contents Enterprise Storage Cheetah SCSI/SAS/Fibre Channel Family. Our Cheetah 3.5 inch disc drives ship in 10,000 and 15,000 RPM and in storage capacities ranging from 36GB to 450GB. Commercial uses for Cheetah disc drives include Internet and e commerce servers, data mining and data warehousing, mainframes and supercomputers, department/enterprise servers and workstations, transaction processing, professional video and graphics and medical imaging. Savvio SCSI/SAS/Fibre Channel Family. Savvio, our 2.5 inch enterprise disc drives designed to enable space optimization, maximized performance and availability, ships in 10,000 and 15,000 RPM and in storage capacities ranging from 36GB to 146GB. This disc drive allows the installation of more disc drives per square foot, thus facilitating faster access to data. We believe that end user customers are increasingly adopting the smaller 2.5 inch form factor enterprise class disc drives. We are currently shipping our 2nd generation Savvio disc drive featuring increased throughput and improved power consumption, targeted at space optimized enterprise storage systems. Barracuda ES SATA Family. Our Barracuda ES 3.5 inch disc drives ship in 7,200 RPM and in storage capacities ranging from 250GB to 1TB. The Barracuda ES addresses the emerging market in enterprise storage of the use of business critical storage systems for capacity intensive enterprise applications that require space optimization, maximized performance and availability. We have also introduced 7,200 RPM drives for the surveillance market with capacities ranging from 250GB to 1TB. Mobile Computing Momentus ATA/SATA Family. Our Momentus family of disc drives for mobile computing disc drive products, ships in 5,400 and 7,200 RPM and in capacities ranging from 30GB to 320GB. Commercial uses for Momentus disc drives include notebook computers running popular office applications and notebook computers for business, government and education environments. Consumer uses for Momentus disc drives include notebook computers, tablet computers and digital audio applications. Our Momentus 7200.2 is a 7,200 RPM disc drive for high performance notebooks. LD25.2 Family. Our LD25.2 Series 2.5 inch disc drives deliver storage capacities of 40GB and 80GB at 5,400 RPM, a solution with optimized capacity and size for notebook computers. Desktop Storage Barracuda ATA/SATA Family. Our Barracuda 3.5 inch disc drive delivers storage capacities of up to 1TB at 7,200 RPM and is used in applications such as PCs, workstations and personal external storage devices. Additionally, we are currently shipping a 3.5 inch disc drive with 320GB of capacity on a single disc. DiamondMax Family. Our DiamondMax 3.5 inch disc drives deliver storage capacities of up to 1TB at 7,200 RPM and are targeted at PCs, non traditional ATA and external storage applications. Consumer Electronics Storage Barracuda ATA/SATA Family. We also sell some of our 3.5 inch Barracuda disc drives for use mainly in DVRs. Our DB35 Series disc drives, with storage capacities up to 1TB, are optimized for leading edge digital entertainment. Momentus ATA/SATA Family. We sell our 2.5 inch, 7,200 and 5,400 RPM Momentus disc drives, including our LD25 Series of Momentus family of disc drives with capacities ranging from 20GB up to 250GB, for use in low profile DVRs, gaming consoles, home entertainment devices and small footprint media PCs. 12 Table of Contents Branded Solutions Our branded solutions business provides storage products including various home and office storage applications. We ship external backup storage solutions under our Free AgentTM and Maxtor OneTouchTM product lines. Both of these product lines utilize our 3.5 inch and 2.5 inch disc drives, which are available in capacities up to 2TB and 320GB, respectively. Customers We sell our disc drive products primarily to major OEMs and distributors. OEM customers, either themselves or through their contract manufacturers, incorporate our disc drives into computer systems and storage systems for resale. Distributors typically sell our disc drives to small OEMs, dealers, system integrators and other resellers. Shipments to OEMs were approximately 67%, 64% and 72% of our disc drive revenue in fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Shipments to distributors were approximately 26%, 30% and 25% of our disc drive revenue in fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The only customer exceeding 10% of our disc drive revenue for fiscal years 2006 through 2008 was HP. Dell exceeded 10% of our disc drive revenue in fiscal years 2008 and 2006. Sales to HP accounted for approximately 16%, 16% and 17% of our disc drive revenue in fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Sales to Dell, as a percentage of our disc drive revenue, were 11%, 9% and 11% in fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. No other customer accounted for 10% or more of our disc drive revenue in fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006. Retail sales of our branded storage products in fiscal year 2008 as a percentage of our disc drive revenue increased to 7% from 6% and 3% in fiscal years 2007 and 2006, respectively. See Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Dependence on Key Customers We may be adversely affected by the loss of, or reduced, delayed or cancelled purchases by, one or more of our larger customers. OEM customers typically enter into master purchase agreements with us. These agreements provide for pricing, volume discounts, order lead times, product support obligations and other terms and conditions. The term of these agreements is usually 12 to 36 months, although our product support obligations generally extend substantially beyond this period. These master agreements typically do not commit the customer to buy any minimum quantity of products, or create exclusive relationships. Deliveries are scheduled only after receipt of purchase orders. In addition, with limited lead time, customers may cancel or defer most purchase orders without significant penalty. Anticipated orders from many of our customers have in the past failed to materialize or OEM delivery schedules have been deferred or altered as a result of changes in their business needs. Our distributors generally enter into non exclusive agreements for the resale of our products. They typically furnish us with a non binding indication of their near term requirements and product deliveries are generally scheduled accordingly. The agreements and related sales programs typically provide the distributors with limited right of return and price protection rights. In addition, we offer sales programs to distributors on a quarterly and periodic basis to promote the sale of selected products in the sales channel. We have increased our sales of branded storage products to retail customers in the last two years further expanding our retail customer base. Our branded storage product is sold to retailers either by us directly or by our distributors. Retail sales made by us or our distributors typically require greater marketing support, sales incentives and price protection periods. We also regularly enter into agreements with our customers, which obligate us to provide a limited indemnity against losses resulting from intellectual property claims. These agreements are customary in our industry and typically require us to indemnify our customers against certain damages and costs incurred as a result of third party intellectual property claims arising as a result of their use of our products. Sales, Marketing and Customer Service Our marketing organization works to increase demand for our disc drive products through strategic collaboration with key OEM customers and distribution partners to align our respective product roadmaps and to 13 Table of Contents build our brand and end customer relationships. As customers and markets increasingly demand a broad variety of products with different performance and cost attributes, we have marketing groups focused on the strategic needs of our increasingly diverse customer base. We believe this enables us to serve both our core markets and better identify, develop and serve emerging markets. Our sales organization focuses on deepening our relationship with our customers. The worldwide sales group focuses on geographic coverage of OEMs and distributors throughout most of the world. The worldwide sales group is organized by customer type and regionally among Americas, Japan, Asia Pacific (excluding Japan) and Europe, Africa and the Middle East. In addition, we have a sales operation group which focuses on aligning our production levels with customers product requirements. Our sales force works directly with our marketing organization to coordinate our OEM and distribution channel relationships. We maintain sales offices throughout the United States and in Australia, China, France, Germany, Japan, Singapore, Taiwan and the United Kingdom. With the acquisition of Maxtor, we acquired the right to the use the Maxtor and other related brand names. We believe the Maxtor brand is a valuable asset, and we intend to continue to offer the Maxtor brand of products to consumers globally to broaden our reach into and coverage of these channels as well as optimize the impact of our marketing investments. Our customer service organization maintains a global network of service points to process warranty returns and manage outsourced repair vendors. We generally warrant our products for periods ranging from three to five years. Foreign sales are subject to foreign exchange controls and other restrictions, including, in the case of some countries, approval by the Office of Export Administration of the U.S. Department of Commerce and other U.S. governmental agencies. Competition The markets that we compete in are intensely competitive, with disc drive manufacturers not only competing for a limited number of major disc drive customers, but also increasingly competing with other companies in the electronic data storage industry that provide alternative storage solutions, such as flash memory, tape, optical and SSDs. Some of the principal factors used by customers to differentiate among electronic data storage solutions manufacturers are storage capacity; price per unit and price per gigabyte; storage/retrieval access times; data transfer rates; product quality and reliability; supply continuity; form factor; warranty; and brand. We believe that our disc drive products are competitive with respect to each of these factors in the markets that we currently address. We summarize below our principal disc drive competitors, other competitors, the effect of competition on price erosion for our products and product life cycles and technology. Principal Disc Drive Competitors. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience intense competition from a number of domestic and foreign companies, some of which have greater financial and other resources than we have. These competitors include independent disc drive manufacturers such as Western Digital, as well as large captive manufacturers such as Fujitsu, Samsung, Hitachi, and Toshiba. Because they produce complete computer systems and other non compute consumer electronics and mobile devices, these captive manufacturers can derive a greater portion of their operating margins from other components, which reduces their need to realize a profit on the disc drives included in their computer systems and allows them to sell disc drives to third parties at very low margins. Many captive manufacturers are also formidable competitors because they have more substantial resources and greater access to their internal customers than we do. In addition, Toshiba and Samsung, each are increasingly integrating other storage technologies such as flash memory, hybrid disc drives and SSDs into its product offerings. Not only may they be willing to sell their disc drives at a lower margin to advance their overall business strategy, their portfolio allows them to be indifferent to which technology prevails over the other. They can offer a broad range of storage media and solutions and focus on those with lowest costs and greatest sales. In connection with our branded storage products, in addition to 14 Table of Contents competing with our disc drive competitors, we also compete with companies such as LaCie S.A. that purchase disc drives for use in their branded storage products from us and our competitors. Other Competitors. We also are experiencing competition from companies that provide alternative storage technologies such as flash memory, which have substantially replaced disc drives in lower capacity handheld devices. Principal competitors include Samsung, Toshiba, Micron, SanDisk and Intel. Price Erosion. Our industry has been characterized by continuous price erosion for disc drive products with comparable capacity, performance and feature sets (i.e., like for like products). Price erosion for like for like products (price erosion) is more pronounced during periods of: industry consolidation in which competitors aggressively use discounted price to gain market share; few new product introductions when multiple competitors have comparable or alternative product offerings; temporary imbalances between industry supply and demand; and seasonally weaker demand which may cause excess supply. Disc drive manufacturers typically attempt to offset price erosion with an improved mix of disc drive products characterized by higher capacity, better performance and additional feature sets and or product cost reductions. We expect price erosion in our industry will continue for the foreseeable future. To remain competitive, we believe it will be necessary to continue to reduce prices as well as introduce new product offerings that utilize advanced technologies ahead of our competitors in order to take advantage of potentially higher initial profit margins and reduced cost structure on these new products. Product Life Cycles and Changing Technology. Our industry has been characterized by significant advances in technology, which have contributed to rapid product life cycles. As a result, success in our industry has been dependent to a large extent on the ability to be the first to market with new products, allowing those disc drive manufacturers who introduce new products first to sell those products at a premium until comparable products are introduced. Also, because our industry is characterized by continuous price erosion, the existence of rapid product life cycles has necessitated the need to quickly achieve product cost effectiveness. Changing technology also necessitates the need for on going investments in research and development, which may be difficult to recover due to rapid product life cycles. Further, there is a continued need to successfully execute product transitions and new product introductions, as factors such as quality, reliability and manufacturing yields become of increasing competitive importance. We believe that our future success will depend upon our ability to rapidly develop, manufacture and market products of high quality and reliability on a cost effective basis. Introduction of any technology that delivers storage at an attractive price, or has other features not offered by disc drives, may be disruptive to the disc drive industry. Seasonality The disc drive industry traditionally experiences seasonal variability in demand with higher levels of demand in the second half of the calendar year. This seasonality is driven by consumer spending in the back to school season from late summer to fall and the traditional holiday shopping season from fall to winter. In addition, corporate demand is typically higher during the second half of the calendar year when IT budget calendars provide for more spending. Research and Development We are committed to developing new component technologies, products and alternative storage technologies, including solid state technology. Our research and development focus is designed to bring new products to market in high volume, with quality attributes that our customers expect, before our competitors. Part of our product development strategy is to leverage a common platform and subsystem within product families to serve different market needs. This platform strategy allows for more efficient resource utilization, reduces 15 Table of Contents exposure to changes in demand, and allows for achievement of lower costs through purchasing economies. Our advanced technology integration effort focuses disc drive and component research on recording subsystems, including read/write heads and recording media, market specific product technology as well as technology focused towards new business opportunities. The primary purpose of our advanced technology integration effort is to ensure timely availability of mature component technologies to our product development teams as well as allowing us to leverage and coordinate those technologies in the design centers across our products in order to take advantage of opportunities in the marketplace. During fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006, we had product development expenses of approximately $1 billion, $904 million and $805 million, respectively, which represented 8%, 8% and 9% of our consolidated revenue, respectively. Patents and Licenses As of June 27, 2008, we had approximately 4,015 U.S. patents and 723 patents issued in various foreign jurisdictions as well as approximately 1,188 U.S. and 579 foreign patent applications pending. The number of patents and patent applications will vary at any given time as part of our ongoing patent portfolio management activity. Due to the rapid technological change that characterizes the electronic data storage industry, we believe that the improvement of existing products, reliance upon trade secret law, protection of unpatented proprietary know how and development of new products are generally more important than patent protection in establishing and maintaining a competitive advantage. Nevertheless, we believe that patents are valuable to our business and intend to continue our efforts to protect and obtain patents, where available, in connection with our research and development program. The electronic data storage industry is characterized by significant litigation relating to patent and other intellectual property rights. Because of rapid technological development in the electronic data storage industry, some of our products have been, and in the future could be, alleged to infringe existing patents of third parties. From time to time, we receive claims that our products infringe patents of third parties. Although we have been able to resolve some of those claims or potential claims by obtaining licenses or rights under the patents in question without a material adverse affect on us, other claims have resulted in adverse decisions or settlements. In addition, other claims are pending which if resolved unfavorably to us could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. For more information on these claims, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings. The costs of engaging in intellectual property litigation in the past have been and may be substantial, irrespective of the merits of the claim or the outcome. We have patent licenses with a number of companies. Additionally, as part of our normal intellectual property practices, we may be engaged in negotiations with other major electronic data storage companies and component manufacturers with respect to licenses. Backlog In view of our customers rights to cancel or defer orders with little or no penalty, we believe backlog in the disc drive industry is of limited indicative value in estimating future performance and results. Employees At June 27, 2008, we employed approximately 54,000 employees, temporary employees and contractors worldwide, of which approximately 42,000 employees were located in our Asian operations. We believe that our future success will depend in part on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees at all levels. We believe that our employee relations are good. Environmental Matters Our operations are subject to U.S. and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. Some of our operations require environmental permits and controls to prevent and reduce air and water pollution, and these permits are subject to modification, renewal and revocation by issuing authorities. 16 Table of Contents We have established environmental systems and continually update our environmental policies and standard operating procedures for our operations worldwide. We believe that our operations are in material compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits. We budget for operating and capital costs on an ongoing basis to comply with environmental laws. If additional or more stringent requirements are imposed on us in the future, we could incur additional operating costs and capital expenditures. Some environmental laws, such as the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (as amended, the Superfund law and its state equivalents), can impose liability for the cost of cleanup of contaminated sites upon any of the current or former site owners or operators or upon parties who sent waste to these sites, regardless of whether the owner or operator owned the site at the time of the release of hazardous substances or the lawfulness of the original disposal activity. We were identified as a potentially responsible party at several superfund sites. At each of these sites, we have an assigned portion of the financial liability based on the type and amount of hazardous substances disposed of by each party at the site and the number of financially viable parties. We have fulfilled our responsibilities at some of these sites and remain involved in only a few at this time. While our ultimate costs in connection with these sites is difficult to predict with complete accuracy, based on our current estimates of cleanup costs and our expected allocation of these costs, we do not expect costs in connection with these superfund sites and contaminated sites to be material. We may be subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including those restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products. For example, the European Union (EU) enacted the Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (RoHS), which prohibits the use of certain substances, including lead, in certain products, including disc drives, put on the market after July 1, 2006 as well as the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) directive, which makes producers of electrical goods, including disc drives, financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products. Similar legislation has been or may be enacted in other jurisdictions, including in the United States, Canada, Mexico, China and Japan. If we or our suppliers fail to comply with the substance restrictions, recycle requirements or other environmental requirements as they are enacted worldwide, it could have a materially adverse effect on our business. 17 Table of Contents Executive Officers The following sets forth the name, age and position of each of the persons who were serving as executive officers as of August 12, 2008. There are no family relationships among any of our executive officers. William D. Watkins Chief ExecutiveOfficer and Directorage 55 Mr. Watkins has been Chief Executive Officer since 2004, and a Director of Seagate since 2000. Prior to that, he was President and Chief Executive Officer from 2004 to 2006; President and Chief Operating Officer from 2000 to 2004; Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer from 1998 to 2000; and Executive Vice President, Recording Media Operations from 1996 to 1998. Mr. Watkins is also a member of the Board of Directors of Maxim Integrated Products, Inc. David A. Wickersham President and Chief Operating Officerage 52 Mr. Wickersham has been President since 2006 and Chief Operating Officer since 2004. He served as Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice President from 2004 to 2006; Executive Vice President, Global Disc Storage Operations from 2000 to 2004, Senior Vice President, Worldwide Product Line Management from 1999 to 2000; and Senior Vice President, Worldwide Materials from 1998 to 1999. Charles C. Pope Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officerage 53 Mr. Pope has been Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since 1999. From 1998 to 1999 he was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Prior to that, he was Senior Vice President Finance, Storage Products from 1997 to 1998; Vice President Finance, Storage Products from 1996 to 1997; Vice President/General Manager, Media from 1994 to 1996; Vice President Finance and Treasurer from 1991 to 1994; and Vice President, Finance Far East Operations from 1989 to 1991. Brian S. Dexheimer Division President, Consumer Solutionsage 45 Mr. Dexheimer has been Division President of our Consumer Solutions division since March 2008. He served as Executive Vice President and Chief Sales & Marketing Officer from 2006 to 2008. Prior to that he was Executive Vice President, Storage Business and Worldwide Sales, Marketing and Customer Service from 2005 to 2006; Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales, Marketing and Customer Service from 2000 to 2005; Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales from 1999 to 2000; Senior Vice President, Personal Storage Group/Product Line Management from 1998 to 1999; Vice President, and General Manager, Removable Storage Solutions from 1997 to 1998. Robert Whitmore Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officerage 46 Mr. Whitmore has been Executive Vice President Product and Process Development and Chief Technology Officer since 2007. Prior to that he was Executive Vice President, Product and Process Development from 2006 to 2007; Senior Vice President, Product and Process Development from 2004 to 2006; Senior Vice President, Product Development Engineering from 2002 to 2004; Vice President, Enterprise Storage Design Engineering from 1999 to 2002, Vice President and Executive Director, Twin Cities Manufacturing Operations from 1997 to 1999; Senior Director, Manufacturing Engineering, Singapore Operations from 1995 to 1997; and Senior Manager, Design Engineering, Twin Cities Division from 1992 to 1995. D. Kurt Richarz Executive Vice President, Sales and Customer Service Operationsage 47 Mr. Richarz joined Seagate in May 2006, when we acquired Maxtor. He has served as our Executive Vice President, Sales and Customer Service Operations since May 2008. Previously, he served as Vice President of Global OEM Sales from 2006 to 2007 and Senior Vice President of Global OEM Sales from 2007 to 2008. At Maxtor, from 2002 to 2006, he served as Vice President, Global OEM Account Sales and Senior Vice President of Worldwide Sales. From 1990 to 2001, he served in various sales positions at Quantum Corporation. 18 Table of Contents Jaroslaw S. Glembocki Senior Vice President, Recording Heads and Mediaage 52 Mr. Glembocki has been Senior Vice President, Recording Heads and Media Operations since 2000. Prior to that he was Senior Vice President/General Manager, Recording Media Group, from 1997 to 2000; and Vice President, Engineering and CTO Media from 1996 to 1997. W. David Mosley Senior Vice President, Global Disc Storage Operationsage 41 Mr. Mosley has been Senior Vice President, Global Disc Storage Operations since 2007. Prior to that, he was Vice President, Research and Development, Engineering from 2002 to 2007; Senior Director, Research and Development, Engineering from 2000 to 2002; Director, Research and Development, Engineering from 1998 to 2000; and Manager, Operations and Manufacturing from 1996 to 1998. Patrick J. OMalley Senior Vice President, Finance, Principal Accounting Officer and Treasurer1age 46 Mr. OMalley has been Senior Vice President, Finance since October 2005, and assumed the additional roles of Principal Accounting Officer and Treasurer in 2006. Prior to that, he was Senior Vice President, Consumer Electronics from 2004 to 2005; Senior Vice President, Finance, Manufacturing from 1999 to 2004; Vice President, Finance Recording Media from 1997 to 1999; Senior Director Finance, Desktop Design, from 1996 to 1997; Senior Director, Finance, Oklahoma City Operations from 1994 to 1996; Director of Finance/ Manager, Corporate Financial Planning & Analysis from 1991 to 1994; Manager, Consolidations & Cost Accounting from 1990 to 1991; Manager, Consolidations from 1988 to 1990; and Senior Financial Analyst in 1988. Glen A. Peterson Senior Vice President, Worldwide Finance age 46 Mr. Peterson has been Senior Vice President, Worldwide Finance since January 2004. Prior to that, he was Vice President, Finance and Treasurer from 1998 to 2004; and Director, Strategic Planning from 1995 to 1998. Kenneth M. Massaroni Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretaryage 47 Mr. Massaroni has been Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since April 2008. He served as Vice President and Acting General Counsel from December 2007 to April 2008, and Vice President of Intellectual Property from 2006 to December 2007. Prior to joining Seagate in 2006, Massaroni was vice president of law, deputy general counsel and assistant secretary at Scientific Atlanta from 1997 to 2006. In addition, Massaroni has also held senior patent counsel positions at Motorola from 1993 to 1997, served as general counsel and secretary at Optical Imaging Systems from 1990 to 1992 and as a patent attorney at Energy Conversion Devices from 1987 to 1990, and as an associate at the law firm of Collier, Shannon, Rill and Scott from 1992 to 1993. David Z. Anderson Vice President, Finance, Storage Marketsage 43 Mr. Anderson joined Seagate in 1995, and has served as our Vice President, Finance, Storage Markets, since 2007. He previously held positions as Vice President, Finance, Asia Operations from 2005 to 2007 and Senior Director, Corporate Accounting, Compliance and External Reporting and Corporate Financial Planning & Analysis from 2003 to 2005. Prior to 2003, Mr. Anderson held a variety of progressively senior management positions within the Finance organization of the Company. On July 1, 2008, Mr. Anderson was appointed Principal Accounting Officer and Treasurer of the Company. The transition by which Mr. Anderson will assume the responsibilities of these offices began on July 1, 2008, and he will formally acquire the titles on August 25, 2008. 1 On April 24, 2008, the Board of Directors appointed Mr. OMalley to serve as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Seagate, effective as of August 25, 2008. Mr. OMalley will succeed Mr. Pope, who, on April 24, 2008, notified Seagate of his intention to retire from his position as Chief Financial Officer as of August 25, 2008. Effective as of August 25, 2008, Mr. Pope will transition to the position of Executive Vice President, Strategic Planning and Corporate Development. 19 Table of Contents Financial Information Financial information for the Companys reportable business segments and about geographic areas is set forth in 
 
