Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," are statements of future expectations and other forward looking statements (within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 or Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each as amended). Certain of these forward looking statements can be identified by the use of forward looking terminology, such as "believes," "expects," "may," "are expected to," "will," "will continue," "should," "would be," "seeks" or "anticipates" or similar expressions or the negative thereof or other variations thereof or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy, plans or intentions. These forward looking statements are based on managements current views and assumptions, and are conditioned upon and also involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those in such statements due to, among other factors: the decline in global economic conditions as customers have, and may continue to, defer purchases in response to tighter credit and negative financial news; the impact of the variable demand and the pricing environment for disk drives, particularly in view of current business and economic conditions; our dependence on our ability to successfully qualify, manufacture and sell our disk drive products in increasing volumes on a cost effective basis and with acceptable quality, particularly the new disk drive products with lower cost structures; the impact of competitive product announcements and industry supply with respect to particular disk drive products; and our ability to achieve potential cost savings from restructuring activities. These risks and uncertainties include a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control. Additional risks and uncertainties are set forth and are discussed in more detail in "Item 1A. Risk Factors" of this Form 10 K. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described in this Annual Report on Form 10 K as anticipated, believed or expected. These forward looking statements should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date and we undertake no obligation to update forward looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date they were made. 3  Table of Contents  PART I  ITEM 1. BUSINESS We are the worlds leading provider of hard disk drives based on revenue. We design, manufacture, market and sell hard disk drives. Hard disk drives, commonly referred to as disk drives or hard drives, are devices that store digitally encoded data on rapidly rotating platters or disks with magnetic surfaces. The performance attributes of disk drives, including their cost effectiveness and high storage capacities have resulted in disk drives being used as the primary medium for storing electronic data in systems ranging from desktop and notebook computers, and consumer electronics devices to data centers delivering electronic data over corporate networks and the Internet. We produce a broad range of disk drive products addressing enterprise applications, where our products are used in enterprise servers, mainframes and workstations; desktop applications, where our products are used in desktop computers; mobile computing applications, where our products are used in notebook computers; and consumer electronics applications, where our products are used in a wide variety of devices such as digital video recorders (DVRs) and other consumer electronic devices that require storage. We also sell our branded storage solutions under both the Seagate and Maxtor brands. In addition to manufacturing and selling disk drives, we provide data storage services for small to medium sized businesses, including online backup, data protection and recovery solutions. Industry Overview Electronic Data Storage Industry The electronic data storage industry is comprised of companies that manufacture components or subcomponents used in electronic data storage devices and companies that provide storage solutions through a variety of technologies such as disk drives, tape storage, as well as semiconductor based storage technologies such as flash memory. Participants in the electronic data storage industry include: Major subcomponent manufacturers. Companies that manufacture components or subcomponents used in electronic data storage devices or solutions include companies such as TDK Corporation ("TDK"), Fuji Electric Device Technology Company, Limited ("Fuji"), and Showa Denko K.K. ("Showa"), which supply heads and media to disk drive manufacturers; LSI Corporation ("LSI") and Marvell Technology Group Limited ("Marvell"), which supply application specific integrated circuits (ASICs); as well as Hoya Corporation ("Hoya"), which supplies glass substrates. Hardware storage solutions manufacturers. Companies that transform components into storage products include disk drive manufacturers such as Seagate, Western Digital Corporation ("Western Digital"), Samsung Electronics Company, Limited ("Samsung"), Fujitsu Limited ("Fujitsu"), Hitachi Global Storage Technologies ("Hitachi") and Toshiba Corporation ("Toshiba"); magnetic tape storage manufacturers such as Quantum Corporation ("Quantum"); and semiconductor storage manufacturers such as Samsung, SanDisk Corporation ("SanDisk"), STEC, Inc. ("STEC"), and Intel Corporation ("Intel"), whose operations include integrating flash memory into storage products such as solid state drives (SSDs). System integrators. Companies that bundle and package storage components such as storage hardware and software into end user, consumer electronics or enterprise applications include original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) such as Hewlett Packard Company ("HP"), Dell Inc. ("Dell"), Acer Inc. ("Acer"), Lenovo Group Limited ("Lenovo") and Apple, Inc. ("Apple"); consumer electronics OEMs such as Apple, Sony Coproration ("Sony"), Microsoft Corporation ("Microsoft"), Motorola, Inc. ("Motorola"), DIRECTV Group, Inc. ("DirecTV"), TiVo Inc. ("TiVo") and Scientific Atlanta Inc., a subsidiary of Cisco Systems Inc. ("Scientific Atlanta"); enterprise storage system OEMs such as HP, EMC 4 Table of Contents Corporation ("EMC") and NetApp, Inc. ("Net App"); and distributors who in turn integrate storage hardware and software into end user applications. Storage services. An emerging area within the electronic data storage industry is services and solutions related to the backup, archiving, recovery and discovery of electronic data. Demand for Electronic Data Storage The electronic data storage industry has traditionally been focused on compute applications. We believe that technological advances in storage technology and a proliferation of non compute applications in the consumer electronics (CE) market such as digital video recorders, gaming devices, digital music players and digital cameras are driving the broad, global proliferation and growth of digital content through the: creation and sharing of all types of digital content, including digital photos, video, movies and music by consumers and electronic data by enterprises; aggregation and distribution of digital content through services and other offerings by companies such as YouTube by Google Inc. ("Google"), Flickr by Yahoo! Inc. ("Yahoo"), iTunes by Apple, MySpace by News Corporation ("News Corp.") and Facebook; network infrastructure, including broadband, cable and satellite that has enabled the access, hosting and distribution of such digital content; enjoyment and consumption of digital content through DVRs, handheld applications, gaming consoles and in automobiles; and protection of digital content through storage on backup devices and storage services. As a result of these factors, the nature and amount of content being created requires increasingly higher storage capacity in order to store, manage, distribute, utilize and back up such content. This in turn has resulted in the rapid growth in demand for electronic data storage applications and solutions. We believe that demand for electronic data storage in the enterprise and traditional compute markets continues to grow as the proliferation of digital content in the consumer space has resulted in additional demand for storage by enterprises, including those that host, aggregate, distribute or share such content. Additionally, increasing legal and regulatory requirements and changes in the nature and amount of data being stored has necessitated additional storage. Demand for Disk Drives The disk drive industry is sensitive to global macroeconomic conditions and has been impacted by the downturn in economic activity. Notwithstanding current economic conditions, we believe that growth in digital content will continue to require increasingly higher storage capacity in order to store, aggregate, host, distribute, manage, back up and use such content. We believe this growth in digital content will result in increased demand for disk drive products. Historically, the electronic data storage industry has introduced alternative technologies that directly compete with hard disk drives. SSDs, using NAND flash memory, are a potential alternative to disk drives in certain applications such as consumer handheld devices and portable external storage. We believe that in the foreseeable future the traditional compute markets that require high volume storage solutions as well as the data intensive non compute markets will continue to be best served by hard disk drives based on the industrys ability to deliver reliable and cost effective mass storage devices. Disk Drives for Desktop Computing. The desktop computing market consists of disk drives used in traditional desktop and business critical applications. We believe the demand for disk drives for desktop computing may be adversely impacted as consumers increasingly choose notebooks for their computing 5 Table of Contents needs. We believe that current growth opportunities for disk drives in traditional desktop computing applications lie primarily in developing markets where price remains a primary consideration. Higher capacity disk drives used in business critical applications are used to store less time critical, but capacity intensive data. Business critical electronic data, which historically has been stored on tape or other backup and archival technologies, are now being stored on high capacity disk drives because of decreases in cost per gigabyte. Disk Drives for Mobile Computing. The mobile compute market consists primarily of disk drives used in notebook systems. Notebook systems are increasingly becoming the preference over desktop computers for both consumers and enterprises as the need for mobility increases, wireless adoption continues to advance, and price and performance continue to improve. SSDs could become more competitive in the future in compute applications which require minimal storage capacity such as netbooks, which are smaller, less powerful, less expensive, forms of mobile computers, and are slowly becoming a low cost alternative to notebooks. Disk Drives for Enterprise Storage. We define enterprise storage as disk drives used in mission critical applications which are defined by the use of high performance, high capacity disk drives in applications that are vital to the operation of enterprises. We expect the market for mission critical enterprise storage solutions to be driven by enterprises continuing to move network traffic to dedicated storage area networks. In addition, as enterprises move away from the use of server attached storage to network attached storage and consolidate data centers to increase speed and reliability within a smaller space, reduce network complexity and increase energy savings, this will lead to an increased demand for more energy efficient, smaller form factor disk drives. These solutions are comprised principally of high performance enterprise class disk drives with sophisticated firmware and communications technologies. SSD storage applications have been introduced as a potential alternative to redundant system startup or boot disk drives. In addition, enterprises are considering the use of SSDs in applications where rapid processing is required. The timing of significant adoption of SSDs in these applications is currently unknown as enterprises weigh the cost benefits of mission critical enterprise disk drives relative to the perceived performance benefits of SSDs. Disk Drives for Consumer Electronics. Although flash memory solutions are contained in numerous consumer electronic devices, disk drives in this market are primarily used in applications such as gaming and DVRs that require a higher capacity, more cost effective storage solution. We believe the demand for disk drives in CE will be driven by increased amounts of high definition content requiring larger amounts of storage capacity. Disk Drives for Branded Solutions. We define branded solutions as external disk drives sold in the retail channel. Disk drives used in branded solutions are for purposes such as personal backup, portable data storage and to augment the consumers current desktop or notebook disk drive capacities. We believe the proliferation of media rich digital content will continue to create increasing consumer demand for external branded storage solutions. Our branded solutions disk drives are accounted for within our mobile and desktop compute markets. Disk Drive Technology Overview The design and manufacturing of disk drives depends on highly advanced technology and manufacturing techniques and therefore requires high levels of research and development spending and capital equipment investments. Manufacturing our disk drives is a complex process that begins with the production of individual components and ends with a fully assembled unit. We design, fabricate and assemble a number of the most important components found in our disk drives, including read/write heads 6 Table of Contents and recording media. Our design and manufacturing operations are based on technology platforms that are used to produce various disk drive products that serve multiple data storage applications and markets. Our core technology platforms are focused around the areal density of media and read/write head technologies. Using an integrated platform design and manufacturing leverage approach allows us to deliver a portfolio of disk drive products to service a wide range of electronic data storage applications and a wide range of industries. Disk Drive Performance Disk drive performance is commonly differentiated by six key characteristics: storage capacity, commonly expressed in gigabytes (GB) or terabytes (TB), which is the amount of data that can be stored on the disk; spindle rotation speed, commonly expressed in revolutions per minute (RPM), which has an effect on speed of access to data; interface transfer rate, commonly expressed in megabytes per second, which is the rate at which data moves between the disk drive and the computer controller; average seek time, commonly expressed in milliseconds, which is the time needed to position the heads over a selected track on the disk surface; data transfer rate, commonly expressed in megabytes per second, which is the rate at which data is transferred to and from the disk; and product quality and reliability, commonly expressed in annualized return rates (ARR). Areal Density Areal density is a measure of storage capacity per square inch on the recording surface of a disk. The capacity of a disk drive is determined by the number of disks it contains as well as the areal density capability of these disks. We expect the long term demand for increased disk drive capacities will continue to grow proportionately with the shift in storage applications from predominantly compute applications to more media rich content. In particular, audio, video and photo storage data continue to increase in size, with high definition video content being an example of data requiring many multiples of the storage capacity of standard video. We believe that demand will further intensify by the proliferation of these forms of content. We have been pursuing and will continue to pursue, a number of technologies to increase areal densities across the entire range of our products for expanding disk drive capacities and reducing the number of disks and heads per drive to further reduce product costs. In addition, we continue to invest in next generation storage technologies like solid state. Manufacturing Disk drive manufacturers are distinguished by their level of vertical integration, which is the degree to which they control the design and manufacture of the technology used in their products, and by whether they are captive, producing disk drives for their own computer systems, or independent, producing disk drives as a stand alone product. Vertically integrated hard drive manufacturers design and produce their own read/write heads and recording media, which are critical technologies for disk drives. This integrated approach enables manufacturers to lower costs and to improve the functionality of components so that they work together efficiently. In contrast, manufacturers that are not integrated purchase most of their components from third party suppliers, upon whom they depend for key elements of their technological innovation and differentiation. This can limit their ability to coordinate technology roadmaps and optimize the component design process for manufacturing efficiency and product reliability while making them reliant on the 7 Table of Contents technology investment decisions of their suppliers. Independent manufacturers can enjoy a competitive advantage over captive manufacturers in working with OEMs because they do not compete with OEMs for computer system sales. We believe the competitive dynamics of the disk drive industry favor integrated, independent manufacturers with the scale to make substantial technology investments and apply them across a broad product portfolio and set of customers. We pursue a vertically integrated business strategy based on the ownership of critical component technologies, allowing us to maintain control over our product roadmap and component cost, quality and availability. We believe that because of our vertical design and manufacturing strategy, we are well suited to meet the challenges posed by the close interdependence of components for disk drives. Our manufacturing efficiency and flexibility are critical elements of our integrated business strategy. We continuously seek to improve our manufacturing efficiency and cost by: employing manufacturing automation to enhance our efficiency; improving product quality and reliability, and reducing costs; integrating our supply chain with suppliers and customers to enhance our demand visibility and reduce our working capital requirements; coordinating between our manufacturing group and our research and development organization to rapidly achieve volume manufacturing; and rationalizing the facilities we operate and reducing the number of personnel we employ. However, a vertically integrated model tends to have less flexibility when there is a constraint in demand, which then exposes us to higher unit costs. Due to the significant challenges posed by the need to continually innovate and improve manufacturing efficiency and the required investments in capital equipment and research and development, the disk drive industry has undergone significant consolidation as disk drive manufacturers and component manufacturers have merged with other companies or exited the industry. The global macroeconomic environment as well as the increasing technological challenges, associated levels of investment and competitive necessity of large scale operations may continue to drive future industry consolidation. Additionally, we may in the future face indirect competition from customers who from time to time evaluate whether to offer electronic data storage products that may compete with our products. Components and Raw Materials All of our disk drive products incorporate certain components, including a head disk assembly and a printed circuit board mounted to the head disk assembly, which are sealed inside a rigid base and top cover containing the recording components in a contamination controlled environment. Read/Write Heads. The function of the read/write head is to scan across the disk as it spins, magnetically recording or reading information. The tolerances of recording heads are extremely demanding and require state of the art equipment and processes. We maintain a highly integrated approach to our business by designing and manufacturing a significant portion of the components we view as critical to our products, such as recording heads and media. Our read/write heads are manufactured with thin film and photolithographic processes similar to those used to produce semiconductor integrated circuits, though challenges in magnetic film properties and topographical structures are unique to the disk drive industry. We perform all primary stages of design and manufacture of read/write heads at our facilities. From time to time we use third party read/write heads for use in our products. Media. The extent of our use of externally sourced finished media and aluminum substrates varies based on product mix, technology and our internal capacity levels. We purchase all of our glass substrates from third parties, which we use in the disk drives we make for mobile and small form factor CE products. 8 Table of Contents Printed Circuit Boards. The printed circuit board assemblies (PCBAs) are comprised of standard and custom ASICs and ancillary electronic control chips. The ASICs control the movement of data to and from the read/write heads and through the internal controller and interface, which communicates with the host computer. The ASICs and control chips form electronic circuitry that delivers instructions to a head positioning mechanism called an actuator to guide the heads to the selected track of a disk where the data is recorded or retrieved. Disk drive manufacturers use one or more industry standard interfaces such as serial advanced technology architecture (SATA), small computer system interface (SCSI); serial attached SCSI (SAS); or Fibre Channel (FC) to communicate to the host systems. We outsource to third parties the manufacture and assembly of the PCBAs used in our disk drives. We do not manufacture any ASICs, but we participate in their proprietary design. Head Disk Assembly. The head disk assembly consists of one or more disks attached to a spindle assembly powered by a spindle motor that rotates the disks at a high constant speed around a hub. The disks, or recording media, are the components on which data is stored and from which it is retrieved. Each disk consists of a substrate of finely machined aluminum or glass deposited with layers of thin film magnetic material. Read/write heads, mounted on an arm assembly, similar in concept to that of a record player, fly extremely close to each disk surface and record data on and retrieve it from concentric tracks in the magnetic layers of the rotating disks. The read/write heads are mounted vertically on an E shaped assembly which is actuated by a voice coil motor to allow the heads to move from track to track. The E block and the recording media are mounted inside the head disk assembly. We purchase spindle motors from outside vendors and from time to time participate in the design of the motors that go into our products. Disk Drive Assembly. Following the completion of the head disk assembly, it is mated to the PCBA, and the completed unit goes through extensive defect mapping and testing prior to packaging and shipment. Disk drive assembly and test operations occur primarily at facilities located in China, Singapore and Thailand. We perform subassembly and component manufacturing operations at our facilities in China, Malaysia, Northern Ireland, Singapore, Thailand, and in the United States, in Minnesota. In addition, third parties manufacture and assemble components for us in various Asian countries, including China, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Taiwan, Thailand and Vietnam, in Europe and the United States. Suppliers of Components and Capital Equipment. Due to industry consolidation, there are a limited number of independent suppliers of components, such as recording heads and media, available to disk drive manufacturers. Vertically integrated disk drive manufacturers, who manufacture their own components, are less dependent on external component suppliers than less vertically integrated disk drive manufacturers. Generally, we believe that there is more than adequate supply of components to meet currently identified industry demand. However, we believe that the supply of glass substrates, a component in mobile disk drives, may be below adequate levels to support demand for mobile drives. This supply constraint may be particularly pronounced if global macroeconomic conditions improve in the near term or if the shift in demand from desktop compute to mobile compute accelerates. Drive manufacturers have adjusted their capital spending plans in reaction to the reduction in demand. As a result, capital equipment manufacturers may be increasingly financially constrained and, therefore, may be less able to supply equipment when needed. Commodity and Other Manufacturing Costs. The production of disk drives requires precious metals, scarce alloys and industrial commodities, that are subject to fluctuations in prices, and the supply of which has at times been constrained. In order to mitigate susceptibility to these conditions, we may maintain increased inventory of precious metals, scarce alloys and industrial commodities. We believe that currently there is adequate supply of these precious metals, scarce alloys and industrial commodities. Additionally, 9 Table of Contents volatility in fuel costs may increase our costs related to commodities, manufacturing and freight, therefore, we may increase our use of ocean shipments to help offset any increase in freight costs. Industry Supply Balance. From time to time the industry has experienced periods of imbalances between supply and demand. To the extent that the disk drive industry builds capacity based on expectations of demand that do not materialize, price erosion may become more pronounced. Conversely, during periods where demand exceeds supply, price erosion is generally more benign. Products We offer a broad range of disk drive products for the enterprise, mobile computing, desktop, consumer electronics and branded solutions market applications of the disk drive industry. In addition, we intend to introduce SSD products for select market applications in the future and anticipate that our enterprise SSD product will be available for customer qualification by the end of calendar year 2009. We offer more than one product within each product family, and differentiate products on the basis of price/performance and form factor, the dimensions of the disk drive, capacity, interface, power consumption efficiency, security features like full disk encryption and other customer integration requirements. Our industry is characterized by continuous and significant advances in technology, which contributes to rapid product life cycles. We list below our main current product offerings. Enterprise Storage Cheetah SCSI/SAS/Fibre Channel Family. Our Cheetah 3.5 inch disk drives ship in 10,000 and 15,000 RPM and in storage capacities ranging from 36GB to 600GB. Commercial uses for Cheetah disk drives include Internet and e commerce servers, data mining and data warehousing, mainframes and supercomputers, department/enterprise servers and workstations, transaction processing, professional video and graphics and medical imaging. Savvio SCSI/SAS/Fibre Channel Family. Savvio, our 2.5 inch enterprise disk drives designed to enable space optimization, maximized performance and availability, ships in 10,000 and 15,000 RPM and in storage capacities ranging from 36GB to 300GB. This disk drive allows the installation of more disk drives per square foot, thus facilitating faster access to data. We believe that end user customers are increasingly adopting the smaller 2.5 inch form factor enterprise class disk drives. We are currently shipping our 2nd generation Savvio disk drive featuring increased throughput and improved power consumption, targeted at space optimized enterprise storage systems. Barracuda ES SATA Family. Our Barracuda ES 3.5 inch disk drives ship in 7,200 RPM and in storage capacities ranging from 250GB to 1TB. The Barracuda ES addresses the emerging market in enterprise storage of the use of business critical storage systems for capacity intensive enterprise applications that require space optimization, maximized performance and availability. We have also introduced 7,200 RPM drives for the surveillance market with capacities ranging from 250GB to 1TB. Mobile Computing Momentus ATA/SATA Family. Our Momentus family of disk drives for mobile computing disk drive products, ships in 5,400 and 7,200 RPM and in capacities ranging from 80GB to 500GB. Commercial uses for Momentus disk drives include notebook computers running popular office applications and notebook computers for business, government and education environments. Consumer uses for Momentus disk drives include notebook computers, tablet computers and digital audio applications. Our Momentus 7200.4 is a 7,200 RPM disk drive for high performance notebooks. 10  Table of Contents Desktop Storage Barracuda ATA/SATA Family. Our Barracuda 3.5 inch disk drive delivers storage capacities of up to 2TB at 7,200 RPM and is used in applications such as PCs, workstations and personal external storage devices. DiamondMax Family. Our DiamondMax 3.5 inch disk drives deliver storage capacities of up to 1TB at 7,200 RPM and are targeted at PCs, non traditional ATA and external storage applications. Consumer Electronics Storage Pipeline HD and DB35 SATA Family. We also sell some of our 3.5 inch Pipeline HD and DB35 disk drives for use mainly in DVRs. These disk drives are optimized for leading edge digital entertainment. DB35 ranges from 80 to 250GB and Pipeline HD ranges from 160GB to 1TB. Pipeline Mini SATA Family. We sell our 2.5 inch, 5,400 RPM Pipeline Mini disk drives, with capacities ranging from 80GB up to 500GB, for use in low profile DVRs, gaming consoles, home entertainment devices and small footprint media PCs. LD25.2 Family. Our LD25.2 Series 2.5 inch disk drives deliver storage capacities of 40GB and 80GB at 5,400 RPM, a solution with optimized capacity and size for notebook computers. Branded Solutions Our branded solutions business provides storage products including various home and office storage applications. We ship external backup storage solutions under our Free Agent and Maxtor OneTouch product lines. Both of these product lines utilize our 3.5 inch and 2.5 inch disk drives, which are available in capacities up to 2TB and 500GB, respectively. Customers We sell our disk drives primarily to major original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). We also sell to distributors and retailers under our globally recognized brand names. We have longstanding relationships with many of our OEM customers, including HP, Dell, EMC, International Business Machines Corporation ("IBM") and Lenovo. The following table summarizes our disk drive revenue by channel and by geography: Fiscal Years Ended July 3, 2009 June 27, 2008 June 29, 2007 Revenues by Channel (%) OEM 64 % 67 % 64 % Distributors 27 % 26 % 30 % Retailers 9 % 7 % 6 % Revenues by Geography (%) North America 28 % 30 % 30 % Europe 27 % 27 % 27 % Far East 45 % 43 % 43 % OEM customers typically enter into master purchase agreements with us. These agreements provide for pricing, volume discounts, order lead times, product support obligations and other terms and conditions. The term of these agreements is usually 6 to 24 months, however they are generally cancelable for convenience by either party upon written notice. Our product support obligations generally extend substantially beyond the term of the agreement. These master agreements typically do not commit the 11 Table of Contents customer to buy any minimum quantity of products, or create exclusive relationships. Deliveries are scheduled only after receipt of purchase orders. In addition, with limited lead time, customers may cancel or defer most purchase orders without significant penalty. Anticipated orders from many of our customers have in the past failed to materialize or OEM delivery schedules have been deferred or altered as a result of changes in their business needs. Our distributors generally enter into non exclusive agreements for the resale of our products. They typically furnish us with a non binding indication of their near term requirements and product deliveries are generally scheduled accordingly. The agreements and related sales programs typically provide the distributors with limited right of return and price protection rights. In addition, we offer sales programs to distributors on a quarterly and periodic basis to promote the sale of selected products in the sales channel. Our branded storage product is sold to retailers either by us directly or by our distributors. Retail sales made by us or our distributors typically require greater marketing support, sales incentives and price protection periods. We have increased our sales and market penetration of branded storage products to retail customers over the last two years further expanding our retail customer base. We also regularly enter into agreements with our customers, which obligate us to provide a limited indemnity against losses resulting from intellectual property claims. These agreements are customary in our industry and typically require us to indemnify our customers against certain damages and costs incurred as a result of third party intellectual property claims arising as a result of their use of our products. The only customer exceeding 10% of our disk drive revenue for all of fiscal years 2007 through 2009 was HP, accounting for approximately 16% of our disk drive revenue in each year. Dell exceeded 10% of our disk drive revenue in fiscal years 2009 and 2008. Sales to Dell accounted for approximately 11%, 11% and 9% of our disk drive revenue in fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We have master purchase agreements in place with HP and Dell that are cancelable for convenience by either party upon written notice, and do not require either customer to purchase any minimum or other specified quantity of our products. No other customer accounted for 10% or more of our disk drive revenue in fiscal years 2009, 2008 or 2007. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Dependence on Key Customers We may be adversely affected by the loss of, or reduced, delayed or cancelled purchases by, one or more of our larger customers." Sales, Marketing, Product Line Management and Customer Service Our Product Line Management (PLM) organization works to increase demand for our disk drive products through strategic collaboration with key OEM customers and distribution partners to align our respective product roadmaps and to build our brand and end customer relationships. As customers and markets increasingly demand a broad variety of products with different performance and cost attributes, we have marketing groups focused on the strategic needs of our increasingly diverse customer base. We believe this enables us to serve both our core markets and better identify, develop and serve emerging markets. Our sales organization focuses on deepening our relationship with our customers. The worldwide sales group focuses on geographic coverage of OEMs and distributors throughout most of the world. The worldwide sales group is organized by customer type and regionally among Americas, Japan, Asia Pacific (excluding Japan) and Europe, Africa and the Middle East. In addition, we have a sales operation group which focuses on aligning our production levels with customers product requirements. Our sales force works directly with our Product Line Management and Marketing organizations to coordinate our OEM and distribution channel relationships. We maintain sales offices throughout the United States and in Australia, China, France, Germany, India, Japan, Taiwan and the United Kingdom. 12 Table of Contents Our customer service organization maintains a global network of service points to process warranty returns and manage outsourced repair vendors. We generally warrant our products for periods ranging from one to five years. Foreign sales are subject to foreign exchange controls and other restrictions, including, in the case of some countries, approval by the Office of Export Administration of the U.S. Department of Commerce and other U.S. governmental agencies. Competition The markets that we compete in are intensely competitive. Disk drive manufacturers not only compete for a limited number of major disk drive customers but also compete with other companies in the electronic data storage industry that provide alternative storage solutions, such as flash memory, tape, optical and SSDs. Some of the principal factors used by customers to differentiate among electronic data storage solutions manufacturers are storage capacity, price per unit and price per gigabyte, storage/retrieval access times, data transfer rates, product quality and reliability, supply continuity, form factor, warranty and brand. We believe that our disk drive products are competitive with respect to each of these factors in the markets that we currently address. We summarize below our principal disk drive competitors, other competitors, the effect of competition on price erosion for our products and product life cycles and technology. Principal Disk Drive Competitors. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience intense competition from a number of domestic and foreign companies, some of which have greater financial and other resources than we have. These competitors include independent disk drive manufacturers such as Western Digital, as well as large captive manufacturers such as Fujitsu, Hitachi, Samsung and Toshiba. Because these captive manufacturers produce complete computer systems and other non compute consumer electronics and mobile devices, they can derive a greater portion of their operating margins from other components, which may reduce their need to realize a profit on the disk drives included in their computer systems and may allow them to sell disk drives to third parties at very low margins. Many captive manufacturers are also formidable competitors because they have more resources and greater access to their internal customers than we do. In addition, competitors such as Samsung and Toshiba, are increasingly integrating other storage technologies such as flash memory, hybrid disk drives and SSDs into their product offerings. Not only may they be willing to sell their disk drives at a lower margin to advance their overall business strategy, their portfolio may allow them to be indifferent to which technology prevails over the other as they can offer a broad range of storage media and solutions and focus on those with lowest costs and greatest sales. In connection with our branded storage products, in addition to competing with our disk drive competitors, we also compete with companies such as Iomega Corporation (an EMC company) and LaCie S.A. that purchase disk drives from us and our competitors for use in their branded storage products. Other Competitors. We also are experiencing competition from companies that provide alternative storage technologies such as flash memory and SSDs. In the flash memory market, primarily used in lower capacity handheld devices, the principal competitors include Micron Technology, Inc. ("Micron"), Samsung, SanDisk and Toshiba. In enterprise applications where SSDs are used for rapid processing and high volume transactions, our principal competitors include Hitachi and STEC. 13 Table of Contents Price Erosion Our industry has been characterized by price declines for disk drive products with comparable capacity, performance and feature sets ("like for like products"). Price declines for like for like products ("price erosion") are more pronounced during periods of: economic contraction or industry consolidation in which competitors may use discounted pricing to attempt to maintain or gain market share; few new product introductions when multiple competitors have comparable or alternative product offerings; temporary imbalances between industry supply and demand; and seasonally weaker demand, which may cause excess supply. Disk drive manufacturers typically attempt to offset price erosion with an improved mix of disk drive products characterized by higher capacity, better performance and additional feature sets and or product cost reductions. We expect price erosion in our industry will continue. To remain competitive, we believe it is necessary for industry participants to continue to introduce new product offerings that utilize advanced technologies ahead of the competition in order to take advantage of potentially higher initial profit margins and reduced cost structures on these new products. Product Life Cycles and Changing Technology. Our industry has been characterized by significant advances in technology, which have contributed to rapid product life cycles. As a result, success in our industry has been dependent to a large extent on the ability to be the first to market with new products, allowing those disk drive manufacturers who introduce new products first to sell those products at a premium until comparable products are introduced. Also, because our industry is characterized by continuous price erosion, the existence of rapid product life cycles has necessitated the need to quickly achieve product cost effectiveness. Changing technology also necessitates the need for on going investments in research and development, which may be difficult to recover due to rapid product life cycles and economic declines. Further, there is a continued need to successfully execute product transitions and new product introductions, as factors such as quality, reliability and manufacturing yields become of increasing competitive importance. Seasonality The disk drive industry traditionally experiences seasonal variability in demand with higher levels of demand in the second half of the calendar year. This seasonality is driven by consumer spending in the back to school season from late summer to fall and the traditional holiday shopping season from fall to winter. In addition, corporate demand is typically higher during the second half of the calendar year. Research and Development We are committed to developing new component technologies, products and alternative storage technologies, including solid state technology. Our research and development focus is designed to bring new products to market in high volume, with quality attributes that our customers expect, before our competitors. Part of our product development strategy is to leverage a design platform and or subsystem within product families to serve different market needs. This platform strategy allows for more efficient resource utilization, leverages best design practices, reduces exposure to changes in demand, and allows for achievement of lower costs through purchasing economies. Our advanced technology integration effort focuses disk drive and component research on recording subsystems, including read/write heads and recording media, market specific product technology as well as technology focused towards new business opportunities. The primary purpose of our advanced technology integration effort is to ensure timely 14 Table of Contents availability of mature component technologies to our product development teams as well as allowing us to leverage and coordinate those technologies in the design centers across our products in order to take advantage of opportunities in the marketplace. During fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, we had product development expenses of approximately $953 million, $1,028 million and $904 million, respectively, which represented 10%, 8%, and 8% of our consolidated revenue, respectively. Patents and Licenses As of July 3, 2009, we had approximately 4,035 U.S. patents and 660 patents issued in various foreign jurisdictions as well as approximately 1,265 U.S. and 532 foreign patent applications pending. The number of patents and patent applications will vary at any given time as part of our ongoing patent portfolio management activity. Due to the rapid technological change that characterizes the electronic data storage industry, we believe that the improvement of existing products, reliance upon trade secret law, protection of unpatented proprietary know how and development of new products are also important to our business, in addition to patent protection, in establishing and maintaining a competitive advantage. Accordingly, we intend to continue our efforts to protect broadly our intellectual property, including obtaining patents, where available, in connection with our research and development program. The electronic data storage industry is characterized by significant litigation relating to patent and other intellectual property rights. Because of rapid technological development in the electronic data storage industry, some of our products have been, and in the future could be, alleged to infringe existing patents of third parties. From time to time, we receive claims that our products infringe patents of third parties. Although we have been able to resolve some of those claims or potential claims by obtaining licenses or rights under the patents in question without a material adverse affect on us, other claims have resulted in adverse decisions or settlements. In addition, other claims are pending, which if resolved unfavorably to us could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. For more information on these claims, see "Item 8, Note 13, Legal, Environmental, and Other Contingencies." The costs of engaging in intellectual property litigation in the past have been and may be substantial, irrespective of the merits of the claim or the outcome. We have patent licenses with a number of companies. Additionally, as part of our normal intellectual property practices, we may be engaged in negotiations with other major electronic data storage companies and component manufacturers with respect to licenses. Backlog In view of our customers rights to cancel or defer orders with little or no penalty, we believe backlog in the disk drive industry is of limited indicative value in estimating future performance and results. Environmental Matters Our operations are subject to U.S. and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. Some of our operations require environmental permits and controls to prevent and reduce air and water pollution, and these permits are subject to modification, renewal and revocation by issuing authorities. We have established environmental management systems and continually update our environmental policies and standard operating procedures for our operations worldwide. We believe that our operations are in material compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits. We budget for operating and capital costs on an ongoing basis to comply with environmental laws. If additional or more stringent requirements are imposed on us in the future, we could incur additional operating costs and capital expenditures. 15 Table of Contents Some environmental laws, such as the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (as amended, the "Superfund" law and its state equivalents), can impose liability for the cost of cleanup of contaminated sites upon any of the current or former site owners or operators or upon parties who sent waste to these sites, regardless of whether the owner or operator owned the site at the time of the release of hazardous substances or the lawfulness of the original disposal activity. We were identified as a potentially responsible party at several superfund sites. At each of these sites, we have an assigned portion of the financial liability based on the type and amount of hazardous substances disposed of by each party at the site and the number of financially viable parties. We have fulfilled our responsibilities at some of these sites and remain involved in only a few at this time. While our ultimate costs in connection with these sites is difficult to predict with complete accuracy, based on our current estimates of cleanup costs and our expected allocation of these costs, we do not expect costs in connection with these superfund sites and contaminated sites to be material. We may be subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including those restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products. For example, the European Union ("EU") enacted the Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment ("RoHS"), which prohibits the use of certain substances, including lead, in certain products, including disk drives, put on the market after July 1, 2006 as well as the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment ("WEEE") directive, which makes producers of electrical goods, including disk drives, financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products. Similar legislation has been or may be enacted in other jurisdictions, including in the United States, Canada, Mexico, China and Japan. If we or our suppliers fail to comply with the substance restrictions, recycle requirements or other environmental requirements as they are enacted worldwide, it could have a materially adverse effect on our business. Employees At July 3, 2009, we employed approximately 47,000 employees, temporary employees and contractors worldwide, of which approximately 38,650 employees were located in our Asian operations. We believe that our future success will depend in part on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees at all levels. We believe that our employee relations are good. Financial Information Financial information for our reportable business segment and about geographic areas is set forth in "
 
