Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." These statements identify prospective information and include words such as "expects," "plans," "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "predicts," "projects" and similar expressions. These forward looking statements are based on information available to us as of the date of this report and are based on managements current views and assumptions. These forward looking statements are also conditioned upon and also involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those in such statements. Such risks, uncertainties and other factors may be beyond our control and may pose a risk to our operating and financial condition. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: uncertainty in global economic conditions, as consumers and businesses may defer purchases in response to tighter credit and financial news; the impact of variable demand and the adverse pricing environment for disk drives, particularly in view of current business and economic conditions; our dependence on our ability to successfully qualify, manufacture and sell our disk drive products in increasing volumes on a cost effective basis and with acceptable quality, particularly the new disk drive products with lower cost structures; the impact of competitive product announcements and possible excess industry supply with respect to particular disk drive products; our ability to achieve projected cost savings in connection with restructuring plans; the risk that we will incur significant incremental costs in connection with the implementation of our recently executed transactions with Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd. or that we will not achieve the benefits expected from such transactions (see Item 1A Risk Factors for risks related to our Strategic Alignment with Samsung below); and 3 Table of Contents significant disruption to the industry supply chain due to the severe flooding throughout parts of Thailand and the industrys ability to recover from such disruption (see "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for a discussion of severe flooding in Thailand below). Additional risks and uncertainties are set forth and are discussed in more detail in "Item 1A. Risk Factors" of this Form 10 K. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described in this Annual Report on Form 10 K as anticipated, believed or expected. These forward looking statements should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date and we undertake no obligation to update forward looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date they were made. 4  Table of Contents  PART I  ITEM 1. BUSINESS We are a leading provider of electronic data storage products. Our principal products are hard disk drives, commonly referred to as disk drives, hard drives or HDDs. Hard disk drives are devices that store digitally encoded data on rapidly rotating disks with magnetic surfaces. Disk drives continue to be the primary medium of mass data storage due to their performance attributes, high quality, cost effectiveness and energy efficiencies. We produce a broad range of electronic data storage products addressing enterprise applications, where our products are designed for enterprise servers, mainframes and workstations; client compute applications, where our products are designed for desktop and notebook computers; and client non compute applications, where our products are designed for a wide variety of end user devices such as digital video recorders (DVRs), gaming consoles, personal data backup systems, portable external storage systems and digital media systems. In addition to manufacturing and selling disk drives, we provide data storage services for small to medium sized businesses, including online backup, data protection and recovery solutions. Industry Overview Electronic Data Storage Industry The electronic data storage industry is comprised of companies that manufacture components or subcomponents designed for electronic data storage devices and companies that provide storage solutions through a variety of technologies such as disk drives and semiconductor based storage technologies such as flash memory. Demand for Electronic Data Storage Technological advances in storage technology and a proliferation of content rich devices such as media tablets, DVRs, gaming consoles, digital music players and digital cameras, are driving the broad, global proliferation and growth of digital content through the: creation and sharing of all types of digital content, such as high resolution photos, high definition video and movies, and music by consumers and electronic data by enterprises; aggregation and distribution of digital content through services and other offerings such as YouTube, Facebook, Netflix, Pandora, iTunes, Hulu and LinkedIn; network and video infrastructure, including broadband, internet protocol television (IPTV), cable and satellite that has enabled the access, hosting and distribution of such digital content; enjoyment and consumption of digital content through DVRs, handheld devices, tablets, smart phones and gaming consoles, as well as in automobiles; and protection of digital content through storage on backup devices and storage services. As a result of these factors, the nature and amount of content being created requires increasingly higher storage capacity in order to store, manage, distribute, utilize and backup such content. This in turn has resulted in the rapid growth in demand for electronic data storage applications and solutions which we believe will continue to grow with the increased demand for electronic data storage in developed countries as well as in emerging economies. We believe that demand for electronic data storage in the enterprise and traditional compute markets continues to grow as the proliferation of digital content in the consumer space has resulted in additional 5 Table of Contents demand for storage by enterprises, including those that host, aggregate, distribute or share such content. Other factors driving demand for additional storage include: continued growth in cloud computing and backup services for enterprises seeking efficient and cost effective methods of processing and storing mass data increases demand for storage as data centers expand and proliferate; increasing legal and regulatory requirements, which necessitate larger archives; and changes in the nature and amount of data being stored, such as the growing use of digital records in the health care industry. Demand Trends for Disk Drives We believe that continued growth in digital content requires increasingly higher storage capacity in order to store, aggregate, host, distribute, manage, backup and use such content, which we believe will continue to result in increased demand for disk drive products. In addition, we believe the continued increased demand for electronic data storage, in developed countries as well as in emerging economies, reflects the demand for real time access to rich data and content driven by the impact of a highly mobile and increasingly connected user base. We believe these trends will continue as computing architectures evolve to serve the growing commercial and consumer user base throughout the world. We believe that in the foreseeable future the traditional enterprise and client compute markets that require high capacity storage solutions, as well as the data intensive client non compute markets, will continue to be best served by hard disk drives based on the industrys ability to deliver cost effective, reliable and energy efficient mass storage devices. Furthermore, the increased use of client non compute devices that consume media rich content streamed from the cloud increases the demand for high capacity disk drives in nearline applications. Industry Supply Balance From time to time the industry has experienced periods of imbalance between supply and demand. To the extent that the disk drive industry builds capacity based on expectations of demand that do not materialize, price erosion may become more pronounced. Conversely, during periods where demand exceeds supply, price erosion is generally muted. In early October 2011, floodwaters north of Bangkok, Thailand inundated many manufacturing industrial parks that contained a number of the factories supporting the HDD industrys supply chain. The HDD industry had concentrated a large portion of its supply chain participants within these industrial parks in an effort to reduce cost and improve logistics. As a result, the inundation of floodwaters into these industrial parks had caused the closure or suspension of production by a number of participants within the HDD supply chain. During the supply chain disruption in fiscal year 2012, we believe demand exceeded supply due to the impact from the flooding in Thailand, resulting in an increase in the average selling price ("ASP"). The industrys ability to manufacture and ship drives has continued to recover through the end of the fiscal year and we believe total shipments in the industry were approximately 600 million units, compared to 657 million units during fiscal year 2011. As of June 29, 2012, we believe that the HDD industrys component supply chain has substantially recovered. Markets The principal markets served by the disk drive industry are: Enterprise Storage. We define enterprise storage as those solutions which are designed for mission critical and nearline applications. 6 Table of Contents Mission critical applications are defined as those that are vital to the operation of enterprises, requiring high performance and high reliability solutions. We expect the market for mission critical enterprise storage solutions to continue to be driven by enterprises moving network traffic to dedicated storage area networks in an effort to reduce network complexity and increase energy savings. We believe that this transition will lead to an increased demand for more energy efficient, smaller form factor solutions. These solutions are comprised principally of high performance enterprise class disk drives with sophisticated firmware and communications technologies. Solid state drive ("SSD") storage applications have been introduced as a potential alternative to redundant system startup or boot disk drives. In addition, enterprises are gradually adopting SSDs in applications where rapid processing and or energy efficiency is required. The timing of significant adoption of SSDs is dependent on enterprises weighing the cost effectiveness and other benefits of mission critical enterprise disk drives against the perceived performance benefits of SSDs. Nearline applications are defined as those which require high capacity and energy efficient solutions featuring low costs per gigabyte. We expect such applications, which include storage for cloud computing, content delivery and backup services, will continue to grow and drive demand for solutions designed with these attributes. With the increased consumption of media rich content streamed from the cloud, we expect increased petabyte demand for high capacity nearline devices. Client Compute. We define client compute applications as solutions designed for desktop and mobile compute applications. We believe that the increase in demand resulting from growing economies of certain countries and the continued proliferation of digital content will continue to drive growing demand for the client compute market. As the storage of digital content in the cloud becomes more prominent, some client compute applications may require less built in storage, and therefore SSDs could become more competitive within the client compute market in the future. SSDs could become more competitive within the client compute market in the future as mobile compute applications transition to smaller and thinner form factors. Client Non Compute. We define client non compute applications as solutions designed for consumer electronic devices and disk drives used for external storage and network attached storage (NAS). Disk drives designed for consumer electronic devices are primarily used in applications such as DVRs and gaming consoles that require a higher capacity, low cost per gigabyte storage solution. Disk drives for external and NAS devices are designed for purposes such as personal data backup and portable external storage, and to augment storage capacity in the consumers current desktop, notebook, tablet or DVR disk drive capacities. Client non compute applications also include devices designed to display digital media in the home theater. We believe the proliferation and personal creation of high definition and media rich digital content will continue to create increasing consumer demand for higher storage solutions. Participants in the electronic data storage industry include: Major subcomponent manufacturers. Companies that manufacture components or subcomponents used in electronic data storage devices or solutions include companies that supply spindle motors, heads and media, application specific integrated circuits (ASICs) and glass substrates. Hardware storage solutions manufacturers. Companies that transform components into storage products include disk drive manufacturers and semiconductor storage manufacturers which include integrating flash memory into storage products such as solid state drives (SSDs). System integrators. Companies that bundle and package storage solutions into client compute, client non compute or enterprise applications as well as enterprise storage solutions. Distributors that integrate storage hardware and software into end user applications are also included in this category. 7 Table of Contents Storage services. Companies that provide services and solutions related to the backup, archiving, recovery and discovery of electronic data. Our Business Disk Drive Technology The design and manufacturing of disk drives depends on highly advanced technology and manufacturing techniques and therefore requires high levels of research and development spending and capital equipment investments. Manufacturing our disk drives is a complex process that begins with the production of individual components and ends with a fully assembled disk drive. We design, fabricate and assemble a number of the most important components found in our disk drives, including read/write heads and recording media. Our design and manufacturing operations are based on technology platforms that are used to produce various disk drive products that serve multiple data storage applications and markets. Our core technology platforms are focused around the areal density of media and read/write head technologies. Using an integrated platform design and manufacturing leverage approach allows us to deliver a portfolio of disk drive products to service a wide range of electronic data storage applications and a wide range of industries. Disk drives that we manufacture are commonly differentiated by the following key characteristics: storage capacity, commonly expressed in gigabytes (GB) or terabytes (TB), which is the amount of data that can be stored on the disk drive; spindle rotation speed, commonly expressed in revolutions per minute (RPM), which has an effect on speed of access to data; interface transfer rate, commonly expressed in megabytes per second, which is the rate at which data moves between the disk drive and the computer controller; average seek time, commonly expressed in milliseconds, which is the time needed to position the heads over a selected track on the disk surface; data transfer rate, commonly expressed in megabytes per second, which is the rate at which data is transferred to and from the disk drive; product quality and reliability, commonly expressed in annualized return rates; and energy efficiency, commonly measured by the power output necessary to operate the disk drive. Areal density is a measure of storage capacity per square inch on the recording surface of a disk. The storage capacity of a disk drive is determined by the number of disks it contains as well as the areal density capability of these disks. We have been pursuing, and will continue to pursue, a number of technologies to increase areal densities across the entire range of our products for expanding disk drive capacities and reducing the number of disks and heads per drive to further reduce product costs. Manufacturing Vertically integrated hard drive manufacturers design and produce their own read/write heads and recording media, which are critical technologies for disk drives. This integrated approach enables manufacturers to lower costs and to improve the functionality of components so that they work together efficiently. We believe that because of our vertical design and manufacturing strategy, we are well suited to meet the challenges posed by the close interdependence of components for disk drives. Our manufacturing 8 Table of Contents efficiency and flexibility are critical elements of our integrated business strategy. We continuously seek to improve our manufacturing efficiency and cost by: employing manufacturing automation to enhance our efficiency; improving product quality and reliability and reducing costs; integrating our supply chain with suppliers and customers to enhance our demand visibility and reduce our working capital requirements; coordinating between our manufacturing group and our research and development organization to rapidly achieve volume manufacturing; and leveraging the facilities we operate and the personnel we employ. A vertically integrated model, however, tends to have less flexibility when demand moderates as it exposes us to higher unit costs as capacity utilization is not optimized. Due to the significant challenges posed by the need to continually innovate and improve manufacturing efficiency and the continued demands on capital and research and development investments required to do so, the disk drive industry has undergone significant consolidation as disk drive manufacturers and component manufacturers merged with other companies or exited the industry. Components and Raw Materials Disk drives incorporate certain components, including a head disk assembly and a printed circuit board mounted to the head disk assembly, which are sealed inside a rigid base and top cover containing the recording components in a contamination controlled environment. We maintain a highly integrated approach to our business by designing and manufacturing a significant portion of the components we view as critical to our products, such as recording heads and media. Read/Write Heads. The function of the read/write head is to scan across the disk as it spins, magnetically recording or reading information. The tolerances of recording heads are extremely demanding and require state of the art equipment and processes. Our read/write heads are manufactured with thin film and photolithographic processes similar to those used to produce semiconductor integrated circuits, though challenges in magnetic film properties and topographical structures are unique to the disk drive industry. We perform all primary stages of design and manufacture of read/write heads at our facilities. We use a combination of internally manufactured and externally sourced read/write heads, the mix of which varies based on product mix, technology and our internal capacity levels. Media. Information is written to the media, or disk, as it rotates at very high speeds past the read/write head. The media is made from non magnetic material, usually aluminum alloy or glass, and is coated with a thin layer of magnetic material. We use a combination of internally manufactured and externally sourced finished media and aluminum substrates, the mix of which varies based on product mix, technology and our internal capacity levels. We purchase all of our glass substrates from third parties, which we use in the disk drives we make for mobile products. Printed Circuit Board Assemblies. The printed circuit board assemblies (PCBAs) are comprised of standard and custom ASICs and ancillary electronic control chips. The ASICs control the movement of data to and from the read/write heads and through the internal controller and interface, which communicates with the host computer. The ASICs and control chips form electronic circuitry that delivers instructions to a head positioning mechanism called an actuator to guide the heads to the selected track of a disk where the data is recorded or retrieved. Disk drive manufacturers use one or more industry standard interfaces such as serial advanced technology architecture (SATA); small computer system interface (SCSI); serial attached SCSI (SAS); or Fibre Channel (FC) to communicate to the host systems. We 9 Table of Contents outsource to third parties the manufacture and assembly of the PCBAs used in our disk drives. We do not manufacture any ASICs, but we participate in their proprietary design. Head Disk Assembly. The head disk assembly consists of one or more disks attached to a spindle assembly powered by a spindle motor that rotates the disks at a high constant speed around a hub. Read/write heads, mounted on an arm assembly, similar in concept to that of a record player, fly extremely close to each disk surface and record data on and retrieve it from concentric tracks in the magnetic layers of the rotating disks. The read/write heads are mounted vertically on an E shaped assembly (E block) that is actuated by a voice coil motor to allow the heads to move from track to track. The E block and the recording media are mounted inside the head disk assembly. We purchase spindle motors from outside vendors and from time to time participate in the design of the motors that go into our products. We use a combination of internally manufactured and externally sourced head disk assemblies. Disk Drive Assembly. Following the completion of the head disk assembly, it is mated to the PCBA, and the completed unit goes through extensive defect mapping and testing prior to packaging and shipment. Disk drive assembly and test operations occur primarily at facilities located in China and Thailand. We perform subassembly and component manufacturing operations at our facilities in China, Malaysia, Northern Ireland, Singapore, Thailand and in the United States in Minnesota. In addition, third parties manufacture and assemble components and disk drive assemblies for us in various countries worldwide. Suppliers of Components and Industry Constraints. There are a limited number of independent suppliers of components, such as recording heads and media, available to disk drive manufacturers. Vertically integrated disk drive manufacturers, who manufacture their own components, are less dependent on external component suppliers than less vertically integrated disk drive manufacturers. In fiscal year 2012, the industry experienced significant increases in the cost of components due to the severe flooding in Thailand. Commodity and Other Manufacturing Costs. The production of disk drives requires rare earth elements, precious metals, scarce alloys and industrial commodities, which are subject to fluctuations in prices and the supply of which has at times been constrained. For example, during the latter part of fiscal year 2011 and continuing into fiscal year 2012, the industry experienced significant increases in the costs of rare earth elements, which are used in magnets as well as in the process for polishing glass substrates. In addition to increased costs of components and commodities, volatility in fuel costs may also increase our costs related to commodities, manufacturing and freight. As a result, we may increase our use of ocean shipments to help offset any increase in freight costs. Products We offer a broad range of products for the enterprise, client compute and client non compute market applications. We offer more than one product within each product family and differentiate products on the basis of price, performance, form factor, capacity, interface, power consumption efficiency, security features like full disk encryption and other customer integration requirements. Our industry is characterized by continuous and significant advances in technology which contribute to rapid product life cycles. We list our main current product offerings below. Enterprise Storage Cheetah SCSI/SAS/Fibre Channel Family. Our Cheetah 3.5 inch disk drives ship in 10,000 and 15,000 RPM and in storage capacities ranging from 73GB to 600GB. Commercial uses for Cheetah disk drives include Internet and e commerce servers, data mining and data warehousing, mainframes and supercomputers, department/enterprise servers and workstations, transaction processing, professional video and graphics and medical imaging. 10 Table of Contents Savvio SCSI/SAS/Fibre Channel Family. We are currently shipping our fifth generation Savvio 2.5 inch enterprise disk drive featuring increased throughput and improved energy efficiency, targeted at space optimized enterprise storage systems. Our Savvio disk drives ship in 10,000 and 15,000 RPM and in storage capacities ranging from 73GB to 900GB. We believe that end user customers are increasingly adopting the smaller 2.5 inch form factor enterprise class disk drives, which allow the installation of more disk drives per square foot, thus facilitating faster access to data. Constellation ES SATA Family. Our Constellation disk drives ship in both 2.5 inch and 3.5 inch and in storage capacities of up to 1TB and 3TB, respectively, at 7,200 RPM. The Constellation is designed for reference data environments that require high capacity, enterprise reliability, energy efficiency and optional security. Pulsar Family. Our Pulsar family of products are performance optimized solid state drives for high value, critical data, requiring enterprise class endurance and reliability in capacities ranging from 50GB to 800GB. Client Compute Momentus ATA/SATA Family. Our Momentus family of disk drives for mobile computing disk drive products ship in 5,400 and 7,200 RPM and in capacities ranging from 160GB to 1 TB. Momentus disk drives are used in notebooks for business, government, education and consumer applications. Consumer uses for Momentus disk drives also include tablets and digital audio applications. Our Momentus 7200.4 is a 7,200 RPM disk drive for high performance notebooks. Our Momentus Thin is the industrys first 7mm z height, 2.5 inch form factor drive. In addition, we are the industry leader in shipments of hybrid drives into the notebook market with our Momentus XT product line. Hybrid disk drives incorporate both a hard disk drive and NAND flash storage. The benefits of such drives are improved performance over hard disk drives, as well as higher capacity and lower cost compared to SSDs alone. Barracuda ATA/SATA Family. Our Barracuda 3.5 inch disk drives ship in 5,400, 5,900 and 7,200 RPM and in storage capacities of up to 3TB. Barracuda disk drives are designed for applications such as PCs, workstations and personal external storage devices. Spinpoint SATA Mobile Family. Our Spinpoint M8 2.5 inch mobile computing disk drives ship in 5,400 RPM, come in storage capacities of up to 1 TB, and continue to be produced under the Samsung brand name. Spinpoint SATA Desktop Family. Our Spinpoint F3 3.5 inch desktop computing disk drives ship in 7,200 RPM, come in storage capacities of up to 1 TB, and continue to be produced under the Samsung brand name. Client Non Compute Pipeline HD and DB35 SATA Family. We sell our 3.5 inch Pipeline HD and DB35 disk drives primarily for use in DVRs. These disk drives are optimized for leading edge digital entertainment and range from 160GB to 2TB. Pipeline Mini SATA Family. We sell our 2.5 inch, 5,400 RPM Pipeline Mini disk drives, with capacities ranging from 160GB up to 500GB, for use in low profile DVRs, gaming consoles, home entertainment devices and small footprint media PCs. We ship external backup storage solutions under our GoFlex&reg;, Backup Plus and Expansion product lines, as well as under the Samsung brand name. These product lines utilize our 3.5 inch and 2.5 inch disk drives, which are available in capacities up to 3TB and 1TB, respectively. We also ship network attached storage (NAS) solutions under our GoFlex&reg; Home and BlackArmor&reg; product lines. These product lines 11 Table of Contents utilize our 3.5 inch disk drives; our GoFlex&reg; Home products are available in capacities up to 3TB, and our BlackArmor&reg; products are available in capacities up to 12TB. Customers We sell our products to major OEMs, distributors and retailers. The following table summarizes our revenue by channel and by geography: Fiscal Years Ended June 29, 2012 July 1, 2011 July 2, 2010 Revenues by Channel (%) OEM 72 % 69 % 71 % Distributors 21 % 22 % 21 % Retail 7 % 9 % 8 % Revenues by Geography (%) Americas 26 % 29 % 26 % EMEA 19 % 20 % 22 % Asia Pacific 55 % 51 % 52 % OEM customers typically enter into master purchase agreements with us. These agreements provide for pricing, volume discounts, order lead times, product support obligations and other terms and conditions. The term of these agreements is usually 12 to 24 months. Deliveries are scheduled only after receipt of purchase orders. In addition, with limited lead time, customers may defer most purchase orders without significant penalty. Anticipated orders from many of our customers have in the past failed to materialize or OEM delivery schedules have been deferred or altered as a result of changes in their business needs. Our distributors generally enter into non exclusive agreements for the resale of our products. They typically furnish us with a non binding indication of their near term requirements and product deliveries are generally scheduled accordingly. The agreements and related sales programs typically provide the distributors with limited right of return and price protection rights. In addition, we offer sales programs to distributors on a quarterly and periodic basis to promote the sale of selected products in the sales channel. Our retail channel consists of our branded storage products sold to retailers either by us directly or by our distributors. Retail sales made by us or our distributors typically require greater marketing support, sales incentives and price protection periods. In fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010, Dell Inc. accounted for approximately 15%, 13% and 11% of consolidated revenue, respectively, while Hewlett Packard Company accounted for approximately 14%, 15% and 16% of consolidated revenue, respectively. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Dependence on Key Customers We may be adversely affected by the loss of, or reduced, delayed or canceled purchases by, one or more of our larger customers." Competition The markets that we compete in are intensely competitive. Disk drive manufacturers not only compete for a limited number of major disk drive customers but also compete with other companies in the electronic data storage industry that provide alternative storage solutions, such as flash memory and SSDs. Some of the principal factors used by customers to differentiate among electronic data storage solutions manufacturers are storage capacity, price per unit and price per gigabyte, storage/retrieval access times, data transfer rates, product quality and reliability, supply continuity, form factor, warranty and brand. We believe that our disk drive products are competitive with respect to each of these factors in the markets that we currently address. 12  Table of Contents Principal Disk Drive Competitors. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience intense competition from other disk drive manufacturers. After the industry consolidation experienced during fiscal year 2012, in which we acquired certain assets that comprised the HDD business of Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd. and Western Digital Corporation acquired Viviti Technologies Ltd. (formerly Hitachi Global Storage Technologies). Our primary competitors are Western Digital Corporation and Toshiba Corporation. Other Competitors. We also are experiencing competition from companies that provide alternative storage technologies such as flash memory and SSDs used both in lower capacity hand held devices and for rapid processing and high volume transactions. Price Erosion. Our industry has been characterized by price declines for disk drive products with comparable capacity, performance and feature sets ("like for like products"). Price declines for like for like products ("price erosion") are more pronounced during periods of: economic contraction or industry consolidation in which competitors may use discounted pricing to attempt to maintain or gain market share; few new product introductions when competitors have comparable or alternative product offerings; and industry supply exceeding demand. Disk drive manufacturers typically attempt to offset price erosion with an improved mix of disk drive products characterized by higher capacity, better performance and additional feature sets and or product cost reductions. Product Life Cycles and Changing Technology. Success in our industry has been dependent to a large extent on the ability to be the first to market with new products to market in high volume, with quality attributes that our customers expect, before our competitors, generally allowing those disk drive manufacturers who introduce new products first to benefit from improved product mix, favorable profit margins and less pricing pressure until comparable products are introduced. Also, because our industry is characterized by continuous price erosion, being first to market has necessitated quick achievement of product cost effectiveness. Changing technology also necessitates on going investments in research and development, which may be difficult to recover due to rapid product life cycles and economic declines. Further, there is a continued need to successfully execute product transitions and new product introductions, as factors such as quality, reliability and manufacturing yields become of increasing competitive importance. Disk Drive Industry Consolidation. Due to the significant challenges posed by the need to continually innovate and improve manufacturing efficiency and the continued demands on capital and research and development investments required to do so, the disk drive industry has undergone significant consolidation as disk drive manufacturers and component manufacturers merged with other companies or exited the industry. We acquired Samsung Electronics Co., Ltds hard disk drive business in December of 2011, and Western Digital purchased Viviti Technologies Ltd. (formerly Hitachi Global Storage Technologies) in March of 2012. Additionally, we may in the future face indirect competition from customers who from time to time evaluate whether to offer electronic data storage products that may compete with our products. Seasonality The disk drive industry traditionally experiences seasonal variability in demand with higher levels of demand in the second half of the calendar year. This seasonality is driven by consumer spending in the back to school season from late summer to fall and the traditional holiday shopping season from fall to winter. In addition, corporate demand is typically higher during the second half of the calendar year. 13 Table of Contents Research and Development We are committed to developing new component technologies, products and alternative storage technologies. Our research and development focus is designed to bring new products to market in high volume, with quality attributes that our customers expect, before our competitors. Part of our product development strategy is to leverage a design platform and or subsystem within product families to serve different market needs. This platform strategy allows for more efficient resource utilization, leverages best design practices, reduces exposure to changes in demand, and allows for achievement of lower costs through purchasing economies. Our advanced technology integration effort focuses disk drive and component research on recording subsystems, including read/write heads and recording media, market specific product technology and technology focused towards new business opportunities. The primary purpose of our advanced technology integration effort is to ensure timely availability of mature component technologies to our product development teams as well as allowing us to leverage and coordinate those technologies in the design centers across our products in order to take advantage of opportunities in the marketplace. During fiscal years 2012, 2011, and 2010, we had product development expenses of approximately $1,006 million, $875 million, and $877 million, respectively, which represented 7%, 8%, and 8% of our consolidated revenue, respectively. Patents and Licenses As of June 29, 2012, we had 5,323 U.S. patents and 1,866 patents issued in various foreign jurisdictions as well as 1,275 U.S. and 1,156 foreign patent applications pending. The number of patents and patent applications will vary at any given time as part of our ongoing patent portfolio management activity. Due to the rapid technological change that characterizes the electronic data storage industry, we believe that, in addition to patent protection, the improvement of existing products, reliance upon trade secrets, protection of unpatented proprietary know how and development of new products are also important to our business in establishing and maintaining a competitive advantage. Accordingly, we intend to continue our efforts to broadly protect our intellectual property, including obtaining patents, where available, in connection with our research and development program. The electronic data storage industry is characterized by significant litigation relating to patent and other intellectual property rights. Because of rapid technological development in the electronic data storage industry, some of our products have been, and in the future could be, alleged to infringe existing patents of third parties. From time to time, we receive claims that our products infringe patents of third parties. Although we have been able to resolve some of those claims or potential claims by obtaining licenses or rights under the patents in question without a material adverse affect on us, other claims have resulted in adverse decisions or settlements. In addition, other claims are pending, which if resolved unfavorably to us could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. For more information on these claims, see "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 14, Legal, Environmental, and Other Contingencies." The costs of engaging in intellectual property litigation in the past have been, and in the future may be, substantial, irrespective of the merits of the claim or the outcome. We have patent licenses with a number of companies. Additionally, as part of our normal intellectual property practices, we may be engaged in negotiations with other major electronic data storage companies and component manufacturers with respect to patent licenses. Backlog In view of industry practice, whereby customers may cancel or defer orders with little or no penalty, we believe backlog in the disk drive industry is of limited indicative value in estimating future performance and results. 14 Table of Contents Environmental Matters Our operations are subject to U.S. and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. Some of our operations require environmental permits and controls to prevent and reduce air and water pollution, and these permits are subject to modification, renewal and revocation by issuing authorities. We have established environmental management systems and continually update environmental policies and standard operating procedures for our operations worldwide. We believe that our operations are in material compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits. We budget for operating and capital costs on an ongoing basis to comply with environmental laws. If additional or more stringent requirements are imposed on us in the future, we could incur additional operating costs and capital expenditures. Some environmental laws, such as the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (as amended, the "Superfund" law) and its state equivalents, can impose liability for the cost of cleanup of contaminated sites upon any of the current or former site owners or operators or upon parties who sent waste to these sites, regardless of whether the owner or operator owned the site at the time of the release of hazardous substances or the lawfulness of the original disposal activity. We have been identified as a potentially responsible party at several sites. At each of these sites, we have an assigned portion of the financial liability based on the type and amount of hazardous substances disposed of by each party at the site and the number of financially viable parties. We have fulfilled our responsibilities at some of these sites and remains involved in only a few at this time. While our ultimate costs in connection with these sites is difficult to predict with complete accuracy, based our current estimates of cleanup costs and its expected allocation of these costs, we do not expect costs in connection with these sites to be material. We may be subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including those restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products. For example, the European Union ("EU") enacted the Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment, which prohibits the use of certain substances, including lead, in certain products, including disk drives, put on the market after July 1, 2006. Similar legislation has been or may be enacted in other jurisdictions, including in the United States, Canada, Mexico, Taiwan, China, Japan and others. The European Union REACH Directive (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, and Restriction of Chemicals, EC 1907/2006) also restricts substances of very high concern ("SVHCs") in products. If we or our suppliers fail to comply with the substance restrictions, recycle requirements or other environmental requirements as they are enacted worldwide, it could have a materially adverse effect on our business. Employees At June 29, 2012, we employed approximately 57,900 employees, temporary employees and contractors worldwide, of which approximately 50,600 employees were located in our Asian operations. We believe that our future success will depend in part on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees at all levels. We believe that our employee relations are good. Financial Information Financial information for our reportable business segment and about geographic areas is set forth in "
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for a discussion of severe flooding in Thailand below). Additional risks and uncertainties are set forth and are discussed in more detail in "Item 1A. Risk Factors" of this Form 10 K. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described in this Annual Report on Form 10 K as anticipated, believed or expected. These forward looking statements should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date and we undertake no obligation to update forward looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date they were made. 4  Table of Contents  PART I  ITEM 1. BUSINESS We are a leading provider of electronic data storage products. Our principal products are hard disk drives, commonly referred to as disk drives, hard drives or HDDs. Hard disk drives are devices that store digitally encoded data on rapidly rotating disks with magnetic surfaces. Disk drives continue to be the primary medium of mass data storage due to their performance attributes, high quality, cost effectiveness and energy efficiencies. We produce a broad range of electronic data storage products addressing enterprise applications, where our products are designed for enterprise servers, mainframes and workstations; client compute applications, where our products are designed for desktop and notebook computers; and client non compute applications, where our products are designed for a wide variety of end user devices such as digital video recorders (DVRs), gaming consoles, personal data backup systems, portable external storage systems and digital media systems. In addition to manufacturing and selling disk drives, we provide data storage services for small to medium sized businesses, including online backup, data protection and recovery solutions. Industry Overview Electronic Data Storage Industry The electronic data storage industry is comprised of companies that manufacture components or subcomponents designed for electronic data storage devices and companies that provide storage solutions through a variety of technologies such as disk drives and semiconductor based storage technologies such as flash memory. Demand for Electronic Data Storage Technological advances in storage technology and a proliferation of content rich devices such as media tablets, DVRs, gaming consoles, digital music players and digital cameras, are driving the broad, global proliferation and growth of digital content through the: creation and sharing of all types of digital content, such as high resolution photos, high definition video and movies, and music by consumers and electronic data by enterprises; aggregation and distribution of digital content through services and other offerings such as YouTube, Facebook, Netflix, Pandora, iTunes, Hulu and LinkedIn; network and video infrastructure, including broadband, internet protocol television (IPTV), cable and satellite that has enabled the access, hosting and distribution of such digital content; enjoyment and consumption of digital content through DVRs, handheld devices, tablets, smart phones and gaming consoles, as well as in automobiles; and protection of digital content through storage on backup devices and storage services. As a result of these factors, the nature and amount of content being created requires increasingly higher storage capacity in order to store, manage, distribute, utilize and backup such content. This in turn has resulted in the rapid growth in demand for electronic data storage applications and solutions which we believe will continue to grow with the increased demand for electronic data storage in developed countries as well as in emerging economies. We believe that demand for electronic data storage in the enterprise and traditional compute markets continues to grow as the proliferation of digital content in the consumer space has resulted in additional 5 Table of Contents demand for storage by enterprises, including those that host, aggregate, distribute or share such content. Other factors driving demand for additional storage include: continued growth in cloud computing and backup services for enterprises seeking efficient and cost effective methods of processing and storing mass data increases demand for storage as data centers expand and proliferate; increasing legal and regulatory requirements, which necessitate larger archives; and changes in the nature and amount of data being stored, such as the growing use of digital records in the health care industry. Demand Trends for Disk Drives We believe that continued growth in digital content requires increasingly higher storage capacity in order to store, aggregate, host, distribute, manage, backup and use such content, which we believe will continue to result in increased demand for disk drive products. In addition, we believe the continued increased demand for electronic data storage, in developed countries as well as in emerging economies, reflects the demand for real time access to rich data and content driven by the impact of a highly mobile and increasingly connected user base. We believe these trends will continue as computing architectures evolve to serve the growing commercial and consumer user base throughout the world. We believe that in the foreseeable future the traditional enterprise and client compute markets that require high capacity storage solutions, as well as the data intensive client non compute markets, will continue to be best served by hard disk drives based on the industrys ability to deliver cost effective, reliable and energy efficient mass storage devices. Furthermore, the increased use of client non compute devices that consume media rich content streamed from the cloud increases the demand for high capacity disk drives in nearline applications. Industry Supply Balance From time to time the industry has experienced periods of imbalance between supply and demand. To the extent that the disk drive industry builds capacity based on expectations of demand that do not materialize, price erosion may become more pronounced. Conversely, during periods where demand exceeds supply, price erosion is generally muted. In early October 2011, floodwaters north of Bangkok, Thailand inundated many manufacturing industrial parks that contained a number of the factories supporting the HDD industrys supply chain. The HDD industry had concentrated a large portion of its supply chain participants within these industrial parks in an effort to reduce cost and improve logistics. As a result, the inundation of floodwaters into these industrial parks had caused the closure or suspension of production by a number of participants within the HDD supply chain. During the supply chain disruption in fiscal year 2012, we believe demand exceeded supply due to the impact from the flooding in Thailand, resulting in an increase in the average selling price ("ASP"). The industrys ability to manufacture and ship drives has continued to recover through the end of the fiscal year and we believe total shipments in the industry were approximately 600 million units, compared to 657 million units during fiscal year 2011. As of June 29, 2012, we believe that the HDD industrys component supply chain has substantially recovered. Markets The principal markets served by the disk drive industry are: Enterprise Storage. We define enterprise storage as those solutions which are designed for mission critical and nearline applications. 6 Table of Contents Mission critical applications are defined as those that are vital to the operation of enterprises, requiring high performance and high reliability solutions. We expect the market for mission critical enterprise storage solutions to continue to be driven by enterprises moving network traffic to dedicated storage area networks in an effort to reduce network complexity and increase energy savings. We believe that this transition will lead to an increased demand for more energy efficient, smaller form factor solutions. These solutions are comprised principally of high performance enterprise class disk drives with sophisticated firmware and communications technologies. Solid state drive ("SSD") storage applications have been introduced as a potential alternative to redundant system startup or boot disk drives. In addition, enterprises are gradually adopting SSDs in applications where rapid processing and or energy efficiency is required. The timing of significant adoption of SSDs is dependent on enterprises weighing the cost effectiveness and other benefits of mission critical enterprise disk drives against the perceived performance benefits of SSDs. Nearline applications are defined as those which require high capacity and energy efficient solutions featuring low costs per gigabyte. We expect such applications, which include storage for cloud computing, content delivery and backup services, will continue to grow and drive demand for solutions designed with these attributes. With the increased consumption of media rich content streamed from the cloud, we expect increased petabyte demand for high capacity nearline devices. Client Compute. We define client compute applications as solutions designed for desktop and mobile compute applications. We believe that the increase in demand resulting from growing economies of certain countries and the continued proliferation of digital content will continue to drive growing demand for the client compute market. As the storage of digital content in the cloud becomes more prominent, some client compute applications may require less built in storage, and therefore SSDs could become more competitive within the client compute market in the future. SSDs could become more competitive within the client compute market in the future as mobile compute applications transition to smaller and thinner form factors. Client Non Compute. We define client non compute applications as solutions designed for consumer electronic devices and disk drives used for external storage and network attached storage (NAS). Disk drives designed for consumer electronic devices are primarily used in applications such as DVRs and gaming consoles that require a higher capacity, low cost per gigabyte storage solution. Disk drives for external and NAS devices are designed for purposes such as personal data backup and portable external storage, and to augment storage capacity in the consumers current desktop, notebook, tablet or DVR disk drive capacities. Client non compute applications also include devices designed to display digital media in the home theater. We believe the proliferation and personal creation of high definition and media rich digital content will continue to create increasing consumer demand for higher storage solutions. Participants in the electronic data storage industry include: Major subcomponent manufacturers. Companies that manufacture components or subcomponents used in electronic data storage devices or solutions include companies that supply spindle motors, heads and media, application specific integrated circuits (ASICs) and glass substrates. Hardware storage solutions manufacturers. Companies that transform components into storage products include disk drive manufacturers and semiconductor storage manufacturers which include integrating flash memory into storage products such as solid state drives (SSDs). System integrators. Companies that bundle and package storage solutions into client compute, client non compute or enterprise applications as well as enterprise storage solutions. Distributors that integrate storage hardware and software into end user applications are also included in this category. 7 Table of Contents Storage services. Companies that provide services and solutions related to the backup, archiving, recovery and discovery of electronic data. Our Business Disk Drive Technology The design and manufacturing of disk drives depends on highly advanced technology and manufacturing techniques and therefore requires high levels of research and development spending and capital equipment investments. Manufacturing our disk drives is a complex process that begins with the production of individual components and ends with a fully assembled disk drive. We design, fabricate and assemble a number of the most important components found in our disk drives, including read/write heads and recording media. Our design and manufacturing operations are based on technology platforms that are used to produce various disk drive products that serve multiple data storage applications and markets. Our core technology platforms are focused around the areal density of media and read/write head technologies. Using an integrated platform design and manufacturing leverage approach allows us to deliver a portfolio of disk drive products to service a wide range of electronic data storage applications and a wide range of industries. Disk drives that we manufacture are commonly differentiated by the following key characteristics: storage capacity, commonly expressed in gigabytes (GB) or terabytes (TB), which is the amount of data that can be stored on the disk drive; spindle rotation speed, commonly expressed in revolutions per minute (RPM), which has an effect on speed of access to data; interface transfer rate, commonly expressed in megabytes per second, which is the rate at which data moves between the disk drive and the computer controller; average seek time, commonly expressed in milliseconds, which is the time needed to position the heads over a selected track on the disk surface; data transfer rate, commonly expressed in megabytes per second, which is the rate at which data is transferred to and from the disk drive; product quality and reliability, commonly expressed in annualized return rates; and energy efficiency, commonly measured by the power output necessary to operate the disk drive. Areal density is a measure of storage capacity per square inch on the recording surface of a disk. The storage capacity of a disk drive is determined by the number of disks it contains as well as the areal density capability of these disks. We have been pursuing, and will continue to pursue, a number of technologies to increase areal densities across the entire range of our products for expanding disk drive capacities and reducing the number of disks and heads per drive to further reduce product costs. Manufacturing Vertically integrated hard drive manufacturers design and produce their own read/write heads and recording media, which are critical technologies for disk drives. This integrated approach enables manufacturers to lower costs and to improve the functionality of components so that they work together efficiently. We believe that because of our vertical design and manufacturing strategy, we are well suited to meet the challenges posed by the close interdependence of components for disk drives. Our manufacturing 8 Table of Contents efficiency and flexibility are critical elements of our integrated business strategy. We continuously seek to improve our manufacturing efficiency and cost by: employing manufacturing automation to enhance our efficiency; improving product quality and reliability and reducing costs; integrating our supply chain with suppliers and customers to enhance our demand visibility and reduce our working capital requirements; coordinating between our manufacturing group and our research and development organization to rapidly achieve volume manufacturing; and leveraging the facilities we operate and the personnel we employ. A vertically integrated model, however, tends to have less flexibility when demand moderates as it exposes us to higher unit costs as capacity utilization is not optimized. Due to the significant challenges posed by the need to continually innovate and improve manufacturing efficiency and the continued demands on capital and research and development investments required to do so, the disk drive industry has undergone significant consolidation as disk drive manufacturers and component manufacturers merged with other companies or exited the industry. Components and Raw Materials Disk drives incorporate certain components, including a head disk assembly and a printed circuit board mounted to the head disk assembly, which are sealed inside a rigid base and top cover containing the recording components in a contamination controlled environment. We maintain a highly integrated approach to our business by designing and manufacturing a significant portion of the components we view as critical to our products, such as recording heads and media. Read/Write Heads. The function of the read/write head is to scan across the disk as it spins, magnetically recording or reading information. The tolerances of recording heads are extremely demanding and require state of the art equipment and processes. Our read/write heads are manufactured with thin film and photolithographic processes similar to those used to produce semiconductor integrated circuits, though challenges in magnetic film properties and topographical structures are unique to the disk drive industry. We perform all primary stages of design and manufacture of read/write heads at our facilities. We use a combination of internally manufactured and externally sourced read/write heads, the mix of which varies based on product mix, technology and our internal capacity levels. Media. Information is written to the media, or disk, as it rotates at very high speeds past the read/write head. The media is made from non magnetic material, usually aluminum alloy or glass, and is coated with a thin layer of magnetic material. We use a combination of internally manufactured and externally sourced finished media and aluminum substrates, the mix of which varies based on product mix, technology and our internal capacity levels. We purchase all of our glass substrates from third parties, which we use in the disk drives we make for mobile products. Printed Circuit Board Assemblies. The printed circuit board assemblies (PCBAs) are comprised of standard and custom ASICs and ancillary electronic control chips. The ASICs control the movement of data to and from the read/write heads and through the internal controller and interface, which communicates with the host computer. The ASICs and control chips form electronic circuitry that delivers instructions to a head positioning mechanism called an actuator to guide the heads to the selected track of a disk where the data is recorded or retrieved. Disk drive manufacturers use one or more industry standard interfaces such as serial advanced technology architecture (SATA); small computer system interface (SCSI); serial attached SCSI (SAS); or Fibre Channel (FC) to communicate to the host systems. We 9 Table of Contents outsource to third parties the manufacture and assembly of the PCBAs used in our disk drives. We do not manufacture any ASICs, but we participate in their proprietary design. Head Disk Assembly. The head disk assembly consists of one or more disks attached to a spindle assembly powered by a spindle motor that rotates the disks at a high constant speed around a hub. Read/write heads, mounted on an arm assembly, similar in concept to that of a record player, fly extremely close to each disk surface and record data on and retrieve it from concentric tracks in the magnetic layers of the rotating disks. The read/write heads are mounted vertically on an E shaped assembly (E block) that is actuated by a voice coil motor to allow the heads to move from track to track. The E block and the recording media are mounted inside the head disk assembly. We purchase spindle motors from outside vendors and from time to time participate in the design of the motors that go into our products. We use a combination of internally manufactured and externally sourced head disk assemblies. Disk Drive Assembly. Following the completion of the head disk assembly, it is mated to the PCBA, and the completed unit goes through extensive defect mapping and testing prior to packaging and shipment. Disk drive assembly and test operations occur primarily at facilities located in China and Thailand. We perform subassembly and component manufacturing operations at our facilities in China, Malaysia, Northern Ireland, Singapore, Thailand and in the United States in Minnesota. In addition, third parties manufacture and assemble components and disk drive assemblies for us in various countries worldwide. Suppliers of Components and Industry Constraints. There are a limited number of independent suppliers of components, such as recording heads and media, available to disk drive manufacturers. Vertically integrated disk drive manufacturers, who manufacture their own components, are less dependent on external component suppliers than less vertically integrated disk drive manufacturers. In fiscal year 2012, the industry experienced significant increases in the cost of components due to the severe flooding in Thailand. Commodity and Other Manufacturing Costs. The production of disk drives requires rare earth elements, precious metals, scarce alloys and industrial commodities, which are subject to fluctuations in prices and the supply of which has at times been constrained. For example, during the latter part of fiscal year 2011 and continuing into fiscal year 2012, the industry experienced significant increases in the costs of rare earth elements, which are used in magnets as well as in the process for polishing glass substrates. In addition to increased costs of components and commodities, volatility in fuel costs may also increase our costs related to commodities, manufacturing and freight. As a result, we may increase our use of ocean shipments to help offset any increase in freight costs. Products We offer a broad range of products for the enterprise, client compute and client non compute market applications. We offer more than one product within each product family and differentiate products on the basis of price, performance, form factor, capacity, interface, power consumption efficiency, security features like full disk encryption and other customer integration requirements. Our industry is characterized by continuous and significant advances in technology which contribute to rapid product life cycles. We list our main current product offerings below. Enterprise Storage Cheetah SCSI/SAS/Fibre Channel Family. Our Cheetah 3.5 inch disk drives ship in 10,000 and 15,000 RPM and in storage capacities ranging from 73GB to 600GB. Commercial uses for Cheetah disk drives include Internet and e commerce servers, data mining and data warehousing, mainframes and supercomputers, department/enterprise servers and workstations, transaction processing, professional video and graphics and medical imaging. 10 Table of Contents Savvio SCSI/SAS/Fibre Channel Family. We are currently shipping our fifth generation Savvio 2.5 inch enterprise disk drive featuring increased throughput and improved energy efficiency, targeted at space optimized enterprise storage systems. Our Savvio disk drives ship in 10,000 and 15,000 RPM and in storage capacities ranging from 73GB to 900GB. We believe that end user customers are increasingly adopting the smaller 2.5 inch form factor enterprise class disk drives, which allow the installation of more disk drives per square foot, thus facilitating faster access to data. Constellation ES SATA Family. Our Constellation disk drives ship in both 2.5 inch and 3.5 inch and in storage capacities of up to 1TB and 3TB, respectively, at 7,200 RPM. The Constellation is designed for reference data environments that require high capacity, enterprise reliability, energy efficiency and optional security. Pulsar Family. Our Pulsar family of products are performance optimized solid state drives for high value, critical data, requiring enterprise class endurance and reliability in capacities ranging from 50GB to 800GB. Client Compute Momentus ATA/SATA Family. Our Momentus family of disk drives for mobile computing disk drive products ship in 5,400 and 7,200 RPM and in capacities ranging from 160GB to 1 TB. Momentus disk drives are used in notebooks for business, government, education and consumer applications. Consumer uses for Momentus disk drives also include tablets and digital audio applications. Our Momentus 7200.4 is a 7,200 RPM disk drive for high performance notebooks. Our Momentus Thin is the industrys first 7mm z height, 2.5 inch form factor drive. In addition, we are the industry leader in shipments of hybrid drives into the notebook market with our Momentus XT product line. Hybrid disk drives incorporate both a hard disk drive and NAND flash storage. The benefits of such drives are improved performance over hard disk drives, as well as higher capacity and lower cost compared to SSDs alone. Barracuda ATA/SATA Family. Our Barracuda 3.5 inch disk drives ship in 5,400, 5,900 and 7,200 RPM and in storage capacities of up to 3TB. Barracuda disk drives are designed for applications such as PCs, workstations and personal external storage devices. Spinpoint SATA Mobile Family. Our Spinpoint M8 2.5 inch mobile computing disk drives ship in 5,400 RPM, come in storage capacities of up to 1 TB, and continue to be produced under the Samsung brand name. Spinpoint SATA Desktop Family. Our Spinpoint F3 3.5 inch desktop computing disk drives ship in 7,200 RPM, come in storage capacities of up to 1 TB, and continue to be produced under the Samsung brand name. Client Non Compute Pipeline HD and DB35 SATA Family. We sell our 3.5 inch Pipeline HD and DB35 disk drives primarily for use in DVRs. These disk drives are optimized for leading edge digital entertainment and range from 160GB to 2TB. Pipeline Mini SATA Family. We sell our 2.5 inch, 5,400 RPM Pipeline Mini disk drives, with capacities ranging from 160GB up to 500GB, for use in low profile DVRs, gaming consoles, home entertainment devices and small footprint media PCs. We ship external backup storage solutions under our GoFlex&reg;, Backup Plus and Expansion product lines, as well as under the Samsung brand name. These product lines utilize our 3.5 inch and 2.5 inch disk drives, which are available in capacities up to 3TB and 1TB, respectively. We also ship network attached storage (NAS) solutions under our GoFlex&reg; Home and BlackArmor&reg; product lines. These product lines 11 Table of Contents utilize our 3.5 inch disk drives; our GoFlex&reg; Home products are available in capacities up to 3TB, and our BlackArmor&reg; products are available in capacities up to 12TB. Customers We sell our products to major OEMs, distributors and retailers. The following table summarizes our revenue by channel and by geography: Fiscal Years Ended June 29, 2012 July 1, 2011 July 2, 2010 Revenues by Channel (%) OEM 72 % 69 % 71 % Distributors 21 % 22 % 21 % Retail 7 % 9 % 8 % Revenues by Geography (%) Americas 26 % 29 % 26 % EMEA 19 % 20 % 22 % Asia Pacific 55 % 51 % 52 % OEM customers typically enter into master purchase agreements with us. These agreements provide for pricing, volume discounts, order lead times, product support obligations and other terms and conditions. The term of these agreements is usually 12 to 24 months. Deliveries are scheduled only after receipt of purchase orders. In addition, with limited lead time, customers may defer most purchase orders without significant penalty. Anticipated orders from many of our customers have in the past failed to materialize or OEM delivery schedules have been deferred or altered as a result of changes in their business needs. Our distributors generally enter into non exclusive agreements for the resale of our products. They typically furnish us with a non binding indication of their near term requirements and product deliveries are generally scheduled accordingly. The agreements and related sales programs typically provide the distributors with limited right of return and price protection rights. In addition, we offer sales programs to distributors on a quarterly and periodic basis to promote the sale of selected products in the sales channel. Our retail channel consists of our branded storage products sold to retailers either by us directly or by our distributors. Retail sales made by us or our distributors typically require greater marketing support, sales incentives and price protection periods. In fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010, Dell Inc. accounted for approximately 15%, 13% and 11% of consolidated revenue, respectively, while Hewlett Packard Company accounted for approximately 14%, 15% and 16% of consolidated revenue, respectively. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Dependence on Key Customers We may be adversely affected by the loss of, or reduced, delayed or canceled purchases by, one or more of our larger customers." Competition The markets that we compete in are intensely competitive. Disk drive manufacturers not only compete for a limited number of major disk drive customers but also compete with other companies in the electronic data storage industry that provide alternative storage solutions, such as flash memory and SSDs. Some of the principal factors used by customers to differentiate among electronic data storage solutions manufacturers are storage capacity, price per unit and price per gigabyte, storage/retrieval access times, data transfer rates, product quality and reliability, supply continuity, form factor, warranty and brand. We believe that our disk drive products are competitive with respect to each of these factors in the markets that we currently address. 12  Table of Contents Principal Disk Drive Competitors. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience intense competition from other disk drive manufacturers. After the industry consolidation experienced during fiscal year 2012, in which we acquired certain assets that comprised the HDD business of Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd. and Western Digital Corporation acquired Viviti Technologies Ltd. (formerly Hitachi Global Storage Technologies). Our primary competitors are Western Digital Corporation and Toshiba Corporation. Other Competitors. We also are experiencing competition from companies that provide alternative storage technologies such as flash memory and SSDs used both in lower capacity hand held devices and for rapid processing and high volume transactions. Price Erosion. Our industry has been characterized by price declines for disk drive products with comparable capacity, performance and feature sets ("like for like products"). Price declines for like for like products ("price erosion") are more pronounced during periods of: economic contraction or industry consolidation in which competitors may use discounted pricing to attempt to maintain or gain market share; few new product introductions when competitors have comparable or alternative product offerings; and industry supply exceeding demand. Disk drive manufacturers typically attempt to offset price erosion with an improved mix of disk drive products characterized by higher capacity, better performance and additional feature sets and or product cost reductions. Product Life Cycles and Changing Technology. Success in our industry has been dependent to a large extent on the ability to be the first to market with new products to market in high volume, with quality attributes that our customers expect, before our competitors, generally allowing those disk drive manufacturers who introduce new products first to benefit from improved product mix, favorable profit margins and less pricing pressure until comparable products are introduced. Also, because our industry is characterized by continuous price erosion, being first to market has necessitated quick achievement of product cost effectiveness. Changing technology also necessitates on going investments in research and development, which may be difficult to recover due to rapid product life cycles and economic declines. Further, there is a continued need to successfully execute product transitions and new product introductions, as factors such as quality, reliability and manufacturing yields become of increasing competitive importance. Disk Drive Industry Consolidation. Due to the significant challenges posed by the need to continually innovate and improve manufacturing efficiency and the continued demands on capital and research and development investments required to do so, the disk drive industry has undergone significant consolidation as disk drive manufacturers and component manufacturers merged with other companies or exited the industry. We acquired Samsung Electronics Co., Ltds hard disk drive business in December of 2011, and Western Digital purchased Viviti Technologies Ltd. (formerly Hitachi Global Storage Technologies) in March of 2012. Additionally, we may in the future face indirect competition from customers who from time to time evaluate whether to offer electronic data storage products that may compete with our products. Seasonality The disk drive industry traditionally experiences seasonal variability in demand with higher levels of demand in the second half of the calendar year. This seasonality is driven by consumer spending in the back to school season from late summer to fall and the traditional holiday shopping season from fall to winter. In addition, corporate demand is typically higher during the second half of the calendar year. 13 Table of Contents Research and Development We are committed to developing new component technologies, products and alternative storage technologies. Our research and development focus is designed to bring new products to market in high volume, with quality attributes that our customers expect, before our competitors. Part of our product development strategy is to leverage a design platform and or subsystem within product families to serve different market needs. This platform strategy allows for more efficient resource utilization, leverages best design practices, reduces exposure to changes in demand, and allows for achievement of lower costs through purchasing economies. Our advanced technology integration effort focuses disk drive and component research on recording subsystems, including read/write heads and recording media, market specific product technology and technology focused towards new business opportunities. The primary purpose of our advanced technology integration effort is to ensure timely availability of mature component technologies to our product development teams as well as allowing us to leverage and coordinate those technologies in the design centers across our products in order to take advantage of opportunities in the marketplace. During fiscal years 2012, 2011, and 2010, we had product development expenses of approximately $1,006 million, $875 million, and $877 million, respectively, which represented 7%, 8%, and 8% of our consolidated revenue, respectively. Patents and Licenses As of June 29, 2012, we had 5,323 U.S. patents and 1,866 patents issued in various foreign jurisdictions as well as 1,275 U.S. and 1,156 foreign patent applications pending. The number of patents and patent applications will vary at any given time as part of our ongoing patent portfolio management activity. Due to the rapid technological change that characterizes the electronic data storage industry, we believe that, in addition to patent protection, the improvement of existing products, reliance upon trade secrets, protection of unpatented proprietary know how and development of new products are also important to our business in establishing and maintaining a competitive advantage. Accordingly, we intend to continue our efforts to broadly protect our intellectual property, including obtaining patents, where available, in connection with our research and development program. The electronic data storage industry is characterized by significant litigation relating to patent and other intellectual property rights. Because of rapid technological development in the electronic data storage industry, some of our products have been, and in the future could be, alleged to infringe existing patents of third parties. From time to time, we receive claims that our products infringe patents of third parties. Although we have been able to resolve some of those claims or potential claims by obtaining licenses or rights under the patents in question without a material adverse affect on us, other claims have resulted in adverse decisions or settlements. In addition, other claims are pending, which if resolved unfavorably to us could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. For more information on these claims, see "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 14, Legal, Environmental, and Other Contingencies." The costs of engaging in intellectual property litigation in the past have been, and in the future may be, substantial, irrespective of the merits of the claim or the outcome. We have patent licenses with a number of companies. Additionally, as part of our normal intellectual property practices, we may be engaged in negotiations with other major electronic data storage companies and component manufacturers with respect to patent licenses. Backlog In view of industry practice, whereby customers may cancel or defer orders with little or no penalty, we believe backlog in the disk drive industry is of limited indicative value in estimating future performance and results. 14 Table of Contents Environmental Matters Our operations are subject to U.S. and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. Some of our operations require environmental permits and controls to prevent and reduce air and water pollution, and these permits are subject to modification, renewal and revocation by issuing authorities. We have established environmental management systems and continually update environmental policies and standard operating procedures for our operations worldwide. We believe that our operations are in material compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits. We budget for operating and capital costs on an ongoing basis to comply with environmental laws. If additional or more stringent requirements are imposed on us in the future, we could incur additional operating costs and capital expenditures. Some environmental laws, such as the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (as amended, the "Superfund" law) and its state equivalents, can impose liability for the cost of cleanup of contaminated sites upon any of the current or former site owners or operators or upon parties who sent waste to these sites, regardless of whether the owner or operator owned the site at the time of the release of hazardous substances or the lawfulness of the original disposal activity. We have been identified as a potentially responsible party at several sites. At each of these sites, we have an assigned portion of the financial liability based on the type and amount of hazardous substances disposed of by each party at the site and the number of financially viable parties. We have fulfilled our responsibilities at some of these sites and remains involved in only a few at this time. While our ultimate costs in connection with these sites is difficult to predict with complete accuracy, based our current estimates of cleanup costs and its expected allocation of these costs, we do not expect costs in connection with these sites to be material. We may be subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including those restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products. For example, the European Union ("EU") enacted the Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment, which prohibits the use of certain substances, including lead, in certain products, including disk drives, put on the market after July 1, 2006. Similar legislation has been or may be enacted in other jurisdictions, including in the United States, Canada, Mexico, Taiwan, China, Japan and others. The European Union REACH Directive (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, and Restriction of Chemicals, EC 1907/2006) also restricts substances of very high concern ("SVHCs") in products. If we or our suppliers fail to comply with the substance restrictions, recycle requirements or other environmental requirements as they are enacted worldwide, it could have a materially adverse effect on our business. Employees At June 29, 2012, we employed approximately 57,900 employees, temporary employees and contractors worldwide, of which approximately 50,600 employees were located in our Asian operations. We believe that our future success will depend in part on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees at all levels. We believe that our employee relations are good. Financial Information Financial information for our reportable business segment and about geographic areas is set forth in "
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes thereto included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, which are incorporated herein by reference, to fully understand factors that may affect the comparability of the information presented below. The Consolidated Statements of Operations data for the fiscal years ended June 29, 2012, July 1, 2011 and July 2, 2010, and the Consolidated Balance Sheet data at June 29, 2012 and July 1, 2011, are derived from our audited Consolidated Financial Statements appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The Consolidated Statements of Operations data for the fiscal years ended July 3, 2009 and June 27, 2008, and the Consolidated Balance Sheet data at July 2, 2010, July 3, 2009 and June 27, 2008, are derived from our audited Consolidated Financial Statements that are not included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Fiscal Years Ended (Dollars in millions, except per share data) June 29, 2012 July 1, 2011 July 2, 2010 July 3, 2009(1) June 27, 2008 Revenue $ 14,939 $ 10,971 $ 11,395 $ 9,805 $ 12,708 Gross margin 4,684 2,146 3,204 1,410 3,205 Income (loss) from operations 3,108 806 1,740 (2,665 ) 1,376 Net income (loss) 2,862 511 1,609 (3,125 ) 1,251 Total assets 10,106 9,225 8,247 7,087 10,150 Total debt 2,863 3,512 2,502 2,697 1,978 Shareholders equity $ 3,497 $ 2,463 $ 2,724 $ 1,554 $ 4,667 Net income (loss) per share: Basic $ 6.72 $ 1.13 $ 3.28 $ (6.40 ) $ 2.44 Diluted 6.49 1.09 3.14 (6.40 ) 2.33 Number of shares used in per share computations: Basic 426 451 491 488 512 Diluted 441 467 514 488 538 Cash dividends declared per share $ 0.86 $ 0.18 $ $ 0.27 $ 0.42 (1)Includes the effect of a $2.3 billion impairment of goodwill and other long lived assets. 43 Table of Contents Supplementary Financial Data (Unaudited) Quarterly Data The Company operated and reported financial results based on 13 week quarters in fiscal years 2012 and 2011, which ended on the Friday closest to September 30, December 30, March 30, and June 30. Fiscal Year 2012 Quarters Ended (In millions, except per share data) September 30, 2011 December 30, 2011 March 30, 2012 June 29, 2012 Revenue $ 2,811 $ 3,195 $ 4,450 $ 4,482 Gross margin 549 1,010 1,641 1,484 Income from operations 236 605 1,210 1,057 Net income 140 563 1,146 1,013 Net income per share: Basic $ 0.33 $ 1.32 $ 2.57 $ 2.46 Diluted 0.32 1.28 2.48 2.37 Fiscal Year 2011 Quarters Ended (In millions, except per share data) October 1, 2010 December 31, 2010 April 1, 2011 July 1, 2011 Revenue $ 2,697 $ 2,719 $ 2,695 $ 2,859 Gross margin 550 529 516 551 Income from operations 231 206 179 190 Net income 149 150 93 119 Net income per share: Basic $ 0.32 $ 0.32 $ 0.21 $ 0.28 Diluted 0.31 0.31 0.21 0.27 44  Table of Contents  ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following is a discussion of the financial condition and results of operations for the fiscal years ended June 29, 2012, July 1, 2011, and July 2, 2010. References to "$" are to United States dollars. You should read this discussion in conjunction with "Item 6. Selected Financial Data" and "
 
