FILE:KEY/KEY-8K-20020808142915.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15d of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): August 8, 2002 [KEYCORP LOGO] -------------------------------------------------- (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Ohio 0-850 34-6542451 - ---------------------------- ---------------------- ------------------ (State or other jurisdiction Commission File Number (I.R.S. Employer of incorporation or Identification No.) organization) 127 Public Square, Cleveland, Ohio 44114-1306 - ---------------------------------------- ------------------ (Address of principal executive (Zip Code) offices) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (216) 689-6300
ITEM 5. OTHER EVENTS Robert T. Clutterbuck, currently Chief Executive Officer of Key Capital Partners and McDonald Investments Inc. and Senior Executive Vice President of KeyCorp, announced today that he will be retiring from those positions effective immediately. He will become Vice Chairman of McDonald Investments Inc. and will assist in the management transition. Robert G. Jones has been named Chief Executive Officer of McDonald Investments Inc., in addition to his current positions as President of Key Capital Partners and Executive Vice President of KeyCorp. This announcement, dated August 8, 2002, is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report. ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS (c) Exhibits 99.1 The Registrant's August 8, 2002, announcement of Robert T. Clutterbuck's retirement.
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. KEYCORP -------------------------------------- (Registrant) Date: August 8, 2002 /s/ Thomas C. Stevens -------------------------------------- By: Thomas C. Stevens Vice Chairman, Chief Administrative Officer and Secretary

EXHIBIT 99.1 To: Key managers From: Henry Meyer Re: Executive changes August 8, 2002 We're announcing today several executive changes that will substantially complete the integration of McDonald Investments and Key and enable us to better serve our corporate clients going forward. While these actions are strategic in nature, their timing was precipitated by Bob Clutterbuck's decision to retire as the CEO of McDonald. Some time ago, Bob expressed his desire to return to working directly on important customer relationships and providing clients with asset management services. Bob and I agreed that the timing was now right for us to begin the transition. Effective immediately, Bob will serve as vice chairman of McDonald, working on a variety of organizational issues, assisting in the transition and overseeing our relationship with regulatory agencies and the stock exchanges. I greatly appreciate his willingness to take an active role to ensure the success of the transition. Bob will work closely with Bob Jones, who becomes the CEO of McDonald, and Key Corporate Finance's Tom Bunn, who takes responsibility for the following additional businesses: investment banking, equities capital markets, bank capital markets, non-franchise interest rate derivatives, and fixed income. By aligning these businesses with Corporate Finance's commercial lending activities and its treasury management and electronic services we will greatly improve our ability to offer our corporate clients the full breadth of our commercial product and service portfolio. Bob Clutterbuck has played an extraordinary role in advancing the integration of Key and McDonald. There is no greater testament to his success and that of Bill Summers, who remains chairman of McDonald Investments, than the very substantial progress we've already made, particularly when measured against our peers. Some of these institutions simply have given up trying to do what we are on the verge of completing. In this respect, Bob's efforts will provide us with a competitive advantage for many years to come. I hope all of you will join me in thanking Bob Clutterbuck for the significant contributions he has made to Key. Bob Jones' promotion reflects the excellent job he's done in managing our High Net Worth initiative, which will build on the strengths of McDonald's brokerage and Key's private banking businesses. This has been an extremely difficult and complex assignment with many regulatory and organizational hurdles, but it, too, is critically important to completing the integration process and leveraging our 1Key capabilities. In his new position, Bob continues to manage the
High Net Worth organization, public finance and the public sector. He also is responsible for compliance, human resources, investment operations and administration at McDonald. As a result of these changes, Bob Jones and Rick Buoncore will join my executive team as direct reports. Rick Buoncore heads Victory Capital Management and has played an increasingly important management role. Victory has had an outstanding investment performance record given the current volatile markets and provides significant cross-selling potential to both our institutional and individual clients.


