FILE:KEY/KEY-8K-20031016165107.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits
     Exhibits
(c) 
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On October 16, 2003, the Registrant conducted a conference call/webcast to discuss its quarterly earnings and currently anticipated earnings trends. The slide presentation reviewed by the Registrant in the conference call/webcast follows as Annex A to this Item 12.
On October 16, 2003, the Registrant issued a press release announcing its earnings results for the three- and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2003. This press release, dated October 16, 2003, is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CLEVELAND, October 16, 2003  KeyCorp (NYSE: KEY) today announced third quarter net income of $227 million, or $0.53 per diluted common share. These results compare with net income of $225 million, or $0.53 per share, for the second quarter of 2003, and $245 million, or $0.57 per share, for the third quarter of 2002.
     "Key's third quarter earnings reflect positive results in important areas, despite the weak economic environment," said Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Henry L. Meyer III. "These results include higher noninterest income and continued growth in core deposits.
     "We are also very encouraged by the continued improvement in Key's asset quality, as nonperforming loans fell for the fourth consecutive quarter and net loan charge-offs declined to their lowest level since the first quarter of 2001.
     "However, the third quarter also presented a difficult environment for net interest income," added Meyer. "Historically low interest rates led to record levels of prepayments and narrower deposit spreads. In addition, despite continued growth in our commercial leasing and home equity businesses, the economic environment was not favorable for loan growth in general. The level of Key's average earning assets was essentially unchanged from the prior quarter."
     For the fourth quarter, Key expects earnings to be in the range of $0.52 to $0.55 per share.
SUMMARY OF CONSOLIDATED RESULTS
     Taxable-equivalent net interest income was $690 million for the third quarter of 2003, compared with $710 million in the second quarter. A 12 basis point reduction in Key's net interest margin drove the decrease, as the level of Key's average earning assets was essentially unchanged. Continued growth in home equity loans was offset by declines in the levels of both commercial loans and securities. Compared with the third quarter of 2002, taxable-equivalent net interest income decreased by $32 million as the negative effect of a lower net interest margin more than offset the effect of a 2% increase in average earning assets.
 
KeyCorp Reports Third Quarter 2003 Earnings October 16, 2003 Page 2
     The decline in the net interest margin relative to both the prior and year-ago quarters reflects a number of factors, including the effects of a soft economy, significant prepayments of higher rate consumer loans and mortgage backed securities which continued late into the third quarter, and narrower deposit spreads resulting from declining interest rates. Also contributing to the declines was the significant growth in Key's core deposits. Over the past twelve months, core deposit growth has exceeded net loan growth. The excess funds have been either invested in securities or used to reduce wholesale funding in light of the weak demand for commercial loans. Although these actions improved Key's liquidity, they have resulted in downward pressure on net interest income.
     Key's noninterest income was $463 million for the third quarter of 2003, up from $434 million for the second quarter. A $25 million increase in net gains from loan securitizations and sales, including a $10 million gain from the annual securitization and sale of education loans in the third quarter of 2003, drove the increase. In addition, stronger financial markets contributed to an $8 million increase in income from trust and investment services, the largest source of Key's noninterest income. Compared with the year-ago quarter, noninterest income grew by $31 million, reflecting a $16 million increase in income from principal investing activities and an $11 million decrease in losses incurred on the residual values of leased vehicles. These improvements from third quarter 2002 results were offset in part by lower income from trust and investment services and service charges on deposit accounts. The major components of Key's trust and investment services income and investment banking and capital markets income are shown in the following tables.
Trust and Investment Services Income
Investment Banking and Capital Markets Income
     Noninterest expense of $699 million for the third quarter of 2003 was up from $688 million in the prior quarter due primarily to higher incentive compensation accruals and the expensing of stock options granted in July 2003. Effective January 1, 2003, Key began recording the cost associated with stock options over their respective vesting periods. Compared with the third quarter of 2002, noninterest expense grew by $40 million, or 6%. The largest increases occurred in the cost of employee benefits, incentive compensation accruals, professional fees incurred to enhance Key's sales management systems and stock options expense. The major components of personnel expense, the largest category of Key's noninterest expense, are shown in the following table.
 
KeyCorp Reports Third Quarter 2003 Earnings October 16, 2003 Page 3
Personnel Expense
CHANGE IN CONSOLIDATION PRACTICE
     In January 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Interpretation No. 46, "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities," which significantly changes how Key and other companies determine whether they must consolidate certain other entities. Interpretation No. 46 was effective immediately for entities created after January 31, 2003, and must be adopted for previously existing entities no later than December 31, 2003. Key adopted Interpretation No. 46 for previously existing entities in the third quarter of 2003.
     Under Interpretation No. 46, entities are classified as either voting rights entities or variable interest entities. A voting rights entity is evaluated for consolidation under previously existing accounting standards, which focus on the equity owner with voting control, while a variable interest entity must now be consolidated by its primary beneficiary (i.e., the party that holds variable interests that expose it to a majority of the entity's expected losses and/or residual returns).
     The new guidance primarily affects Key's balance sheet, since consolidating previously unconsolidated variable interest entities increases, and in some cases changes the classification of, assets and liabilities. As of September 30, 2003, the consolidation and deconsolidation of variable interest entities in accordance with the requirements of Interpretation No. 46 resulted in a net increase to Key's assets of almost $850 million, with no material effect on Key's results of operations.
ASSET QUALITY
     Key's provision for loan losses was $123 million for the third quarter of 2003, compared with $125 million for the second quarter of 2003 and $135 million for the year-ago quarter.
     During the third quarter of 2003, Key's nonperforming loans decreased by $42 million to $795 million, primarily due to reductions in the health care, middle market and structured finance portfolios. The primary indicators of Key's asset quality over the past five quarters are summarized in the following table.
Asset Quality Indicators
 
KeyCorp Reports Third Quarter 2003 Earnings October 16, 2003 Page 4
CAPITAL
     Key's capital ratios continued to exceed all "well-capitalized" regulatory benchmarks at September 30, 2003. In addition, Key's tangible equity to tangible assets ratio was 6.94% at quarter end, compared with 6.90% at June 30, 2003, and 6.71% at September 30, 2002.
     During the third quarter, Key repurchased 2.5 million of its common shares under a September 2002 authorization that allowed for the repurchase of up to 25 million shares. During September 2003, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of 25 million common shares, which amount includes the 6.3 million shares remaining from the preexisting repurchase authority. Share repurchases and other activities that caused the change in Key's outstanding common shares over the past five quarters are summarized in the table below.
Summary of Changes in Common Shares Outstanding
LINE OF BUSINESS RESULTS
     The table below summarizes the contribution made by each major business group to Key's taxable-equivalent revenue and net income for the periods presented. The specific lines of business that comprise each of the major business groups are described under the heading "Line of Business Descriptions." For more detailed financial information pertaining to each business group and its respective lines of business, see the last three pages of this release.
Major Business Groups
N/M = Not Meaningful
 
KeyCorp Reports Third Quarter 2003 Earnings October 16, 2003 Page 5
Consumer Banking
TE = Taxable Equivalent, N/A = Not Applicable
Additional Consumer Banking Data
     Net income for Key Consumer Banking was $120 million for the third quarter of 2003, representing a $13 million increase from the year-ago quarter. The increase was due primarily to growth in both taxable-equivalent net interest income and noninterest income, offset in part by a higher level of noninterest expense.
     Taxable-equivalent net interest income grew by $34 million, or 8%, from the third quarter of 2002, due largely to an improved interest rate spread on earning assets, a 3% increase in average loans outstanding, primarily in the home equity and commercial portfolios, and a higher level of average core deposits. The positive effect of these factors was offset in part by the adverse effect of a less favorable interest rate spread on deposits.
     Noninterest income increased by $5 million, or 4%, due to a reduction in losses incurred on the residual values of leased vehicles and an increase in net gains from the annual securitization and sale of education loans, both in the Indirect Lending unit. These improvements were substantially offset by a reduction in service charges on deposit accounts generated by the Retail Banking line of business. The decrease in deposit service charges reflects lower overdraft fees, as well as the introduction of free checking products during the second half of 2002.
 
KeyCorp Reports Third Quarter 2003 Earnings October 16, 2003 Page 6
     Noninterest expense rose by $18 million, or 5%, from the third quarter of 2002. Most of the increase was attributable to personnel expense, costs associated with other real estate owned and various indirect charges.
Corporate and Investment Banking
TE = Taxable Equivalent, N/A = Not Applicable
     Net income for Corporate and Investment Banking was $96 million for the third quarter of 2003, up from $91 million for the same period last year. Significantly higher noninterest income and a substantial reduction in the provision for loan losses were partially offset by a decrease in taxable-equivalent net interest income and higher noninterest expense.
     Taxable-equivalent net interest income decreased by $10 million, or 4%, from the third quarter of 2002 due primarily to less favorable interest rate spreads on deposits and other funding sources. Declines in average loans outstanding and yield-related loan fees also contributed to the decrease. The adverse effect of these factors was partially offset by the positive effects of core deposit growth and a more favorable interest rate spread on earning assets.
     Noninterest income increased by $14 million, or 13%, due largely to an increase in non-yield-related loan fees and higher net gains from loan sales in the KeyBank Real Estate Capital line of business.
     Noninterest expense rose by $12 million, or 7%, reflecting increases in personnel expense, professional fees and various indirect charges.
     The provision for loan losses decreased by $16 million, or 25%, as a result of improved asset quality in both the Corporate Banking and Key Equipment Finance lines.
 
KeyCorp Reports Third Quarter 2003 Earnings October 16, 2003 Page 7
Investment Management Services
TE = Taxable Equivalent, N/A = Not Applicable
Additional Investment Management Services Data
     Net income for Investment Management Services was $26 million for the third quarter of 2003, unchanged from the third quarter of last year. Growth in taxable-equivalent net interest income was offset by a decrease in noninterest income and a higher provision for loan losses. Noninterest expense was essentially unchanged.
     Taxable-equivalent net interest income increased by $9 million, or 16%, from the third quarter of 2002. The increase was due primarily to strong growth in both average loans and core deposits. The positive effect of this growth was offset in part by the adverse effect of a less favorable interest rate spread on deposits.
     Noninterest income decreased by $7 million, or 5%, due to a $9 million decrease in trust and investment services income. The decline was due largely to the June 2002 sale of the 401(k) plan recordkeeping business. The reduction in trust and investment services income was offset in part by an increase in investment banking income.
     The provision for loan losses rose by $3 million, reflecting a higher level of net charge-offs in the McDonald Financial Group.
Other Segments
     Other segments consist primarily of Treasury, Principal Investing and the net effect of funds transfer pricing. These segments generated a net loss of $10 million for the third quarter of 2003, compared with net income of $14 million for the same period last year. The change in results from the third quarter of 2002 was due primarily to the net effect of funds transfer pricing and includes the effect of loan and security sales and prepayments on the funding center.
 
KeyCorp Reports Third Quarter 2003 Earnings October 16, 2003 Page 8
Line of Business Descriptions
Consumer Banking
     provides individuals with branch-based deposit and investment products, personal finance services and loans, including residential mortgages, home equity and various types of installment loans.
Retail Banking
     provides businesses that have annual sales revenues of $10 million or less with deposit, investment and credit products, and business advisory services.
Small Business
     consists of two primary business units: Indirect Lending and National Home Equity.
Consumer Finance
     Indirect Lending offers automobile and marine loans to consumers through dealers and finances inventory for automobile and marine dealers. This business unit also provides education loans, insurance and interest-free payment plans for students and their parents.
     National Home Equity provides both prime and nonprime mortgage and home equity loan products to individuals. These products originate outside of Key's retail branch system. This business unit also works with mortgage brokers and home improvement contractors to provide home equity and home improvement solutions.
Corporate and Investment Banking
     provides a full array of products and services to large corporations, middle-market companies, financial institutions and government organizations. These products and services include: financing, treasury management, investment banking, derivatives and foreign exchange, debt and equity trading, and syndicated finance.
Corporate Banking
     provides construction and interim lending, permanent debt placements and servicing, and equity and investment banking services to developers, brokers and owner-investors. This line of business deals exclusively with nonowner-occupied properties (i.e., generally properties for which the owner occupies less than 60% of the premises).
KeyBank Real Estate Capital
     meets the equipment leasing needs of companies worldwide and provides equipment manufacturers, distributors and resellers with financing options for their clients. Lease financing receivables and related revenues are assigned to other lines of business (primarily Corporate Banking) if those businesses are principally responsible for maintaining the relationship with the client.
Key Equipment Finance
Investment Management Services
     consists of two primary business units: Victory Capital Management and McDonald Financial Group.
Investment Management Services
     Victory Capital Management manages or gives advice regarding investment portfolios for a national client base, including corporations, labor unions, not-for-profit organizations, governments and individuals. These portfolios may be managed in separate accounts, common funds or the Victory family of mutual funds.
     McDonald Financial Group offers financial, estate and retirement planning and asset management services to assist high-net-worth clients with their banking, brokerage, trust, portfolio management, insurance, charitable giving and related needs.
 
KeyCorp Reports Third Quarter 2003 Earnings October 16, 2003 Page 9
     Cleveland-based KeyCorp is one of the nation's largest bank-based financial services companies, with assets of approximately $84 billion. Key companies provide investment management, retail and commercial banking, consumer finance, and investment banking products and services to individuals and companies throughout the United States and, for certain businesses, internationally. The company's businesses deliver their products and services through 900 KeyCenters and offices; a network of 2,158 ATMs; telephone banking centers (1.800.KEY2YOU); and a Web site, Key.com,that provides account access and financial products 24 hours a day.
Notes to Editors:
A live Internet broadcast of KeyCorp's conference call to discuss quarterly earnings and currently anticipated earnings trends and to answer analysts' questions can be accessed through the Investor Relations section at
www.Key.com/ir
at 9:00 a.m. ET, on Thursday, October 16, 2003. A tape of the call will be available through October 23.
For up-to-date company information, media contacts and facts and figures about Key's lines of business visit our Media Newsroom at
www
.
Key.com/newsroom.
This news release contains forward-looking statements about issues like anticipated earnings outlook, asset quality trends and anticipated improvement in profitability and competitiveness. Forward-looking statements by their nature are subject to assumptions, risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially from those contained in or implied by such forward-looking statements for a variety of factors including: changes in interest rates; continued weakness in the economy which could materially impact credit quality trends and the ability to generate loans; failure of the capital markets to function consistent with customary levels; delay in or inability to execute strategic initiatives designed to grow revenues and/or manage expenses; consummation of significant business combinations or divestitures; new legal obligations or restrictions or unfavorable resolution of litigation; further disruption in the economy and the general business climate as a result of terrorist activities or military actions; and changes in accounting, tax or regulatory practices or requirements.
 
KeyCorp Reports Third Quarter 2003 Earnings October 16, 2003 Page 10
 
KeyCorp Reports Third Quarter 2003 Earnings October 16, 2003 Page 11
 
KeyCorp Reports Third Quarter 2003 Earnings October 16, 2003 Page 12
 
KeyCorp Reports Third Quarter 2003 Earnings October 16, 2003 Page 13
 
KeyCorp Reports Third Quarter 2003 Earnings October 16, 2003 Page 14
 
KeyCorp Reports Third Quarter 2003 Earnings October 16, 2003 Page 15
Consumer Banking
 
KeyCorp Reports Third Quarter 2003 Earnings October 16, 2003 Page 16
Corporate and Investment Banking
 
KeyCorp Reports Third Quarter 2003 Earnings October 16, 2003 Page 17
Investment Management Services



