FILE:KEY/KEY-8K-20030417164838.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
On April 17, 2003, the Registrant conducted a conference call/webcast to discuss its quarterly earnings and currently anticipated earnings trends. The slide presentation reviewed by the Registrant in the conference call/webcast follows as Annex A to this Item 9.
On April 17, 2003, the Registrant issued a press release announcing its earnings results for the three-month period ended March 31, 2003. This press release, dated April 17, 2003, is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is being filed pursuant to Item 12 of Form 8-K as directed by the Securities and Exchange Commission in Release No. 34-47583 and shall be incorporated by reference into the Registrant's filings under the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as appropriate.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

** CONFIDENTIAL ** MEDIA CONTACT: JOHN FULLER ANALYST CONTACT: VERNON L. PATTERSON 216.689.8140 216.689.0520 KEY MEDIA INVESTOR RELATIONS NEWSROOM: www.Key.com/newsroom INFORMATION: www.Key.com/ir FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE KEYCORP REPORTS FIRST QUARTER 2003 EARNINGS - - EPS OF $0.51 - - REVENUES UNDER PRESSURE IN SLOW ECONOMY - - EXPENSE DISCIPLINE STRONG - - CORE DEPOSITS UP 8% FROM THE YEAR-AGO QUARTER - - LOWER NONPERFORMING LOANS AND NET CHARGE-OFFS CLEVELAND, April 17, 2003 - KeyCorp (NYSE: KEY) today announced first quarter net income of $217 million, or $0.51 per diluted common share. These results compare with net income of $240 million, or $0.56 per share, for the first quarter of 2002. "Key's first quarter results fell short of our expectations, reflecting a stubbornly weak economy," said Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Henry L. Meyer III. "Growing revenue under such conditions has proven difficult for Key. Contracting interest rate spreads and continuing soft loan demand are negatively affecting net interest income, while continued pressure on market-sensitive businesses is adversely affecting noninterest income. "In this challenging environment, Key has continued to focus successfully on controlling expenses and growing core deposits. Expenses were below the first quarter 2002 level and were down an annualized 7% from the prior quarter. Average core deposits grew 8% from the year-ago quarter and an annualized 12% from the fourth quarter of 2002. "In addition, the level of Key's nonperforming loans declined for the second consecutive quarter and net loan charge-offs fell to their lowest level since the first quarter of 2001. "We expect the economy to continue posing a significant challenge," added Meyer. "While it's a difficult environment in which to predict future earnings, we expect modest improvement in the second quarter. For the full year, we expect earnings per share to be in the range of $2.15 to $2.30. We will continue to focus on expense control, deposit growth and asset quality improvement so that we are well positioned for the eventual economic rebound." SUMMARY OF CONSOLIDATED RESULTS Taxable-equivalent net interest income was $703 million for the first quarter of 2003, essentially unchanged from the year-ago quarter. A seven basis point reduction in Key's net interest margin offset a $1.4 billion increase in average earning assets. Significant growth in core deposits was a factor in both developments. Over the past twelve months, core deposit growth has exceeded net loan growth. The excess funds have been
KEYCORP REPORTS FIRST QUARTER 2003 EARNINGS APRIL 17, 2003 PAGE 2 either invested in securities or used to reduce wholesale funding. Although these actions improved Key's liquidity position, they have placed pressure on the net interest margin. Compared with the fourth quarter of 2002, taxable-equivalent net interest income decreased by $21 million and the net interest margin declined by 12 basis points, while average earning assets rose by $870 million. The Federal Reserve's cut in interest rates in November 2002 is impacting Key's net interest margin as the full amount of that cut was not passed on to clients' deposit accounts due to competitive market conditions. Key's noninterest income was $397 million for the first quarter of 2003, compared with $443 million for the first three months of 2002. Continued weakness in the financial markets resulted in lower income from trust and investment services (down $26 million) and investment banking and capital markets activities (down $15 million). Net asset outflows resulting from the June 2002 sale of Key's recordkeeping business also contributed to the decline in revenue generated from trust and investment services. Until market conditions improve, Key expects these income components to remain under pressure. Noninterest expense of $657 million for the first quarter of 2003 was down from $661 million for the same period last year, due primarily to lower incentive compensation and a decline in software amortization. Personnel expense, the largest category of Key's noninterest expense, was unchanged from the year-ago quarter despite increases in both pension and other employee benefit costs. ASSET QUALITY Key's provision for loan losses was $130 million for the first quarter of 2003, down from $147 million for the fourth quarter of 2002 and $136 million for the year-ago quarter. Net loan charge-offs for the quarter totaled $161 million, or 1.04% of average loans, compared with $186 million, or 1.18%, for the previous quarter and $206 million, or 1.32%, for the year-ago quarter. Included in first quarter 2003 net charge-offs are $31 million of losses charged to the nonreplenished (and segregated) allowance discussed below, compared with $39 million for the previous quarter and $70 million for the year-ago quarter. During the first quarter, Key's nonperforming loans decreased by $39 million, primarily due to improvement in the structured finance portfolio. Nonperforming loans represented 1.44% of loans outstanding at March 31, 2003, down from 1.51% at December 31, 2002, and 1.52% at March 31, 2002. Nonperforming assets represented 1.54% of loans, other real estate owned and other nonperforming assets at March 31, 2003, compared with 1.59% at December 31, 2002, and 1.58% a year ago. At March 31, 2003, Key's allowance for loan losses was 157% of nonperforming loans, compared with 154% at December 31, 2002, and 165% at March 31, 2002. In the second quarter of 2001, a portion of Key's allowance for loan losses was segregated in connection with management's decision to discontinue many credit-only relationships in the leveraged financing and nationally syndicated lending businesses and to facilitate sales of distressed loans in other portfolios. The segregated portion of the allowance is being used to exit approximately $2.7 billion in related commitments (which were moved to the run-off portfolio in May 2001) and to absorb losses incurred in connection with sales of distressed loans in the continuing portfolio. As losses are charged to this segregated allowance, Key does not intend to replenish it. Within the run-off portfolio, approximately $766 million of commitments (including $496 million of loans outstanding) remained as of March 31, 2003.
KEYCORP REPORTS FIRST QUARTER 2003 EARNINGS APRIL 17, 2003 PAGE 3 The following table summarizes certain asset quality indicators, segregated between Key's continuing and run-off loan portfolios. ASSET QUALITY INDICATORS (a) Includes activity related to the run-off loan portfolio and to the sales of distressed loans in the continuing portfolio. CAPITAL Key's capital ratios continued to exceed all "well-capitalized" regulatory benchmarks at March 31, 2003. During the first quarter, Key repurchased 2 million of its common shares under an authorization that allows for the repurchase of up to 25 million shares. There were 11.8 million shares remaining for repurchase under this authorization as of March 31, 2003. Key's tangible equity to tangible assets ratio at quarter end stood at 6.71%, compared with 6.73% at December 31, 2002, and 6.57% at March 31, 2002. LINE OF BUSINESS RESULTS The table below summarizes the contribution made by each major business group to Key's taxable-equivalent revenue and net income for the periods presented. The specific lines of business that comprise each of the major business groups are described under the heading "Line of Business Descriptions." For more detailed financial information pertaining to each business group and its respective lines of business, see the last three pages of this release. Key's line of business results for all periods presented reflect a new organizational structure that took effect earlier this year. MAJOR BUSINESS GROUPS N/M = Not Meaningful
KEYCORP REPORTS FIRST QUARTER 2003 EARNINGS APRIL 17, 2003 PAGE 4 CONSUMER BANKING TE = Taxable Equivalent, N/A = Not Applicable Net income for Consumer Banking was $96 million for the first quarter of 2003, representing a $15 million increase from the year-ago quarter. The improvement was attributable to an increase in taxable-equivalent net interest income, a lower provision for loan losses and a reduction in noninterest expense. These positive results were partially offset by a decline in noninterest income. Taxable-equivalent net interest income grew by $16 million, or 4%, from the first quarter of 2002, due largely to a more favorable deposit mix and a 4% increase in average loans outstanding, primarily in the home equity and commercial portfolios. These positive results were offset in part by a decline in yield-related loan fees in the Indirect Lending unit. Noninterest income decreased by $3 million, or 3%, due primarily to an aggregate $6 million reduction in service charges on deposit accounts generated by the Retail Banking and Small Business lines of business. The decrease in deposit service charges reflects the introduction of free checking products during the second half
KEYCORP REPORTS FIRST QUARTER 2003 EARNINGS APRIL 17, 2003 PAGE 5 of 2002. In addition, the year-ago quarter included a $6 million gain recorded in connection with the sale of an ownership interest in a merchant credit card processing subsidiary. The overall reduction in noninterest income was moderated, however, by an $8 million increase in net gains from loan sales in the National Home Equity unit. Noninterest expense decreased by $8 million, or 2%, from the first quarter of 2002. This decrease includes lower costs for software amortization, collections and mortgage loan processing activities, partially offset by higher personnel expense. The provision for loan losses decreased by $3 million, or 4%, reflecting a lower level of net charge-offs, primarily in the Indirect Lending unit. This improvement was largely the result of Key's decision in 2001 to exit the automobile leasing business and to de-emphasize indirect prime automobile lending. CORPORATE AND INVESTMENT BANKING TE = Taxable Equivalent, N/A = Not Applicable Net income for Corporate and Investment Banking was $106 million for the first quarter of 2003, compared with $114 million for the same period last year. The decrease was due to reductions in both taxable-equivalent net interest income and noninterest income. These negative changes were offset in part by a lower provision for loan losses, while noninterest expense was essentially unchanged. Taxable-equivalent net interest income decreased by $5 million, or 2%, from the first quarter of 2002 as the negative effect of declines in average loans outstanding and yield-related loan fees more than offset the positive effect of deposit growth. Noninterest income decreased by $11 million, or 9%, due primarily to lower income from investment banking and capital markets activities (down $9 million) and service charges on deposit accounts (down $2 million), both in the Corporate Banking line of business. These negative changes were partially offset by gains from the residual values of leased equipment in Key Equipment Finance in the current year and an increase in non-yield-related loan fees in KeyBank Real Estate Capital. Noninterest expense decreased by $1 million, or less than 1%, as higher professional fees in the Key Equipment Finance and Corporate Banking lines were more than offset by decreases in various indirect charges.
KEYCORP REPORTS FIRST QUARTER 2003 EARNINGS APRIL 17, 2003 PAGE 6 The provision for loan losses decreased by $2 million, or 4%, reflecting a lower level of net charge-offs in Corporate Banking and Key Equipment Finance. INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT SERVICES TE = Taxable Equivalent, N/A = Not Applicable Additional Investment Management Services Data Net income for Investment Management Services was $20 million for the first quarter of 2003, down from $23 million in the first quarter of last year. The decrease was attributable to a significant reduction in noninterest income. This reduction more than offset an increase in taxable-equivalent net interest income and decreases in both noninterest expense and the provision for loan losses. Taxable-equivalent net interest income increased by $6 million, or 11%, from the first quarter of 2002. The growth was due primarily to improved interest rate spreads on both earning assets and borrowings, along with a significant increase in average deposits. Noninterest income decreased by $27 million, or 17%, as market-sensitive businesses continue to be adversely affected by the weak economy. The reduction was due primarily to an aggregate decline of $27 million in trust and investment services income in the McDonald Financial Group and in Victory Capital Management. This decline was largely attributable to a decrease in the market value of assets under management. In addition, net asset outflows resulted from the June 2002 sale of Key's 401(k) recordkeeping business. Funds that clients elected to move from money market funds under management to an FDIC insured deposit account with Key also contributed to the decline. Noninterest expense decreased by $15 million, or 9%, due primarily to lower variable compensation expense associated with revenue generation, a reduction in depreciation expense related to equipment, lower costs for software amortization and declines in various indirect charges.
KEYCORP REPORTS FIRST QUARTER 2003 EARNINGS APRIL 17, 2003 PAGE 7 OTHER SEGMENTS Other segments consist primarily of Treasury, Principal Investing and the net effect of funds transfer pricing. This segment generated a net loss of $10 million for the first quarter of 2003, compared with net income of $3 million for the same period last year. The decrease in results reflects net losses of $3 million ($2 million after tax) from principal investing in the first quarter of 2003, compared with net gains of less than $1 million for the year-ago quarter. LINE OF BUSINESS DESCRIPTIONS Consumer Banking RETAIL BANKING provides individuals with branch-based deposit and investment products, personal finance services and loans, including residential mortgages, home equity and various types of installment loans. SMALL BUSINESS provides businesses that have annual sales revenues of $10 million or less with deposit, investment and credit products, and business advisory services. CONSUMER FINANCE consists of two primary business units: Indirect Lending and National Home Equity. Indirect Lending offers automobile and marine loans to consumers through dealers and finances inventory for automobile and marine dealers. This business unit also provides education loans, insurance and interest-free payment plans for students and their parents. National Home Equity provides both prime and nonprime mortgage and home equity loan products to individuals. These products originate outside of Key's retail branch system. This business unit also works with mortgage brokers and home improvement contractors to provide home equity and home improvement solutions. Corporate and Investment Banking CORPORATE BANKING provides a full array of products and services to large corporations, middle-market companies, financial institutions and government organizations. These products and services include: financing, treasury management, investment banking, derivatives and foreign exchange, equity and debt trading, and syndicated finance. KEYBANK REAL ESTATE CAPITAL provides construction and interim lending, permanent debt placements and servicing, and equity and investment banking services to developers, brokers and owner-investors. This line of business deals exclusively with nonowner-occupied properties (i.e., generally properties for which the owner occupies less than 60% of the premises). KEY EQUIPMENT FINANCE meets the equipment leasing needs of companies worldwide and provides equipment manufacturers, distributors and resellers with financing options for their clients. Lease financing receivables and related revenues are assigned to Corporate Banking or KeyBank Real Estate Capital if one of those businesses is principally responsible for maintaining the relationship with the client.
KEYCORP REPORTS FIRST QUARTER 2003 EARNINGS APRIL 17, 2003 PAGE 8 Investment Management Services INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT SERVICES consists of two primary business units: Victory Capital Management and McDonald Financial Group. Victory Capital Management manages or gives advice regarding investment portfolios for a national client base, including corporations, labor unions, not-for-profit organizations, governments and individuals. These portfolios may be managed in separate accounts, common funds or the Victory family of mutual funds. McDonald Financial Group offers financial, estate and retirement planning and asset management services to assist high-net-worth clients with their banking, brokerage, trust, portfolio management, insurance, charitable giving and related needs. Cleveland-based KeyCorp is one of the nation's largest bank-based financial services companies, with assets of approximately $86 billion. Key companies provide investment management, retail and commercial banking, consumer finance, and investment banking products and services to individuals and companies throughout the United States and, for certain businesses, internationally. The company's businesses deliver their products and services through 911 KeyCenters and offices; a network of 2,179 ATMs; telephone banking centers (1.800.KEY2YOU); and a Web site, Key.com,(R) that provides account access and financial products 24 hours a day. NOTES TO EDITORS: A live Internet broadcast of KeyCorp's conference call to discuss quarterly earnings and currently anticipated earnings trends and to answer analysts' questions can be accessed through the Investor Relations section at www.Key.com/ir at 9:00 a.m. ET, on Thursday, April 17, 2003. A tape of the call will be available through April 24. For up-to-date company information, media contacts and facts and figures about Key's lines of business visit our Media Newsroom at www.KEY.COM/NEWSROOM. - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- This news release contains forward-looking statements about issues like anticipated earnings outlook, asset quality trends and anticipated improvement in profitability and competitiveness. Forward-looking statements by their nature are subject to assumptions, risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially from those contained in or implied by such forward-looking statements for a variety of factors including: changes in interest rates; continued weakness in the economy which could materially impact credit quality trends and the ability to generate loans; failure of the capital markets to function consistent with customary levels; delay in or inability to execute strategic initiatives designed to grow revenues and/or manage expenses; consummation of significant business combinations or divestitures; new legal obligations or restrictions or unfavorable resolution of litigation; further disruption in the economy and the general business climate as a result of terrorist activities or military actions; and changes in accounting, tax or regulatory practices or requirements. - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ###
KEYCORP REPORTS FIRST QUARTER 2003 EARNINGS APRIL 17, 2003 PAGE 9 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS (dollars in millions, except per share amounts) (a) 03-31-03 ratio is estimated. TE = Taxable Equivalent
KEYCORP REPORTS FIRST QUARTER 2003 EARNINGS APRIL 17, 2003 PAGE 10 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (dollars in millions)
KEYCORP REPORTS FIRST QUARTER 2003 EARNINGS APRIL 17, 2003 PAGE 11 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (dollars in millions, except per share amounts)
KEYCORP REPORTS FIRST QUARTER 2003 EARNINGS APRIL 17, 2003 PAGE 12 CONSOLIDATED AVERAGE BALANCE SHEETS, NET INTEREST INCOME AND YIELDS/RATES (dollars in millions) (a) Interest income on tax-exempt securities and loans has been adjusted to a taxable-equivalent basis using the statutory federal income tax rate of 35%. (b) For purposes of these computations, nonaccrual loans are included in average loan balances. (c) Yield is calculated on the basis of amortized cost. (d) Rate calculation excludes basis adjustments related to fair value hedges. TE = Taxable Equivalent
KEYCORP REPORTS FIRST QUARTER 2003 EARNINGS APRIL 17, 2003 PAGE 13 LINE OF BUSINESS RESULTS (dollars in millions)
KEYCORP REPORTS FIRST QUARTER 2003 EARNINGS APRIL 17, 2003 PAGE 14 LINE OF BUSINESS RESULTS (CONTINUED) (dollars in millions)
KEYCORP REPORTS FIRST QUARTER 2003 EARNINGS APRIL 17, 2003 PAGE 15 LINE OF BUSINESS RESULTS (CONTINUED) (dollars in millions) N/A = Not Applicable TE = Taxable Equivalent


