FILE:KEY/KEY-8K-20051222170240.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Section 1  Registrant's Business and Operations
Item 1.01   
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
          On December 21, 2005, the KeyCorp Second Deferred Compensation Plan, the KeyCorp Automatic Deferral Plan, the KeyCorp Commissioned Deferred Compensation Plan, the KeyCorp Deferred Bonus Plan, the McDonald Financial Group Deferral Plan, the KeyCorp Second Director Deferred Compensation Plan, the KeyCorp Second Excess 401(k) Savings Plan and the KeyCorp Second Excess Cash Balance Pension Plan were each amended and restated (retroactively) effective as of January 1, 2005, to clarify certain plan provisions and to make changes necessary to bring such plans into conformity with the requirements of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 and the recently proposed regulations thereunder.
          Specifically, the "provision of each of the plans (other than the Second Director Deferred Compensation Plan) has been revised to provide for the forfeiture of plan benefits in the event of a breach of such provisions. In addition, the KeyCorp Second Excess 401(k) Savings Plan and the KeyCorp Second Excess Cash Balance Pension Plan are amended, effective January 1, 2006, to include a revised definition of plan "compensation". The KeyCorp Signing Bonus Plan was amended and restated as the KeyCorp Deferred Bonus Plan.
harmful activity"
          The amended and restated plans are included as exhibits hereto.
Item 1.02   
Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
          On December 22, 2005, KeyCorp notified its officers that are parties to KeyCorp change of control agreements that the agreements would be terminated as of December 31, 2006, and that new agreements will be reissued to those officers that qualify under new eligibility standards. The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors made this determination after engaging an independent compensation consultant and reviewing relevant data. The new agreements will be two tiered. Recipients of the first tier of agreements are expected to be direct reports (including Messrs. Bunn, Stevens, and Weeden) to Henry Meyer, KeyCorp's Chief Executive Officer and selected other KeyCorp officers. Mr. Meyer has a separate employment agreement and on December 31, 2006 the change of control provisions contained in his agreement will be modified in the same manner as the provisions of the tier one change of control agreements. Recipients of the second tier agreements will include other executives determined according to new eligibility standards.
          The tier one agreements are expected to change in only one respect  the definition of earnings in the new agreements will include long term incentive compensation awards at 50%.
          The tier two agreements are expected to have a similar definition of earnings, including long term incentive compensation awards at 50%. The new tier two agreements are also expected to reduce severance pay from the current three times earnings to two times earnings and to reduce the service credit relevant to benefit plans from the current three years to two years.
          The existing change of control agreements and Mr. Meyer's employment agreement will continue to be in effect until December 31, 2006, and if a transaction that constitutes a change of control under the agreements is pending on December 31, 2006, the existing agreements will remain in place thereafter.
          Several agreements have sunset provisions and are therefore not renewable on a year-to-year basis. These agreements will not be terminated or modified.
Table of Contents
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)     
Exhibits
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 10.1
          The KeyCorp Second Deferred Compensation Plan (the "Plan"), as originally established December 28, 2004, to be effective January 1, 2005 is hereby amended and restated as of that date. The Plan, as structured, is designed to provide a certain select group of employees of KeyCorp with the opportunity to defer a portion of their base salary and incentive compensation to the Plan, while allowing KeyCorp to retain the employee's continued employment. It is the intention of KeyCorp and it is the understanding of the employees covered under the Plan, that the Plan constitutes a nonqualified deferred compensation plan for a select group of KeyCorp employees, and as such, the Plan is unfunded for tax purposes and for purposes of Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA"). It is also the understanding of employees covered under the Plan that the Plan will be administered in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code.
     2.1 . For the purposes of this Plan, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings hereinafter set forth, unless a different meaning is clearly required by the context:
Meaning of Definitions
 
 
 
 
     2.2 . All other words and phrases used herein shall have the meaning given them in the KeyCorp Cash Balance Pension Plan, unless a different meaning is clearly required by the context.
Additional Reference
     2.3 . The masculine pronoun wherever used herein includes the feminine in any case so requiring, and the singular may include the plural.
Pronouns
     3.2 . The following Participant Deferral limitations shall apply for each Deferral Period:
Deferral Limitations
     3.3 . As of the Participant's Termination date, Retirement date, date of Disability or date of death, all Participant Deferrals under the Plan shall cease.
Commitment Limited by Termination, Retirement, Disability or Death
 
     3.4 . A Participant's deferral commitment as evidenced by his or her Participation Agreement for the applicable Deferral Period shall be irrevocable.
Modification of Deferral Commitment
     3.5 . If the Corporation determines that a Participant's performance is no longer at a level that deserves to be rewarded through participation in the Plan, but does not terminate the Participant's employment with the Employer, the Participant's existing Participation Agreement shall terminate at the end of the Deferral Period, and no new Participation Agreement may be made by such Participant.
Change in Employment Status
     3.6 Effective January 1, 2005, Participants in the frozen KeyCorp Deferred Compensation Plan who as of December 31, 2004 were not vested in all or any portion of those KeyCorp Deferred Compensation Plan corporate contributions allocated to their plan account shall have such allocated but not vested corporate contributions on a bookkeeping basis, transferred to the Plan and reflected in a bookkeeping opening account balance ("Opening Account Balance") established for the Participant. Such Opening Account Balance shall be invested on a bookkeeping basis in the Plan's Corporation Stock Fund, and shall be credited with all earnings, gains, and losses attributable to the investment performance of such Fund. The value of the Participant's Opening Account Balance shall be added to and shall become a part of such Participant's Plan benefit which shall be payable in accordance with the terms of this Plan, provided, however, that the Participant shall receive distribution of his or her Opening Account Balance in accordance with the distribution instructions contained within the Participant's participation agreement under the KeyCorp Deferral Compensation Plan for the applicable deferral period. The establishment of the Participant's Plan Opening Account Balance shall terminate the Participant's entitlement to such transferred benefit under the frozen KeyCorp Deferred Compensation Plan.
Opening Account Balance
.
     3.7 . The Plan may accept on behalf of a Participant, a rollover of the Participant's bookkeeping account balance from such other deferred compensation plan of the Employer in which the Participant also participates. The bookkeeping account balance so rolled shall be known as plan transfer contributions ("Plan Transfer Contributions"). The Participant's Plan Transfer Contributions shall be credited to the Participant's Plan Account on a bookkeeping basis in such a manner as the Corporation shall be able to separately identify such Plan Transfer Contributions and determine the net gains or losses attributable thereto. Such Plan Transfer Contributions shall, at all times, be invested in the Plan's Common Stock Account and shall not be subject to the Participant's investment direction or diversification. Plan Transfer Contributions shall be fully vested under the Plan and shall be subject to the distribution requirements contained within the Participant's Rollover Election Form provided, however, that such Plan Transfer Contributions must be deferred under the Plan for a minimum of five (5) years from the date of the rollover regardless of the Participant's termination, retirement, or distribution instructions contained in the Participant's Rollover Election Form, and further, must conform with subsequent deferral election requirements mandated under Section 409A of the Code.
Rollovers
     4.1 . All Participant Deferrals and Corporate Contributions shall be credited on a bookkeeping basis to a Plan Account established in the Participant's name. Separate sub-accounts may be established to reflect the Participant's investment elections, with all earnings, gains or losses attributable to such elections.
Plan Account
 
     4.2 . Subject to the provisions of Section 4.3 hereof, each Participant shall direct the manner in which his or her Participant Deferrals are to be invested for bookkeeping purposes under the Plan. All Participant Deferrals may be invested for bookkeeping purposes in any one or more of the Plan's Investment Accounts, in such amounts, as the Participant shall select. Subject to the provisions of Section 4.4 hereof, Participants may modify their investment elections at such times and in such manner as permitted by the Corporation.
Investment of Participant Deferrals
     4.3 . Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of Section 4.2 hereof, Participants who have not met the ownership requirements of the Corporation's stock ownership guidelines shall be required to defer all Participant Deferrals into the Common Stock Account until such time as the Corporation stock ownership guidelines have been met.
Compliance with Corporation's Stock Ownership Guidelines
     4.4 The Participant's election to have his or her Participant Deferrals invested on a bookkeeping basis in the Common Stock Account shall be irrevocable; Participant Deferrals invested in the Common Stock Account shall not be subject to investment direction by the Participant.
Investment of Participant Deferrals Invested in the Common Stock Account
.
     4.5 . Participant Salary Deferrals shall be credited to the Participant's Plan Account as of each pay period during the applicable Deferral Period. Participant Incentive Compensation Deferrals shall be credited to the Participant's Plan Account as of the date the Incentive Compensation would have been payable to the Participant but for the Participant's election to defer such Incentive Compensation to this Plan. The withholding of taxes with respect to Participant Deferrals as required by state, federal or local law will be withheld from the Participant's Compensation to the maximum extent possible; any taxes remaining due shall reduce the amount of Participant Deferrals credited to the Participant's Plan Account.
Crediting of Participant Deferrals; Withholding
     5.1 . Corporate Contributions shall be credited on a bookkeeping basis to the Participant's Plan Account in proportion to the respective amount of the Participant's Participant Deferrals made to the Plan during the applicable Deferral Period. Corporate Contributions shall be credited to the Participant's Plan Account as of the date that the Participant's Participant Deferrals are credited to the Plan.
Crediting of Corporation Contributions
     Notwithstanding the forgoing provisions of this Section 5.1, however, if the Participant is an "Officer" of the Corporation, as that term is defined in accordance with Section 16 of the Securities Act of 1934, such Corporate Contributions shall be credited to the Participant's Plan Account as follows:
 
     Participant Deferrals invested on a bookkeeping basis in the Plan's Interest Bearing Fund and/or Investment Funds shall be credited with Corporate Contributions equal to 6% of such Participant's Participant Deferrals; Participant Deferrals invested on a bookkeeping basis in the Plan's Common Stock Account shall be credited with Corporate Contributions equal to 10% of such Participant's Participant Deferrals. Corporate Contributions (equal to 6% or 10%, as the case may be) shall also be credited on behalf of those Participants whose Participant Deferrals become mandated under the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Code.
     5.2 . All Corporate Contributions credited to the Participant's Plan Account shall be invested for bookkeeping purposes in the Plan's Common Stock Account. Corporate Contributions are not subject to Participant investment directions.
Investment of Corporate Contributions
     5.3 . Subject to the provisions of Section 5.4 and Section 6.4 of the Plan, a Participant shall become vested in those Corporate Contributions credited on a bookkeeping basis to the Participant's Plan Account upon the Participant's (1) completion of three years of vested service, (2) Disability, or (3) death. For purposes of this Section 5.3 hereof, the term "vested service" shall be calculated from the Participant's employment commencement date through the Participant's Termination, Retirement, or Disability date (whichever shall first occur), and shall be based on consecutive twelve-month periods during which time an Employer employs the Participant.
Vesting in Corporate Contributions
     5.4 . Notwithstanding the provisions of Sections 5.1 or 5.3 hereof, if the Participant terminates his or her employment with the Corporation for any reason other than Normal Retirement or Termination Under Limited Circumstances, the Participant shall forfeit 4% out of the 10% of Corporate Contributions (so that the remaining Corporate Contribution is 6%) allocated on Participant Deferrals which the Participant has elected to irrevocably defer into the Common Stock Account. All earnings on the 4% of Corporate Contributions forfeited shall also be forfeited.
Forfeiture of Corporate Contributions
     5.5 . The Plan Administrator shall verify the amount of Participant Deferrals, Corporate Contributions, dividends, and earnings, if any, to be credited to each Participant's Plan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Plan. The reasonable and equitable decision of the Plan Administrator as to the value of each Investment Account shall be conclusive and binding upon all Participants and the Beneficiary of each deceased Participant having any interest, direct or indirect in the Participant's Plan Account. The value of an Investment Account on any day not a Determination Date shall be the value on the last preceding Determination Date. As soon as reasonably practicable after the close of the Plan Year, the Corporation shall send to each Participant an itemized accounting statement which shall reflect the Participant's Plan Account balance.
Determination of Amount
     5.6 . All Participant Deferrals, Corporate Contributions, dividends, earnings and any other gains and losses credited to a Participant's Plan Account remain the assets and property of the Corporation, which shall be subject to distribution to the Participant only in accordance with Article VI, of the Plan. Payments made under the Plan shall be in the form of cash and shares and shall be made from the general assets of the Corporation, and Participants and Beneficiaries shall have the status of general unsecured creditors of the Corporation. Nothing contained in the Plan shall create, or be construed as creating a trust of any kind or any other fiduciary relationship between the Participant, the Corporation, or any other person. It is the intention of the Corporation and the Participant that the Plan be
Corporate Assets
 
unfunded for tax purposes and for purposes of Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and Section 409A of the Code.
     5.7 . Subject to any federal statute to the contrary, no right or benefit under the Plan and no right or interest in each Participant's Plan Account shall be subject to anticipation, alienation, sale, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or charge, and any attempt to anticipate, alienate, sell, assign, pledge, encumber, or charge any right or benefit under the Plan, or Participant's Plan Account shall be void. No right, interest, or benefit under the Plan or Participant's Plan Account shall be liable for or subject to the debts, contracts, liabilities, or torts of the Participant or Beneficiary, including any domestic relations proceedings. If the Participant or Beneficiary becomes bankrupt or attempts to alienate, sell, assign, pledge, encumber, or charge any right under the Plan or Participant's Plan Account, such attempt shall be void and unenforceable.
No Present Interest
     5.8 . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Plan, the termination of the Plan shall terminate the liability of the Corporation and all Employers to make further Corporate Contributions to the Plan.
Effect of Plan Termination
     6.1 . A Participant's vested Plan benefit shall be distributed to the Participant at the Participant's Termination or Retirement (whichever shall first occur) subject to the following limited early distribution circumstances:
Distribution at Termination or Retirement
 
     6.2 . Subject to the provisions of Section 6.4 and Section 6.5 hereof, a Participant shall elect, as reflected in the Participant's Participation Agreement, to receive a distribution of his or her vested Plan Account balance from the Plan's Interest Bearing Account and /or Investment Funds under the following payment options:
Distribution Options for Interest Bearing Account and/or Investment Funds
     Distributions of Participant Deferrals from the Plan's Interest Bearing Account and/or Investment Funds shall be made in cash.
     6.3 . Subject to the provisions of Section 6.4 and Section 6.5 of the Plan, a Participant shall elect, as reflected in the Participant's Participation Agreement, to receive the distribution of his or her vested Plan Account balance from the Plan's Common Stock Account under the following payment options:
Distribution Options for Common Stock Account
Distributions of Participant Deferrals and vested Corporate Contributions from the Plan's shall be made in KeyCorp Common Shares
     6.4 . Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, however, if the Participant engages in any Harmful Activity prior to or within twelve months after the Participant's Termination or Retirement, then by operation of this Section 6.4 hereof, and without any further notice to the Participant, (a) (i) all Corporate Contributions, and (ii) all earnings, dividends, and gains allocated to the Participant's Plan Account with regard to both Participant Deferrals and Corporate Contributions shall become immediately forfeited (the Participant's Participant Deferrals shall be continue to be distributed to the Participant in accordance with the distribution instructions contained within the Participant's Participation Agreements), and (b) all distributed Corporate Contributions and all distributed earnings, gains and dividends on the Participant's Participant Deferrals and Corporate Contributions that have been distributed to the Participant within one year of the Participant's Termination or Retirement date shall be fully repaid by the Participant to the Corporation within 60 days following the Participant's receipt of the Corporation's notice of such Harmful Activity.
Forfeiture of Plan Benefits
The foregoing restrictions shall not apply in the event that the Participant's employment with an Employer terminates within two years after a Change of Control if any of the following have occurred: a relocation of the Participant's principal place of employment more than 35 miles from the Participant's principal place of employment immediately prior to the Change of Control, a reduction in the Participant's base salary after a Change of Control, or termination of employment under circumstances in which the Participant is entitled to severance benefits or salary continuation or similar benefits under a change of control agreement, employment agreement, or severance or separation pay plan.
The determination by the Corporation as to whether a Participant has engaged in a "Harmful Activity" prior to or within twelve months after the Participant's Termination or Retirement shall be final and conclusive upon the Participant and upon all other Persons
.
 
     For purposes of this Section 6.4, a "Harmful Activity" shall have occurred if the Participant shall do any one or more of the following:
(i) Use, publish, sell, trade or otherwise disclose Non-Public Information of KeyCorp unless such prohibited activity was inadvertent, done in good faith and did not cause significant harm to KeyCorp.
(ii) After notice from KeyCorp, fail to return to KeyCorp any document, data, or thing in his or her possession or to which the Participant has access that may involve Non-Public Information of KeyCorp.
(iii) After notice from KeyCorp, fail to assign to KeyCorp all right, title, and interest in and to any confidential or non-confidential Intellectual Property which the Participant created, in whole or in part, during employment with KeyCorp, including, without limitation, copyrights, trademarks, service marks, and patents in or to (or associated with) such Intellectual Property.
(iv) After notice from KeyCorp, fail to agree to do any acts and sign any document reasonably requested by KeyCorp to assign and convey all right, title, and interest in and to any confidential or non-confidential Intellectual Property which the Participant created, in whole or in part, during employment with KeyCorp, including, without limitation, the signing of patent applications and assignments thereof.
(v) Upon the Participant's own behalf or upon behalf of any other person or entity that competes or plans to compete with KeyCorp, solicit or entice for employment or hire any KeyCorp employee.
(vi) Upon the Participant's own behalf or upon behalf of any other person or entity that competes or plans to compete with KeyCorp, call upon, solicit, or do business with (other than business which does not compete with any business conducted by KeyCorp) any KeyCorp customer the Participant called upon, solicited, interacted with, or became acquainted with, or learned of through access to information (whether or not such information is or was non-public) while the Participant was employed at KeyCorp unless such prohibited activity was inadvertent, done in good faith, and did not involve a customer whom the Participant should have reasonably known was a customer of KeyCorp.
(vii) Upon the Participant's own behalf or upon behalf of any other person or entity that competes or plans to compete with KeyCorp, after notice from KeyCorp, continue to engage in any business activity in competition with KeyCorp in the same or a closely related activity that the Participant was engaged in for KeyCorp during the one year period prior to the termination of the Participant's employment. For purposes of this Section 6.4 the term:
shall mean any invention, idea, product, method of doing business, market or business plan, process, program, software, formula, method, work of authorship, or other information, or thing relating to KeyCorp or any of its businesses.
"Intellectual Property"
shall mean, but is not limited to, trade secrets, confidential processes, programs, software, formulas, methods, business information or plans, financial information, and listings of names (e.g., employees, customers, and suppliers) that are developed, owned, utilized, or maintained by an employer such as KeyCorp, and that of its customers or suppliers, and that are not generally known by the public.
"Non-Public Information"
shall include KeyCorp, its subsidiaries, and its affiliates.
"KeyCorp"
 
     6.5 . The Participant's vested Plan Account shall be valued as of the Determination Date immediately preceding his or her Termination, Retirement or Disability (the "valuation date").
Distribution of Account Balance
     6.6 . Notwithstanding the provisions of Sections 6.2, 6.3, 6.4, and 6.5, hereof, if the value of a Participant's vested Account balance as of the Determination Date immediately preceding the Participant's Termination, Retirement or Disability date is under $50,000, the Participant's Account balance shall be distributed to the Participant as a single distribution as soon as administratively practicable following such date.
Distribution of Small Accounts
     6.7 . If the Corporation determines that a Participant's Participant Deferrals and/or Corporate Contributions with all earnings and gains thereon:
Distribution Limitation
 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section 6.7, however, all Participant Deferrals and Corporate Contributions together with all earnings, gains, and losses thereon, shall be distributed to the Participant no later than April 15 of the year following the employment termination date of the Participant, regardless of the deductibility of such distribution.
     6.8 Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, including the provisions contained within this Article VI hereof, in the event that the Participant constitutes a "key" employee of the Corporation (as that term is defined in accordance with Section 416(i) of the Code without regard to paragraph (5) thereof), distributions of the Participant's Plan benefits may not commence before the date which is six months after the Participant's date of separation from service (or, if earlier, the date of death of the Participant). The term "separation from service" shall be defined for Plan purposes in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and applicable regulations issued thereunder.
Payment Limitation for Key Employees.
     6.9 . If it is found that any individual to whom an amount is payable hereunder is incapable of attending to his or her financial affairs because of any mental or physical condition, including the infirmities of advanced age, such amount (unless prior claim therefore shall have been made by a duly qualified guardian or other legal representative) may, in the discretion of the Corporation, be paid to another person for the use or benefit of the individual found incapable of attending to his or her financial affairs or in satisfaction of legal obligations incurred by or on behalf of such individual. Any such payment shall be charged to the Participant's Plan Account from which any such payment would otherwise have been paid to the individual found incapable of attending to his or her financial affairs, and shall be a complete discharge of any liability therefore under the Plan.
Facility of Payment
     7.1 . Subject to Section 7.3 hereof, each Participant shall have the right, at any time, to designate one or more persons or an entity as Beneficiary (both primary as well as secondary) to whom benefits under this Plan shall be paid in the event of Participant's death prior to complete distribution of the Participant's Plan Account. Each Beneficiary designation shall be in a written form prescribed by the Corporation and shall be effective only when filed with the Corporation during the Participant's lifetime.
Beneficiary Designation
     7.2 . Subject to Section 7.3, any Beneficiary designation may be changed by a Participant without the consent of the previously named Beneficiary by the filing of a new designation with the Corporation. The filing of a new designation shall cancel all designations previously filed.
Changing Beneficiary
     7.3 . If any Participant fails to designate a Beneficiary in the manner provided above, if the designation is void, or if the Beneficiary (including all contingent Beneficiaries) designated by a deceased Participant dies before the Participant or before complete distribution of the Participant's benefits, the Participant's Beneficiary shall be the person in the first of the following classes in which there is a survivor:
No Beneficiary Designation
     (a) The Participant's spouse;
 
     7.4 . If a Participant dies after the distribution of his or her interest under the Plan has commenced, the remaining portion of the Participant's entire interest under the Plan, if any, shall be distributed to the Participant's Beneficiary in a single lump sum benefit. If the Participant dies before the distribution of the Participant's Plan Account has commenced, the Participant's entire interest under the Plan shall be valued as of the Determination Date immediately preceding the Participant's date of death, and shall be distributed to his or her Beneficiary in a lump sum payment as soon as reasonably practicable following the Participant's date of death.
Distribution upon Death
     8.1 . The Corporation, which shall be the "Administrator" of the Plan for purposes of ERISA and the "Plan Administrator" for purposes of the Code, shall be responsible for the general administration of the Plan, for carrying out the provisions hereof, and for making payments hereunder. The Corporation shall have the sole and absolute discretionary authority and power to carry out the provisions of the Plan, including, but not limited to, the authority and power (a) to determine all questions relating to the eligibility for and the amount of any benefit to be paid under the Plan, (b) to determine all questions pertaining to claims for benefits and procedures for claim review, (c) to resolve all other questions arising under the Plan, including any questions of construction and/or interpretation, and (d) to take such further action as the Corporation shall deem necessary or advisable in the administration of the Plan. All findings, decisions, and determinations of any kind made by the Plan Administrator shall not be disturbed unless the Plan Administrator has acted in an arbitrary and capricious manner. Subject to the requirements of law, the Plan Administrator shall be the sole judge of the standard of proof required in any claim for benefits and in any determination of eligibility for a benefit. All decisions of the Plan Administrator shall be final and binding on all parties. The Corporation may employ such attorneys, investment counsel, agents, and accountants, as it may deem necessary or advisable to assist it in carrying out its duties hereunder. The actions taken and the decisions made by the Corporation hereunder shall be final and binding upon all interested parties subject, however, to the provisions of Section 8.2. The Plan Year, for purposes of Plan administration, shall be the calendar year.
Administration
     8.2 . Whenever the Plan Administrator decides for whatever reason to deny, whether in whole or in part, a claim for benefits under this Plan filed by any person (herein referred to as the "Claimant"), the Plan Administrator shall transmit a written notice of its decision to the Claimant, which notice shall be written in a manner calculated to be understood by the Claimant and shall contain a statement of the specific reasons for the denial of the claim and a statement advising the Claimant that, within 60 days of the date on which he or she receives such notice, he or she may obtain review of the decision of the Plan Administrator in accordance with the procedures hereinafter set forth. Within such 60-day period, the Claimant or his or her authorized representative may request that the claim denial be reviewed by filing with the Plan Administrator a written request therefore, which request shall contain the following information:
Claims Review Procedure
 
     In accordance with this Section, if the Claimant requests a review of the Plan Administrator's decision, such review shall be made by the Plan Administrator, who shall, within sixty (60) days after receipt of the request form, review and render a written decision on the claim containing the specific reasons for the decision including reference to Plan provisions upon which the decision is based. All findings, decisions, and determinations of any kind made by the Plan Administrator shall not be modified unless the Plan Administrator has acted in an arbitrary and capricious manner. Subject to the requirements of law, the Plan Administrator shall be the sole judge of the standard of proof required in any claim for benefits, and any determination of eligibility for a benefit. All decisions of the Plan Administrator shall be binding on the claimant and upon all other Persons. If the Participant or Beneficiary shall not file written notice with the Plan Administrator at the times set forth above, such individual shall have waived all benefits under the Plan other than as already provided, if any, under the Plan.
 
     9.1 . The Corporation reserves the right to amend or terminate the Plan at any time by action of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, or any duly authorized committee thereof, and to modify or amend the Plan, in whole or in part, at any time and for any reason. No amendment or termination will result in an acceleration of Plan Benefits in violation of Section 409A of the Code.
Reservation of Rights
     9.2 . The Corporation may terminate the Plan by instructing the Plan Administrator to not accept any additional Participation Agreements. If such a termination occurs, the Plan shall continue to operate and be effective with regard to Participation Agreements entered into prior to the effective date of such termination.
Effect of Plan Termination
     10.1 . Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, in the event of a Change of Control as defined in accordance with Section 2.2 of the Plan, no amendment or modification of the Plan may be made at any time on or after such Change of Control (1) to reduce or modify a Participant's Pre-Change of Control Account Balance, (2) to reduce or modify the Interest Bearing Account's rate of earnings on or method of crediting such earnings to a Participant's Pre-Change of Control Account Balances, (3) to reduce or modify the Common Stock Accounts' method of calculating all earnings, gains, and/or losses on a Participant's Pre-Change of Control Account Balance, (4) to reduce or modify any Investment Funds' method of calculating all earnings, gains, and/or losses on a Participant's Pre-Change of Control Account Balance, or (5) to reduce or modify the Participant's Participant Deferrals and/or Corporate Contributions to be credited to a Participant's Plan Account for the applicable Deferral Period. For purposes of this Section 10.1, the term "Pre-Change of Control Account Balance" shall mean, with regard to any Plan Participant, the aggregate amount of such Participant's Plan Rollover Contributions, Participant Deferrals, and Corporate Contributions with all earnings, gains, and losses thereon which are credited to the Participant's Plan Account through the close of the calendar year in which such Change of Control occurs.
Change of Control
 
     10.2 . In accordance with the provisions of clause (2) of Section 10.1 hereof, in the event that Moody's Average Corporate Bond Yield Index ceases to be published on or after a Change of Control, the Corporation shall reasonably select a substantially similar index to be used in crediting earnings on Participants' Pre-Change of Control Account Balances held in the Plan's Interest Bearing Account.
Interest Bearing Account
     10.3 . In the event of a Change of Control in which the common shares of the Corporation are converted into or exchanged for securities, cash and/or other property as a result of any capital reorganization or reclassification of the capital stock of the Corporation, or consolidation or merger of the Corporation with or into another corporation or entity, or the sale of all or substantially all of its assets to another corporation or entity, the Corporation shall cause the Common Stock Account to reflect on a bookkeeping basis the securities, cash and other property that would have been received in such reorganization, reclassification, consolidation, merger or sale on an equivalent amount of common shares equal to the balance in the Common Stock Account and, from and after such reorganization, reclassification, consolidation, merger or sale, the Common Stock Account shall reflect on a bookkeeping basis all dividends, interest, earnings and losses attributable to such securities, cash, and other property (with any cash earning interest at the rate applicable to the Interest Bearing Account).
Common Stock Conversion
     10.4 . Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, in the event of a Change of Control, (i) the Participant's employment is terminated by his or her Employer and any other Employer without cause, or (ii) the Participant resigns within two years following a Change of Control as a result of the Participant's mandatory relocation, reduction in the Participant's base salary, reduction in the Participant's average annual incentive compensation (unless such reduction is attributable to the overall corporate or business unit performance), or the Participant's exclusion from stock option programs as compared to comparably situated Employees, the provisions of Section 6.4 of the Plan which limit a Participant's ability to provide services to a financial services organization, business, or company upon the Participant's Termination or Retirement, shall become null and void.
Change of Control Provisions
     10.5 . On or after a Change of Control, the provisions of Article II, Article IV, Article V, Article VI, Article VII, Article VIII, Article IX and Article X may not be amended or modified as such Sections and Articles apply with regard to the Participants' Pre-Change of Control Account Balances.
Amendment in the Event of a Change of Control
     11.1 . This Plan is an unfunded plan maintained primarily to provide deferred compensation benefits for a select group of "management or highly-compensated employees" within the meaning of Sections 201, 301, and 401 of ERISA, and therefore is exempt from the provisions of Parts 2, 3, and 4 of Title I of ERISA.
Unfunded Plan
     11.2 . Nothing herein contained shall be construed as a commitment or agreement upon the part of any Employee hereunder to continue his or her employment with an Employer, and nothing herein contained shall be construed as a commitment on the part of any Employer to continue the employment, rate of compensation or terms and conditions of employment of any Employee hereunder for any period. All Participants shall remain subject to discharge to the same extent as if the Plan had never been put into effect.
No Commitment as to Employment
 
     11.3 . Nothing in the Plan shall be construed to confer any right or claim upon any person, firm, or corporation other than the Participants, former Participants, and Beneficiaries.
Benefits
     11.4 . No member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation or a subsidiary or committee authorized by the Board of Directors, or any officer of the Corporation or a subsidiary or officer of a subsidiary shall be liable for any act or action hereunder, whether of commission or omission, taken by any other member, or by any officer, agent, or Employee, except in circumstances involving bad faith or willful misconduct, for anything done or omitted to be done.
Absence of Liability
     11.5 . The expenses of administration of the Plan shall be paid by the Corporation.
Expenses
     11.6 . Except as otherwise specifically agreed to by the Corporation in writing, no action taken in accordance with the Plan by the Corporation shall be construed or relied upon as a precedent for similar action under similar circumstances.
Precedent
     11.7 . The Corporation shall withhold any tax, which the Corporation in its discretion deems necessary to be withheld from any payment to any Participant, former Participant, or Beneficiary hereunder, by reason of any present or future law.
Withholding
     11.8 . The validity of the Plan shall be determined and the Plan shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with the provisions of ERISA, the Code, and, to the extent applicable, the laws of the State of Ohio. The invalidity or illegality of any provision of the Plan shall not affect the validity or legality of any other part thereof.
Validity of Plan
     11.9 . The Plan shall be binding upon the Employers, Participants, former Participants, and Beneficiaries hereunder, and, as the case may be, the heirs, executors, administrators, successors, and assigns of each of them.
Parties Bound
     11.10 . All headings used in the Plan are for convenience of reference only and are not part of the substance of the Plan.
Headings
     11.11 . The Corporation shall furnish to each Participant, former Participant, or Beneficiary any documents, reports, returns, statements, or other information that it reasonably deems necessary to perform its duties imposed hereunder or otherwise imposed by law.
Duty to Furnish Information
     11.12 . At its discretion, the Corporation may establish one or more trusts, with such trustees as the Corporation may approve, for the purpose of providing for the payment of benefits owed under the Plan. Although such a trust may be irrevocable, in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the Corporation, such assets will be subject to the claims of the Corporation's general creditors. To the extent any benefits provided under the Plan are paid from any such trust, the Employer shall have no further obligation to pay them. If not paid from the trust, such benefits shall remain the obligation of the Employer.
Trust Fund
     11.13 . In case any provision of this Plan shall be held illegal or invalid for any reason, said illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts hereof, but this Plan shall be construed and enforced as if such illegal and invalid provision had never been inserted herein.
Validity
     11.14 . Any notice required or permitted under the Plan shall be deemed sufficiently provided if such notice is in writing and hand delivered or sent by registered or certified mail. Such notice shall be deemed given as of the date of delivery or, if delivery is made by mail, as of the date
Notice
 
shown on the postmark or on the receipt for registration or certification. Mailed notice to the Corporation shall be directed to the Corporation's address, attention: KeyCorp Compensation and Benefits Department. Mailed notice to a Participant or Beneficiary shall be directed to the individual's last known address in the Employer's records
     11.15 . The provisions of this Plan shall bind and inure to the benefit of each Employer and its successors and assigns. The term successors as used herein shall include any corporate or other business entity, which shall, whether by merger, consolidation, purchase or otherwise, acquire all or substantially all of the business and assets of an Employer.
Successors
     12.1 . The Plan is intended to provide for the deferral of compensation in accordance with the provisions of Section 409A of the Code and regulations and published guidance issued pursuant thereto. Accordingly, the Plan shall be construed in a manner consistent with those provisions and may at any time be amended in the manner and to the extent determined necessary or desirable by the Corporation to reflect or otherwise facilitate compliance with such provisions with respect to amounts deferred on and after January 1, 2005. Moreover, to the extent permitted in guidance issued by the Secretary of the Treasury and in accordance with procedures established by the Corporation, a Participant may be permitted to terminate participation in the Plan or cancel an outstanding deferral election with regard to amounts deferred after December 31, 2004 . Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, no otherwise permissible election, deferral, accrual, or distribution shall be made or given effect under the Plan that would result in early taxation or assessment of penalties or interest of any amount under Section 409A of the Code.
Compliance With Section 409A
     Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, Plan benefits shall not be distributed to a Participant earlier than:
     If it is determined that a Participant constitutes a key employee (as defined in Section 416(i) of the Code without regard to paragraph (5) thereof) of the Corporation, the Participant shall not commence any distribution of his or her Plan benefits before the date which is six months after the date of the Participant's separation from service (or, if earlier, the date of death of the Participant).
 
     , KeyCorp has caused this KeyCorp Second Deferred Compensation Plan to be executed by its duly authorized officer this 21 day of December, to be effective as of January 1, 2005.
WITNESS WHEREOF
st

 
Exhibit 10.2
     The KeyCorp Automatic Deferral Plan ("Plan"), as originally established January 1, 1999, is hereby amended and rested in its entirety to be effective as of January 1, 2005. The Plan, as structured, requires certain key Employees of KeyCorp to automatically defer a percentage of the total amount of their incentive compensation accrued under a KeyCorp-sponsored incentive compensation plan to the Plan. While requiring the automatic deferral of certain incentive compensation to the Plan until vested, the Plan provides Plan Participants with a tax-favorable savings vehicle while permitting KeyCorp to retain the continued services of such Participants. It is the intention of KeyCorp, and it is the understanding of those Participants covered under the Plan, that the Plan is unfunded for tax purposes and it is exempt from the provisions and requirements of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA"). It is also the understanding of Participants covered under the Plan that the Plan will be administered in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code.
     . For the purposes of this Plan, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings hereinafter set forth, unless a different meaning is clearly required by the context:
2.1
Meaning of Definitions
 
 
 
 
     . The masculine pronoun wherever used herein includes the feminine in any case so requiring, and the singular may include the plural.
2.2
Pronouns
     . An Employee shall be required to participate in the Plan, and shall automatically become a Plan Participant upon the Employee's grant of an Incentive Compensation Award in excess of $100,000 during the applicable Deferral Period.
3.1
Eligibility and Participation
 
     An Employee meeting the eligibility and automatic participation requirements of Section 3.1 hereof, shall automatically defer, in accordance with the terms of the applicable Incentive Compensation Plan in which the Employee participates, the following amount from the Employee's applicable Incentive Compensation Award:
3.2
Automatic Deferral Requirements
.
     As of a Participant's Termination Under Limited Circumstances, Involuntary Termination, Retirement, Disability or death, the Participant shall be relieved from and, further, shall not be permitted to make any further Participant Deferrals to the Plan, and any Incentive Compensation Award that thereafter would have been subject to the Automatic Deferral Requirements of Section 3.2 hereof, if and to the extent payable, shall be paid directly to the Participant or to the Participant's Beneficiary in accordance with the terms of the applicable Incentive Compensation Plan.
3.3
Commitment Limited by Termination Under Limited Circumstances, Involuntary Termination, Retirement, Disability, or Death
.
     In the event of a Participant's Discharge for Cause or Voluntary Termination, the Participant shall forfeit his or her Incentive Compensation Award to the extent that it would otherwise become subject to the Automatic Deferral Requirements of Section 3.2 of the Plan when paid but for the termination of the Participant's employment. As to whether the balance of the Participant's Incentive Compensation Award not subject to the Automatic Deferral Requirements of Section 3.2, if any, shall be payable to the Participant shall be determined in accordance with the terms of the applicable Incentive Compensation Plan.
3.4
Effect of a Participant's Discharge for Cause or Voluntary Termination on Participant Deferrals
.
      Participants shall make automatic Participant Deferrals to the Plan only when the Participant's Incentive Compensation Award exceeds $100,000 for the applicable Deferral Period. During those Deferral Periods in which the Participant does not automatically defer Participant Deferrals to the Plan, Participant Deferrals and Corporate Contributions previously credited to the Participant's Plan Account shall remain in the Plan and shall continue to vest under the terms of Section 6.1 hereof; such Participant Deferrals and Corporate Contributions with all earnings, gains, or losses thereon when vested shall be distributed to the Participant in accordance with the provisions of Article VII of the Plan.
3.5
Change in Participation Status.
 
     . All Participant Deferrals shall be credited on a bookkeeping basis to a Plan Account established in the Participant's name. Separate sub-accounts may be established to reflect on a bookkeeping basis all earnings, gains, or losses attributable to the Participant's Participant Deferrals and those Corporate Contributions credited to the Participant's Plan Account in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.1 hereof.
4.1
Plan Account
     . Participant Deferrals shall be automatically invested on a bookkeeping basis in the Plan's Common Stock Account.
4.2
Investment of Participant Deferrals
      Participant Deferrals shall be credited to the Participant's Plan Account as of the payroll date on which the Participant's Incentive Compensation Award would have been payable to the Participant but for the Incentive Compensation Plan's automatic deferral provisions to the Plan.
4.3
Crediting of Participant Deferrals.
     . Matching Corporate Contributions equal to 15% of the Participant's Participant Deferrals for the applicable Deferral Period shall be credited on a bookkeeping basis to the Participant's Plan Account as of the date on which the Participant's Participant Deferrals are automatically deferred and credited to the Plan.
5.1
Crediting of Corporation Contributions
     . All Corporate Contributions credited to the Participant's Plan Account shall be invested for bookkeeping purposes in the Plan's Common Stock Account.
5.2
Investment of Corporate Contributions
     . The Plan Administrator shall verify the amount of Participant Deferrals, Corporate Contributions, dividends, and earnings and losses, if any, to be credited to each Participant's Plan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Plan. The reasonable and equitable decision of the Plan Administrator as to the value of each Plan Account shall be conclusive and binding upon all Participants and the Beneficiary of each deceased Participant having any interest, direct or indirect in the Participant's bookkeeping Plan Account. As soon as reasonably practicable after the close of the Plan Year, the Corporation shall send to each Participant an itemized accounting statement that shall reflect the Participant's Plan Account balance.
5.3
Determination of Amount
     . All Participant Deferrals, Corporate Contributions, dividends, earnings and any other gains and losses credited to a Participant's Plan Account on a bookkeeping basis, remain the assets and property of the Corporation, which shall be distributed to the Participant only in accordance with Articles VII and X of the Plan. Distributions made under the Plan shall be in the form of Common Shares. Participants and Beneficiaries shall have the status of general unsecured creditors of the Corporation. Nothing contained in the Plan shall create, or be construed as creating a trust of any kind or any other fiduciary relationship between the Participant, the Corporation, or any other person. It is the intention of the Corporation and it is the understanding of the Participant that the Plan be unfunded for tax purposes and for purposes of Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
5.4
Corporate Assets
 
     . Subject to any federal statute to the contrary, no right or benefit under the Plan and no right or interest in each Participant's Plan Account shall be subject to anticipation, alienation, sale, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or charge, and any attempt to anticipate, alienate, sell, assign, pledge, encumber, or charge any right or benefit under the Plan, or Participant's Plan Account shall be void. No right, interest, or benefit under the Plan or Participant's Plan Account shall be liable for or subject to the debts, contracts, liabilities, or torts of the Participant or Beneficiary including any domestic relations proceedings. If the Participant or Beneficiary becomes bankrupt or attempts to alienate, sell, assign, pledge, encumber, or charge any right under the Plan or Participant's Plan Account, such attempt shall be void and unenforceable.
5.5
No Present Interest
     . The calculation of a Participant's vested interest in those Participant Deferrals and Corporate Contributions credited on a bookkeeping basis to the Participant's Plan Account shall be measured from the last day of the applicable calendar quarter in which Participant Deferrals and Corporate Contributions are credited to the Participant's Plan Account ("Quarterly Deferral Date"). A Participant shall become vested in his or her Participant Deferrals and Corporate Contributions with all earnings, gains, and losses thereon for each applicable Deferral Period under the following three-year graded vesting schedule:
6.1
Vesting in Participant Deferrals and Corporate Contributions
(a) From the date the Participant's Participant Deferrals and Corporate Contributions are credited to the Participant's Plan Account until one full calendar year from the Quarterly Deferral Date 0%.
(b) One full calendar year from the Quarterly Deferral Date of the Participant's Participant Deferrals and Corporate Contributions to the Plan but less than two full calendar years from such Quarterly Deferral Date 33%.
(c) Two full calendar years from the Quarterly Deferral Date of the Participant's Participant Deferrals and Corporate Contributions to the Plan but less than three full calendar years from such Quarterly Deferral Date 66%.
(d) Three full calendar years from the date of the Quarterly Deferral Date of the Participant's Participant Deferrals and Corporate Contributions to the Plan 100%.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 6.1, a Participant shall become fully vested in all Participant Deferrals and Corporate Contributions credited on a bookkeeping basis to the Participant's Plan Account upon the Participant's Termination Under Limited Circumstances, Disability or death.
     . Subject to the provisions of Section 7.7 of the Plan, upon the Participant's Retirement, the Participant's non-vested Participant Deferrals and Corporate Contributions credited to the Participant's Plan Account with all earnings and gains thereon, shall remain in the Plan and shall continue to vest under the vesting provisions of Section 6.1 of the Plan.
6.2
Continued Vesting Upon Retirement
     . In the event of the Participant's Involuntary Termination, as that term is defined in accordance with Section 2.1(q) of the Plan, the Participant shall
6.3
Forfeiture of Corporate Contributions
 
become immediately vested in those Participant Deferrals allocated on a bookkeeping basis to the Participant's Plan Account with all earnings and gains thereon. All non-vested Corporate Contributions and related earnings credited on a bookkeeping basis to the Participant's Plan Account shall be forfeited as of the Participant's last day of employment.
     . Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, upon the Participant's Discharge for Cause or the Participant's Voluntary Termination, the Participant shall automatically forfeit all Participant Deferrals and Corporate Contributions allocated on a bookkeeping basis to the Participant's Plan Account with all earnings and gains thereon that have not vested in accordance with the vesting provisions of Section 6.1 of the Plan as of the Participant's last day of employment.
6.4
Forfeiture of Participant Deferrals and Corporate Contributions
     . A Participant's vested Participant Deferrals and Corporate Contributions with all earnings and gains thereonshall be distributed to the Participant within 60 days following the Determination Date coinciding with or immediately following the Participant's vesting in his or her Plan benefit in a single lump sum distribution of Common Shares, based on the bookkeeping number of whole and fractional Common Shares attributable to those vested Participant Deferrals and Corporate Contributions maintained in the Plan's Common Stock Account as of the Determination Date coinciding with or immediately preceding the date of such distribution.
7.1
Distributions Prior to Retirement
,
     . Subject to the Harmful Activity provisions of Section 7.7 hereof, upon the Participant's Retirement, the Participant's Plan Account balance shall continue to be maintained within the Plan and all Participant Deferrals and Corporate Contributions credited to the Participant's Plan Account with all earnings, gains, and losses thereon, shall continue to vest under the vesting provisions of Section 6.1 of the Plan, and when vested, shall be distributed to the Participant in accordance with the provisions of Section 7.1 hereof.
7.2
Distributions Following Retirement
     . Upon the Participant's Termination Under Limited Circumstances, Disability, or death, all Participant Deferrals and Corporate Contributions credited to the Participant's Plan Account with all earnings, gains, and losses thereon shall become immediately vested and shall be distributed to the Participant in a single lump sum distribution of Common Shares.
7.3
Distributions Following Termination Under Limited Circumstances, Disability or Death
     . Upon the Participant's Involuntary Termination, all Participant Deferrals credited to the Participant's Plan Account with all related earnings, gains and losses thereon, in accordance with the provisions of Section 6.3 of the Plan, shall become immediately vested and shall be distributed to the Participant in a single lump sum distribution of Common Shares. All non-vested Corporate Contributions credited to the Participant's Plan Account with all related earnings thereon shall be forfeited by the Participant as of his or her last day of employment.
7.4
Distributions Following Involuntary Termination
     . Upon the Participant's Voluntary Termination or Discharge for Cause, all non-vested Participant Deferrals and Corporate Contributions credited to the Participant's Plan Account with all earnings, gains, and losses thereon shall be forfeited by the Participant as of his or her last day of employment.
7.5
Distributions Following Voluntary Termination or Discharge for Cause
 
     . The withholding of taxes with respect to the Participant's Participant Deferrals, Corporate Contributions, and all earnings and gains thereon shall be made at such time as it becomes required by any state, federal or local law; such taxes shall be withheld from the Participant's Participant Deferrals and Corporate Contributions in accordance with applicable law to the maximum extent possible.
7.6
Withholding
     . If a Participant engages in any "Harmful Activity" prior to or within twelve months after the Participant's Termination or Retirement of his or her employment with an Employer, then (a) all non-vested Participant Deferrals and all non-vested Corporate Contributions with all earnings, gains, and losses thereon that are maintained in the Plan in conjunction with the continued vesting provisions of Section 7.2 hereof shall be immediately forfeited, and (b) all distributions of Participant Deferrals and Corporate Contributions with all earnings and gains thereon that have been made to the Participant within one year prior to the Participant's Termination or Retirement date shall be fully repaid by the Participant to the Corporation within 60 days following the Participant's receipt of the Corporation's notice of such Harmful Activity.
7.7
Harmful Activity
The foregoing restrictions shall not apply in the event that the Participant's employment with an Employer terminates within two years after a Change of Control if any of the following have occurred: a relocation of the Participant's principal place of employment more than 35 miles from the Participant's principal place of employment immediately prior to the Change of Control, a reduction in the Participant's base salary after a Change of Control, or termination of employment under circumstances in which the Participant is entitled to severance benefits or salary continuation or similar benefits under a change of control agreement, employment agreement, or severance or separation pay plan.
     The determination by the Corporation as to whether a Participant has engaged in a "Harmful Activity" prior to or within twelve months after the Participant's Termination or Retirement shall be final and conclusive upon the Participant and upon all other Persons
.
     . If the Corporation determines that a Participant's Participant Deferrals and/or Corporate Contributions with all earnings and gains thereon:
7.8
Distribution Limitation
     Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section 7.8, however, all Participant Deferrals and Corporate Contributions together with all earnings, gains, and losses thereon, shall be distributed to the Participant no later than April 15 of the year following the employment termination date of the Participant, regardless of the deductibility of such distribution.
      Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, including the provisions contained within this Article VII hereof, in the event that
7.9
Payment Limitation for Key Employees.
 
the Participant constitutes a "key" employee of the Corporation (as that term is defined in accordance with Section 416(i) of the Code without regard to paragraph (5) thereof), distributions of the Participant's Plan benefit may not commence before the date which is six months after the Participant's date of separation from service (or, if earlier, the date of death of the Participant) The term "separation from service" shall be defined for Plan purposes in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and applicable regulations issued thereunder.
     . If it is found that any individual to whom an amount is payable hereunder is incapable of attending to his or her financial affairs because of any mental or physical condition, including the infirmities of advanced age, such amount (unless prior claim therefor shall have been made by a duly qualified guardian or other legal representative) may, in the discretion of the Corporation, be paid to another person for the use or benefit of the individual found incapable of attending to his or her financial affairs or in satisfaction of legal obligations incurred by or on behalf of such individual. Any such payment shall be charged to the Participant's Plan Account from which any such payment would otherwise have been paid to the individual found incapable of attending to his or her financial affairs, and shall be a complete discharge of any liability therefor under the Plan.
7.10
Facility of Payment
     . Subject to Section 8.3 hereof, each Participant shall have the right, at any time, to designate one or more persons or an entity as Beneficiary (both primary as well as secondary) to whom benefits under this Plan shall be paid in the event of Participant's death prior to complete distribution of the Participant's vested Plan Account. Each Beneficiary designation shall be in a written form prescribed by the Corporation and shall be effective only when filed with the Corporation during the Participant's lifetime.
8.1
Beneficiary Designation
     . Any Beneficiary designation may be changed by the Participant without the consent of the previously named Beneficiary by the Participant's filing of a new designation with the Corporation. The filing of a new designation shall cancel all designations previously filed by the Participant.
8.2
Changing Beneficiary
     . If a Participant fails to designate a Beneficiary in the manner provided above, if the designation is void, or if the Beneficiary (including all contingent Beneficiaries) designated by a deceased Participant dies before the Participant, the Participant's Beneficiary shall be the Participant's estate.
8.3
No Beneficiary Designation
     . The Corporation, as Plan Administrator, shall be responsible for the general administration of the Plan, for carrying out the provisions hereof, and for making payments hereunder. The Corporation shall have the sole and absolute discretionary authority and power to carry out the provisions of the Plan, including, but not limited to, the authority and power (a) to determine all questions relating to the eligibility for and the amount of any benefit to be paid under the Plan, (b) to determine all questions pertaining to claims for benefits and procedures for claim review, (c) to resolve all
9.1
Administration
 
other questions arising under the Plan, including any questions of construction and/or interpretation, and (d) to take such further action as the Corporation shall deem necessary or advisable in the administration of the Plan. All findings, decisions, and determinations of any kind made by the Plan Administrator shall not be disturbed unless the Plan Administrator has acted in an arbitrary and capricious manner. Subject to the requirements of law, the Plan Administrator shall be the sole judge of the standard of proof required in any claim for benefits and in any determination of eligibility for a benefit. All decisions of the Plan Administrator shall be final and binding on all parties. The Corporation may employ such attorneys, investment counsel, agents, and accountants as it may deem necessary or advisable to assist it in carrying out its duties hereunder. The actions taken and the decisions made by the Corporation hereunder shall be final and binding upon all interested parties subject, however, to the provisions of Section 9.2. The plan year, for purposes of Plan administration, shall be the calendar year.
     . Whenever the Plan Administrator decides for whatever reason to deny, whether in whole or in part, a claim for benefits under this Plan filed by any person (herein referred to as the "Claimant"), the Plan Administrator shall transmit a written notice of its decision to the Claimant, which notice shall be written in a manner calculated to be understood by the Claimant and shall contain a statement of the specific reasons for the denial of the claim and a statement advising the Claimant that, within 60 days of the date on which he or she receives such notice, he or she may obtain review of the decision of the Plan Administrator in accordance with the procedures hereinafter set forth. Within such 60-day period, the Claimant or his or her authorized representative may request that the claim denial be reviewed by filing with the Plan Administrator a written request therefor, which request shall contain the following information:
9.2
Claims Review Procedure
     In accordance with this Section 9.2, if the Claimant requests a review of the claim decision, such review shall be made by the Plan Administrator, who shall, within sixty (60) days after receipt of the request form, review and render a written decision on the claim containing the specific reasons for the decision including reference to Plan provisions upon which the decision is based. All findings, decisions, and determinations of any kind made by the Plan Administrator shall not be modified unless the Plan Administrator has acted in an arbitrary and capricious manner. Subject to the requirements of law, the Plan Administrator shall be the sole judge of the standard of proof required in any claim for benefits, and any determination of eligibility for a benefit. All decisions of the Plan Administrator shall be binding on the claimant and upon all other persons or entities. If the Participant or Beneficiary shall not file written notice with the Plan Administrator at the times set forth above, such individual shall have waived all benefits under the Plan other than as already provided, if any, under the Plan.
 
     . The Corporation reserves the right to terminate the Plan at any time by action of the Board, or any duly authorized committee thereof, and to modify or amend the Plan, in whole or in part, at any time and for any reason, subject to the following:
10.1
Reservation of Rights
     . If the Corporation terminates the Plan, either in whole or in part, the Corporation shall instruct the Plan Administrator to not accept any additional Participant Deferrals. If such a termination occurs, the Plan shall continue to operate and to be effective with regard to those Participant Deferrals deferred and Corporate Contributions made prior to the effective date of such termination.
10.2
Effect of Plan Termination
     . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Plan, the termination of the Plan shall terminate the liability of the Corporation and all Employers to make further Corporate Contributions to the Plan.
10.3
Effect of Plan Termination
     . Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, in the event of a Change of Control as defined in accordance with Section 2.1(c) of the Plan, no amendment or modification of the Plan may be made at any time on or after such Change of Control (1) to reduce or modify a Participant's Pre-Change of Control Account Balance, (2) to reduce or modify the Common Stock Accounts' method of calculating earnings, gains, and/or losses on the Participant's Pre-Change of Control Account Balance, or (3) to reduce or modify the Participant's Participant Deferrals and/or Corporate Contributions to be credited to the Participant's Plan Account for the applicable Deferral Period. For purposes of this Section 11.1, the term "Pre-Change of Control Account Balance" shall mean, with regard to any Plan Participant, the aggregate amount of the Participant's Participant Deferrals and Corporate Contributions with all earnings, gains, and losses thereon which are credited to the Participant's Plan Account through the close of the calendar year in which such Change of Control occurs.
11.1
Change of Control
     . In the event of a transaction or occurrence in which the Common Shares of the Corporation are converted into or exchanged for securities, cash and/or other
11.2
Common Stock Conversion
 
property as a result of any capital reorganization or reclassification of the capital stock of the Corporation, or consolidation or merger of the Corporation with or into another corporation or entity, or the sale of all or substantially all of its assets to another corporation or entity, the Corporation shall cause the Common Stock Account to reflect on a bookkeeping basis the securities, cash and other property that would have been received in such reorganization, reclassification, consolidation, merger or sale in an equivalent amount of Common Shares equal to the balance in the Common Stock Account and, from and after such reorganization, reclassification, consolidation, merger or sale, the Common Stock Account shall reflect on a bookkeeping basis all dividends, interest, earnings and losses attributable to such securities, cash, and other property.
     . On and after a Change of Control, the provisions of Article II, Article III, Article IV, Article V, Article VI, Article VII, Article VIII, Article IX, Article X, and this Article XI may not be amended or modified as such Sections and Articles apply with regard to the Participants' Pre-Change of Control Account Balances.
11.3
Amendment in the Event of a Change of Control
     . This Plan is an unfunded plan maintained primarily to provide deferred compensation benefits for a select group of "management or highly-compensated employees."
12.1
Unfunded Plan
     . Nothing herein contained shall be construed as a commitment or agreement upon the part of any Employee hereunder to continue his or her employment with an Employer, and nothing herein contained shall be construed as a commitment on the part of any Employer to continue the employment, rate of compensation, or terms and conditions of employment of any Employee hereunder for any period. All Participants shall remain subject to discharge to the same extent as if the Plan had never been put into effect.
12.2
No Commitment as to Employment
     . Nothing in the Plan shall be construed to confer any right or claim upon any person, firm, or corporation other than the Participants, former Participants, and Beneficiaries.
12.3
Benefits
     . No member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation or a subsidiary or committee authorized by the Board of Directors, or any officer of the Corporation or a subsidiary or officer of a subsidiary shall be liable for any act or action hereunder, whether of commission or omission, taken by any other member, or by any officer, agent, or Employee, except in circumstances involving bad faith or willful misconduct, for anything done or omitted to be done.
12.4
Absence of Liability
     . The expenses of administration of the Plan shall be paid by the Corporation.
12.5
Expenses
     . Except as otherwise specifically agreed to by the Corporation in writing, no action taken in accordance with the Plan by the Corporation shall be construed or relied upon as a precedent for similar action under similar circumstances.
12.6
Precedent
     . The Corporation shall withhold any tax which the Corporation in its discretion deems necessary to be withheld from any payment to any Participant, former Participant, or Beneficiary hereunder, by reason of any present or future law.
12.7
Withholding
 
     . The validity of the Plan shall be determined and the Plan shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with the provisions of the laws of the State of Ohio. The invalidity or illegality of any provision of the Plan shall not affect the validity or legality of any other part thereof.
12.8
Validity of Plan
     . The Plan shall be binding upon the Employers, Participants, former Participants, and Beneficiaries hereunder, and, as the case may be, the heirs, executors, administrators, successors, and assigns of each of them.
12.9
Parties Bound
     . All headings used in the Plan are for convenience of reference only and are not part of the substance of the Plan.
12.10
Headings
     . The Corporation shall furnish to each Participant, former Participant, or Beneficiary any documents, reports, returns, statements, or other information that it reasonably deems necessary to perform its duties imposed hereunder or otherwise imposed by law.
12.11
Duty to Furnish Information
     . At its discretion, the Corporation may establish one or more trusts, with such trustees as the Corporation may approve, for the purpose of providing for the payment of benefits owed under the Plan. Although such a trust may be irrevocable, in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the Corporation, such assets will be subject to the claims of the Corporation's general creditors. To the extent any benefits provided under the Plan are paid from any such trust, the Employer shall have no further obligation to pay them. If not paid from the trust, such benefits shall remain the obligation of the Employer.
12.12
Trust Fund
     . In case any provision of this Plan shall be held illegal or invalid for any reason, said illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts hereof, but this Plan shall be construed and enforced as if such illegal and invalid provision had never been inserted herein.
12.13
Validity
     . Any notice required or permitted under the Plan shall be deemed sufficiently provided if such notice is in writing and hand delivered or sent by registered or certified mail. Such notice shall be deemed given as of the date of delivery or, if delivery is made by mail, as of the date shown on the postmark or on the receipt for registration or certification. Mailed notice to the Corporation shall be directed to the Corporation's address, attention: KeyCorp Compensation and Benefits Department. Mailed notice to a Participant or Beneficiary shall be directed to the individual's last known address in the Employer's records
12.14
Notice
     . The provisions of this Plan shall bind and inure to the benefit of each Employer and its successors and assigns. The term successors as used herein shall include any corporate or other business entity, which shall, whether by merger, consolidation, purchase or otherwise, acquire all or substantially all of the business and assets of an Employer.
12.15
Successors
     . The Plan is intended to provide for the deferral of compensation in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and regulations and published guidance issued pursuant thereto. Accordingly, the Plan shall be construed in a manner
13.1
Compliance With Code Section 409A
 
consistent with those provisions and may at any time be amended in the manner and to the extent determined necessary or desirable by the Corporation to reflect or otherwise facilitate compliance with such provisions with respect to amounts deferred on and after January 1, 2005. Moreover, to the extent permitted in guidance issued by the Secretary of the Treasury and in accordance with procedures established by the Corporation, a Participant may be permitted to terminate participation in the Plan or cancel an outstanding deferral election with regard to amounts deferred after December 31, 2004. Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, no otherwise permissible election, deferral, accrual, or distribution shall be made or given effect under the Plan that would result in early taxation or assessment of penalties or interest of any amount under Section 409A of the Code.
          Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, Plan benefits shall not be distributed to a Participant earlier than:
If it is determined that a Participant constitutes a "key" employee (as defined in Section 416(i) of the Code without regard to paragraph (5) thereof) of the Corporation, the Participant shall not commence any
 
distribution of his or her Plan benefits before the date which is six months after the date of the Participant's separation from service (or, if earlier, the date of death of the Participant).

 
Exhibit 10.3
     The KeyCorp Commissioned Deferred Compensation Plan ("Plan") as originally established effective January 1, 2003, is hereby amended and restated in its entirety effective as of January 1, 2005. The Plan, as structured, is intended to provide certain selected employees of KeyCorp with the opportunity to defer up to 50% of their commissions earned in excess of $100,000 during the applicable Plan year. In providing those selected employees of KeyCorp with an opportunity to defer their immediate receipt of taxable income to a later date, the Plan also provides KeyCorp with the opportunity to retain those employees continued employment with Key. It is the intention of KeyCorp and it is the understanding of those employees who are covered under the Plan that the Plan is unfunded for tax purposes. It is also the understanding of those employees covered under the Plan that the Plan will be administered in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code.
     . For the purposes of this Plan, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings hereinafter set forth, unless a different meaning is clearly required by the context:
2.1
Meaning of Definitions
 
 
 
 
     . All other words and phrases used herein shall have the meaning given them in the KeyCorp Cash Balance Pension Plan, unless a different meaning is clearly required by the context.
2.2
Additional Reference
     . The masculine pronoun wherever used herein includes the feminine in any case so requiring, and the singular may include the plural.
2.3
Pronouns
 
     .
3.1
Eligibility and Participation
     . A Participant may defer to the Plan no more than 50% of the Participant's earned Commissions in excess of $100,000 (in 5% increments) that are payable to the Participant during the applicable Deferral Period.
3.2
Deferral Limitations
     . As of the Participant's Termination date, Retirement date, date of Disability or date of death, all Participant Deferrals under the Plan shall cease.
3.3
Commitment Limited by Termination, Retirement, Disability or Death
     . A Participant's deferral commitment as evidenced by his or her Participation Agreement for the applicable Deferral Period shall be irrevocable.
3.4
Modification of Deferral Commitment
     . If the Corporation determines that a Participant's performance is no longer at the level that deserves to be rewarded through participation in the Plan, but does not terminate the Participant's employment, the Participant's Participant Deferrals under the Plan shall continue until the end of the applicable Deferral Period. Thereafter, the Corporation shall not permit the Participant to make any further deferrals to the Plan.
3.5
Change in Employment Status
     . All Participant Deferrals and Corporate Contributions shall be credited on a bookkeeping basis to a Plan Account established in the Participant's name. Separate sub-accounts shall be established to reflect all Dividends attributable to such Participant Deferrals and Corporate Contributions.
4.1
Plan Account
 
     . All Participant Deferrals shall be invested for bookkeeping purposes in the Plan's Common Stock Account.
4.2
Investment of Participant Deferrals
     . Participant Deferrals shall be credited to the Participant's Plan Account as of the date the Participant's Commission would have been paid to the Participant "but for" the Participant's election to defer such Commission to the Plan. The withholding of taxes with respect to all Participant Deferrals as required by state, federal or local law shall be withheld from the Participant's compensation to the maximum extent possible; thereafter, any taxes remaining due shall be paid by reducing the amount of Participant Deferrals to be credited to the Participant's Plan Account.
4.3
Crediting of Participant Deferrals; Withholding
     . Corporate Contributions in an amount equal to 15% of the Participant's Participant Deferrals deferred to the Plan for any applicable Deferral Period shall be credited on a bookkeeping basis to the Participant's Plan Account as of the date on which the Participant's Participant Deferrals are deferred and credited to the Plan.
5.1
Crediting of Corporation Contributions
     . All Corporate Contributions credited to the Participant's Plan Account shall be invested for bookkeeping purposes in the Plan's Common Stock Account.
5.2
Investment of Corporate Contributions
     . The Plan Administrator shall verify the amount of Participant Deferrals, Corporate Contributions, Dividends, and all earnings and losses thereon, to be credited to each Participant's Plan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Plan. The reasonable and equitable decision of the Plan Administrator as to the value of each Plan Account shall be conclusive and binding upon all Participants and the Beneficiary of each deceased Participant having any interest, direct or indirect in the Participant's Plan Account. As soon as reasonably practicable after the close of the Plan Year, the Corporation shall send to each Participant an itemized accounting statement that shall reflect the Participant's Plan Account balance.
5.3
Determination of Amount
     . All Participant Deferrals, Corporate Contributions, Dividends, earnings and any other gains and losses credited to a Participant's Plan Account on a bookkeeping basis, remain the assets and property of the Corporation, which shall become subject to distribution to the Participant only in accordance with the provisions of Articles VII, and X of the Plan. Distributions made under the Plan shall be in the form of Common Shares. All Participants and Beneficiaries shall have the status of general unsecured creditors of the Corporation. Nothing contained in the Plan shall create, or shall be construed as creating a trust of any kind or any other fiduciary relationship between the Participant, the Corporation, or any other person. It is the intention of the Corporation and it is the understanding of the Participant that the Plan is not funded for tax purposes, and that it is not subject to the provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
5.4
Corporate Assets
     . Subject to any federal statute to the contrary, no right or benefit under the Plan and no right or interest in each Participant's Plan Account shall be subject to anticipation, alienation, sale, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or charge. Any attempt to anticipate, alienate, sell, assign, pledge, encumber, or charge any right or benefit under the Plan, or to the Participant's Plan Account shall be void. No right, interest, or benefit under the Plan or Participant's Plan Account shall be liable for or subject to the debts, contracts, liabilities, or torts of the Participant or Beneficiary, including
5.5
No Present Interest
 
any domestic relations proceedings. If the Participant or Beneficiary becomes bankrupt or attempts to alienate, sell, assign, pledge, encumber, or charge any right under the Plan or Participant's Plan Account such attempt shall be void and unenforceable.
     . The calculation of a Participant's vested interest in his or her Corporate Contributions and all Dividends credited on a bookkeeping basis to the Participant's Plan Account shall be measured from the last day of the applicable calendar quarter in which such Participant Deferrals and Corporate Contributions are credited to the Participant's Plan Account ("Quarterly Deferral Date"). A Participant shall become vested in those Corporate Contributions, and in those Dividends credited to the Participant's Plan Account with regard to the applicable Participant Deferrals and Corporate Contributions , upon the Participant's completion of three years of vested service. For purposes of this Section 6.1, the term "vested service" shall be determined from the Quarterly Deferral Date and shall be based upon full calendar years.
6.1
Vesting in Dividends and Corporate Contributions
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 6.1, however, a Participant shall become fully vested in all Dividends and Corporate Contributions credited on a bookkeeping basis to the Participant's Plan Account upon the Participant's Termination Under Limited Circumstances.
     . Subject to the provisions of Section 7.11 of the Plan, upon the Participant's Retirement, the Participant's not-vested Dividends and not-vested Corporate Contributions credited to the Participant's Plan Account with all gains and losses thereon, shall remain in the Plan and shall continue to vest under the vesting provisions of Section 6.1 hereof.
6.2
Continued Vesting Upon Retirement
     . A Participant's Participant Deferrals, vested Corporate Contributions and vested Dividends shall be distributed to the Participant as of the Determination Date concurrently with or immediately following the Participant's vesting in his or her Corporate Contributions and Dividends in accordance with the distribution directions provided by the Participant in his or her Participation Agreement, as follows:
7.1
Distributions Prior to Termination, Termination Under Limited Circumstances, or Retirement
Lump sum distributions from the Plan of Participant Deferrals, vested Corporate Contributions, and vested Dividends shall be made in Common Shares based on the bookkeeping number of whole and fractional Common Shares attributable to those Participant Deferrals, vested Corporate Contributions and
 
vested Dividends maintained in the Plan's Common Stock Account as of the Determination Date concurrently with or immediately following the Participant's vesting date. Distributions shall be made as soon as reasonably practicable following the applicable Determination Date.
     . Subject to the Harmful Activity provisions of Section 7.11 hereof, upon the Participant's Retirement, the Participant's Plan Account balance shall continue to be maintained in the Plan and all Corporate Contributions and Dividends credited to the Participant's Plan Account with any and all gains and losses thereon, shall continue to vest under the vesting provisions of Section 6.1 of the Plan, and when vested, shall be distributed to the Participant in accordance with the provisions of Section 7.1 hereof.
7.2
Distributions Following Retirement
     . Upon the Participant's Termination Under Limited Circumstances, all Participant Deferrals, Corporate Contributions, and Dividends credited to the Participant's Plan Account with any and all gains and losses thereon shall become immediately vested and shall be distributed to the Participant in a single lump sum distribution of Common Shares.
7.3
Distributions Following Termination Under Limited Circumstances
     . Upon the Participant's Involuntary Termination, all Participant Deferrals credited to the Participant's Plan Account and all Dividends credited on such Participant Deferrals with all gains and losses thereon, shall become immediately vested and shall be distributed to the Participant in a single lump sum distribution. All not-vested Corporate Contributions and all not-vested Dividends credited on such Corporate Contributions with all related earnings and or losses thereon shall be forfeited by the Participant as of his or her last day of employment.
7.4
Distributions Following Involuntary Termination
     . Upon the Participant's Voluntary Termination or Discharge for Cause, all not-vested Corporate Contributions and all not-vested Dividends credited to the Participant's Plan Account with all gains and losses thereon shall be forfeited by the Participant as of his or her last day of employment, and the Participant shall receive a lump sum distribution of only his or her Participant Deferrals.
7.5
Distributions Following Voluntary Termination or Discharge for Cause
     . The withholding of taxes with respect to the Participant's Participant Deferrals, Corporate Contributions, and Dividends shall be made at such time as it becomes required by any state, federal or local law. All required taxes shall be withheld from the Participant's Participant Deferrals and Corporate Contributions in accordance with applicable law to the maximum extent possible.
7.6
Withholding
     . The Participant's vested Plan Account balance shall be valued as of the Determination Date immediately following his or her date of Termination or Retirement (the "valuation date"):
7.7
Distribution of Account Balance
     . If a Participant has elected to receive a lump sum distribution of all of his or her vested Plan Account balance, such lump sum distribution of Common Shares shall be made as soon as reasonably practicable following the Participant's valuation date.
(a)
Lump Sum Distributions
     . If a Participant has elected to receive an installment distribution of all of his or her vested Plan Account, such installment distribution of Common Shares shall commence as soon as reasonably practicable following the Participant's valuation date. The Participant's vested unpaid Plan Account balance invested for bookkeeping purposes in the Plan's Common Stock Account shall be reflected as a number of whole and fractional Common Shares in a distribution sub-account and shall be credited with Dividends on a bookkeeping basis which shall be reinvested in the Plan's Common Stock Account throughout
(b)
Installment Distributions
 
the installment distribution period; all such reinvested Dividends shall be paid to the Participant in Common Shares in conjunction with the Participant's final installment payment under the Plan.
     . Notwithstanding the provisions of Sections 7.1 and 7.2 hereof, if the value of a Participant's vested Account balance as of the Determination Date immediately preceding the Participant's date of Termination or Retirement is under $50,000, such balance shall be distributed to the Participant as a single distribution as soon as reasonably practicable following such Termination or Retirement date.
7.8
Distribution of Small Accounts
      Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, including the provisions contained within this Article VII hereof, in the event that the Participant constitutes a "key" employee of the Corporation (as that term is defined in accordance with Section 416(i) of the Code without regard to paragraph (5) thereof), distributions of the Participant's Plan benefit may not commence before the date which is six months after the Participant's date of separation from service (or if earlier the date of death of the Participant). The term "separation from service" shall be defined for Plan purposes in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and applicable regulations issued thereunder.
7.9
Payment Limitation for Key Employees.
     . If the Corporation determines that any amount of a Participant's Participant Deferrals, Dividends, and/or Corporate Contributions with all interest and earnings thereon:
7.10
Distribution Limitation
the Corporation reserves the right to defer the distribution of all or any portion of such Participant's Participant Deferrals, Dividends, and/or Corporate Contributions with all interest and earnings thereon until such time as the Corporation determines that the distribution of all or any portion of such Participant's Participant Deferrals, Dividends, and/or Corporate Contributions will be payable without the disallowance of the deduction prescribed by Code Section 162(m) ("Deferrals"). Such Deferrals shall continue to be held in the Participant's Plan Account and shall continue to be credited, on a bookkeeping basis, with all earnings, gains, and losses thereon.
     Subject to the payment limitations contained in Section 7.9 hereof, in the event of the Participant's Termination or Retirement, all Deferrals required to be continued under this Section 7.10 shall be paid to the Participant on or immediately following April 15th of the year immediately following the Participant's Termination or Retirement, regardless of the deductibility of such payment.
     . If a Participant engages in any "Harmful Activity" prior to or within twelve months after the Participant's Termination or Retirement with an Employer, then by operation of this Section 7.11 hereof, and without any further notice to the Participant, (a) (i) all Corporate Contributions, and (ii) all Dividends allocated to the Participant's Plan Account with regard to both Participant Deferrals and Corporate Contributions maintained in the Participant's Plan Account shall become immediately forfeited regardless of whether such Corporate Contributions and Dividends are in a distribution status in accordance with the provisions of Section 7.1(b) or whether they are being maintained in the Plan in conjunction with the continued vesting provisions of Section 7.2, and (b) all distributions of Corporate Contributions and Dividends made to the Participant within one year prior to
7.11
Harmful Activity
 
the Participant's Termination or Retirement date shall be fully repaid by the Participant to the Corporation within 60 days following the Participant's receipt of the Corporation's notice of such Harmful Activity.
The foregoing restrictions shall not apply in the event that the Participant's employment with an Employer terminates within two years after a Change of Control if any of the following have occurred: a relocation of the Participant's principal place of employment more than 35 miles from the Participant's principal place of employment immediately prior to the Change of Control, a reduction in the Participant's base salary after a Change of Control, or termination of employment under circumstances in which the Participant is entitled to severance benefits or salary continuation or similar benefits under a change of control agreement, employment agreement, or severance or separation pay plan.
     The determination by the Corporation as to whether a Participant has engaged in a "Harmful Activity" prior to or within twelve months after the Participant's Termination or Retirement shall be final and conclusive upon the Participant and upon all other Persons
.
     . . If it is found that any individual to whom an amount is payable hereunder is incapable of attending to his or her financial affairs because of any mental or physical condition, including the infirmities of advanced age, such amount (unless prior claim therefor shall have been made by a duly qualified guardian or other legal representative) may, in the discretion of the Corporation, be paid to another person for the use or benefit of the individual found incapable of attending to his or her financial affairs or in satisfaction of legal obligations incurred by or on behalf of such individual. Any such payment shall be charged to the Participant's Plan Account from which any such payment would otherwise have been paid to the individual found incapable of attending to his or her financial affairs, and shall be a complete discharge of any liability therefor under the Plan.
7.12
Facility of Payment
     . Subject to Section 8.3 hereof, each Participant shall have the right, at any time, to designate one or more persons or an entity as Beneficiary (both primary as well as secondary) to whom benefits under this Plan shall be paid in the event of Participant's death prior to complete distribution of the Participant's Plan Account. Each Beneficiary designation shall be in a written form prescribed by the Corporation and shall be effective only when filed with the Corporation during the Participant's lifetime.
8.1
Beneficiary Designation
     . Subject to Section 8.3, a Participant's Beneficiary designation may be changed by the Participant without the consent of the previously named Beneficiary by the filing of a new designation with the Corporation. The filing of a new designation shall cancel all previously filed designations.
8.2
Changing Beneficiary
     . If a Participant fails to designate a Beneficiary in the manner provided above, if the designation is void, or if the Beneficiary (including all contingent Beneficiaries) designated by a deceased Participant dies before the Participant or before complete distribution of the Participant's benefits, the Participant's Beneficiary shall be the person in the first of the following classes in which there is a survivor:
8.3
No Beneficiary Designation
 
     . If a Participant dies after the distribution of his or her interest under the Plan has commenced, the remaining portion of the Participant's entire interest under the Plan, if any, shall be distributed to the Participant's Beneficiary under the method of distribution being used as of the Participant's date of death. If the Participant dies before the distribution of the Participant's Plan Account has commenced, the Participant's entire interest under the Plan shall be valued as of the Determination Date immediately following the Participant's date of death, and shall be distributed to his or her Beneficiary in a lump sum payment as soon as reasonably practicable following the Participant's date of death.
8.4
Distribution upon Death
     . The Corporation, as Plan Administrator, shall be responsible for the general administration of the Plan, for carrying out the provisions hereof, and for making payments hereunder. The Corporation shall have the sole and absolute discretionary authority and power to carry out the provisions of the Plan, including, but not limited to, the authority and power (a) to determine all questions relating to the eligibility for and the amount of any benefit to be paid under the Plan, (b) to determine all questions pertaining to claims for benefits and procedures for claim review, (c) to resolve any and all questions arising under the Plan, including any question of construction and/or interpretation, and (d) to take such further action as the Corporation deems necessary or advisable in the administration of the Plan. All findings, decisions, and determinations of any kind made by the Plan Administrator shall not be disturbed unless the Plan Administrator has acted in an arbitrary and capricious manner. Subject to the requirements of law, the Plan Administrator shall be the sole judge of the standard of proof required in any claim for benefits and in any determination of eligibility for a benefit. All decisions of the Plan Administrator shall be final and binding on all parties. The Corporation may employ such attorneys, investment counsel, agents, and accountants as it may deem necessary or advisable to assist it in carrying out its duties hereunder. The actions taken and the decisions made by the Corporation hereunder shall be final and binding upon all interested parties subject, however, to the provisions of Section 9.2. The Plan Year, for purposes of Plan administration, shall be the calendar year.
9.1
Administration
     . Whenever the Plan Administrator decides for whatever reason to deny, whether in whole or in part, a claim for benefits under this Plan filed by any person (herein referred to as the "Claimant"), the Plan Administrator shall transmit a written notice of its decision to the Claimant, which notice shall be written in a manner calculated to be understood by the Claimant and shall contain a statement of the specific reasons for the denial of the claim and a statement advising the Claimant that, within 60 days of the date on which he or she receives such notice, he or she may obtain review of the decision of the Plan Administrator in accordance with the procedures hereinafter set forth. Within such 60-day period, the Claimant or his or her authorized representative may request that the claim denial be reviewed by filing with the Plan Administrator a written request therefor, which request shall contain the following information:
9.2
Claims Review Procedure
 
     In accordance with this Section, if the Claimant requests a review of the Plan Administrator's decision, such review shall be made by the Plan Administrator who shall, within sixty (60) days after receipt of the request form, review and render a written decision on the claim containing the specific reasons for the decision including reference to Plan provisions upon which the decision is based. All findings, decisions, and determinations of any kind made by the Plan Administrator shall not be modified unless the Plan Administrator has acted in an arbitrary and capricious manner. Subject to the requirements of law, the Plan Administrator shall be the sole judge of the standard of proof required in any claim for benefits, and any determination of eligibility for a benefit. All decisions of the Plan Administrator shall be binding on the claimant and upon all other Persons. If the Participant or Beneficiary shall not file written notice with the Plan Administrator at the times set forth above, such individual shall have waived all benefits under the Plan other than as already provided, if any, under the Plan.
     . The Corporation reserves the right to terminate the Plan at any time, and to modify or amend the Plan, in whole or in part, at any time and for any reason, subject to the following:
10.1
Reservation of Rights
     . If the Corporation terminates the Plan the Corporation shall instruct the Plan Administrator to not accept any additional Participation Agreements.. If such a termination occurs, all Participant Deferrals and Corporate Contributions shall continue until the close of the applicable Deferral Period. Participant Account balances shall remain in
10.2
Effect of Plan Termination
 
the Plan, and when vested, shall be distributed to the Participant in accordance with the Participant's Participation Agreements' distribution instructions.
     . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Plan, the termination of the Plan shall terminate the liability of the Corporation and all employees to make further Corporate Contributions to the Plan.
10.3
Plan Termination
     . Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, in the event of a Change of Control as defined in accordance with Section 2.1(b) of the Plan, no amendment or modification of the Plan may be made at any time on or after such Change of Control (1) to reduce or modify a Participant's Pre-Change of Control Account Balance, (2) to reduce or modify the Common Stock Accounts' method of calculating all earnings, gains, and/or losses on a Participant's Pre-Change of Control Account Balance, or (3) to reduce or modify the Participant's Participant Deferrals and/or Corporate Contributions to be credited to a Participant's Plan Account for the applicable Deferral Period. For purposes of this Section 11.1, the term "Pre-Change of Control Account Balance" shall mean, with regard to any Plan Participant, the aggregate amount of such Participant's Participant Deferrals and Corporate Contributions and Dividends with all earnings, gains, and losses thereon which are credited to the Participant's Plan Account through the close of the calendar year in which such Change of Control occurs.
11.1
Change of Control
     . In the event of a Change of Control in which the common shares of the Corporation are converted into or exchanged for securities, cash and/or other property as a result of any capital reorganization or reclassification of the capital stock of the Corporation, or consolidation or merger of the Corporation with or into another corporation or entity, or the sale of all or substantially all of its assets to another corporation or entity, the Corporation shall cause the Common Stock Account to reflect on a bookkeeping basis the securities, cash and other property that would have been received in such reorganization, reclassification, consolidation, merger or sale on an equivalent amount of common shares equal to the balance in the Common Stock Account and, from and after such reorganization, reclassification, consolidation, merger or sale, the Common Stock Account shall reflect on a bookkeeping basis all Dividends, interest, earnings and losses attributable to such securities, cash, and other property.
11.2
Common Stock Conversion
     . On or after a Change of Control, the provisions of Article II, Article IV, Article V, Article VI, Article VII, Article VIII, Article IX, Article X and Article XI may not be amended or modified as such Sections and Articles apply with regard to the Participants' Pre-Change of Control Account Balances.
11.3
Amendment in the Event of a Change of Control
     . Nothing herein contained shall be construed as a commitment or agreement upon the part of any Employee hereunder to continue his or her employment with an Employer, and nothing herein contained shall be construed as a commitment on the part of any Employer to continue the employment, rate of compensation or terms and conditions of employment of
12.1
No Commitment as to Employment
 
any Employee hereunder for any period. All Participants shall remain subject to discharge to the same extent as if the Plan had never been put into effect.
     . Nothing in the Plan shall be construed to confer any right or claim upon any person, firm, or corporation other than the Participants, former Participants, and Beneficiaries.
12.2
Benefits
     . No member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation or a subsidiary or committee authorized by the Board of Directors, or any officer of the Corporation or a subsidiary or officer of a subsidiary shall be liable for any act or action hereunder, whether of commission or omission, taken by any other member, or by any officer, agent, or Employee, except in circumstances involving bad faith or willful misconduct, for anything done or omitted to be done.
12.3
Absence of Liability
     . The expenses of administration of the Plan shall be paid by the Corporation.
12.4
Expenses
     . Except as otherwise specifically agreed to by the Corporation in writing, no action taken in accordance with the Plan by the Corporation shall be construed or relied upon as a precedent for similar action under similar circumstances.
12.5
Precedent
     . The Corporation shall withhold any tax that the Corporation in its discretion deems necessary to be withheld from any payment to any Participant, former Participant, or Beneficiary hereunder, by reason of any present or future law.
12.6
Withholding
     . The validity of the Plan shall be determined and the Plan shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with the provisions the laws of the State of Ohio. The invalidity or illegality of any provision of the Plan shall not affect the validity or legality of any other part thereof.
12.7
Validity of Plan
     . The Plan shall be binding upon the Employers, Participants, former Participants, and Beneficiaries hereunder, and, as the case may be, the heirs, executors, administrators, successors, and assigns of each of them.
12.8
Parties Bound
     . All headings used in the Plan are for convenience of reference only and are not part of the substance of the Plan.
12.9
Headings
     . The Corporation shall furnish to each Participant, former Participant, or Beneficiary any documents, reports, returns, statements, or other information that it reasonably deems necessary to perform its duties imposed hereunder or otherwise imposed by law.
12.10
Duty to Furnish Information
     . In case any provision of this Plan shall be held illegal or invalid for any reason, said illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts hereof, but this Plan shall be construed and enforced as if such illegal and invalid provision had never been inserted herein.
12.11
Validity
     . Any notice required or permitted under the Plan shall be deemed sufficiently provided if such notice is in writing and hand delivered or sent by registered or certified mail. Such notice shall be deemed given as of the date of delivery or, if delivery is made by mail, as of the date shown on the postmark or on the receipt for registration or certification. Mailed notice to the Corporation shall be directed to the Corporation's address, attention: KeyCorp Compensation and Benefits Department. Mailed notice to a Participant or Beneficiary shall be directed to the individual's last known address in the Employer's records
12.12
Notice
     . The provisions of this Plan shall bind and inure to the benefit of each Employer and its successors and assigns. The term successors as used herein shall include any corporate
12.13
Successors
 
or other business entity which shall, whether by merger, consolidation, purchase or otherwise, acquire all or substantially all of the business and assets of an Employer.
          . The Plan is intended to provide for the deferral of compensation in accordance with the provisions of Section 409A of the Code and regulations and published guidance issued pursuant thereto. Accordingly, the Plan shall be construed in a manner consistent with those provisions and may at any time be amended in the manner and to the extent determined necessary or desirable by the Corporation to reflect or otherwise facilitate compliance with such provisions with respect to amounts deferred on and after January 1, 2005. Moreover, to the extent permitted in guidance issued by the Secretary of the Treasury and in accordance with procedures established by the Corporation, a Participant may be permitted to terminate participation in the Plan or cancel an outstanding deferral election with regard to amounts deferred after December 31, 2004. Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, no otherwise permissible election, deferral, accrual, or distribution shall be made or given effect under the Plan that would result in early taxation or assessment of penalties or interest of any amount under Section 409A of the Code.
13.1
Compliance With Code Section 409A
          Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, Plan benefits shall not be distributed to a Participant earlier than:
          If it is determined that a Participant constitutes a "key" employee (as defined in Section 416(i) of the Code without regard to paragraph (5) thereof) of the Corporation, the Participant shall not commence any distribution of his or her Plan benefits before the date which is six months after the date of the Participant's separation from service (or, if earlier, the date of death of the Participant).

 
Exhibit 10.4
     In accordance with the requirements of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, the KeyCorp Signing Bonus Plan ("Plan") originally established January 1, 1999, is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as the KeyCorp Deferred Bonus Plan, effective January 1, 2005. The Plan as amended and restated, is structured to provide for the mandatory deferral of certain bonuses granted to selected employees of KeyCorp at the time of their initial employment with KeyCorp. As structured, the Plan is intended to provide those selected employees of KeyCorp with a tax-favorable savings vehicle, while allowing KeyCorp to retain the employee's continued employment. It is the intention of KeyCorp, and it is the understanding of those employees who become covered under the Plan, that the Plan is unfunded for tax purposes. It is also the understanding of those employees covered under the Plan that the Plan will be administered in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code.
     . For the purposes of this Plan, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings hereinafter set forth, unless a different meaning is clearly required by the context:
2.1
Meaning of Definitions
 
     Account shall be based on the New York Stock Exchange's closing price for such Common Shares as of the day such Bonus Deferral is credited to the Participant's Plan Account.
 
 
     . The masculine pronoun wherever used herein includes the feminine in any case so requiring, and the singular may include the plural.
2.2
Pronouns
     . An Employee shall become a Plan Participant upon the Employer's mandatory deferral of the Employee's Bonus Deferral.
3.1
Eligibility and Participation
      All Bonus Deferrals shall be credited on a bookkeeping basis to a Plan Account established in the Participant's name as of the date on which the Bonus Deferral
4.1
Crediting of Bonus Deferrals.
 
would have been payable to the Participant but for the Employer's mandatory deferral of such Bonus Deferral to the Plan.
     . Bonus Deferrals shall be automatically invested on a bookkeeping basis in the Plan's Common Stock Account.
4.2
Investment of Bonus Deferrals
     . The Plan Administrator shall verify the amount of the Bonus Deferral, with all dividends, gains and losses, if any, credited to each Participant's Plan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Plan. The reasonable and equitable decision of the Plan Administrator as to the value of each Plan Account shall be conclusive and binding upon the Participants and the Beneficiary of each deceased Participant having any interest, direct or indirect in the Participant's Plan Account. As soon as reasonably practicable after the close of the Plan Year, the Corporation shall send each Participant an itemized statement that shall reflect the Participant's Plan Account balance.
4.3
Determination of Amount
     . All Bonus Deferrals, dividends, earnings and any other gains and losses credited to each Participant's Plan Account on a bookkeeping basis, remain the assets and property of the Corporation, which shall be subject to distribution to the Participant only in accordance with Article VI of the Plan. Distributions made under the Plan shall be in the form of Common Shares or as a bookkeeping plan-to-plan transfer to the KeyCorp Second Deferred Compensation Plan as provided for in Article VI hereof. Participants and Beneficiaries shall have the status of general unsecured creditors of the Corporation. Nothing contained in the Plan shall create, or be construed as creating a trust of any kind or any other fiduciary relationship between the Participant, the Corporation, or any other person. It is the intention of the Corporation and it is the understanding of the Participant that the Plan is an unfunded Plan.
4.4
Corporate Assets
     . Subject to any federal statute to the contrary, no right or benefit under the Plan and no right or interest in each Participant's Plan Account shall be subject to anticipation, alienation, sale, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or charge, and any attempt to anticipate, alienate, sell, assign, pledge, encumber, or charge any right or benefit under the Plan, or Participant's Plan Account shall be void. No right, interest, or benefit under the Plan or Participant's Plan Account shall be liable for or subject to the debts, contracts, liabilities, or torts of the Participant or Beneficiary, including an domestic relations proceedings. If the Participant or Beneficiary becomes bankrupt or attempts to alienate, sell, assign, pledge, encumber, or charge any right under the Plan or Participant's Plan Account, such attempt shall be void and unenforceable.
4.5
No Present Interest
     . The calculation of a Participant's vested interest in the Bonus Deferral credited on a bookkeeping basis to the Participant's Plan Account shall be measured in whole calendar years. A Participant shall become vested in the Bonus Deferral allocated on a bookkeeping basis to the Participant's Plan Account with all earnings, gains, and losses thereon after three full calendar years of service with his or her Employer following the Bonus Deferral Date (as defined in Section 5.1(a)). Alternatively, at the Employer's election, with such election having been clearly communicated to the Employee in writing prior to the Bonus Deferral Date, the Employee shall become vested in his or her Bonus Deferral under the following three-year graded vesting schedule (or such other multi-year vesting schedule as is expressly communicated in writing to the Employee by the Employer prior to the Participant's Bonus Deferral Date):
5.1
Bonus Deferral Vesting
 
     (a) One full calendar year from the Participant's Bonus Deferral Date but less than two full calendar years from such Bonus Deferral Date 33%.
     (b) Two full calendar years from the Participant's Bonus Deferral Date but less than three full calendar years from such Bonus Deferral Date 66%.
     (c) Three full calendar years from the Participant's Bonus Deferral Date 100%.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 5.1, however, a Participant shall become fully vested in the Bonus Deferral credited on a bookkeeping basis to the Participant's Plan Account upon the Participant's Termination Under Limited Circumstances, Disability or death.
     . Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, upon the Participant's Termination of Employment, the not vested Bonus Deferral credited on a bookkeeping basis to the Participant's Plan Account with all earnings and gains thereon shall be automatically forfeited as of the Participant's last day of employment.
5.2
Forfeiture of the Participant's Bonus Deferral
     . A Participant's vested Bonus Deferral with all earnings and gains thereon shall be distributed from the Plan concurrently with or immediately following the Participant's vesting in his or her Bonus Deferral in accordance with the distribution directions provided by the Participant in his or her Distribution Agreement, as follows:
6.1
Distribution of the Participant's Bonus Deferral
Subject to the withholding requirements of Section 6.5 hereof, lump sum distributions from the Plan shall be made in Common Shares based on the bookkeeping number of whole and fractional Common Shares attributable to the Participant's vested Bonus Deferral maintained in the Plan's Common Stock Account as of the Determination Date concurrently with or immediately preceding the date of such distribution. Participants' Plan Account balances transferred to the KeyCorp Second Deferred Compensation Plan's Common Stock Account will not be subject to investment diversification and/or reallocation under the KeyCorp Second Deferred Compensation Plan.
     . Upon the Participant's Termination Under Limited Circumstances, Disability, or death, the Bonus Deferral credited to the Participant's Plan Account with all earnings, gains, and losses thereon shall become immediately vested and shall be distributed to the Participant or the Participant's Beneficiary in a single lump sum distribution of Common Shares, net of all applicable tax withholdings.
6.2
Distributions Following Termination Under Limited Circumstances, Disability or Death
 
     . Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, in the event that the Participant constitutes a "key" employee of the Corporation (as that term is defined in accordance with Section 416(i) of the Code without regard to paragraph (5) thereof), distributions of the Participant's vested Bonus Deferral shall not be made before the date which is six months after the Participant's date of separation from service (or, if earlier, the date of death of the Participant). The term "separation from service" shall be defined for Plan purposes in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and applicable regulations issued thereunder.
6.3
Payment Limitation for Key Employees
     . If a Participant engages in any "Harmful Activity" prior to or within twelve months after the Participant's Termination of Employment with an Employer, then all not vested Plan benefits shall be immediately forfeited, and any Plan distributions made to the Participant within one year prior to the Participant's Termination or Retirement date shall be fully repaid by the Participant to the Corporation within 60 days following the Participant's receipt of the Corporation's notice of such Harmful Activity.
6.4
Harmful Activity
     The foregoing restrictions shall not apply in the event that the Participant's Termination of Employment within two years after a Change of Control if any of the following have occurred: a relocation of the Participant's principal place of employment more than 35 miles from the Participant's principal place of employment immediately prior to the Change of Control, a reduction in the Participant's base salary after a Change of Control, or Termination of Employment under circumstances in which the Participant is entitled to severance benefits or salary continuation or similar benefits under a change of control agreement, employment agreement, or severance or separation pay plan.
     The determination by the Corporation as to whether a Participant has engaged in a "Harmful Activity" prior to or within twelve months after the Participant's termination of employment with an Employer shall be final and conclusive upon the Participant and upon all other Persons.
     . The withholding of taxes with respect to any Bonus Deferral with all earnings and gains thereon shall be made at such time as it becomes required by any state, federal or local law; such taxes shall be withheld from the Bonus Deferral in accordance with applicable law and shall be paid by reducing the number of Common Shares to be distributed to the Participant based on such Common Shares' market value as of the distribution date.
6.5
Withholding
     . If it is found that any individual to whom an amount is payable hereunder is incapable of attending to his or her financial affairs because of any mental or physical condition, including the infirmities of advanced age, such amount (unless prior claim therefor shall have been made by a duly qualified guardian or other legal representative) may, in the discretion of the Corporation, be paid to another person for the use or benefit of the individual found incapable of attending to his or her financial affairs or in satisfaction of legal obligations incurred by or on behalf of such individual. Any such payment shall be charged to the Participant's Plan Account from which any such payment would otherwise have been paid to the individual found incapable of attending to his or her financial affairs, and shall be a complete discharge of any liability therefor under the Plan.
6.6
Facility of Payment
 
     . Subject to Section 7.3 hereof, each Participant shall have the right, at any time, to designate one or more persons or an entity as Beneficiary (both primary as well as secondary) to whom benefits under this Plan shall be paid in the event of Participant's death prior to complete distribution of the Participant's vested Plan Account. Each Beneficiary designation shall be in a written form prescribed by the Corporation and shall be effective only when filed with the Corporation during the Participant's lifetime.
7.1
Beneficiary Designation
     . Any Beneficiary designation may be changed by the Participant without the consent of the previously named Beneficiary by the Participant's filing of a new designation with the Corporation. The filing of a new designation shall cancel all designations previously filed by the Participant.
7.2
Changing Beneficiary
     . If a Participant fails to designate a Beneficiary in the manner provided above, if the designation is void, or if the Beneficiary (including all contingent Beneficiaries) designated by a deceased Participant dies before the Participant, or if the Beneficiary disclaims his or her interest in such benefit, the Participant's Beneficiary shall be the Participant's estate.
7.3
No Beneficiary Designation
     . The Corporation, as the "Plan Administrator" shall be responsible for the general administration of the Plan, for carrying out the provisions hereof, and for making payments hereunder. The Corporation shall have the sole and absolute discretionary authority and power to carry out the provisions of the Plan, including, but not limited to, the authority and power (a) to determine all questions relating to the eligibility for and the amount of any benefit to be paid under the Plan, (b) to determine all questions pertaining to claims for benefits and procedures for claim review, (c) to resolve all other questions arising under the Plan, including any questions of construction and/or interpretation, and (d) to take such further action as the Corporation shall deem necessary or advisable in the administration of the Plan. All findings, decisions, and determinations of any kind made by the Plan Administrator shall not be disturbed unless the Plan Administrator has acted in an arbitrary and capricious manner. Subject to the requirements of law, the Plan Administrator shall be the sole judge of the standard of proof required in any claim for benefits and in any determination of eligibility for a benefit. All decisions of the Plan Administrator shall be final and binding on all parties. The Corporation may employ such attorneys, investment counsel, agents, and accountants as it may deem necessary or advisable to assist it in carrying out its duties hereunder. The actions taken and the decisions made by the Corporation hereunder shall be final and binding upon all interested parties subject, however, to the provisions of Section 8.2. The Plan Year, for purposes of Plan administration, shall be the calendar year.
8.1
Administration
     . Whenever the Plan Administrator decides for whatever reason to deny, whether in whole or in part, a claim for benefits under this Plan filed by any person (herein referred to as the "Claimant"), the Plan Administrator shall transmit a written notice of its decision to the Claimant, which notice shall be written in a manner calculated to be understood by the Claimant and shall contain a statement of the specific reasons for the denial of the claim and a statement advising the Claimant that, within 60 days of the date on which he or she receives such notice, he or she may obtain review of the decision of the Plan Administrator in accordance with the procedures hereinafter set
8.2
Claims Review Procedure
 
forth. Within such 60-day period, the Claimant or his or her authorized representative may request that the claim denial be reviewed by filing with the Plan Administrator a written request therefor, which request shall contain the following information:
     In accordance with this Section 8.2, if the Claimant requests a review of the claim decision, such review shall be made by the Plan Administrator, who shall, within sixty (60) days after receipt of the request form, review and render a written decision on the claim containing the specific reasons for the decision including reference to Plan provisions upon which the decision is based. All findings, decisions, and determinations of any kind made by the Plan Administrator shall not be modified unless the Plan Administrator has acted in an arbitrary and capricious manner. Subject to the requirements of law, the Plan Administrator shall be the sole judge of the standard of proof required in any claim for benefits, and any determination of eligibility for a benefit. All decisions of the Plan Administrator shall be binding on the claimant and upon all other persons or entities. If the Participant or Beneficiary shall not file written notice with the Plan Administrator at the times set forth above, such individual shall have waived all benefits under the Plan other than as already provided, if any, under the Plan.
     . The Corporation reserves the right to terminate the Plan at any time by action of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, or any duly authorized committee thereof, and to modify or amend the Plan, in whole or in part, at any time and for any reason, subject to the following:
9.1
Reservation of Rights
 
     . If the Corporation terminates the Plan, either in whole or in part, the Plan Administrator shall not accept any additional Bonus Deferrals. If such a termination occurs, the Plan shall continue to operate and to be effective with regard to those Bonus Deferrals maintained in the Plan prior to the effective date of such termination.
9.2
Effect of Plan Termination
     . Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, in the event of a Change of Control as defined in accordance with Section 2.1(c) of the Plan, no amendment or modification of the Plan may be made at any time on or after such Change of Control (1) to reduce or modify a Participant's Pre-Change of Control Account Balance, or (2) to reduce or modify the Common Stock Accounts' method of calculating earnings, gains, and/or losses on the Participant's Pre-Change of Control Account Balance. For purposes of this Section 10.1, the term "Pre-Change of Control Account Balance" shall mean, with regard to any Plan Participant, the aggregate undistributed amount of the Participant's Bonus Deferral with all earnings, gains, and losses thereon which are credited to the Participant's Plan Account through the close of the calendar year in which such Change of Control occurs.
10.1
Change of Control
     . In the event of a transaction or occurrence in which the Common Shares of the Corporation are converted into or exchanged for securities, cash and/or other property as a result of any capital reorganization or reclassification of the capital stock of the Corporation, or consolidation or merger of the Corporation with or into another corporation or entity, or the sale of all or substantially all of its assets to another corporation or entity, the Corporation shall cause the Common Stock Account to reflect on a bookkeeping basis the securities, cash and other property that would have been received in such reorganization, reclassification, consolidation, merger or sale in an equivalent amount of Common Shares equal to the balance in the Common Stock Account and, from and after such reorganization, reclassification, consolidation, merger or sale, the Common Stock Account shall reflect on a bookkeeping basis all dividends, interest, earnings and losses attributable to such securities, cash, and other property.
10.2
Common Stock Conversion
     . On and after a Change of Control, the provisions of Article II, Article IV, Article V, Article VI, Article VII, Article VIII, Article IX, and this Article X, may not be amended or modified as such Sections and Articles apply with regard to the Participants' Pre-Change of Control Account Balances.
10.3
Amendment in the Event of a Change of Control
     . This Plan is an unfunded plan maintained primarily to provide deferred compensation benefits for a select group of "management or highly-compensated employees."
11.1
Unfunded Plan
     . Nothing herein contained shall be construed as a commitment or agreement upon the part of any Employee hereunder to continue his or her employment with an Employer, and nothing herein contained shall be construed as a commitment on the part of any Employer to continue the employment, rate of compensation, or terms and conditions of employment of any Employee hereunder for any period. All Participants shall remain subject to discharge to the same extent as if the Plan had never been put into effect.
11.2
No Commitment as to Employment
 
     . Nothing in the Plan shall be construed to confer any right or claim upon any person, firm, or corporation other than the Participants, former Participants, and Beneficiaries.
11.3
Benefits
     . No member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation or a subsidiary or committee authorized by the Board of Directors, or any officer of the Corporation or a subsidiary or officer of a subsidiary shall be liable for any act or action hereunder, whether of commission or omission, taken by any other member, or by any officer, agent, or Employee, except in circumstances involving bad faith or willful misconduct, for anything done or omitted to be done.
11.4
Absence of Liability
     . The expenses of administration of the Plan shall be paid by the Corporation.
11.5
Expenses
     . Except as otherwise specifically agreed to by the Corporation in writing, no action taken in accordance with the Plan by the Corporation shall be construed or relied upon as a precedent for similar action under similar circumstances.
11.6
Precedent
     . The Corporation shall withhold any tax that the Corporation in its discretion deems necessary to be withheld from any payment to any Participant, former Participant, or Beneficiary hereunder, by reason of any present or future law.
11.7
Withholding
     . The validity of the Plan shall be determined and the Plan shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of Ohio. The invalidity or illegality of any provision of the Plan shall not affect the validity or legality of any other part thereof.
11.8
Validity of Plan
     . The Plan shall be binding upon the Employers, Participants, former Participants, and Beneficiaries hereunder, and, as the case may be, the heirs, executors, administrators, successors, and assigns of each of them.
11.9
Parties Bound
     . All headings used in the Plan are for convenience of reference only and are not part of the substance of the Plan.
11.10
Headings
     . The Corporation shall furnish to each Participant, former Participant, or Beneficiary any documents, reports, returns, statements, or other information that it reasonably deems necessary to perform its duties imposed hereunder or otherwise imposed by law.
11.11
Duty to Furnish Information
     . In case any provision of this Plan shall be held illegal or invalid for any reason, said illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts hereof, but this Plan shall be construed and enforced as if such illegal and invalid provision had never been inserted herein.
11.12
Validity
     . Any notice required or permitted under the Plan shall be deemed sufficiently provided if such notice is in writing and hand delivered or sent by registered or certified mail. Such notice shall be deemed given as of the date of delivery or, if delivery is made by mail, as of the date shown on the postmark or on the receipt for registration or certification. Mailed notice to the Corporation shall be directed to the Corporation's address, attention: KeyCorp Compensation and Benefits Department. Mailed notice to a Participant or Beneficiary shall be directed to the individual's last known address in the Employer's records
11.13
Notice
     . The provisions of this Plan shall bind and inure to the benefit of each Employer and its successors and assigns. The term successors as used herein shall include any corporate or other business entity, which shall, whether by merger, consolidation, purchase or otherwise, acquire all or substantially all of the business and assets of an Employer.
11.14
Successors
 
          . The Plan is intended to provide for the deferral of compensation in accordance with the provisions of Section 409A of the Code and regulations and published guidance issued pursuant thereto. Accordingly, the Plan shall be construed in a manner consistent with those provisions and may at any time be amended in the manner and to the extent determined necessary or desirable by the Corporation to reflect or otherwise facilitate compliance with such provisions with respect to amounts deferred on and after January 1, 2005. Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, no otherwise permissible election, deferral, accrual, or distribution shall be made or given effect under the Plan that would result in early taxation or assessment of penalties or interest of any amount under Section 409A of the Code.
12.1
Compliance With Section 409A
          Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, Plan benefits shall not be distributed to a Participant earlier than:
          If it is determined that a Participant constitutes a "key" employee (as defined in Section 416(i) of the Code without regard to paragraph (5) thereof) of the Corporation, the Participant shall not commence any distribution of his or her Plan benefits before the date which is six months after the date of the Participant's separation from service (or, if earlier, the date of death of the Participant).

 
Exhibit 10.5
     The McDonald Financial Group Deferral Plan ("Plan") as originally established effective January 1, 2003, is hereby amended in its entirety to be effective January 1, 2005. The Plan as amended and restated, is structured to maintain on a bookkeeping basis, those not vested discretionary bonus awards that have been granted to Plan Participants under the various KeyCorp-sponsored Incentive Compensation Plan(s) which mandate that such discretionary bonus awards be subject to a three year vesting period prior to distribution to the Plan Participant. The Plan, provides a bookkeeping structure for such discretionary bonus awards until such awards become vested and distributed to Plan Participants. As structured, the Plan also provides Plan Participants with a tax-favorable savings vehicle, while permitting KeyCorp to retain such Participants' continued employment. It is the intention of KeyCorp, and it is the understanding of those Participants covered under the Plan, that the Plan is unfunded for tax purposes. It is also the understanding of Participants covered under the Plan that the Plan will be administered in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code.
     . For the purposes of this Plan, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings hereinafter set forth, unless a different meaning is clearly required by the context:
2.1
Meaning of Definitions
 
 
 
 
 
     . The masculine pronoun wherever used herein includes the feminine in any case so requiring, and the singular may include the plural.
2.2
Pronouns
     . An Employee shall automatically become a Plan Participant upon (i) the Employee's meeting the applicable Incentive Compensation Plan's annual production criteria established by the Corporation for the applicable Deferral Period, and (ii) the Employee being awarded a not vested, Discretionary Bonus Award under his or her applicable Incentive Compensation Plan.
3.1
Eligibility and Participation
     . An Employee meeting the eligibility and automatic participation requirements of Section 3.1 hereof, shall automatically have his or her not vested Discretionary Bonus Awards deferred to the Plan. Such Discretionary Bonus Awards shall be maintained in the Plan until vested or forfeited.
3.2
Automatic Deferral Requirements
     . As of a Participant's Termination Under Limited Circumstances, Involuntary Termination, Retirement, Disability or death, the Participant shall be relieved from and, further, shall not be permitted to have any further bonus awards deferred to the Plan, and any Discretionary Bonus Awards that thereafter would have been subject to the Automatic Deferral Requirements of Section 3.2 hereof, if and to the extent payable, shall be paid directly to the Participant in accordance with the terms of the applicable Incentive Compensation Plan.
3.3
Deferral Limited by Termination Under Limited Circumstances, Involuntary Termination, Retirement, Disability, or Death
     In the event of a Participant's Discharge for Cause or Voluntary Termination, the Participant shall forfeit his or her Discretionary Bonus Award to the extent that it would otherwise become subject to the Automatic Deferral Requirements of Section 3.2 of the Plan when paid but for the termination of the Participant's employment.
3.4
Effect of a Participant's Discharge for Cause or Voluntary Termination on Participant's Discretionary Bonus Award
.
     . During those Deferral Periods in which the Participant does not automatically defer Discretionary Bonus Awards to the Plan, Discretionary Bonus Awards and Corporate Contributions previously credited to the Participant's Plan Account shall remain in the Plan and shall continue to vest under the terms of Section 6.1 hereof; such Discretionary Bonus Awards and Corporate Contributions with all earnings, gains, or losses thereon when vested shall be distributed to the Participant in accordance with the provisions of Article VII of the Plan.
3.5
Change in Participation Status
 
      Discretionary Bonus Awards and Corporate Contributions shall be credited on a bookkeeping basis to a Plan Account established in the Participant's name. Each Participant shall direct the manner in which his or her Discretionary Bonus Awards are to be invested for bookkeeping purposes under the Plan. All Discretionary Bonus Awards may be invested for bookkeeping purposes in any one or more of the Plan's Investment Accounts, in such amounts as the Participant shall select, provided that such election amounts are expressed in five percent increments. Participants may modify their investment elections at such times and in such manner as permitted by the Corporation.
4.1
Plan Account/Investment of Discretionary Bonus Awards.
     . Discretionary Bonus Awards shall be credited to the Participant's Plan Account as of the date that the Participant's Discretionary Bonus Awards would have been payable to the Participant under an Incentive Compensation Plan but for the Incentive Compensation Plan's mandatory deferral requirements.
4.2
Crediting of Discretionary Bonus Awards
     . In the event that a Participant fails to direct the manner in which his or her Discretionary Bonus Award(s) shall be invested for bookkeeping purposes under the Plan, then such Discretionary Bonus Award(s) when credited to the Participant's Plan Account shall be automatically invested on a bookkeeping basis in the Plan's Interest Bearing Account.
4.3
Default Investment Election
     . Corporate Contributions equal to 15% of the Participant's Discretionary Bonus Awards for the applicable Deferral Period shall be credited on a bookkeeping basis to the Participant's Plan Account as of the payroll date on which the Participant's Discretionary Bonus Awards are automatically deferred and credited to the Plan.
5.1
Crediting of Corporation Contributions
     . All Corporate Contributions credited to the Participant's Plan Account shall be invested for bookkeeping purposes in the Plan's Common Stock Account. Corporate Contributions are not subject to Participant investment direction.
5.2
Investment of Corporate Contributions
     . The Plan Administrator shall verify the amount of Discretionary Bonus Awards, Corporate Contributions, dividends, and earnings, if any, to be credited to each Participant's Plan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Plan. The reasonable and equitable decision of the Plan Administrator as to the value of each Plan Account shall be conclusive and binding upon all Participants and the Beneficiary of each deceased Participant having any interest, direct or indirect in the Participant's Plan Account. As soon as reasonably practicable after the close of the Plan Year, the Corporation shall send to each Participant an itemized accounting statement that shall reflect the Participant's Plan Account balance.
5.3
Determination of Amount
     . All Discretionary Bonus Awards, Corporate Contributions, dividends, earnings and any other gains and losses credited to a Participant's Plan Account on a bookkeeping basis, remain the assets and property of the Corporation, which shall be subject to distribution to the Participant only in accordance with Article VII of the Plan. Participants and Beneficiaries shall have the status of general unsecured creditors of the Corporation. Nothing contained in the Plan shall create, or be construed as creating a trust of any kind or any other fiduciary relationship
5.4
Corporate Assets
 
between the Participant, the Corporation, or any other person. It is the intention of the Corporation and it is the understanding of the Participant that the Plan be unfunded.
     . Subject to any federal statute to the contrary, no right or benefit under the Plan and no right or interest in each Participant's Plan Account shall be subject to anticipation, alienation, sale, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or charge, and any attempt to anticipate, alienate, sell, assign, pledge, encumber, or charge any right or benefit under the Plan, or Participant's Plan Account shall be void. No right, interest, or benefit under the Plan or Participant's Plan Account shall be liable for or subject to the debts, contracts, liabilities, or torts of the Participant or Beneficiary. If the Participant or Beneficiary becomes bankrupt or attempts to alienate, sell, assign, pledge, encumber, or charge any right under the Plan or Participant's Plan Account, such attempt shall be void and unenforceable.
5.5
No Present Interest
     . Subject to the provisions of Section 7.9 of the Plan, the calculation of a Participant's vested interest in those Discretionary Bonus Awards and Corporate Contributions credited on a bookkeeping basis to the Participant's Plan Account shall be measured from the last day of the applicable calendar quarter in which the Discretionary Bonus Awards and Corporate Contributions are credited to the Participant's Plan Account ("Quarterly Deferral Date"). A Participant shall become vested in his or her Discretionary Bonus Awards and Corporate Contributions with all earnings, gains, and losses thereon under the following three-year graded vesting schedule:
6.1
Vesting in Discretionary Bonus Awards and Corporate Contributions
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 6.1, a Participant shall become fully vested in all Discretionary Bonus Awards and Corporate Contributions credited on a bookkeeping basis to the Participant's Plan Account upon the Participant's Termination Under Limited Circumstances, Disability or death.
 
     . Subject to the provisions of Section 7.9 of the Plan, upon the Participant's Retirement, the Participant's unvested Discretionary Bonus Awards and Corporate Contributions credited to the Participant's Plan Account with all earnings and gains thereon, shall remain in the Plan and shall continue to vest under the vesting provisions of Section 6.1 of the Plan.
6.2
Continued Vesting Upon Retirement
     . In the event of the Participant's Involuntary Termination, as that term is defined in accordance with Section 2.1(t) of the Plan, the Participant shall become immediately vested in those Discretionary Bonus Awards allocated on a bookkeeping basis to the Participant's Plan Account with all related earnings and gains thereon. All not vested Corporate Contributions and related earnings credited on a bookkeeping basis to the Participant's Plan Account shall be forfeited as of the Participant's last day of employment.
6.3
Forfeiture of Corporate Contributions
     . Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, upon the Participant's Discharge for Cause or the Participant's Voluntary Termination, the Participant shall automatically forfeit all Discretionary Bonus Awards and Corporate Contributions allocated on a bookkeeping basis to the Participant's Plan Account with all earnings and gains thereon that are not vested in accordance with the vesting provisions of Section 6.1 of the Plan as of the Participant's last day of employment.
6.4
Forfeiture of Discretionary Bonus Awards and Corporate Contributions
     . Subject to the provisions of Section 7.8 and Section 7.9 hereof, a Participant shall receive a distribution of his or her vested Plan Account balance from the Plan's Interest Bearing Account and /or Investment Funds as a single lump sum cash distribution.
7.1
Distribution of Interest Bearing Account and/or Investment Funds
     . Subject to the provisions of Section 7.8 and Section 7.9 hereof, a Participant shall receive a distribution of his or her vested Plan Account balance from the Plan's Common Stock Account as a single lump sum distribution of KeyCorp Common Shares.
7.2
Distribution for Common Stock Account
     . The Participant's vested Plan Account shall be valued as of the Determination Date immediately following his or her Termination, Retirement or Disability (the "valuation date"), and such lump sum distribution shall be made as soon as reasonably practicable following such valuation date.
7.3
Distribution of Account Balance
 
     . Subject to the Harmful Activity provisions of Section 7.9 of the Plan, upon the Participant's Retirement, the Participant's Plan Account balance shall continue to be maintained within the Plan and all Discretionary Bonus Awards and Corporate Contributions credited to the Participant's Plan Account with all earnings, gains, and losses thereon, shall continue to vest under the vesting provisions of Section 6.1 of the Plan, and when vested, shall be distributed to the Participant in accordance with the provisions of Section 7.1 and 7.2 hereof. .
7.4
Distributions Following Retirement
     . Upon the Participant's Termination Under Limited Circumstances, Disability or death, all Discretionary Bonus Awards and Corporate Contributions credited to the Participant's Plan Account with all earnings, gains, and losses thereon shall become immediately vested and shall be distributed to the Participant.
7.5
Distributions Following Termination Under Limited Circumstances, Disability or Death
     . In accordance with the provisions of Section 6.3 of the Plan, upon the Participant's Involuntary Termination, all Discretionary Bonus Awards credited to the Participant's Plan Account with all related earnings, gains and losses thereon, shall become immediately vested and shall be distributed to the Participant in a single lump sum distribution. All not vested Corporate Contributions credited to the Participant's Plan Account with all related earnings thereon shall be forfeited by the Participant as of his or her last day of employment.
7.6
Distributions Following Involuntary Termination
     . Upon the Participant's Voluntary Termination or Discharge for Cause, all not vested Discretionary Bonus Awards and Corporate Contributions credited to the Participant's Plan Account with all earnings, gains, and losses thereon shall be forfeited by the Participant as of his or her last day of employment.
7.7
Distributions Following Voluntary Termination or Discharge for Cause
      Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, including the provisions contained within this Article VII hereof, in the event that the Participant constitutes a "key" employee of the Corporation (as that term is defined in accordance with Section 416(i) of the Code without regard to paragraph (5) thereof), distributions of the Participant's Plan benefit may not commence before the date which is six months after the Participant's date of separation from service (or, if earlier, the date of death of the Participant). The term "separation from service" shall be defined for Plan purposes in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and applicable regulations issued thereunder.
7.8
Payment Limitation for Key Employees.
     . If a Participant engages in any "Harmful Activity" prior to or within twelve months after the Participant's Termination or Retirement of employment with an Employer, (a) all not vested Discretionary Bonus Awards and not vested Corporate Contributions with all earnings and gains thereon that are maintained in the Plan in conjunction with the continued vesting provisions of Section 6.2 hereof shall be immediately forfeited, and (b) all distribution of Discretionary Bonus Awards and Corporate Contributions with all earnings and gains thereon made to the Participant within one year prior to the Participant's Termination or Retirement date shall be fully repaid by the Participant to the Corporation within 60 days following the Participant's receipt of the Corporation's notice of such Harmful Activity.
7.9
Harmful Activity
     The foregoing restrictions shall not apply in the event that the Participant's employment with an Employer terminates within two years after a Change of Control if any of the following have occurred: a relocation of the Participant's principal place of employment more than 35 miles from the Participant's principal place of employment immediately prior to the Change of Control, a reduction in the Participant's base salary after a Change of Control, or termination of employment under circumstances in
 
which the Participant is entitled to severance benefits or salary continuation or similar benefits under a change of control agreement, employment agreement, or severance or separation pay plan.
     The determination by the Corporation as to whether a Participant has engaged in a "Harmful Activity" prior to or within twelve months after the Participant's Retirement or Termination with an Employer shall be final and conclusive upon the Participant and upon all other Persons
.
     . The withholding of taxes with respect to the Participant's Discretionary Bonus Awards, Corporate Contributions, and all earnings and gains thereon shall be made at such time as it becomes required by any state, federal or local law; such taxes shall be withheld from the Participant's Discretionary Bonus Awards and Corporate Contributions in accordance with applicable law to the maximum extent possible.
7.10
Withholding
     . If it is found that any individual to whom an amount is payable hereunder is incapable of attending to his or her financial affairs because of any mental or physical condition, including the infirmities of advanced age, such amount (unless prior claim therefor shall have been made by a duly qualified guardian or other legal representative) may, in the discretion of the Corporation, be paid to another person for the use or benefit of the individual found incapable of attending to his or her financial affairs or in satisfaction of legal obligations incurred by or on behalf of such individual. Any such payment shall be charged to the Participant's Plan Account from which any such payment would otherwise have been paid to the individual found incapable of attending to his or her financial affairs, and shall be a complete discharge of any liability therefor under the Plan.
7.11
Facility of Payment
     . Subject to Section 8.3 hereof, each Participant shall have the right, at any time, to designate one or more persons or an entity as Beneficiary (both primary as well as secondary) to whom benefits under this Plan shall be paid in the event of Participant's death prior to complete distribution of the Participant's vested Plan Account. Each Beneficiary designation shall be in a written form prescribed by the Corporation and shall be effective only when filed with the Corporation during the Participant's lifetime.
8.1
Beneficiary Designation
     . A Beneficiary designation may be changed by the Participant without the consent of the previously named Beneficiary by the Participant's filing of a new designation with the Corporation. The filing of a new designation shall cancel all designations previously filed by the Participant.
8.2
Changing Beneficiary
     . If a Participant fails to designate a Beneficiary in the manner provided above, if the designation is void, or if the Beneficiary (including all contingent Beneficiaries) designated by a deceased Participant dies before the Participant, the Participant's Beneficiary shall be the Participant's estate.
8.3
No Beneficiary Designation
 
     . The Corporation, as the Plan Administrator, shall be responsible for the general administration of the Plan, for carrying out the provisions hereof, and for making payments hereunder. The Corporation shall have the sole and absolute discretionary authority and power to carry out the provisions of the Plan, including, but not limited to, the authority and power (a) to determine all questions relating to the eligibility for and the amount of any benefit to be paid under the Plan, (b) to determine all questions pertaining to claims for benefits and procedures for claim review, (c) to resolve any and all questions arising under the Plan, including any question of construction and/or interpretation, and (d) to take such further action as the Corporation deems necessary or advisable in the administration of the Plan. All findings, decisions, and determinations of any kind made by the Plan Administrator shall not be disturbed unless the Plan Administrator has acted in an arbitrary and capricious manner. Subject to the requirements of law, the Plan Administrator shall be the sole judge of the standard of proof required in any claim for benefits and in any determination of eligibility for a benefit. All decisions of the Plan Administrator shall be final and binding on all parties. The Corporation may employ such attorneys, investment counsel, agents, and accountants as it may deem necessary or advisable to assist it in carrying out its duties hereunder. The actions taken and the decisions made by the Corporation hereunder shall be final and binding upon all interested parties subject, however, to the provisions of Section 9.2. The Plan Year, for purposes of Plan administration, shall be the calendar year.
9.1
Administration
     . Whenever the Plan Administrator decides for whatever reason to deny, whether in whole or in part, a claim for benefits under this Plan filed by any person (herein referred to as the "Claimant"), the Plan Administrator shall transmit a written notice of its decision to the Claimant, which notice shall be written in a manner calculated to be understood by the Claimant and shall contain a statement of the specific reasons for the denial of the claim and a statement advising the Claimant that, within 60 days of the date on which he or she receives such notice, he or she may obtain review of the decision of the Plan Administrator in accordance with the procedures hereinafter set forth. Within such 60-day period, the Claimant or his or her authorized representative may request that the claim denial be reviewed by filing with the Plan Administrator a written request therefor, which request shall contain the following information:
9.2
Claims Review Procedure
     In accordance with this Section, if the Claimant requests a review of the Claim decision, such review shall be made by the Plan Administrator who shall, within sixty (60) days after receipt of the
 
request form, review and render a written decision on the claim containing the specific reasons for the decision including reference to Plan provisions upon which the decision is based. All findings, decisions, and determinations of any kind made by the Plan Administrator shall not be modified unless the Plan Administrator has acted in an arbitrary and capricious manner. Subject to the requirements of law, the Plan Administrator shall be the sole judge of the standard of proof required in any claim for benefits, and any determination of eligibility for a benefit. All decisions of the Plan Administrator shall be binding on the claimant and upon all other Persons. If the Participant or Beneficiary shall not file written notice with the Plan Administrator at the times set forth above, such individual shall have waived all benefits under the Plan other than as already provided, if any, under the Plan.
     . The Corporation reserves the right to terminate the Plan at any time by action of the Corporation, or any duly authorized committee thereof, and to modify or amend the Plan, in whole or in part, at any time and for any reason, subject to the following:
10.1
Reservation of Rights
     . Upon the Plan's termination, all Participant Plan Account balances shall remain in the Plan and shall continue to vest in accordance with the provisions of Article VI of the Plan and when vested shall be distributed to the Participant in accordance with the provisions of Article VII hereof. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Plan, the termination of the Plan shall terminate the liability of the Corporation and all Employers as of the Plan's termination date or such other date designated by the Corporation to make further Corporate Contributions to the Plan.
10.2
Effect of Plan Termination
     . Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, in the event of a Change of Control as defined in accordance with Section 2.1(c) of the Plan, no amendment or modification of the Plan may be made at any time on or after such Change of Control (1) to reduce or modify a Participant's Pre-Change of Control Account Balance, (2) to reduce or modify the Common Stock Accounts' method of calculating earnings, gains, and/or losses on the Participant's Pre-Change of Control Account Balance, or (3) to reduce or modify the Participant's Discretionary Bonus Awards and/or Corporate Contributions to be credited to the Participant's Plan Account for the applicable Deferral
11.1
Change of Control
 
Period. For purposes of this Section 11.1, the term "Pre-Change of Control Account Balance" shall mean, with regard to any Plan Participant, the aggregate amount of the Participant's Discretionary Bonus Awards and Corporate Contributions with all earnings, gains, and losses thereon which are credited to the Participant's Plan Account through the close of the calendar year in which such Change of Control occurs.
     . In the event of a transaction or occurrence in which the Common Shares of the Corporation are converted into or exchanged for securities, cash and/or other property as a result of any capital reorganization or reclassification of the capital stock of the Corporation, or consolidation or merger of the Corporation with or into another corporation or entity, or the sale of all or substantially all of its assets to another corporation or entity, the Corporation shall cause the Common Stock Account to reflect on a bookkeeping basis the securities, cash and other property that would have been received in such reorganization, reclassification, consolidation, merger or sale in an equivalent amount of Common Shares equal to the balance in the Common Stock Account and, from and after such reorganization, reclassification, consolidation, merger or sale, the Common Stock Account shall reflect on a bookkeeping basis all dividends, interest, earnings and losses attributable to such securities, cash, and other property.
11.2
Common Stock Conversion
     . On and after a Change of Control, the provisions of Article II, Article III, Article IV, Article V, Article VI, Article VII, Article VIII, Article IX, Article X, and this Article XI may not be amended or modified as such Sections and Articles apply with regard to the Participants' Pre-Change of Control Account Balances.
11.3
Amendment in the Event of a Change of Control
     . This Plan is an unfunded plan maintained primarily to provide deferred compensation benefits for a select group of "management or highly-compensated employees."
12.1
Unfunded Plan
     . Nothing herein contained shall be construed as a commitment or agreement upon the part of any Employee hereunder to continue his or her employment with an Employer, and nothing herein contained shall be construed as a commitment on the part of any Employer to continue the employment, rate of compensation, or terms and conditions of employment of any Employee hereunder for any period. All Participants shall remain subject to discharge to the same extent as if the Plan had never been put into effect.
12.2
No Commitment as to Employment
     . Nothing in the Plan shall be construed to confer any right or claim upon any person, firm, or corporation other than the Participants, former Participants, and Beneficiaries.
12.3
Benefits
     . No member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation or a subsidiary or committee authorized by the Board of Directors, or any officer of the Corporation or a subsidiary or officer of a subsidiary shall be liable for any act or action hereunder, whether of commission or omission, taken by any other member, or by any officer, agent, or Employee, except in circumstances involving bad faith or willful misconduct, for anything done or omitted to be done.
12.4
Absence of Liability
     . The expenses of administration of the Plan shall be paid by the Corporation.
12.5
Expenses
 
     . Except as otherwise specifically agreed to by the Corporation in writing, no action taken in accordance with the Plan by the Corporation shall be construed or relied upon as a precedent for similar action under similar circumstances.
12.6
Precedent
     . The Corporation shall withhold any tax which the Corporation in its discretion deems necessary to be withheld from any payment to any Participant, former Participant, or Beneficiary hereunder, by reason of any present or future law.
12.7
Withholding
     . The validity of the Plan shall be determined and the Plan shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with the provisions of the laws of the State of Ohio. The invalidity or illegality of any provision of the Plan shall not affect the validity or legality of any other part thereof.
12.8
Validity of Plan
     . The Plan shall be binding upon the Employers, Participants, former Participants, and Beneficiaries hereunder, and, as the case may be, the heirs, executors, administrators, successors, and assigns of each of them.
12.9
Parties Bound
     . All headings used in the Plan are for convenience of reference only and are not part of the substance of the Plan.
12.10
Headings
     . The Corporation shall furnish to each Participant, former Participant, or Beneficiary any documents, reports, returns, statements, or other information that it reasonably deems necessary to perform its duties imposed hereunder or otherwise imposed by law.
12.11
Duty to Furnish Information
     . In case any provision of this Plan shall be held illegal or invalid for any reason, said illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts hereof, but this Plan shall be construed and enforced as if such illegal and invalid provision had never been inserted herein.
12.12
Validity
     . Any notice required or permitted under the Plan shall be deemed sufficiently provided if such notice is in writing and hand delivered or sent by registered or certified mail. Such notice shall be deemed given as of the date of delivery or, if delivery is made by mail, as of the date shown on the postmark or on the receipt for registration or certification. Mailed notice to the Corporation shall be directed to the Corporation's address, attention: KeyCorp Compensation and Benefits Department. Mailed notice to a Participant or Beneficiary shall be directed to the individual's last known address in the Employer's records.
12.13
Notice
     . The provisions of this Plan shall bind and inure to the benefit of each Employer and its successors and assigns. The term successors as used herein shall include any corporate or other business entity, which shall, whether by merger, consolidation, purchase or otherwise, acquire all or substantially all of the business and assets of an Employer.
12.14
Successors
 
     . The Plan is intended to provide for the deferral of compensation in accordance with the provisions of Section 409A of the Code and regulations and published guidance issued pursuant thereto. Accordingly, the Plan shall be construed in a manner consistent with those provisions and may at any time be amended in the manner and to the extent determined necessary or desirable by the Corporation to reflect or otherwise facilitate compliance with such provisions with respect to amounts deferred on and after January 1, 2005. Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, no otherwise permissible election, deferral, accrual, or distribution shall be made or given effect under the Plan that would result in early taxation or assessment of penalties or interest of any amount under Section 409A of the Code.
13.1
Compliance With Section 409A
     Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, Plan benefits shall not be distributed to a Participant earlier than:
     If it is determined that a Participant constitutes a "key" employee (as defined in Section 416(i) of the Code without regard to paragraph (5) thereof) of the Corporation, the Participant shall not receive any distribution of his or her Plan benefits before the date which is six months after the date of the Participant's separation from service (or, if earlier, the date of death of the Participant).

 
Exhibit 10.6
     The KeyCorp Second Director Deferred Compensation Plan (the "Plan"), originally established December 28, 2004 to be effective January 1, 2005, is hereby amended and restated as of that date. The Plan, as structured, is designed to provide directors with the opportunity to defer payment of their directors' fees and vested equity awards in accordance with the provisions of this Plan. It is the intention of KeyCorp and it is the understanding of the Directors participating in the Plan, that the Plan constitutes a nonqualified deferred compensation plan under the provisions of Section 409A of the Code and applicable regulations issued thereunder.
     For the purposes hereof, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings indicated.
 
     1. . Any Director may elect to defer receipt of all or a specified portion of his or her Fees for any Year in accordance with Section 2 of this Article.
Eligibility
     . A Director who desires to defer the payment of all or a portion of his or her Fees for any Year must complete and deliver an Election Agreement to the Corporation no later than the last day of the Year prior to the Year for which the Fees are earned by the Director; provided, however, that any Director hereafter elected to the Board of Directors of the Corporation or a Subsidiary who was not a Director on the preceding December 31 may make an election to defer payment of Fees for the Year in which he or she is elected to the Board of Directors by delivering the Election Agreement to the Corporation within 30 days of first becoming eligible to participate in the Plan. A Director who timely delivers the Election Agreement to the Corporation shall be a Participant in the Plan upon the Corporation's acceptance of such Election Agreement.
2. 
Election to Defer
     3. . A Participant shall designate on the Election Agreement (a) the amount of his or her Fees that are to be deferred to the Plan for any Year, (b) the date on which the Participant's Fees shall be distributed, (c) whether the distribution of deferred Fees is to be paid in its entirety or whether such Fees shall be paid in installments, and (d) if in installments, the number of quarterly installments. Deferrals shall be until the earlier to occur: (i) the date specified by the Participant which may be not later than the date on which the Participant would attain age 72, or (ii) the date of death of the Participant, at which time payment of the amount deferred shall be made in accordance with Section 7 or 10 of this Article. A Participant may select not more than one date in each Election Agreement upon which distribution shall be made or when installments shall begin; distribution dates shall be the first business day of a calendar quarter.
Amount Deferred; Date of Deferral
     4. . The Corporation shall maintain an Account of the Fees deferred by each Participant. A Participant shall designate on the Election Agreement whether to have the Account valued on the basis of KeyCorp Common Shares in accordance with Section 5 of this Article or receive interest in accordance with Section 6 of this Article. The Corporation may, if necessary or desirable, establish separate Accounts for a Participant to properly account for amounts deferred under the different alternatives and Years; all such Accounts are collectively referred to herein as the Account. The Account based on KeyCorp Common Shares shall be known as the "Common Shares Account", and the interest bearing account shall be known as the "Interest Bearing Account"; a Participant may defer a portion of his or her Fees into each type of Account.
Account
     5. . If a Participant elects to have all or a portion of his or her Fees deferred into the Common Shares Account, as of the last business day of any quarter, there shall be added to such Account the number of Common Shares (whole and fractional, rounded to the nearest one- 
Common Shares Account
 
hundredth of a share) equal to the dollar amount of such Fees payable for such calendar quarter plus all dividends payable during such quarter on the Common Shares held in the Account on the first day of such quarter divided by the market value of the Common Shares at the close of business on the last business day of such quarter.
     6. . If a Participant elects to have all or a portion of his or her Fees deferred into the Interest Bearing Account, there shall be added to the Account as of the last business day of each calendar quarter the dollar amount of such Fees payable for such calendar quarter plus all interest payable on such Interest Bearing Account for such quarter as follows: A Participant's account will receive interest on the average daily balance in the Interest Bearing Account during each month at a rate equal to 50 basis points higher than the effective annual yield of the average of the Moody's Average Corporate Bond Yield Index for the preceding month, as published by Moody's Investor Service, Inc. (or any successor publisher thereto), or, if such index is no longer published, a substantially similar index selected by the Board.
Interest Bearing Account
     7. . The amount of a Participant's Account shall be paid to the Participant in a single payment and/or in a number of substantially equal consecutive quarterly installments (not to exceed 40), as elected by the Participant in his or her Election Agreement. Distributions from the Interest Bearing Account shall be in cash. Distributions from the Common Shares Account shall be in Common Shares. The amount of the Account remaining after payment of an installment shall continue to be valued in accordance with Section 5 of this Article or bear interest in accordance with Section 6 of this Article. Full payment or the first quarterly installment, as the case may be, shall be made as soon as administratively possible after (i) the date specified in Section 3 of this Article, or (ii) the date of the Participant's death.
Payment of Account; Period of Deferral
     Any installment payment shall be made pro rata from the Common Shares Account and the Interest Bearing Account. The election as to the time for and method of payment of the amount of the Account relating to Fees deferred for a particular Year shall be made on the Election Agreement(s) and may not thereafter be altered except as provided in Section 10 of this Article.
     In the event that a Participant elects to receive installment payments under this Section 7,
     8. . Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the quarterly installment payment elected under any Election Agreement would result in a quarterly payment of less than $500 in cash or Common Shares, as the case may be, the Participant shall receive an immediate lump sum payment of the entire amount of the Account to the Participant on the day the installment payments were to begin.
Small Payments
 
     9. . In the event of the death of a Participant, the amount of the Participant's Account shall be paid to the Beneficiary or Beneficiaries designated in writing signed by the Participant in the form provided by the Corporation; in the event there is more than one Beneficiary, such form shall include the proportion to be paid to each Beneficiary and indicate the disposition of such share if a Beneficiary does not survive the Participant; in the absence of any such designation, payment from the Account shall be divided equally among all other Beneficiaries. A Participant's Beneficiary designation may be changed at any time prior to the Participant's death by execution and delivery of a new Beneficiary designation form. The form on file with the Corporation at the time of the Participant's death which bears the latest date shall govern. In the absence of a Beneficiary designation or the failure of any Beneficiary to survive the Participant, the amount of the Participant's Account shall be paid to the Participant's estate in its entirety ninety days after the appointment of an executor or administrator. In the event of the death of any Beneficiary after the death of a Participant, the remaining amount of the Account payable to such Beneficiary shall be paid in its entirety to the estate of such Beneficiary ninety days after the appointment of an executor or administrator for such estate.
Death of Participant
     10. .
Acceleration
 
     11. . Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, in the event of a Change of Control, no amendment or modification of this Plan may be made at any time on or after such Change of Control (1) to reduce or modify a Participant's Pre-Change of Control Account Balance, (2) to reduce or modify the Interest Bearing Account's rate of earnings on or method of crediting such earnings to a Participant's Pre-Change of Control Account Balance, (3) to reduce or modify the Common Shares Account's method of calculating all earnings, gains, and/or losses on a Participant's Pre-Change of Control Account Balance, or (4) to reduce or modify the Participant's deferrals to be credited to a Participant's Plan Account for the applicable deferral period. For purposes of this Section 11, the term "Pre-Change of Control Account Balance" shall mean, with regard to any Plan Participant, the aggregate amount of such Participant's prior deferrals with all earnings, gains, and losses thereon which are credited to the Participant's Plan Account through the close of the calendar Year in which such Change of Control occurs.
Change of Control
     12. . In accordance with the provisions of Section 6 hereof, in the event that Moody's Average Corporate Bond Yield Index ceases to be published on or after a Change of Control, the Corporation shall reasonably select a substantially similar index to be used in crediting earnings on Participants' Pre-Change of Control Account Balances held in the Plan's Interest Bearing Account.
Interest Bearing Account After Change of Control
     13 . In the event of a Change of Control in which the Common Shares of the Corporation are converted into or exchanged for securities, cash and/or other property as a result of any capital reorganization or reclassification of the capital stock of the Corporation, or as a result of the consolidation or merger of the Corporation with or into another corporation or entity, or the sale of all or substantially all of its assets to another corporation or entity, the Corporation shall cause the Common Shares Account to reflect the securities, cash and other property to be received in such reorganization, reclassification, consolidation, merger or sale on the balance in the Common Shares Account and, from and after such reorganization, reclassification, consolidation, merger or sale, the Common Shares Account shall reflect all dividends, interest, earnings and losses attributable to such securities, cash, and other property (with any cash earning interest at the rate applicable to the Interest Bearing Account).
Common Stock Conversion
     14. . On or after a Change of Control, the provisions of Article I and Article II may not be amended or modified as such provisions apply to Participants' Pre-Change of Control Account Balances.
Amendment in the Event of a Change of Control
     15. . Each Participant shall receive a statement of his or her Account not less than annually.
Statement
     16. . Each Account shall be valued as of the last day of each calendar quarter until payment of a Participant's Fees in full. If a Participant has elected to have his or her Fees deferred into the Common Shares Account, the Corporation shall ascertain the number of shares in the Account (whole and fractional, rounded to the nearest one-hundredth of a share) after taking into account earnings to the Account under this Article and distributions from the Account under this Article, based on the fair market value of the Common Shares on the last business day of such calendar quarter.
Valuation of the Account
 
Automatically and without further action by the Corporation, in the event of any stock dividend or split, recapitalization, merger, consolidation, spin-off, reorganization, combination, exchange of shares, or a similar corporate change, appropriate adjustments in the number and kind of shares held in a Participant's Account shall be made by the Corporation to reflect such change. If a Participant has elected to have his or her Fees deferred into the Interest Bearing Account, the Corporation shall ascertain the value of such Interest Bearing Account by adding to the value of the Account at the beginning of such calendar quarter the dollar amount of the Fees deferred into the Account for such quarter, plus the value of any interest paid on the Account in accordance with this Article, less any distributions made from the Account in accordance with this Article.
     17.  Participants may elect to transfer vested equity awards (other than stock option awards) granted under the KeyCorp Directors' Deferred Share Plan to the Plan, provided, the Participant's election to transfer such vested award is made in accordance with the requirements of the grant agreement under which the award was issued and in accordance with the subsequent deferral election requirements of Section 409A of the Code. Transferred awards shall be fully vested under the Plan and shall be subject to the distribution requirements contained within the Participant's transfer election form provided, however, that such Plan transfers must be deferred under the Plan for a minimum of five (5) years from the date of the transfer regardless of the Participant's termination, retirement, or the distribution instructions contained in the Participant's transfer election form. Transferred awards shall be subject to full investment diversification if cash based, and transferred awards shall be invested in the in the Plan's Common Stock Account if equity based. Awards invested in the Plan's Common Stock Account will not be subject to investment direction or diversification. Transferred awards shall be separately maintained under the Plan.
Plan Transfers.
     The Corporation shall be responsible for the general administration of the Plan and for carrying out the provisions hereof. The Corporation shall have all such powers as may be necessary to carry out its duties under the Plan, including the power to determine all questions relating to eligibility for and the amount in an Account, all questions pertaining to claims for benefits and procedures for claim review, and the power to resolve all other questions arising under the Plan, including any questions of construction. The Corporation may take such further action as the Corporation shall deem advisable in the administration of the Plan. The actions taken and the decisions made by the Corporation hereunder shall be final and binding upon all interested parties.
 
     The Corporation reserves the right to amend or terminate the Plan at any time by action of its Board of Directors, the Compensation and Organization Committee or any other duly authorized Committee of the Board of Directors; provided, however, that no such action shall adversely affect any Participant or Beneficiary with respect to the amount credited to a Deferred Compensation Account and further provided that any such action shall be subject to the limitations set forth in Article II, Sections 10 and 13, hereof. No amendment or termination of the Plan shall result in an acceleration of Plan benefits in violation of Section 409A of the Code.
     1. . Subject to any federal statute to the contrary, no right or benefit under the Plan and no right or interest in each Participant's Plan Account shall be subject to anticipation, alienation, sale, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or charge, and any attempt to anticipate, alienate, sell, assign, pledge, encumber, or charge any right or benefit under the Plan, or Participant's Plan Account shall be void. No right, interest, or benefit under the Plan or Participant's Plan Account shall be liable for or subject to the debts, contracts, liabilities, or torts of the Participant or Beneficiary. If the Participant or Beneficiary becomes bankrupt or attempts to alienate, sell, assign, pledge, encumber, or charge any right under the Plan or Participant's Plan Account, such attempt shall be void and unenforceable.
No Present Interest
     2. . Nothing herein contained shall be construed as a commitment to or agreement with any Director of the Corporation or a Subsidiary to continue such person's directorship with the Corporation or Subsidiary, and nothing herein contained shall be construed as a commitment or agreement on the part of the Corporation or any Subsidiary to continue the directorship or the rate of director compensation of any such person for any period. All Directors shall remain subject to removal to the same extent as if the Plan had never been put into effect.
Plan Noncontractual
     3. . The obligation of the Corporation under the Plan to make payment of amounts reflected on an Account merely constitutes the unsecured promise of only the Corporation to make payments from its general assets as provided herein. Further, no Participant or Beneficiary shall have any claim whatsoever against any Subsidiary for amounts reflected on an Account. At its discretion, the Corporation may establish one or more trusts, with such trustees as the Corporation may approve, for the purpose of providing for the payment of benefits owed under the Plan. Although such a trust may be irrevocable, in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the Corporation, such assets will be subject to the claims of the Corporation's general creditors. To the extent any benefits provided under the Plan are paid from any such trust, the Corporation shall have no further obligation to pay them. If not paid from the trust, such benefits shall remain the obligation of the Corporation.
Interest of Director
     4. . The provisions of the Plan shall in no event be construed as giving any person, firm, or corporation any legal or equitable rights against the Corporation or any Subsidiary, or the officers, employees, or directors of the Corporation or any Subsidiary, except any such rights as are specifically provided for in the Plan or are hereafter created in accordance with the terms and provisions of the Plan.
Claims of Other Persons
 
     5. . Any action to be taken by the Corporation's Board of Directors under this Plan may be taken by such Board's Compensation and Organization Committee, Executive Committee or any other duly authorized Committee of the Board of Directors.
Delegation of Authority
     6. . The invalidity and unenforceability of any particular provision of the Plan shall not affect any other provision hereof, and the Plan shall be construed in all respects as if such invalid or unenforceable provisions were omitted herefrom.
Severability
     7. . The provisions of the Plan shall be governed and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Ohio.
Governing Law
     The Plan is intended to provide for the deferral of compensation in accordance with the provisions of Section 409A of the Code and regulations and published guidance issued pursuant thereto. Accordingly, the Plan shall be construed in a manner consistent with those provisions and may at any time be amended in the manner and to the extent determined necessary or desirable by the Corporation to reflect or otherwise facilitate compliance with such provisions with respect to amounts deferred on and after January 1, 2005. Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, no otherwise permissible election, deferral, accrual, or distribution shall be made or given effect under the Plan that would result in early taxation or assessment of penalties or interest of any amount under Section 409A of the Code.
     , KeyCorp has caused this KeyCorp Second Director Deferred Compensation Plan to be executed by its duly authorized officer this 21st day of December, to be effective as of January 1, 2005.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF

 
Exhibit 10.7
     The KeyCorp Second Excess 401(k) Savings Plan (the "Plan"), as originally established December 28, 2004 to be effective January 1, 2005 is hereby amended and restated as of that date. The Plan, as structured, is intended to provide certain select employees of KeyCorp with a Plan benefit that is generally equal to the benefit that the Participant would have been eligible to receive under the KeyCorp 401(k) Savings Plan on and after January 1, 2005 but for the deferral limits imposed by Section 402(g) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (Code) and the compensation limits imposed by Section 401(a)(17) of the Code. It is the intention of KeyCorp and it is the understanding of the employees covered under the Plan, that the Plan constitutes a nonqualified retirement plan for a select group of employees, and as such, the Plan is unfunded for tax purposes and for purposes of Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA"). It is also the understanding of the employees covered under the Plan that the Plan shall be administered in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code.
     1.1 . For the purposes hereof, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings hereinafter set forth, unless a different meaning is plainly required by the context:
Meaning of Definitions
 
     In determining a Participant's Compensation under the Plan for Plan years prior to January 1, 2006, if the Participant participates in a line of business incentive plan, then only that Compensation up to a maximum amount of $500,000 less the amount of the Participant's Compensation utilized in computing the Participant's 401(k) Savings Plan benefit in accordance with the provisions of Section 401(a)(17) of the Code shall be utilized for purposes of calculating the Participant's Participant Deferrals under the Plan for the applicable Plan year.
     In determining a Participant's Compensation under the Plan for Plan years on and after January 1, 2006, if the Participant is classified with a benefits designator 85 or below, then only that Compensation up to a Plan maximum of $500,000 minus the amount of the Participant's Compensation utilized in computing the Participant's 401(k) Savings Plan benefit in accordance with Section 401(a)(17) of the Code shall be utilized in calculating the Participant's Participant Deferrals under the Plan for the applicable Plan year.
 
 
 
     1.2 : The masculine pronoun wherever used herein includes the feminine in any case so requiring, and the singular may include the plural.
Pronouns
     1.3 : All other words and phrases used herein shall have the meaning given them in the 401(k) Savings Plan, unless a different meaning is clearly required by the context.
Additional Reference
     2.1 . An Employee shall be eligible to participate in the Plan, provided (1) the Employee is a participant in the 401(k) Savings Plan, (2) the Corporation selects such Employee to participate in the Plan, (3) the Employee's elective deferrals of compensation under the 401(k) Savings Plan reach the deferral limitations prescribed by Section 402(g) of the Code, or the compensation limitations prescribed by Section 401(a)(17) of the Code, (4) the Employee makes a timely Deferral Election to defer his or her Compensation for the applicable Plan year in accordance with the Deferral Election requirements of the Plan and Section 409A of the Code, and (5) the Employee agrees that as a condition of participating in the Plan for the applicable Plan year, the Employee will not modify his or her deferral election under the 401(k) Savings Plan during the applicable Plan year.
Employee Eligibility
     2.2 . When an Employee first becomes eligible to participate in the Plan, the Corporation shall notify the Employee of his or her Plan eligibility. An Employee electing to participate in the Plan shall submit a Deferral Election to the Corporation within 30 days of the Corporation's notification of the Employee's Plan eligibility. The Employee's Deferral Election shall be effective only if timely provided to the Corporation.
Notification of New Participants
     2.3 . Upon becoming a Participant, an Employee shall be entitled to the benefits and shall be bound by all terms and conditions of the Plan. If the Corporation determines that a Participant's performance is no longer at a level that deserves to be rewarded through participation in the Plan, but does not terminate the Participant's employment with an Employer, the Participant's Plan participation shall terminate at the end of the Deferral Period and no new Participant Deferrals thereafter may be made by the Participant.
Effect and Duration
     2.4 . A Participant on an authorized leave of absence who is not receiving Compensation during such leave period shall continue as a Plan Participant during such leave, provided, however, that no Corporate Contributions shall be credited to the Participant's Plan Account on behalf of the Participant during such leave period. Upon the Participant's return to active employment with an Employer, the Participant's Participant Deferrals shall resume in accordance with the Participant's Deferral Election for the applicable Deferral Period.
Authorized Leave of Absence
 
     3.1 . In accordance with a Participant's Deferral Election, upon meeting the eligibility criteria of Section 2.1 and Section 2.2 of the Plan, a Participant may defer on a bookkeeping basis not less than one percent not more than six percent of his or her Compensation to the Plan. Such Participant Deferrals shall commence with the first payment of Compensation to the Participant coinciding with (1) the date on which the Participant's elective deferral of Compensation under the 401(k) Savings Plan reaches the maximum deferral limitations prescribed under Section 402(g) of the Code, or (2) the date on which the Participant's elective deferral of Compensation under the 401(k) Savings Plan reaches the maximum compensation limits prescribed under Section 401(a)(17) of the Code. Participant Deferrals shall be credited on a bookkeeping basis to the Participant's Plan Account as of each applicable pay period in which the Participant makes Participant Deferrals under the Plan.
Participant Deferrals
     4.1 . Matching Employer Contributions shall be credited on a bookkeeping basis to the Participant's Plan Account as of each pay period in proportion to the respective amount of the Participant's Participant Deferrals deferred under the Plan for such pay period. Credited Matching Employer Contributions shall equal 100% of those Participant Deferrals deferred under the Plan for such pay period.
Matching Employer Contributions
     4.2 . Profit Sharing Contributions, if any, shall be credited to Participant's Plan Account at such time and in such manner as the Corporation directs.
Profit Sharing Contributions
     4.3 . Effective January 1, 2005 those Participants in the frozen KeyCorp 401(k) Excess Savings Plan who as of December 31, 2004 were not vested in the KeyCorp 401(k) Excess Savings Plan corporate contributions allocated to their plan account as of December 31, 2004 shall have such not vested corporate contributions, on a bookkeeping basis, transferred to the Plan and reflected in a bookkeeping opening account balance ("Opening Account Balance") established for the Participant. Such Opening Account Balance shall be invested on a bookkeeping basis in the Plan's Corporation Stock Fund, and shall be credited with all earnings, gains, and losses attributable to the investment performance of such Fund. The value of the Participant's Opening Account Balance shall be added to and shall become a part of such Participant's Plan benefit which shall be payable in accordance with the terms of this Plan. The establishment of the Participant's Plan Opening Account Balance shall terminate the Participant's entitlement to that transferred benefit under the frozen KeyCorp Excess 401(k) Savings Plan.
Opening Account Balance
     5.1 . All Participant Deferrals and Corporate Contributions shall be credited on a bookkeeping basis to a Plan Account established in the Participant's name. Separate sub-accounts
Plan Account
 
may be established to reflect Participant's Opening Account Balance (if any) and investment elections on a bookkeeping basis, with all earnings, gains, or losses attributable to such elections.
     5.2 . Each Participant shall direct the manner in which his or her Participant Deferrals are to be invested for bookkeeping purposes under the Plan, provided, however, that the initial Participant Deferral of income for the 2005 Plan year shall be based on the Participant's investment instructions provided under the frozen KeyCorp Excess 401(k) Savings Plan. All Participant Deferrals may be invested for bookkeeping purposes in the Plan's Corporation Stock Fund or any one or more of the Plan Investment Funds in such amount as the Participant shall select. Participants may modify their investment elections at such times and in such manner as permitted by the Corporation.
Investment of Participant Deferrals
     5.3 . All Corporate Contributions credited to the Participant's Plan Account shall be invested for bookkeeping purposes in the Corporation Stock Fund. Corporate Contributions are not subject to Participant investment directives.
Investment of Corporate Contributions
     5.4 . Subject to the provisions of Section 6.7 hereof, a Participant shall become vested in those Corporate Contributions credited on a bookkeeping basis to the Participant's Plan Account upon the Participant's (1) completion of three years of vested service, (2) Disability, or (3) death. For purposes of this Section 5.4 hereof, the term "vested service" shall be calculated based on the Participant's employment commencement date through the Participant's Termination or Retirement date (which ever first occurs), and shall be based on consecutive twelve-month periods during which time the Participant is employed by an Employer.
Vesting in Corporate Contributions
     5.5 . As of each Valuation Date, the Plan Administrator shall verify the amount of Participant Deferrals, Corporate Contributions, dividends, earnings, and losses, if any, to be credited to the Participant's Plan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Plan. The reasonable and equitable decision of the Plan Administrator as to the value of the Participant's Plan Account shall be conclusive and binding upon all Participants and the Beneficiary of each deceased Participant having any interest, direct or indirect in the Participant's Plan Account. The value of the Participant's Plan Account on any day not a Valuation Date, shall be the value on the last preceding Valuation Date.
Valuation of Plan Accounts
     5.6 . All Participant Deferrals, Corporate Contributions, dividends, and all earnings and losses credited to a Participant's Plan Account remain the assets and property of the Corporation, which shall be subject to distribution to the Participant only in accordance with Articles VI and VII of the Plan. All payments hereunder shall be in the form of cash and KeyCorp Common Shares and shall be made from the general assets of the Corporation, and Participants and Beneficiaries shall have the status of general unsecured creditors of the Corporation. Nothing contained in the Plan shall create, or be construed as creating a trust of any kind or any other fiduciary relationship between the Participant, the Corporation, or any other person. It is the intention of the Corporation and the Participant that the Plan be unfunded for tax purposes and for purposes of Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
Corporate Assets
     5.7 . Subject to any federal statute to the contrary, no right or benefit under the Plan and no right or interest in each Participant's Plan Account shall be subject to anticipation, alienation, sale, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or charge, and any attempt to anticipate, alienate, sell, assign, pledge, encumber, or charge any right or benefit under the Plan, or Participant's Plan Account shall be void. No right, interest, or benefit under the Plan or Participant's Plan Account shall be liable for or subject to the debts, contracts, liabilities, or torts of the Participant or Beneficiary. If the Participant or
No Present Interest
 
Beneficiary becomes bankrupt or attempts to alienate, sell, assign, pledge, encumber, or charge any right under the Plan or Participant's Plan Account, such attempt shall be void and unenforceable.
     5.8 . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Plan, the termination of the Plan or the termination of the 401(k) Savings Plan shall terminate the liability of the Corporation to make further Corporate Contributions to the Plan.
Effect of Plan Termination
     6.1 . Subject to the provisions of Section 6.3 and Section 6.4 hereof, a Participant shall receive a distribution of his or her vested Plan Account balance from the Plan's Investment Funds (other than from the Corporation Stock Account) in a series of monthly installment distributions over a period of ten (10) years.
Distribution of Plan Benefits
Distributions of Participant Deferrals from the Plan's Investment Funds other than the Corporation Stock Fund shall be made in cash.
     6.2 . Subject to the provisions of Section 6.3 and Section 6.4 of the Plan, the Participant shall receive a distribution of his or her vested Plan Account balance from the Plan's Corporation Stock Account as series of annual installment distributions over a period of ten (10) years.
Distribution Options from the Corporation Stock Account
Distributions of Participant Deferrals and vested Corporate Contributions from the Plan's Corporation Stock Account shall be made in KeyCorp Common Shares.
     6.3 . The Participant's vested Plan Account shall be valued as of the Valuation Date immediately preceding his or her Termination, Retirement or Disability (the "valuation date"). Distribution of a Participant's Plan Account shall commence as soon as administratively practicable following the Participant's Termination, Retirement or Disability (whichever shall first occur) as follows:
Distribution
     6.4 . Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, in the event that the Participant constitutes a "key" employee of the Corporation (as that term is defined in accordance with Section 416(i) of the Code without regard to paragraph (5)
Payment Limitation for Key Employees
 
thereof), distributions of the Participant's Plan benefit may not be made before the date which is six months after the Participant's date of separation from service (or, if earlier, the date of death of the Participant). The term "separation from service" shall be defined for Plan purposes in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and applicable regulations issued thereunder.
     6.5 . Notwithstanding the provisions of Sections 6.1, 6.2, and 6.3 hereof, but subject to the requirements of Section 6.4 hereof, if the value of a Participant's vested Account balance as of the Valuation Date immediately preceding the Participant's Termination, Retirement or Disability date is under $50,000, such balance shall be distributed to the Participant as a single lump sum distribution as soon as reasonably practicable following such Termination, Retirement or Disability date.
Distribution of Small Accounts
     6.6 . If it is found that any individual to whom an amount is payable hereunder is incapable of attending to his or her financial affairs because of any mental or physical condition, including the infirmities of advanced age, such amount (unless prior claim therefore shall have been made by a duly qualified guardian or other legal representative) may, in the discretion of the Corporation, be paid to another person for the use or benefit of the individual found incapable of attending to his or her financial affairs or in satisfaction of legal obligations incurred by or on behalf of such individual. Any such payment shall be charged to the Participant's Plan Account from which any such payment would otherwise have been paid to the individual found incapable of attending to his or her financial affairs, and shall be a complete discharge of any liability therefore under the Plan.
Facility of Payment
     6.7 . Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, however, if the Participant engages in any Harmful Activity prior to or within twelve months after the Participant's Termination or Retirement, then by operation of this Section 6.7 hereof, and without any further notice to the Participant, (a) (i) all Matching Employer Contributions, and (ii) all earnings, dividends, and gains allocated to the Participant's Plan Account with regard to both Participant Deferrals and Matching Employer Contributions shall become immediately forfeited and (b) Matching Employer Contributions and all earnings, gains and dividends on both the Participant's Participant Deferrals and Matching Employer Contributions that have been distributed to the Participant within one year of the Participant's Termination or Retirement date shall be fully repaid by the Participant to the Corporation within 60 days following the Participant's receipt of the Corporation's notice of such Harmful Activity.
Forfeiture of Plan Benefits
     The foregoing restrictions shall not apply in the event that the Participant's employment with an Employer terminates within two years after a Change of Control if any of the following have occurred: a relocation of the Participant's principal place of employment more than 35 miles from the Participant's principal place of employment immediately prior to the Change of Control, a reduction in the Participant's base salary after a Change of Control, or termination of employment under circumstances in which the Participant is entitled to severance benefits or salary continuation or similar benefits under a change of control agreement, employment agreement, or severance or separation pay plan.
     The determination by the Corporation as to whether a Participant has engaged in a "Harmful Activity" prior to or within twelve months after the Participant's Termination or Retirement shall be final and conclusive upon the Participant and upon all other Persons
.
 
For purposes of this Section 6.7, a "Harmful Activity" shall have occurred if the Participant shall do any one or more of the following:
 
     7.1 . Subject to Section 7.3 hereof, the Participant shall have the right, at any time, to designate one or more persons or an entity as Beneficiary (both primary as well as secondary) to whom benefits under this Plan shall be paid in the event of Participant's death prior to complete distribution of the Participant's Plan Account. Each Beneficiary designation shall be in a written form prescribed by the Corporation and shall be effective only when filed with the Corporation during the Participant's lifetime.
Beneficiary Designation
     7.2 . Subject to Section 7.3, any Beneficiary designation may be changed by the Participant without the consent of the previously named Beneficiary by the filing of a new designation with the Corporation. The filing of a new designation shall cancel all designations previously filed.
Changing Beneficiary
     7.3 . If any Participant fails to designate a Beneficiary in the manner provided above, if the designation is void, or if the Beneficiary (including all contingent Beneficiaries) designated by a deceased Participant dies before the Participant or before complete distribution of the Participant's benefits, the Participant's Beneficiary shall be the person in the first of the following classes in which there is a survivor:
No Beneficiary Designation
     7.4 . If a Participant dies after the distribution of his or her vested interest under the Plan has commenced, the remaining portion of the Participant's entire interest under the Plan, if any, shall be distributed to the Participant's Beneficiary under the method of distribution being used as of the Participant's date of death. If the Participant dies before the distribution of the Participant's Plan Account has commenced, the Participant's entire interest under the Plan shall be valued as of the Valuation Date immediately preceding the Participant's date of death, and shall be distributed to his or her Beneficiary in a lump sum payment as soon as reasonably practicable following the Participant's date of death.
Distribution upon Death
 
     8.1 . The Corporation, which shall be the "Administrator" of the Plan for purposes of ERISA and the "Plan Administrator" for purposes of the Code, shall be responsible for the general administration of the Plan, for carrying out the provisions hereof, and for making payments hereunder. The Corporation shall have the sole and absolute discretionary authority and power to carry out the provisions of the Plan, including, but not limited to, the authority and power (a) to determine all questions relating to the eligibility for and the amount of any benefit to be paid under the Plan, (b) to determine all questions pertaining to claims for benefits and procedures for claim review, (c) to resolve all other questions arising under the Plan, including any questions of construction and/or interpretation, and (d) to take such further action as the Corporation shall deem necessary or advisable in the administration of the Plan. All findings, decisions, and determinations of any kind made by the Plan Administrator shall not be disturbed unless the Plan Administrator has acted in an arbitrary and capricious manner. Subject to the requirements of law, the Plan Administrator shall be the sole judge of the standard of proof required in any claim for benefits and in any determination of eligibility for a benefit. All decisions of the Plan Administrator shall be final and binding on all parties. The Plan Administrator may employ such attorneys, investment counsel, agents, and accountants as it may deem necessary or advisable to assist it in carrying out its duties hereunder. The actions taken and the decisions made by the Plan Administrator hereunder shall be final and binding upon all interested parties subject, however, to the provisions of Section 8.2. The Plan Year, for purposes of Plan administration, shall be the calendar year.
Administration
     8.2 . Whenever the Plan Administrator decides for whatever reason to deny, whether in whole or in part, a claim for benefits under this Plan filed by any person (herein referred to as the "Claimant"), the Plan Administrator shall transmit a written notice of its decision to the Claimant, which notice shall be written in a manner calculated to be understood by the Claimant and shall contain a statement of the specific reasons for the denial of the claim and a statement advising the Claimant that, within 60 days of the date on which he or she receives such notice, he or she may obtain review of the decision of the Plan Administrator in accordance with the procedures hereinafter set forth. Within such 60-day period, the Claimant or his or her authorized representative may request that the claim denial be reviewed by filing with the Plan Administrator a written request therefor, which request shall contain the following information:
Claims Review Procedure
     In accordance with this Section, if the claimant requests a review of the Plan Administrator's decision, such review shall be made by the Plan Administrator, who shall, within sixty (60) days after receipt of the request form, review and render a written decision on the claim containing the specific reasons for the decision including reference to Plan provisions upon which the decision is based. All findings, decisions, and determinations of any kind made by the Plan Administrator shall not be modified
 
unless the Plan Administrator has acted in an arbitrary and capricious manner. Subject to the requirements of law, the Plan Administrator shall be the sole judge of the standard of proof required in any claim for benefits, and any determination of eligibility for a benefit. All decisions of the Plan Administrator shall be binding on the claimant and upon all other Persons. If the Participant or Beneficiary shall not file written notice with the Plan Administrator at the times set forth above, such individual shall have waived all benefits under the Plan other than as already provided, if any, under the Plan.
     9.1 . The Corporation reserves the right to terminate the Plan at any time by action of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, or any duly authorized committee thereof, and to modify or amend the Plan, in whole or in part, at any time and for any reason. No amendment or termination will result in an acceleration of Plan benefits in violation of Section 409A of the Code.
Reservation of Rights
     10.1 . Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, in the event of a Change of Control as defined in accordance with Section 1.1 of the Plan, no amendment or modification of this Plan may be made at any time on or after such Change of Control (1) to reduce or modify a Participant's Pre-Change of Control Account Balance, (2) to reduce or modify the Corporation Stock Fund's method of calculating all earnings, gains, and/or losses on a Participant's Pre-Change of Control Account Balance, (3) to reduce or modify any other Investment Funds' method of calculating all earnings, gains, and/or losses on a Participant's Pre-Change of Control Account Balance, or (4) to reduce or modify the Participant's Participant Deferrals and/or Corporate Contributions to be credited to a Participant's Plan Account for the applicable Deferral Period. For purposes of this Section 10.1, the term "Pre-Change of Control Account Balance" shall mean, with regard to any Plan Participant, the aggregate amount of such Participant's Participant Deferrals and Corporate Contributions with all earnings, gains, and losses thereon which are credited to the Participant's Plan Account through the close of the calendar year in which such Change of Control occurs.
Change of Control
 
     10.2 . In the event of a Change of Control in which the common shares of the Corporation are converted into or exchanged for securities, cash and/or other property as a result of any capital reorganization or reclassification of the capital stock of the Corporation, or consolidation or merger of the Corporation with or into another corporation or entity, or the sale of all or substantially all of its assets to another corporation or entity, the Corporation shall cause the Corporation Stock Fund to reflect on a bookkeeping basis the securities, cash and other property that would have been received in such reorganization, reclassification, consolidation, merger or sale on an equivalent amount of common shares equal to the balance in the Corporation Stock Fund and, from and after such reorganization, reclassification, consolidation, merger or sale, the Corporation Stock Fund shall reflect on a bookkeeping basis all dividends, interest, earnings and losses attributable to such securities, cash, and other property.
Common Stock Conversion
     10.3 . On or after a Change of Control, the provisions of Article II, Article IV, Article V, Article VI, Article VII, Article VIII, Article IX and Article X may not be amended or modified as such Sections and Articles apply with regard to the Participants' Pre-Change of Control Account Balances.
Amendment in the Event of a Change of Control
     11.1 . Notwithstanding any contrary provision in this Plan, the Corporation may, in its discretion, but in a uniform, non-discriminatory manner, delay, suspend or otherwise limit any investment in or withdrawal from the Corporation Stock Fund for such time and to the extent the Corporation, on advice of legal counsel, determines is necessary or desirable to avoid violating any applicable state or federal securities laws, rules or regulations.
Restrictions Imposed on Transactions Involving the Corporation Stock Fund
 
     12.1 . This Plan is an unfunded plan maintained primarily to provide deferred compensation benefits for a select group of "management or highly-compensated employees" within the meaning of Sections 201, 301, and 401 of ERISA, and therefore is exempt from the provisions of Parts 2, 3, and 4 of Title I of ERISA.
Unfunded Plan
     12.2 . Nothing herein contained shall be construed as a commitment or agreement upon the part of any Employee hereunder to continue his or her employment with an Employer, and nothing herein contained shall be construed as a commitment on the part of any Employer to continue the employment, rate of compensation or terms and conditions of employment of any Employee hereunder for any period. All Participants shall remain subject to discharge to the same extent as if the Plan had never been put into effect.
No Commitment as to Employment
     12.3 . Nothing in the Plan shall be construed to confer any right or claim upon any person, firm, or corporation other than the Participants, former Participants, and Beneficiaries.
Benefits
     12.4 . No member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation or a subsidiary or committee authorized by the Board of Directors, or any officer of the Corporation or a subsidiary or officer of a subsidiary shall be liable for any act or action hereunder, whether of commission or omission, taken by any other member, or by any officer, agent, or Employee, except in circumstances involving bad faith or willful misconduct, for anything done or omitted to be done.
Absence of Liability
     12.5 . The expenses of administration of the Plan shall be paid by the Corporation.
Expenses
     12.6 . Except as otherwise specifically agreed to by the Corporation in writing, no action taken in accordance with the Plan by the Corporation shall be construed or relied upon as a precedent for similar action under similar circumstances.
Precedent
     12.7 . The Corporation shall withhold any tax which the Corporation in its discretion deems necessary to be withheld from any payment to any Participant, former Participant, or Beneficiary hereunder, by reason of any present or future law.
Withholding
     12.8 . The validity of the Plan shall be determined and the Plan shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with the provisions of ERISA, the Code, and, to the extent applicable, the laws of the State of Ohio. The invalidity or illegality of any provision of the Plan shall not affect the validity or legality of any other part thereof.
Validity of Plan
     12.9 . The Plan shall be binding upon the Employers, Participants, former Participants, and Beneficiaries hereunder, and, as the case may be, the heirs, executors, administrators, successors, and assigns of each of them.
Parties Bound
     12.10 . All headings used in the Plan are for convenience of reference only and are not part of the substance of the Plan.
Headings
     12.11 . The Corporation shall furnish to each Participant, former Participant, or Beneficiary any documents, reports, returns, statements, or other information that it reasonably deems necessary to perform its duties imposed hereunder or otherwise imposed by law.
Duty to Furnish Information
 
     12.12 . At its discretion, the Corporation may establish one or more trusts, with such trustees as the Corporation may approve, for the purpose of providing for the payment of benefits owed under the Plan. Although such a trust may be irrevocable, in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the Corporation, such assets will be subject to the claims of the Corporation's general creditors. To the extent any benefits provided under the Plan are paid from any such trust, the Employer shall have no further obligation to pay them. If not paid from the trust, such benefits shall remain the obligation of the Employer.
Trust Fund
     12.13 . In case any provision of this Plan shall be held illegal or invalid for any reason, said illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts hereof, but this Plan shall be construed and enforced as if such illegal and invalid provision had never been inserted herein.
Validity
     12.14 . Any notice required or permitted under the Plan shall be deemed sufficiently provided if such notice is in writing and hand delivered or sent by registered or certified mail. Such notice shall be deemed given as of the date of delivery or, if delivery is made by mail, as of the date shown on the postmark or on the receipt for registration or certification. Mailed notice to the Corporation shall be directed to the Corporation's address, attention: KeyCorp Compensation and Benefits Department. Mailed notice to a Participant or Beneficiary shall be directed to the individual's last known address in the Employer's records
Notice
     12.15 . The provisions of this Plan shall bind and inure to the benefit of each Employer and its successors and assigns. The term successors as used herein shall include any corporate or other business entity which shall, whether by merger, consolidation, purchase or otherwise, acquire all or substantially all of the business and assets of an Employer.
Successors
     13.1 . The Plan is intended to provide for the deferral of compensation in accordance with the provisions of Section 409A of the Code and regulations and published guidance issued pursuant thereto. Accordingly, the Plan shall be construed in a manner consistent with those provisions and may at any time be amended in the manner and to the extent determined necessary or desirable by the Corporation to reflect or otherwise facilitate compliance with such provisions with respect to amounts deferred on and after January 1, 2005. Moreover, to the extent permitted in guidance issued by the Secretary of the Treasury and in accordance with procedures established by the Corporation, a Participant may be permitted to terminate participation in the Plan or cancel an outstanding deferral election with regard to amounts deferred after December 31, 2004. Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, no otherwise permissible election or distribution shall be made or given effect under the Plan that would result in early taxation or assessment of penalties or interest of any amount under Section 409A of the Code.
Compliance with Section 409A
     Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, Plan benefits shall not be distributed to a Participant earlier than:
 
     If it is determined that a Participant constitutes a key employee (as defined in Section 416(i) of the Code without regard to paragraph (5) thereof) of the Corporation, the Participant shall not commence the distribution of his or her Plan benefits before the date which is six months after the date of the Participant's separation from service (or, if earlier, the date of death of the Participant).
     , KeyCorp has caused the KeyCorp Second Excess 401(k) Savings Plan to be executed by its duly authorized officer this 21st day of December, to be effective as of January 1, 2005.
WITNESS WHEREOF

 
Exhibit 10.8
     The KeyCorp Second Excess Cash Balance Pension Plan ("Plan"), as originally established December 28, 2004 to be effective January 1, 2005 is hereby amended and restated as of that date. The Plan, as structured, is designed to provide certain select employees of KeyCorp with a Plan benefit that is generally equal to the benefit that the employee would have been eligible to receive under the KeyCorp Cash Balance Pension Plan but for the compensation and accrual limitations imposed by Section 401(a)(17) and Section 415 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, when combined with any vested benefit provided to the employee under the KeyCorp Excess Cash Balance Pension Plan. It is the intention of the Plan and it is the understanding of those employees covered under the Plan that the Plan is unfunded for tax purposes and for purposes of Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended. It is also the understanding of those employees covered under the Plan that the Plan will be administered in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code.
     2.1 As used herein, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings hereinafter set forth, unless a different meaning is plainly required by the context:
Meanings of Definitions.
 
     In determining a Participant's Compensation under the provisions of this Section 2.1(c), for those Plan Participants who participate in a line of business incentive plan (other than the KeyCorp Annual Incentive Plan, the KeyCorp Long Term Incentive Plan and/or the KeyCorp Staff Incentive Plan), compensation up to a Plan maximum of $500,000 minus the amount of the Participant's compensation utilized in computing his or her Pension Plan benefit in accordance with Section 401(a)(17) of the Code shall be utilized in calculating the Participant's benefit under the Plan.
     For Plan Years beginning on and after January 1, 2006, only that Compensation which is in excess of the compensation limits mandated under Section 401(a)(17) of the Code shall be utilized in determining the Participant's Excess Pension Benefit under the provisions of Section 3.2 of the Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, however, if the Participant is in a benefits designator 85 or below, then only that Compensation which is in excess of the compensation limits mandated under Section 401(a)(17) of the Code up to a Plan Compensation maximum of $500,000 shall be utilized in determining the Participant's Excess Pension Benefit under the provisions of Section 3.2 hereof.
     In the case of a Disabled Participant, such Participant's Compensation for each year while Disabled shall equal an amount which shall reflect the Participant's Compensation for the calendar year preceding the date of the Participant's Disability.
     (d) shall mean KeyCorp, an Ohio corporation, its corporate successors, and any corporation or corporations into or with which it may be merged or consolidated.
"Corporation"
 
     (e) shall mean (1) the physical or mental disability of a permanent nature which prevents a Participant from performing the duties such Participant was employed to perform for his or her Employer when such disability commenced, (2) qualifies for disability benefits under the federal Social Security Act within 30 months following the Participant's disability, and (3) qualifies the Participant for disability coverage under the KeyCorp Long Term Disability Plan. In addition to the foregoing, the disability requirements addressed in Section 409A of the Code are incorporated into the provisions of this definition.
"Disability"
     (f) shall mean a common law employee who is employed by an Employer; provided, however, the term "Employee" shall not include any person who at the time services are performed is not classified as a common law employee by the Employer even though such person may for federal income tax purposes, federal employment tax purposes, or any other purpose be reclassified by the Employer as a common law employee retroactive to when such services were performed by reason of administrative, judicial, regulatory or other governmental action.
"Employee"
     (g) shall mean KeyCorp and all of its subsidiaries or affiliates unless specifically excluded as an Employer for Plan purposes by written action by an officer of the Corporation. An Employer's participation shall be subject to any and all conditions and requirements made by the Corporation as the Plan Administrator, and each Employer shall be deemed to have appointed the Plan Administrator as its exclusive agent under the Plan.
"Employer"
     (h) shall mean the vested pension benefit payable pursuant to the terms of this Plan to a Participant meeting the eligibility requirements of Section 3.1 of the Plan.
"Excess Pension Benefit"
     (i) shall mean the Participant's collective nonqualified pension benefit accrued under the KeyCorp Excess Cash Balance Pension Plan and KeyCorp Second Excess Cash Balance Pension Plan, subject to the terms and conditions of each respective Plan.
"Excess Pension Program Benefit"
     (j) shall mean the Participants' collective nonqualified pension benefit accrued under the KeyCorp Executive Supplemental Pension Plan and KeyCorp Second Executive Supplemental Pension Plan, subject to the terms and conditions of each respective Plan.
"Executive Supplemental Pension Program Benefit"
     (k) shall mean the rate at which a Participant's Opening Account Balance, as provided for under Section 3.3 of the Plan, is periodically increased on a bookkeeping basis. The Interest Credit rate to be allocated to a Participant's Opening Account Balance shall mirror the Pension Plan's Interest Credit rate for each applicable Plan Year..
"Interest Credit"
     (l) shall mean an Employee who is a participant in the Pension Plan and who is selected by the Corporation to become a Participant in the Plan, and whose participation in the Plan has not been terminated by the Corporation.
"Participant"
     (m) shall mean the KeyCorp Cash Balance Pension Plan, as the same shall be in effect on the date of a Participant's Retirement, death, Disability or other termination of employment.
"Pension Plan"
     (n) shall mean the termination of employment of a Participant under circumstances in which entitle the Participant to receive an Early Retirement or Normal Retirement Date benefit under the KeyCorp Cash Balance Pension Plan.
"Retirement"
 
     (o) shall mean the KeyCorp Supplemental Retirement Plan (formerly known as the Society Corporation Supplemental Retirement Plan), the KeyCorp Excess Pension Benefit Plan, and the KeyCorp Excess Pension Benefit Plan for Key Executives, with all amendments made thereto.
"Supplemental Retirement Plan"
     (p) shall mean the voluntary or involuntary and permanent termination of a Participant's employment from his or her Employer and any other Employer, whether by resignation or otherwise.
"Termination"
     All other capitalized and undefined terms used herein shall have the meanings given them in the Pension Plan, unless a different meaning is plainly required by the context.
     The masculine gender includes the feminine, and singular references include the plural, unless the context clearly requires otherwise.
     3.1 A Participant selected by the Corporation to participate in the Plan shall be eligible for an Excess Pension Benefit hereunder if the Participant (i) terminates employment with an Employer on or after age 55 with five or more years of Credited Service, (ii) terminates his or her active employment with an Employer in conjunction with his or her Disability after completing five or more years of Credited Service and disability benefits have ceased under the KeyCorp Long-Term Disability Plan due to the Participant's election of an Early or Normal Retirement under the Pension Plan, or (iii) dies after completing five years of Credited Service and has a Beneficiary who is eligible for a benefit under the Pension Plan.
Eligibility
.
     A Participant shall also be eligible for an Excess Pension Benefit if the Participant becomes involuntarily terminated from his or her employment with an Employer for reasons other than the Participant's Discharge for Cause, and (i) as of the Participant's termination date the Participant has a minimum of twenty-five (25) or more years of Credited Service, and (ii) the Participant enters into a written non-solicitation and non-compete agreement with the Employer under terms that are satisfactory to the Employer.
     For purposes of this Section 3.1, hereof, the term "Discharge for Cause" shall mean a Participant's employment termination that is the result of the Participant's violation of the Employer's policies, practices or procedures, violation of city, state, or federal law, or failure to perform his or her assigned job duties in a satisfactory manner. The Employer shall determine whether a Participant has been Discharged for Cause.
     Notwithstanding any of the forgoing provisions of this Section 3.1, however, a Participant's eligibility for an Excess Pension Benefit shall be subject to the requirements of Article V of the Plan.
     3.2 The Excess Pension Benefit payable to a Participant shall be in such amount as is required, when added to the excess pension benefit payable in lump sum form to the Participant under the KeyCorp Excess Cash Balance Pension Plan (if any) and the Accrued Benefit payable in lump sum form to the Participant under the Pension Plan as of the Participant's Retirement or Termination date to produce a lump sum cash aggregate benefit equal to the
Amount of Excess Pension Benefit
.
 
benefit which would have been payable under the Pension Plan formula in lump sum form to the Participant if the limitations of Section 401(a)(17) of the Code and the limitations of Section 415 of the Code had not been in effect. For purposes of this Section 3.2 hereof, the term "Pension Plan formula" means the method of calculating a Participant's pension benefit as reflected in Article IV of the Pension Plan and shall not include any Predecessor Plan Grandfathered Benefits formula.
     3.3 . Effective January 1, 2005, Participants in the frozen KeyCorp Excess Cash Balance Pension Plan who as of December 31, 2004 were not vested in their Excess Cash Balance Pension Plan benefit shall have their accrued but not vested benefit transferred to this Plan and reflected in a bookkeeping opening account balance ("Opening Account Balance") established for the Participant. Such Opening Account Balance shall be credited with Interest Credit as of the last day of each calendar quarter, based on the value of the Participant's Opening Account Balance as of the first day of the applicable quarter. A Participant's entitlement to this Opening Account Balance shall be governed by the eligibility provisions of Section 3.1 of this Plan, and the value of the Opening Account Balance shall be added to and become a part of such Participant's Excess Pension Benefit, if any, which shall be payable in accordance with the terms of this Plan. The establishment of the Participant's Plan Opening Account Balance shall terminate the Participant's entitlement to any benefit under the frozen KeyCorp Excess Cash Balance Pension Plan.
Opening Account Balance
     4.1 Subject to the provisions of Section 4.2, Section 4.4, and Section 4.5 hereof, a Participant meeting the age and service eligibility requirements of Section 3.1 shall receive an immediate distribution of his or her Excess Pension Benefit upon the Participant's Termination date. Such Excess Pension Benefit shall be paid in the form of a single life annuity, unless the Participant elects in writing, a minimum of sixty days prior to the Participant's Termination date to receive his or her distribution under a different form of payment that is actuarially equivalent to the Participant's Excess Pension Benefit when paid as a single life annuity payment. The forms of payment from which a Participant may elect shall be identical to those forms of payment provided under the Pension Plan, provided however, that the lump sum payment option available under the Pension Plan shall not be a form of distribution available under this Plan. Such payment method, once elected by the Participant, shall be irrevocable.
Immediate Payment Upon Termination or Retirement of Participant.
     In calculating the Participant's actuarially equivalent form of distribution the Corporation shall rely upon calculations made by independent actuaries for the Pension Plan, who shall apply the actuarial assumptions and interest rate then in use under the Pension Plan for converting to the form of payment elected by the Participant.
     4.2 . Notwithstanding the any other provision of this Article VI, however, if the Participant engages in any Harmful Activity prior to or within twelve months of his or her Termination or Retirement date, then by operation of this Section 4.2 hereof and without any further notice to the Participant all further Excess Pension Benefits shall be immediately forfeited. In the event that a Participant has received a distribution of his or her Excess Pension Benefit, and the Participant engages in any Harmful Activity prior to or within twelve months of his or her Termination or Retirement, then in such event the Participant shall repay to the Corporation the full amount of such distributed Plan benefits within 60 days following the Participant's receipt of the Corporation's notice of such Harmful Activity.
Forfeiture of Plan Benefits
 
     The foregoing restrictions shall not apply in the event that the Participant's employment with an Employer terminates within two years after a Change of Control if any of the following have occurred: a relocation of the Participant's principal place of employment more than 35 miles from the Participant's principal place of employment immediately prior to the Change of Control, a reduction in the Participant's base salary after a Change of Control, or termination of employment under circumstances in which the Participant is entitled to severance benefits or salary continuation or similar benefits under a change of control agreement, employment agreement, or severance or separation pay plan.
     The determination by the Corporation as to whether a Participant has engaged in a "Harmful Activity" prior to or within twelve months after the Participant's Termination or Retirement shall be final and conclusive upon the Participant and upon all other Persons
.
 
     4.3
Payment Upon Death of Participant
.
     (a) Upon the death of a Participant who has met the service requirement of Section 3.1, but who has not yet commenced distribution of his or her Excess Pension Benefit, there shall be paid to the Participant's Beneficiary the Excess Pension Benefit that the Participant would have been entitled to receive had the Participant retired on his or her date of death and commenced distribution of his or her Excess Pension Benefit. Such Excess Pension Benefit shall be paid in the form of a single life annuity.
     (b) In the event of a Participant's death after the Participant has commenced distribution of his or her Excess Pension Benefit, there shall be paid to the Participant's Beneficiary only those survivor benefits provided under the form of benefit payment elected by the Participant.
     4.4 . Notwithstanding any Plan provision other than Section 4.5 hereof, if the value of a Participant's vested Excess Pension Benefit as of the Participant's Termination date is under $50,000, such balance shall be distributed to the Participant as a single lump sum distribution as soon as reasonably practicable following the Participant's Termination or Retirement date.
Distribution of Small Accounts
     4.5 . Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, in the event that the Participant constitutes a "key" employee of the Corporation (as that term is defined in accordance with Section 416(i) of the Code without regard to paragraph (5) thereof), distributions of the Participant's Excess Pension Benefit may not be made before the date which is six months after the Participant's date of separation from service (or, if earlier, the date of death of the Participant). The term "separation from service" shall be defined for Plan purposes in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and applicable regulations issued thereunder.
Payment Limitation for Key Employees
 
     5.1 Unless otherwise previously elected by the Participant, a Participant who meets the eligibility requirements for an Excess Pension Program Benefit and who also meets the eligibility requirements for an Executive Supplemental Pension Program Benefit, shall automatically be provided at the Participant's Termination or Retirement the larger of the two Program benefits (i.e. the greater of the Participant's Excess Pension Program Benefit or the Participant's Executive Supplemental Pension Program Benefit).
Distribution of Largest Plan Benefit
.
     In making the determination required under this Section 5.1 hereof, the Corporation shall rely upon calculations made by independent actuaries for the Pension Plan, who shall apply the actuarial assumptions and interest rate then in use under the Pension Plan for converting the Participant's Excess Pension Program Benefit to a single life annuity form of payment. The Participant automatically shall receive the Program Benefit that provides the Participant with the largest monthly single life annuity benefit.
     5.2
Beneficiary Distribution of Largest Plan Benefit
.
     6.1 The Corporation, which shall be the "Administrator" of the Plan for purposes of ERISA and the "Plan Administrator" for purposes of the Code, shall be responsible for the general administration of the Plan, for carrying out the provisions hereof, and for making payments hereunder. The Corporation shall have the sole and absolute discretionary authority and power to carry out the provisions of the Plan, including, but not limited to, the authority and power (a) to determine all questions relating to the eligibility for and the amount of any benefit to be paid under the Plan, (b) to determine all questions pertaining to claims for benefits and procedures for claim review, (c) to resolve all other questions arising under the Plan, including any questions of construction and/or interpretation, and (d) to take such further action as the Corporation deems necessary or advisable in the administration of the Plan. All findings, decisions and determinations of any kind made by the Plan Administrator shall not be disturbed unless the Plan Administrator has acted in an arbitrary and capricious manner. Subject to the requirements of law, the Plan Administrator shall be the sole judge of the standard of proof required in any claim for benefits and in any determination of eligibility for a benefit. All decisions of the Plan Administrator shall be final and binding on all parties. The Plan Administrator may employ such attorneys, investment counsel, agents, and accountants as it may deem necessary or advisable to assist it
Administration
.
 
in carrying out its duties hereunder. The actions taken and the decisions made by the Plan Administrator hereunder shall be final and binding upon all interested parties subject, however, to the provisions of Section 6.2. The Plan Year, for purposes of Plan administration, shall be the calendar year.
     6.2 Whenever the Plan Administrator decides for whatever reason to deny, whether in whole or in part, a claim for benefits under the Plan filed by any person (herein referred to as the "Claimant"), the Plan Administrator shall transmit a written notice of its decision to the Claimant, which notice shall be written in a manner calculated to be understood by the Claimant and shall contain a statement of the specific reasons for the denial of the claim and a statement advising the Claimant that, within 60 days of the date on which the Claimant receives such notice, Claimant may obtain review of the decision of the Plan Administrator in accordance with the procedures hereinafter set forth. Within such 60-day period, the Claimant or Claimant's authorized representative may request that the claim denial be reviewed by filing with the Plan Administrator a written request therefore, which request shall contain the following information:
Claims Review Procedure
.
     In accordance with this Section, if the Claimant requests a review of the Plan Administrator's decision, such review shall be made by the Plan Administrator, which shall, within sixty (60) days after receipt of the request form, review and render a written decision on the claim containing the specific reasons for the decision including reference to Plan provisions upon which the decision is based. All findings, decisions, and determinations of any kind made by the Plan Administrator shall not be modified unless the Plan Administrator has acted in an arbitrary and capricious manner. Subject to the requirements of law, the Plan Administrator shall be the sole judge of the standard of proof required in any claim for benefits, and any determination of eligibility for a benefit. All decisions of the Plan Administrator shall be binding on the Claimant and upon all other Persons. If the Participant or Beneficiary shall not file written notice with the Plan Administrator at the times set forth above, such individual shall have waived all benefits under the Plan other than as already provided, if any, under the Plan.
     All benefits paid under the Plan shall be payable solely out of the general assets of the Corporation. The Corporation shall have no obligation to establish a trust to fund its obligation to pay
 
benefits under the Plan or to insure any benefits under the Plan and nothing contained in the Plan shall create or be construed as creating a trust of any kind or any other fiduciary relationship between the Participant, the Corporation, or any other person. It is the intention of the Corporation and the Participant that the Plan be unfunded for tax purposes and for purposes of Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended. The Corporation may, in its sole discretion, combine the payment due and owing under the Plan with one or more other payments owing to the Participant or the Participant's Beneficiary under any other plan, contract, or otherwise (other than any payment due under the Pension Plan) in one check, direct deposit, wire transfer, or other means of payment.
     8.1 . The Corporation reserves the right to amend or terminate the Plan at any time by action of its Board of Directors, or any duly authorized Committee thereof; provided, however, that no such action shall adversely affect any Participant who has met the age and service requirements of Section 3.1 or any Participant or Participant's Beneficiary who is receiving or who is eligible to receive an Excess Pension Benefit hereunder, unless an equivalent benefit is provided under another plan maintained by an Employer. No amendment or termination will result in an acceleration of Excess Pension Benefits in violation of Section 409A of the Code.
Termination or Amendment
     8.2 . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Plan, the termination of the Plan shall terminate the liability of the Corporation and all Employers to provide for future benefits under the Plan.
Effect of Plan Termination
     9.1 . The obligation of the Employer and of the Corporation to provide a Participant or the Participant's Beneficiary with an Excess Pension Benefit under the Plan merely constitutes the unsecured promise of the Employer and the Corporation to make payments as provided herein and no person shall have any interest in, or a lien or prior claim on any property of the Employer or Corporation.
Interest of Participant
     9.2 . Nothing in the Plan shall be construed to confer any right or claim upon any person, firm, or corporation other than the Participant and the Participant's Beneficiary who may become entitled to an Excess Pension Benefit under the Plan.
Benefits
     9.3 . Subject to any federal statute to the contrary, no right or benefit under the Plan and no right or interest in each Participant's Plan benefit shall be subject to anticipation, alienation, sale, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or charge, and any attempt to anticipate, alienate, sell, assign, pledge, encumber, or charge any right or benefit under the Plan, or Participant's Plan Account shall be void. No right, interest, or benefit under the Plan or the Participant's Plan benefit shall be liable for or subject to the debts, contracts, liabilities, or torts of the Participant or his or her Beneficiary. If the Participant or the Participant's Beneficiary becomes bankrupt or attempts to alienate, sell, assign, pledge, encumber, or charge any right under the Plan or the Participant's Plan benefit, such attempt shall be void and unenforceable.
No Present Interest
 
     9.4 . This Plan is an unfunded plan maintained primarily to provide deferred compensation benefits for a select group of "management or highly-compensated employees" within the meaning of Sections 201, 301, and 401 of ERISA, and therefore is exempt from the provisions of Parts 2, 3, and 4 of Title I of ERISA.
Unfunded Plan
     9.5 . Nothing herein contained shall be construed as a commitment or agreement upon the part of any Employee hereunder to continue his or her employment with an Employer, and nothing herein contained shall be construed as a commitment on the part of any Employer to continue the employment, rate of compensation or terms and conditions of employment of any Employee hereunder for any period. All Participants shall remain subject to discharge to the same extent as if the Plan had never been put into effect.
No Commitment as to Employment
     9.6 . No member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation or a subsidiary or committee authorized by the Board of Directors, or any officer of the Corporation or a subsidiary shall be liable for any act or action hereunder, whether of commission or omission, taken by any other member, or by any officer, agent, or Employee, except in circumstances involving bad faith or willful misconduct for anything done or omitted to be done.
Absence of Liability
     9.7 . The Corporation will pay all Plan expenses.
Expenses
     9.8 . Except as otherwise specifically agreed to by the Corporation in writing, no action taken in accordance with the Plan by the Corporation shall be construed or relied upon as a precedent for similar action under similar circumstances.
Precedent
     9.9 . The Corporation shall withhold any tax which the Corporation in its discretion deems necessary to be withheld from any payment to any Participant, former Participant, or Beneficiary hereunder, by reason of any present or future law.
Withholding
     9.10 . The validity of the Plan shall be determined and the Plan shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with the provisions of ERISA, the Code, and, to the extent applicable, the laws of the State of Ohio. The invalidity or illegality of any provision of the Plan shall not affect the validity or legality of any other part thereof.
Validity of Plan
     9.11 . The Plan shall be binding upon the Employers, Participants, former Participants, and Beneficiaries hereunder, and, as the case may be, the heirs, executors, administrators, successors, and assigns of each of them.
Parties Bound
     9.12 . All headings used in the Plan are for convenience of reference only and are not part of the substance of the Plan.
Headings
     9.13 . The Corporation shall furnish to each Participant, former Participant, or Beneficiary any documents, reports, returns, statements, or other information that it reasonably deems necessary to perform its duties imposed hereunder or otherwise imposed by law.
Duty to Furnish Information
     9.14 . At its discretion, the Corporation may establish one or more trusts, with such trustees as the Corporation may approve, for the purpose of providing for the payment of benefits owed under the Plan. Although such a trust may be irrevocable in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the Corporation, such assets will be subject to the claims of the Corporation's general creditors. To the extent any benefits provided under the Plan are paid from any such trust, the Employer shall have no
Trust Fund
 
further obligation to pay them. If not paid from the trust, such benefits shall remain the obligation of the Employer.
     9.15 . Any notice required or permitted under the Plan shall be deemed sufficiently provided if such notice is in writing and hand delivered or sent by registered or certified mail. Such notice shall be deemed given as of the date of delivery or, if delivery is made by mail, as of the date shown on the postmark or on the receipt for registration or certification. Mailed notice to the Corporation shall be directed to the Corporation's address, attention: KeyCorp Compensation and Benefits Department. Mailed notice to a Participant or Beneficiary shall be directed to the individual's last known address in the Employer's records
Notice
     9.16 . The provisions of this Plan shall bind and inure to the benefit of each Employer and its successors and assigns. The term successors as used herein shall include any corporate or other business entity which shall, whether by merger, consolidation, purchase or otherwise, acquire all or substantially all of the business and assets of an Employer.
Successors
     Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, in the event of a Change of Control, a Participant's interest in his or her Excess Pension Benefit shall vest, and the Participant shall be entitled to receive an immediate distribution of his or her Excess Pension Benefit, if on and after a Change of Control (i) the Participant's employment is terminated by his or her Employer and any other Employer without cause, or (ii) the Participant resigns within two years following a Change of Control as a result of the Participant's mandatory relocation, reduction in the Participant's base salary, reduction in the Participant's average annual incentive compensation (unless such reduction is attributable to the overall corporate or business unit performance) or the Participant's exclusion from stock option programs as compared to comparably situated Employees.
     For purposes of this Article X hereof, "Change of Control" shall be deemed to have occurred if under a rabbi trust arrangement established by KeyCorp ("Trust"), as such Trust may from time to time be amended or substituted, the Corporation is required to fund the Trust because a "Change of Control", as defined in the Trust, has occurred.
     The Plan is intended to provide for the deferral of compensation in accordance with the provisions of Section 409A of the Code and regulations and published guidance issued pursuant thereto. Accordingly, the Plan shall be construed in a manner consistent with those provisions and may at any time be amended in the manner and to the extent determined necessary or desirable by the Corporation to reflect or otherwise facilitate compliance with such provisions with respect to amounts deferred on and after January 1, 2005. Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, no otherwise permissible election, deferral, accrual, or distribution shall be made or given effect under the Plan that
 
would result in early taxation or assessment of penalties or interest of any amount under Section 409A of the Code.
     Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, the Participant's Excess Pension Benefits shall not be distributed to the Participant earlier than:
     If it is determined that a Participant constitutes a key employee (as defined in Section 416(i) of the Code without regard to paragraph (5) thereof) of the Corporation, the Participant shall not commence the distribution of his or her Excess Pension Benefits before the date which is six months after the date of the Participant's separation from service (or, if earlier, the date of death of the Participant).
     , KeyCorp has caused this KeyCorp Second Excess Cash Balance Pension Plan to be executed by its duly authorized officer this 21st day of December, to be effective as of January 1, 2005.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF


