FILE:KEY/KEY-8K-20070417133609.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On April 17, 2007, KeyCorp conducted a conference call/webcast to discuss its quarterly earnings and currently anticipated earnings trends. The slide presentation reviewed by KeyCorp in the conference call/webcast follows as Annex A to this Item 2.02.
On April 17, 2007, KeyCorp issued a press release announcing its earnings results for the three-month period ended March 31, 2007. This press release, dated April 17, 2007, is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)
Exhibits
.
Forward-Looking Statement
This filing contains forward-looking statements, including statements about our financial condition, results of operations, earnings outlook, asset quality trends and profitability. Forward-looking statements express management's current expectations or forecasts of future events and, by their nature, are subject to assumptions, risks and uncertainties. Although management believes that the expectations and forecasts reflected in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, actual results could differ materially due to a variety of factors including: (1) changes in interest rates; (2) changes in trade, monetary or fiscal policy; (3) changes in general economic conditions, or in the condition of the local economies or industries in which we have significant operations or assets, which could, among other things, materially impact credit quality trends and our ability to generate loans; (4) increased competitive pressure among financial services companies; (5) the inability to successfully execute strategic initiatives designed to grow revenues and/or manage expenses; (6) consummation of significant business combinations or divestitures; (7) operational or risk management failures due to technological or other factors; (8) heightened regulatory practices, requirements or expectations; (9) new legal obligations or liabilities or unfavorable resolution of litigation; (10) adverse capital markets conditions; (11) disruption in the economy and general business climate as a result of terrorist activities or military actions; and (12) changes in accounting or tax practices or requirements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and should not be relied upon as representing management's views as of any subsequent date. We do not assume any obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
 
ANNEX A
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
          CLEVELAND, April 17, 2007  KeyCorp (NYSE: KEY) today announced first quarter income from continuing operations of $358 million, or $0.89 per diluted common share. This compares to income from continuing operations  before the cumulative effect of an accounting change  of $274 million, or $0.66 per share, for the first quarter of 2006 and income from continuing operations of $311 million, or $0.76 per share, for the fourth quarter of 2006.
          Net income totaled $350 million, or $0.87 per diluted common share, for the first quarter of 2007, compared to net income of $289 million, or $0.70 per share, for the first quarter of 2006 and $146 million, or $0.36 per share, for the fourth quarter of 2006.
          The following table shows Key's continuing and discontinued operating results for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2007, December 31, 2006, and March 31, 2006.
Results of Operations
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2007 Earnings April 17, 2007 Page 2
     In February, Key sold the McDonald Investments branch network. First quarter results were also impacted by actions taken to reposition the securities portfolio. In March, Key sold $2.4 billion of shorter-maturity, agency-issued collateralized mortgage obligations and reinvested the proceeds in agency-issued securities with higher yields and longer expected average maturities. Key continues to maintain a relatively neutral exposure to changes in near-term interest rates. Neither funding nor capital levels were affected materially by this portfolio repositioning. In addition, as previously disclosed, Key recorded a gain from the settlement of the automobile residual value insurance litigation during the current quarter.
     The following Summary of Operations shows Key's results for the first quarter of 2007 as reported and on an adjusted basis after excluding the McDonald Investments branch network, the loss resulting from the repositioning of the securities portfolio and the gain associated with the litigation settlement.
Summary of Operations
          "The first quarter sales of the McDonald Investments branch network and the Champion Mortgage loan origination platform improve our risk profile and focus on the company's core relationship businesses," said Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Henry L. Meyer III. "During the quarter, we also repositioned the securities portfolio to respond to changing market conditions. We expect this change to enhance the company's future performance, particularly in the event of a decline in interest rates.
          "The current rate environment has continued to pressure Key's net interest margin and, although asset quality has declined slightly from a year ago, it is still very good compared to historical measures. We also are pleased to have resolved the automobile residual value insurance litigation during the first quarter."
          Based on adjusted earnings of $0.68 per share for the first quarter, the company expects earnings to be in the range of $2.80 to $2.95 per share for the full year.
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2007 Earnings April 17, 2007 Page 3
SUMMARY OF CONTINUING OPERATIONS
          Taxable-equivalent net interest income was $700 million for the first quarter of 2007, compared to $722 million for the year-ago quarter. Key's net interest margin for the current quarter declined to 3.50% from 3.72% for the first three months of 2006. The reductions in net interest income and the net interest margin were due to tighter interest rate spreads on deposits caused by a continuation of the inverted yield curve, and a continued shift in deposit mix from transaction accounts and money market deposit accounts to higher-cost certificates of deposit. Additionally, as part of the sale of the McDonald Investments branch network, Key transferred approximately $1.3 billion of money market deposit accounts to the buyer. Average earning assets were up 3% from the year-ago quarter, due primarily to an increase in commercial loans.
          Compared to the fourth quarter of 2006, taxable-equivalent net interest income decreased by $44 million and the net interest margin declined by 16 basis points. During the fourth quarter of 2006, Key's net interest margin benefited from a $16 million lease accounting adjustment resulting from a change in effective state tax rates, and an $8 million principal investing distribution received in the form of a dividend. These two items added approximately 12 basis points to the taxable-equivalent net interest margin for the fourth quarter. The level of average earning assets decreased slightly due to the annual securitization of education loans completed in the fourth quarter of 2006.
          Excluding the $171 million gain associated with the sale of the McDonald Investments branch network, the $49 million loss recorded in connection with the repositioning of the securities portfolio and the $26 million gain from the settlement of the automobile residual value insurance litigation, Key's noninterest income was $506 million for the first quarter of 2007, compared to $481 million for the year-ago quarter. A $32 million improvement in principal investing results accounted for the increase. Income from investment banking and capital markets activities was down due to a $25 million gain recorded in the first quarter of 2006 from the initial public offering completed by the New York Stock Exchange.
          Compared to the fourth quarter of 2006, adjusted noninterest income decreased by $52 million. Normal seasonal fluctuations and the McDonald sale caused reductions in several components of noninterest income. These reductions were moderated by higher net gains from principal investing. Additionally, results for the fourth quarter of 2006 included a $24 million charge to miscellaneous income recorded in connection with the redemption of certain trust preferred securities.
          Key's noninterest expense for the first quarter of 2007 was $784 million, compared to $752 million for the same period last year. Personnel expense rose by $28 million, due to higher salaries expense and stock-based compensation. Nonpersonnel expense was up $4 million, due to additional costs incurred in connection with the sale of the McDonald Investments branch network. These additional costs were offset in part by an $8 million reduction in Key's liability for credit losses on lending-related commitments recorded during the first quarter.
          Compared to the fourth quarter of 2006, noninterest expense decreased by $25 million. Reductions in personnel expense, marketing expense, professional fees and net occupancy expense were offset in part by higher franchise taxes. In the fourth quarter of 2006, Key's franchise taxes were a credit of $7 million as a result of settlements reached with regard to disputed amounts.
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2007 Earnings April 17, 2007 Page 4
ASSET QUALITY
          Key's provision for loan losses from continuing operations was $44 million for the first quarter of 2007, compared to $39 million for the year-ago quarter and $53 million for the fourth quarter of 2006.
          Net loan charge-offs for the quarter totaled $44 million, or 0.27% of average loans from continuing operations, compared to $39 million, or 0.24%, for the same period last year and $54 million, or 0.33%, for the previous quarter.
          At March 31, 2007, Key's nonperforming loans totaled $254 million and represented 0.39% of period-end portfolio loans, compared to 0.33% at December 31, 2006, and 0.44% at March 31, 2006. At March 31, 2007, nonperforming assets totaled $353 million and represented 0.54% of portfolio loans, other real estate owned and other nonperforming assets, compared to 0.41% at December 31, 2006, and 0.48% at March 31, 2006. The increase in nonperforming assets during the first quarter of 2007 reflected a higher level of nonperforming credits in the Equipment Finance line of business. In addition, Key placed a real estate-related investment in Key's Private Equity unit within the Real Estate Capital line of business on nonperforming status.
          Key's allowance for loan losses was $944 million, or 1.44% of loans outstanding, at March 31, 2007, compared to $944 million, or 1.43%, at December 31, 2006, and $966 million, or 1.44%, at March 31, 2006.
CAPITAL
     Key's capital ratios continued to exceed all "well-capitalized" regulatory benchmarks at March 31, 2007. Key's tangible equity to tangible assets ratio was 6.97% at quarter end, compared to 7.01% at December 31, 2006, and 6.71% at March 31, 2006.
     Key repurchased 8.0 million of its common shares and reissued 3.3 million shares under employee benefit and dividend reinvestment plans during the first quarter of 2007. At March 31, 2007, Key had 22.0 million common shares remaining for repurchase under the current authorization.
     Share repurchases and other activities that caused the change in Key's outstanding common shares over the past five quarters are summarized in the table below.
Summary of Changes in Common Shares Outstanding
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2007 Earnings April 17, 2007 Page 5
LINE OF BUSINESS RESULTS
          The following table shows the contribution made by each major business group to Key's taxable-equivalent revenue and income from continuing operations for the periods presented. The specific lines of business that comprise each of the major business groups are described under the heading "Line of Business Descriptions." For more detailed financial information pertaining to each business group and its respective lines of business, see the last two pages of this release. Key's line of business results for all periods presented reflect a new organizational structure that took effect January 1, 2007.
Major Business Groups
Community Banking
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2007 Earnings April 17, 2007 Page 6
Additional Community Banking Data
Community Banking Summary of Operations
          Net income for Community Banking was $198 million for the first quarter of 2007, up from $103 million for the year-ago quarter. The improvement was attributable primarily to growth in noninterest income resulting from the gain associated with the sale of the McDonald Investments branch network during the first quarter of 2007. In addition, Community Banking experienced a lower provision for loan losses. The positive effects of these items were offset in part by a decrease in net interest income and higher noninterest expense.
          Taxable-equivalent net interest income decreased by $11 million, or 3%, from the first quarter of 2006. The decrease was attributable to a reduction in, and a tighter interest rate spread on, average earning assets, along with a continued shift from transaction accounts and money market deposit accounts to higher-cost certificates of deposit.
          Excluding the $171 million gain associated with the sale of the McDonald Investments branch network, noninterest income decreased by $10 million, or 5%, from the year-ago quarter. A reduction in brokerage commissions caused by the McDonald sale was offset in part by an increase in service charges on deposit accounts.
          The provision for loan losses decreased by $15 million, or 52%, as a result of lower net loan charge-offs and an improved credit risk profile.
          Noninterest expense grew by $13 million, or 3%, reflecting additional costs incurred in connection with the McDonald sale. Personnel expense and net occupancy expense also contributed to the growth.
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2007 Earnings April 17, 2007 Page 7
National Banking
National Banking Summary of Continuing Operations
          Income from continuing operations for National Banking was $163 million for the first quarter of 2007, compared to $171 million for the same period last year. A decrease in net interest income, along with increases in the provision for loan losses and noninterest expense, accounted for the reduction and more than offset an increase in noninterest income.
          Taxable-equivalent net interest income decreased by $6 million, or 2%, from the first quarter of 2006, due primarily to a tighter interest rate spread on average earning assets.
          Noninterest income for the first quarter of 2007 included a $26 million gain from the settlement of the automobile residual value insurance litigation. In the first quarter of 2006, income from investment banking and capital markets activities included a $25 million gain from the initial public offering completed by the New York Stock Exchange. Excluding these gains, noninterest income increased by $26 million, or 12%, from the first quarter of 2006. Higher income from operating leases, trust and investment services, and investment banking and capital markets activities drove the improvement.
          The provision for loan losses rose by $20 million, reflecting a higher level of net loan charge-offs.
          Noninterest expense grew by $14 million, or 5%, due to increases in personnel expense and costs associated with operating leases. These increases were partially offset by decreases in a variety of other expense categories.
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2007 Earnings April 17, 2007 Page 8
Other Segments
     Other segments consist of Corporate Treasury and Key's Principal Investing unit. These segments generated a net loss of $9 million for the first quarter of 2007, compared to net income of less than $1 million for the same period last year. A $49 million loss recorded in the current quarter in connection with the repositioning of the securities portfolio was offset in part by a $32 million improvement in principal investing results.
Line of Business Descriptions
Community Banking
provides individuals with branch-based deposit and investment products, personal finance services and loans, including residential mortgages, home equity and various types of installment loans. This line of business also provides small businesses with deposit, investment and credit products, and business advisory services.
Regional Banking
Regional Banking also offers financial, estate and retirement planning, and asset management services to assist high-net-worth clients with their banking, trust, portfolio management, insurance, charitable giving and related needs.
provides midsize businesses with products and services that include commercial lending, cash management, equipment leasing, investment and employee benefit programs, succession planning, access to capital markets, derivatives and foreign exchange.
Commercial Banking
National Banking
provides construction and interim lending, permanent debt placements and servicing, and equity and investment banking services to developers, brokers and owner-investors. This line of business deals exclusively with nonowner-occupied properties (i.e., generally properties in which at least 50% of the debt service is provided by rental income from nonaffiliated third parties).
Real Estate Capital
meets the equipment leasing needs of companies worldwide and provides equipment manufacturers, distributors and resellers with financing options for their clients. Lease financing receivables and related revenues are assigned to other lines of business (primarily Institutional and Capital Markets, and Commercial Banking) if those businesses are principally responsible for maintaining the relationship with the client.
Equipment Finance
provides products and services to large corporations, middle-market companies, financial institutions, government entities and not-for-profit organizations. These products and services include commercial lending, treasury management, investment banking, derivatives and foreign exchange, equity and debt underwriting and trading, and syndicated finance.
Institutional and Capital Markets
Through its Victory Capital Management unit, Institutional and Capital Markets also manages or gives advice regarding investment portfolios for a national client base, including corporations, labor unions, not-for-profit organizations, governments and individuals. These portfolios may be managed in separate accounts, common funds or the Victory family of mutual funds.
includes Indirect Lending, Commercial Floor Plan Lending, Home Equity Services and Business Services.
Consumer Finance
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2007 Earnings April 17, 2007 Page 9
Indirect Lending offers loans to consumers through dealers. This business unit also provides federal and private education loans to students and their parents, and processes payments on loans that private schools make to parents.
Commercial Floor Plan Lending finances inventory for automobile and marine dealers.
Home Equity Services works with home improvement contractors to provide home equity and home improvement financing solutions.
Business Services provides payroll processing solutions for businesses of all sizes.
          Cleveland-based KeyCorp is one of the nation's largest bank-based financial services companies, with assets of approximately $93 billion. Key companies provide investment management, retail and commercial banking, consumer finance, and investment banking products and services to individuals and companies throughout the United States and, for certain businesses, internationally. The company's businesses deliver their products and services through 950 branches and additional offices; a network of 1,447 ATMs; telephone banking centers (1.800.KEY2YOU); and a Web site, ,that provides account access and financial products 24 hours a day.
https://www.Key.com/
Notes to Editors:
A live Internet broadcast of KeyCorp's conference call to discuss quarterly earnings and currently anticipated earnings trends and to answer analysts' questions can be accessed through the Investor Relations section at
https://www.Key.com/ir
at 9:00 a.m. ET, on Tuesday, April 17, 2007. An audio replay of the call will be available through April 24.
For up-to-date company information, media contacts and facts and figures about Key's lines of business visit our Media Newsroom at
https://www
.
Key.com/newsroom.
This news release contains forward-looking statements, including statements about our financial condition, results of operations, earnings outlook, asset quality trends and profitability. Forward-looking statements express management's current expectations or forecasts of future events and, by their nature, are subject to assumptions, risks and uncertainties. Although management believes that the expectations and forecasts reflected in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, actual results could differ materially due to a variety of factors including: (1) changes in interest rates; (2) changes in trade, monetary or fiscal policy; (3) changes in general economic conditions, or in the condition of the local economies or industries in which we have significant operations or assets, which could, among other things, materially impact credit quality trends and our ability to generate loans; (4) increased competitive pressure among financial services companies; (5) the inability to successfully execute strategic initiatives designed to grow revenues and/or manage expenses; (6) consummation of significant business combinations or divestitures; (7) operational or risk management failures due to technological or other factors; (8) heightened regulatory practices, requirements or expectations; (9) new legal obligations or liabilities or unfavorable resolution of litigation; (10) adverse capital markets conditions; (11) disruption in the economy and general business climate as a result of terrorist activities or military actions; and (12) changes in accounting or tax practices or requirements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and should not be relied upon as representing management's views as of any subsequent date. We do not assume any obligation to update these forward-looking statements. For further information regarding KeyCorp, please read KeyCorp's reports that are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and are available at www.sec.gov.
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2007 Earnings April 17, 2007 Page 10
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2007 Earnings April 17, 2007 Page 11
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2007 Earnings April 17, 2007 Page 12
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2007 Earnings April 17, 2007 Page 13
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2007 Earnings April 17, 2007 Page 14
 
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2007 Earnings April 17, 2007 Page 16
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2007 Earnings April 17, 2007 Page 17
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2007 Earnings April 17, 2007 Page 18
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2007 Earnings April 17, 2007 Page 19
Community Banking
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2007 Earnings April 17, 2007 Page 20
National Banking


