FILE:KEY/KEY-8K-20070312103722.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
Item 5.02
Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On March 8, 2007, and upon the recommendation of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, the KeyCorp Board of Directors amended the KeyCorp Second Director Deferred Compensation Plan (the "Plan") to change the interest rate for the Plan's interest bearing account. The new rate is effective January 1, 2007, and is 120% of the applicable long term federal rate as published by the Internal Revenue Service.
A copy of the Amended and Restated Plan is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Exhibits
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 10.1
     The KeyCorp Second Director Deferred Compensation Plan (the "Plan"), originally established December 28, 2004 and amended and restated as of January 1, 2005, is hereby again amended and restated on March 8, 2007 to change the rate of interest of the Interest Bearing Account as of January 1, 2007. The Plan, as structured, is designed to provide directors with the opportunity to defer payment of their directors' fees and vested equity awards in accordance with the provisions of this Plan. It is the intention of KeyCorp and it is the understanding of the Directors participating in the Plan, that the Plan constitutes a nonqualified deferred compensation plan under the provisions of Section 409A of the Code and applicable regulations issued thereunder.
     For the purposes hereof, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings indicated.
 
     1. . Any Director may elect to defer receipt of all or a specified portion of his or her Fees for any Year in accordance with Section 2 of this Article.
Eligibility
     2. . A Director who desires to defer the payment of all or a portion of his or her Fees for any Year must complete and deliver an Election Agreement to the Corporation no later than the last day of the Year prior to the Year for which the Fees are earned by the Director; provided, however, that any Director hereafter elected to the Board of Directors of the Corporation or a Subsidiary who was not a Director on the preceding December 31 may make an election to defer payment of Fees for the Year in which he or she is elected to the Board of Directors by delivering the Election Agreement to the Corporation within 30 days of first becoming eligible to participate in the Plan. A Director who timely delivers the Election Agreement to the Corporation shall be a Participant in the Plan upon the Corporation's acceptance of such Election Agreement.
Election to Defer
     3. . A Participant shall designate on the Election Agreement (a) the amount of his or her Fees that are to be deferred to the Plan for any Year, (b) the date on which the Participant's Fees shall be distributed, (c) whether the distribution of deferred Fees is to be paid in its entirety or whether such Fees shall be paid in installments, and (d) if in installments, the number of quarterly installments. Deferrals shall be until the earlier to occur: (i) the date specified by the Participant which may be not later than the date on which the Participant would attain age 72, or (ii) the date of death of the Participant, at which time payment of the amount deferred shall be made in accordance with Section 7 or 10 of this Article. A Participant may select not more than one date in each Election Agreement upon which distribution shall be made or when installments shall begin; distribution dates shall be the first business day of a calendar quarter.
Amount Deferred; Date of Deferral
     4. . The Corporation shall maintain an Account of the Fees deferred by each Participant. A Participant shall designate on the Election Agreement whether to have the
Account
 
Account valued on the basis of KeyCorp Common Shares in accordance with Section 5 of this Article or receive interest in accordance with Section 6 of this Article. The Corporation may, if necessary or desirable, establish separate Accounts for a Participant to properly account for amounts deferred under the different alternatives and Years; all such Accounts are collectively referred to herein as the Account. The Account based on KeyCorp Common Shares shall be known as the "Common Shares Account", and the interest bearing account shall be known as the "Interest Bearing Account"; a Participant may defer a portion of his or her Fees into each type of Account.
     5. . If a Participant elects to have all or a portion of his or her Fees deferred into the Common Shares Account, as of the last business day of any quarter, there shall be added to such Account the number of Common Shares (whole and fractional, rounded to the nearest one-hundredth of a share) equal to the dollar amount of such Fees payable for such calendar quarter plus all dividends payable during such quarter on the Common Shares held in the Account on the first day of such quarter divided by the market value of the Common Shares at the close of business on the last business day of such quarter.
Common Shares Account
     6. . If a Participant elects to have all or a portion of his or her Fees deferred into the Interest Bearing Account, there shall be added to the Account as of the last business day of each calendar quarter the dollar amount of such Fees payable for such calendar quarter plus all interest payable on such Interest Bearing Account for such quarter as follows: A Participant's account will receive interest on the average daily balance in the Interest Bearing Account during each month at a rate equal to 120% of the long term federal rate as published by the Internal Revenue Service for that month, compounded monthly, and divided by 12.
Interest Bearing Account
     7. . The amount of a Participant's Account shall be paid to the Participant in a single payment and/or in a number of substantially equal consecutive quarterly installments (not to exceed 40), as elected by the Participant in his or her Election Agreement. Distributions from the Interest Bearing Account shall be in cash. Distributions from the Common Shares Account shall be in Common Shares. The amount of the Account remaining after payment of an installment shall continue to be valued in accordance with Section 5 of this Article or bear interest in accordance with Section 6 of this Article. Full payment or the first quarterly installment, as the case may be, shall be made as soon as administratively possible after (i) the date specified in Section 3 of this Article, or (ii) the date of the Participant's death.
Payment of Account; Period of Deferral
     Any installment payment shall be made pro rata from the Common Shares Account and the Interest Bearing Account. The election as to the time for and method of payment of the amount of the Account relating to Fees deferred for a particular Year shall be made on the Election Agreement(s) and may not thereafter be altered except as provided in Section 10 of this Article.
     In the event that a Participant elects to receive installment payments under this Section 7,
 
     8. . Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the quarterly installment payment elected under any Election Agreement would result in a quarterly payment of less than $500 in cash or Common Shares, as the case may be, the Participant shall receive an immediate lump sum payment of the entire amount of the Account to the Participant on the day the installment payments were to begin.
Small Payments
     9. . In the event of the death of a Participant, the amount of the Participant's Account shall be paid to the Beneficiary or Beneficiaries designated in writing signed by the Participant in the form provided by the Corporation; in the event there is more than one Beneficiary, such form shall include the proportion to be paid to each Beneficiary and indicate the disposition of such share if a Beneficiary does not survive the Participant; in the absence of any such designation, payment from the Account shall be divided equally among all other Beneficiaries. A Participant's Beneficiary designation may be changed at any time prior to the Participant's death by execution and delivery of a new Beneficiary designation form. The form on file with the Corporation at the time of the Participant's death which bears the latest date shall govern. In the absence of a Beneficiary designation or the failure of any Beneficiary to survive the Participant, the amount of the Participant's Account shall be paid to the Participant's estate in its entirety ninety days after the appointment of an executor or administrator. In the event of the death of any Beneficiary after the death of a Participant, the remaining amount of the Account payable to such Beneficiary shall be paid in its entirety to the estate of such Beneficiary ninety days after the appointment of an executor or administrator for such estate.
Death of Participant
     10. .
Acceleration
 
     11. . Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, in the event of a Change of Control, no amendment or modification of this Plan may be made at any time on or after such Change of Control (1) to reduce or modify a Participant's Pre-Change of Control Account Balance, (2) to reduce or modify the Interest Bearing Account's rate of earnings on or method of crediting such earnings to a Participant's Pre-Change of Control Account Balance, (3) to reduce or modify the Common Shares Account's method of calculating all earnings, gains, and/or losses on a Participant's Pre-Change of Control Account Balance, or (4) to reduce or modify the Participant's deferrals to be credited to a Participant's Plan Account for the applicable deferral period. For purposes of this Section 11, the term "Pre-Change of Control Account Balance" shall mean, with regard to any Plan Participant, the aggregate amount of such Participant's prior deferrals with all earnings, gains, and losses thereon which are credited to the Participant's Plan Account through the close of the calendar Year in which such Change of Control occurs.
Change of Control
     12. . In the event of a Change of Control in which the Common Shares of the Corporation are converted into or exchanged for securities, cash and/or other property as a result of any capital reorganization or reclassification of the capital stock of the Corporation, or as a result of the consolidation or merger of the Corporation with or into another corporation or entity, or the sale of all or substantially all of its assets to another corporation or entity, the Corporation shall cause the Common Shares Account to reflect the securities, cash and other property to be received in such reorganization, reclassification, consolidation, merger or sale on the balance in the Common Shares Account and, from and after such reorganization, reclassification, consolidation, merger or sale, the Common Shares Account shall reflect all dividends, interest, earnings and losses attributable to such securities, cash, and other property (with any cash earning interest at the rate applicable to the Interest Bearing Account).
Common Stock Conversion
 
     13. . On or after a Change of Control, the provisions of Article I and Article II may not be amended or modified as such provisions apply to Participants' Pre-Change of Control Account Balances.
Amendment in the Event of a Change of Control
     14. . Each Participant shall receive a statement of his or her Account not less than annually.
Statement
     15. . Each Account shall be valued as of the last day of each calendar quarter until payment of a Participant's Fees in full. If a Participant has elected to have his or her Fees deferred into the Common Shares Account, the Corporation shall ascertain the number of shares in the Account (whole and fractional, rounded to the nearest one-hundredth of a share) after taking into account earnings to the Account under this Article and distributions from the Account under this Article, based on the fair market value of the Common Shares on the last business day of such calendar quarter. Automatically and without further action by the Corporation, in the event of any stock dividend or split, recapitalization, merger, consolidation, spin-off, reorganization, combination, exchange of shares, or a similar corporate change, appropriate adjustments in the number and kind of shares held in a Participant's Account shall be made by the Corporation to reflect such change. If a Participant has elected to have his or her Fees deferred into the Interest Bearing Account, the Corporation shall ascertain the value of such Interest Bearing Account by adding to the value of the Account at the beginning of such calendar quarter the dollar amount of the Fees deferred into the Account for such quarter, plus the value of any interest paid on the Account in accordance with this Article, less any distributions made from the Account in accordance with this Article.
Valuation of the Account
     16.  Participants may elect to transfer vested equity awards (other than stock option awards) granted under the KeyCorp Directors' Deferred Share Plan to the Plan, provided, the Participant's election to transfer such vested award is made in accordance with the requirements of the grant agreement under which the award was issued and in accordance with the subsequent deferral election requirements of Section 409A of the Code. Transferred awards shall be fully vested under the Plan and shall be subject to the distribution requirements contained within the Participant's transfer election form provided, however, that such Plan transfers must be deferred under the Plan for a minimum of five (5) years from the date of the transfer regardless of the Participant's termination, retirement, or the distribution instructions contained in the Participant's transfer election form. Transferred awards shall be subject to full investment diversification if cash based, and transferred awards shall be invested in the in the Plan's Common Stock Account if equity based. Awards invested in the Plan's Common Stock Account will not be subject to investment direction or diversification. Transferred awards shall be separately maintained under the Plan.
Plan Transfers.
 
     The Corporation shall be responsible for the general administration of the Plan and for carrying out the provisions hereof. The Corporation shall have all such powers as may be necessary to carry out its duties under the Plan, including the power to determine all questions relating to eligibility for and the amount in an Account, all questions pertaining to claims for benefits and procedures for claim review, and the power to resolve all other questions arising under the Plan, including any questions of construction. The Corporation may take such further action as the Corporation shall deem advisable in the administration of the Plan. The actions taken and the decisions made by the Corporation hereunder shall be final and binding upon all interested parties.
     The Corporation reserves the right to amend or terminate the Plan at any time by action of its Board of Directors, the Compensation and Organization Committee or any other duly authorized Committee of the Board of Directors; provided, however, that no such action shall adversely affect any Participant or Beneficiary with respect to the amount credited to a Deferred Compensation Account and further provided that any such action shall be subject to the limitations set forth in Article II, Sections 11 and 13, hereof. No amendment or termination of the Plan shall result in an acceleration of Plan benefits in violation of Section 409A of the Code.
     1. . Subject to any federal statute to the contrary, no right or benefit under the Plan and no right or interest in each Participant's Plan Account shall be subject to anticipation, alienation, sale, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or charge, and any attempt to anticipate, alienate, sell, assign, pledge, encumber, or charge any right or benefit under the Plan, or Participant's Plan Account shall be void. No right, interest, or benefit under the Plan or Participant's Plan Account shall be liable for or subject to the debts, contracts, liabilities, or torts of the Participant or Beneficiary. If the Participant or Beneficiary becomes bankrupt or attempts to alienate, sell, assign, pledge, encumber, or charge any right under the Plan or Participant's Plan Account, such attempt shall be void and unenforceable.
No Present Interest
     2. . Nothing herein contained shall be construed as a commitment to or agreement with any Director of the Corporation or a Subsidiary to continue such person's directorship with the Corporation or Subsidiary, and nothing herein contained shall be construed as a commitment or agreement on the part of the Corporation or any Subsidiary to continue the directorship or the rate of director compensation of any such person for any period.
Plan Noncontractual
 
All Directors shall remain subject to removal to the same extent as if the Plan had never been put into effect.
     3. . The obligation of the Corporation under the Plan to make payment of amounts reflected on an Account merely constitutes the unsecured promise of only the Corporation to make payments from its general assets as provided herein. Further, no Participant or Beneficiary shall have any claim whatsoever against any Subsidiary for amounts reflected on an Account. At its discretion, the Corporation may establish one or more trusts, with such trustees as the Corporation may approve, for the purpose of providing for the payment of benefits owed under the Plan. Although such a trust may be irrevocable, in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the Corporation, such assets will be subject to the claims of the Corporation's general creditors. To the extent any benefits provided under the Plan are paid from any such trust, the Corporation shall have no further obligation to pay them. If not paid from the trust, such benefits shall remain the obligation of the Corporation.
Interest of Director
     4. . The provisions of the Plan shall in no event be construed as giving any person, firm, or corporation any legal or equitable rights against the Corporation or any Subsidiary, or the officers, employees, or directors of the Corporation or any Subsidiary, except any such rights as are specifically provided for in the Plan or are hereafter created in accordance with the terms and provisions of the Plan.
Claims of Other Persons
     5. . Any action to be taken by the Corporation's Board of Directors under this Plan may be taken by such Board's Compensation and Organization Committee, Executive Committee or any other duly authorized Committee of the Board of Directors.
Delegation of Authority
     6. . The invalidity and unenforceability of any particular provision of the Plan shall not affect any other provision hereof, and the Plan shall be construed in all respects as if such invalid or unenforceable provisions were omitted herefrom.
Severability
     7. . The provisions of the Plan shall be governed and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Ohio.
Governing Law
     The Plan is intended to provide for the deferral of compensation in accordance with the provisions of Section 409A of the Code and regulations and published guidance issued pursuant thereto. Accordingly, the Plan shall be construed in a manner consistent with those provisions and may at any time be amended in the manner and to the extent determined necessary or desirable by the Corporation to reflect or otherwise facilitate compliance with such provisions with respect to amounts deferred on and after January 1, 2005. Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, no otherwise permissible election, deferral, accrual, or distribution shall be made or given effect under the Plan that would result in early taxation or assessment of penalties or interest of any amount under Section 409A of the Code.
 


