FILE:KEY/KEY-8K-20070222100350.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
Item 5.02
Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On February 20, 2007, the Compensation and Organization Committee of the KeyCorp Board of Directors made awards under KeyCorp's 2007-2009 Long Term Incentive Program. The Committee awarded the Chief Executive Officer and his direct reports performance shares, payable in cash, that vest in three years from the date of grant to the extent that performance goals set forth in the awards are met. The performance goals are based on economic profit added, earnings per share, and return on equity. Each factor has a defined cumulative three-year threshold, target, and maximum performance goal. Other executive officers received a combination of time-lapsed restricted stock and performance based restricted stock. The performance goals for the performance based restricted stock awarded to those executive officers are identical to the performance goals for the awards to the Chief Executive Officer and his direct reports. Forms of the two types of Award Agreements are attached hereto as Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 10.1
Name
 By action of the Compensation and Organization Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of KeyCorp, taken pursuant to the KeyCorp 2004 Equity Compensation Plan (the "Plan"), and subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, you have been awarded ___Performance Shares payable in cash, subject to vesting upon the achievement of specified performance criteria (the "Cash Performance Shares") and ___Performance Shares payable in cash, subject to vesting upon the achievement of additional specified performance criteria (the "Above-Target Performance Shares"), as described below. The Cash Performance Shares and the Above-Target Performance Shares shall be referred to herein collectively as the "Awarded Shares". Unless otherwise indicated, the capitalized terms used herein and in the attached Acceptance of Grant Agreement (the "Agreement") shall have the same meaning as set forth in the Plan.
 
 
 
     I acknowledge receipt of the above Above-Target Performance Shares and Cash Performance Shares and in consideration thereof I accept such awards subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan (including, without limitation, the harmful activity provisions thereof) and the restrictions upon me as set forth hereinafter in this Agreement.
     My agreement to the following restrictions is (i) in addition to (and not in limitation of) any other agreements, plans, policies, or practices that are applicable to me as a KeyCorp or a Subsidiary (collectively "Key") employee and (ii) independent of any Plan provisions.
 
BY SIGNING THIS ACCEPTANCE OF GRANT AGREEMENT, I ACKNOWLEDGE THAT I HAVE HAD AMPLE OPPORTUNITY TO READ THIS AGREEMENT AND THE PLAN, MAKE A DILIGENT INQUIRY, ASK QUESTIONS, AND CONSULT WITH MY ATTORNEY IF I CHOSE TO DO SO.

 
Exhibit 10.2
Name
 By action of the Compensation and Organization Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of KeyCorp, taken pursuant to the KeyCorp 2004 Equity Compensation Plan (the "Plan"), and subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, you have been awarded Stock shares of Restricted Stock subject to vesting upon the passing of time (the "Time-Lapsed Restricted Stock"), Stock shares of Restricted Stock subject to vesting upon the achievement of specified performance criteria (the "Performance-Based Restricted Stock"), and Stock Performance Shares subject to vesting upon the achievement of specified performance criteria (the "Stock Performance Shares") as described below. The Time-Lapsed Restricted Stock and the Performance-Based Restricted Stock shall be referred to herein collectively as the "Restricted Stock". Unless otherwise indicated, the capitalized terms used herein and in the attached Acceptance of Grant Agreement (the "Agreement") shall have the same meaning as set forth in the Plan.
 
 
 
 
 
     I acknowledge receipt of the above award of Time-Lapsed Restricted Stock, Performance-Based Restricted Stock and Stock Performance Shares and in consideration thereof I accept such awards subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan (including, without limitation, the harmful activity provisions thereof) and the restrictions upon me as set forth hereinafter in this Agreement.
     My agreement to the following restrictions is (i) in addition to (and not in limitation of) any other agreements, plans, policies, or practices that are applicable to me as a KeyCorp or Subsidiary (collectively "Key") employee, (ii) independent of any Plan provisions, and (iii) binding upon me regardless of whether I sell, transfer, otherwise dispose of, pledge, or otherwise hypothecate the Common Shares acquired under the Restricted Stock and Performance Shares awarded to me.
 
BY SIGNING THIS ACCEPTANCE OF GRANT AGREEMENT, I ACKNOWLEDGE THAT I HAVE HAD AMPLE OPPORTUNITY TO READ THIS AGREEMENT AND THE PLAN, MAKE A DILIGENT INQUIRY, ASK QUESTIONS, AND CONSULT WITH MY ATTORNEY IF I CHOSE TO DO SO.


