FILE:KEY/KEY-8K-20070727171048.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Section 8  Other Events
  
Item 8.01
Other Events
.
     On July 27, 2007, KeyCorp and USB issued a joint press release announcing the execution of the Merger Agreement (as described below). The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
     On July 26, 2007, KeyCorp, an Ohio corporation, KYCA Corporation, a newly formed Delaware corporation that is a wholly-owned subsidiary of KeyCorp ("Acquiror Sub") and U.S.B Holding Co., Inc., a Delaware corporation ("USB"), entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement"). The Merger Agreement provides that, on the Closing Date and subject to all of the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement, USB will merge with and into Acquiror Sub, with Acquiror Sub continuing as the surviving entity, following which, Union State Bank, a subsidiary of USB, will be merged into KeyBank National Association, a wholly owned subsidiary of KeyCorp.
     Based on the July 26, 2007 closing price for KeyCorp common stock, the transaction would be valued at approximately $575 million. The consideration that a USB shareholder will receive is a combination that includes cash and KeyCorp common stock. Each share of USB common stock will be exchanged at the closing for .455 shares of KeyCorp common stock and $8.925 in cash. The actual value of the purchase consideration to be paid upon closing to each USB shareholder will vary based upon the market price of KeyCorp common shares. Options not exercised by the closing date will convert to KeyCorp options.
     The transaction, which has been approved by the boards of directors of both companies, is expected to close within the next six months, subject to approval by USB shareholders and banking regulators.
Additional Information about the Merger and Where to Find It:
     In connection with the proposed merger of U.S.B. Holding Co., Inc. ("USB") with and into KeyCorp (the "Merger"), KeyCorp and USB intend to file relevant materials with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), including a registration statement on Form S-4 that will contain a proxy statement/prospectus. INVESTORS ARE URGED TO READ THESE MATERIALS WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT KEYCORP, USB AND THE MERGER. The proxy statement/prospectus and other relevant materials (when they become available), and any other documents filed by KeyCorp or USB with the SEC, may be obtained free of charge at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. In addition, investors may obtain free copies of the documents filed with the SEC by KeyCorp by directing a written request to KeyCorp, 127 Public Square, Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Attention: Investor Relations, and free copies of the documents filed with the SEC by U.S.B. Holding Co., Inc. by directing a written request to U.S.B. Holding Co., Inc., 100 Dutch Hill Road, Orangeburg, New York 10962, Attention: Secretary.
     KeyCorp, USB and their respective executive officers and directors may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from the shareholders of USB in connection with the Merger. Information about the directors and executive officers of KeyCorp and USB and information about any other persons who may be deemed participants in this
 
transaction will be included in the proxy statement/prospectus. You can find information about KeyCorp's directors and executive officers in the proxy statement for KeyCorp's annual meeting of shareholders filed with the SEC on March 21, 2007. You can find information about USB's directors and executive officers in the proxy statement for U.S.B. Holding Co., Inc.'s annual meeting of shareholders filed with the SEC on April 27, 2007. You can obtain free copies of these documents from the SEC, KeyCorp or USB using the contact information above.
     This communication shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities.
Forward-Looking Statements
     This filing contains forward-looking statements, including statements about our financial condition, results of operations, earnings outlook, asset quality trends and profitability. Forward-looking statements express management's current expectations or forecasts of future events and, by their nature, are subject to assumptions, risks and uncertainties. Certain statements contained in this filing that are not statements of historical fact constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the "Act"), notwithstanding that such statements are not specifically identified. In addition, certain statements may be contained in the future filings of KeyCorp with the SEC, in press releases, and in oral and written statements made by or with the approval of KeyCorp that are not statements of historical fact and constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Act. Examples of forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: (i) statements about the benefits of the Merger of KeyCorp and USB, including future financial and operating results, cost savings, enhanced revenues and accretion to reported earnings that may be realized from the Merger; (ii) statements of plans, objectives and expectations of KeyCorp or USB or their managements or Boards of Directors; (iii) statements of future economic performance; and (iv) statements of assumptions underlying such statements. Words such as "believes", "anticipates", "expects", "intends", "targeted", "continue", "remain", "will", "should", "may" and other similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements but are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements.
     Although management believes that the expectations and forecasts reflected in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, actual results could differ materially due to a variety of factors including: (1) changes in interest rates; (2) changes in trade, monetary or fiscal policy; (3) changes in general economic conditions, or in the condition of the local economies or industries in which we have significant operations or assets, which could, among other things, materially impact credit quality trends and our ability to generate loans; (4) increased competitive pressure among financial services companies; (5) the inability to successfully execute strategic initiatives designed to grow revenues and/or manage expenses; (6) consummation of significant business combinations or divestitures; (7) operational or risk management failures due to technological or other factors; (8) heightened regulatory practices, requirements or expectations; (9) new legal obligations or liabilities or unfavorable resolution of litigation; (10) adverse capital markets conditions; (11) disruption in the economy and general business climate as a result of terrorist activities or military actions; and (12) changes in accounting or tax practices or requirements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and should not be relied upon as representing management's views as of any subsequent date. We do not assume any obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
  
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
99.1  Press Release issued jointly by U.S.B. Holding Co. Inc. and KeyCorp, dated July 27, 2007.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
News
KeyCorp 127 Public Square Cleveland, Ohio 44114
CONTACTS:
KEY MEDIA
NEWSROOM: www.key.com/newsroom
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CLEVELAND and ORANGEBURG, NY, July 27, 2007  KeyCorp (NYSE: KEY), the holding company for KeyBank N.A., and U.S.B. Holding Co., Inc. (NYSE: UBH), the holding company for Union State Bank, a state-chartered commercial bank, today announced the signing of a definitive agreement under which Key would acquire U.S.B. Holding Co., Inc. Union State Bank, one of the leading community banks serving southern New York State, has assets of approximately $3 billion, loans of $1.6 billion and $2 billion in deposits.
     Based on the July 26, 2007 closing price for KeyCorp common stock, the transaction would be valued at approximately $575 million. The consideration that a U.S.B. Holding Co., Inc. shareholder will receive is a combination that includes cash and KeyCorp common stock. Each share of U.S.B. Holding Co., Inc. common stock will be exchanged at the closing for .455 shares of KeyCorp common stock and $8.925 in cash. The actual value of the purchase consideration to be paid upon closing to each U.S.B. Holding Co., Inc. shareholder will vary based upon the market price of KeyCorp common shares. Options not exercised by the closing date will convert to KeyCorp options.
     "This is an important strategic acquisition that will significantly enhance our presence in attractive markets within and contiguous to our current operations," said Beth Mooney, a KeyCorp vice chair and head of Key Community Banking. "We believe our specialties in small business, middle market banking, private banking and wealth management will be an excellent fit in these markets."
     Thomas E. Hales, U.S.B. Holding Co., Inc. chairman and CEO, said: "This transaction provides an opportunity for U.S.B. Holding Co., Inc. shareholders to receive an attractive value for their shares, and it brings Key's high commitment to service and world-class products to our communities. While we explored many alternatives, including remaining independent, we feel that our combination with Key is best for our clients and employees. Like Union State Bank, Key also has a long and established history of commitment to its communities."
 
ADD ONE KEYCORP AND U.S.B. HOLDING CO., INC. SIGN MERGER AGREEMENT
     "Union State Bank clients will be able to take advantage of Key's extensive range of products, including private banking, small business banking, commercial and real estate lending, and equipment leasing," said Key's Northeast Regional President Thomas Geisel. Geisel also noted that Union State Bank clients would gain access to Key's 1,500 ATMs and one of the top-ranked online banking sites in the industry.
     "We expect this transaction to be accretive to KeyCorp earnings in 2009 and to achieve an estimated internal rate of return of approximately 14%," said KeyCorp's Chief Financial Officer Jeff Weeden. "We also expect to incur an after-tax charge of approximately $26 million in connection with the closing of the transaction."
     The transaction, which has been approved by the boards of directors of both companies, is expected to close within the next six months, subject to approval by U.S.B. Holding Co., Inc. shareholders and banking regulators.
     When completed, the acquisition will add 31 branches to Key's 32 branches in the Hudson Valley, and create one of the largest financial institutions serving the area. Union State Bank branches are located in Westchester, Rockland, Orange and New York counties in New York State, and Fairfield County, Connecticut.
     KeyCorp was advised by Sullivan & Cromwell LLP. U.S.B. Holding Co., Inc. was advised by Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, Inc., and its legal counsel was Thacher Proffitt & Wood LLP, Washington, D.C.
About KeyCorp
     Cleveland-based KeyCorp is one of the nation's largest bank-based financial services companies, with assets of approximately $94 billion. Key companies provide investment management, retail and commercial banking, consumer finance, and investment banking products and services to individuals and companies throughout the United States and, for certain businesses, internationally. For more information, visit .
https://www.Key.com/
About U.S.B. Holding Company, Inc.
     U.S.B. Holding Company, Inc. is headquartered in Orangeburg, New York and is the holding company for Union State Bank, a full service, state-chartered commercial bank that operates 31 banking offices serving the Lower Hudson Valley Region of New York. Founded in 1969, the company has assets of approximately $2.9 billion, and provides financial services for individuals, professionals, and businesses operating from offices in Rockland, Orange, and Westchester counties, New York, as well as in Stamford, Connecticut and New York City.
Note to Editors: For up-to-date company information, media contacts and facts and figures about Key lines of business, visit our Media Newsroom at
http://Key.com/newsroom
.
 
 
 
Additional Information about the Merger and Where to Find It:
In connection with the proposed merger of U.S.B. Holding Co., Inc. with and into KeyCorp, KeyCorp and U.S.B. Holding Co., Inc. intend to file relevant materials with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including a registration statement on Form S-4 that will contain a proxy statement/prospectus. INVESTORS ARE URGED TO READ THESE MATERIALS WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT KEYCORP, U.S.B. HOLDING CO., INC. AND THE MERGER. The proxy statement/prospectus and other relevant materials (when they become available), and any other documents filed by KeyCorp or U.S.B. Holding Co., Inc. with the SEC, may be obtained free of charge at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. In addition, investors may obtain free copies of the documents filed with the SEC by KeyCorp by directing a written request to KeyCorp, 127 Public Square, Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Attention: Secretary, and free copies of the documents filed with the SEC by U.S.B. Holding Co., Inc. by directing a written request to U.S.B. Holding Co., Inc., 100 Dutch Hill Road, Orangeburg, New York 10962, Attention: Secretary.
KeyCorp, U.S.B. Holding Co., Inc. and their respective executive officers and directors may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from the shareholders of U.S.B. Holding Co., Inc. in connection with the merger. Information about the directors and executive officers of KeyCorp and U.S.B. Holding Co., Inc. and information about any other persons who may be deemed participants in this transaction will be included in the proxy statement/prospectus. You can find information about KeyCorp's directors and executive officers in the proxy statement for KeyCorp's annual meeting of shareholders filed with the SEC on March 21, 2007. You can find information about U.S.B. Holding Co., Inc.'s directors and executive officers in the proxy statement for U.S.B. Holding Co., Inc.'s annual meeting of shareholders filed with the SEC on April 27, 2007. You can obtain free copies of these documents from the SEC, KeyCorp or U.S.B. Holding Co., Inc. using the contact information above.
This communication shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities.
This news release contains forward-looking statements about issues like anticipated earnings outlook, asset quality trends and anticipated improvement in profitability and competitiveness. Forward-looking statements by their nature are subject to assumptions, risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially from those contained in or implied by such forward-looking statements for a variety of factors including: changes in interest rates; failure of the economy to continue to improve, which could materially impact credit quality trends and the ability to generate loans; declines or disruptions in the stock or bond markets; delay in or inability to execute strategic initiatives designed to grow revenues and/or manage expenses; inaccurate or erroneous assumptions made in connection with various modeling techniques; consummation of significant business combinations or divestitures; new legal obligations or restrictions or unfavorable resolution of litigation; further disruption in the economy and the general business climate as a result of terrorist activities or military actions; and changes in accounting, tax or regulatory practices or requirements.


