FILE:KEY/KEY-8K-20080417150717.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
.
          On April 17, 2008, KeyCorp issued a press release announcing its earnings results for the three-month period ended March 31, 2008 (the "Press Release"). This Press Release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated by reference herein. KeyCorp also held a conference call/webcast on April 17, 2008, to discuss its earnings results. The slide presentation reviewed by KeyCorp in the conference call/webcast (the "Conference Call/Webcast Slide Presentation") is attached as Exhibit 99.2 to this report and incorporated by reference herein.
          The information in the preceding paragraph, including Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), nor shall it be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act").
          KeyCorp's Consolidated Balance Sheets and Consolidated Statements of Income (the "Financial Statements") included as part of the Press Release, are attached as Exhibit 99.3 to this report and are incorporated by reference herein. Exhibit 99.3 is "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act and, therefore, may be incorporated by reference in filings under the Securities Act.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
          
Forward-Looking Statements
. This filing contains forward-looking statements, including statements about our financial condition, results of operations, earnings outlook, asset quality trends and profitability. Forward-looking statements express management's current expectations or forecasts of future events and, by their nature, are subject to assumptions, risks and uncertainties. Although management believes that the expectations and forecasts reflected in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, actual results could differ materially due to a variety of factors including: (1) changes in interest rates; (2) changes in trade, monetary or fiscal policy; (3) continued disruption in the fixed income markets; (4) adverse capital markets conditions; (5) changes in general economic conditions, or in the condition of the local economies or industries in which we have significant operations or assets, which could, among other things, materially impact credit quality trends and our ability to generate loans; (6) increased competitive pressure among financial services companies; (7) the inability to successfully execute strategic initiatives designed to grow revenues and/or manage expenses; (8) consummation of significant business combinations or divestitures; (9) operational or risk management failures due to technological or other factors; (10) changes in accounting or tax practices or requirements; (11) new legal obligations or liabilities or unfavorable resolution of litigation; (12) heightened regulatory practices, requirements or expectations; and (13) disruption in the economy and general business climate as a result of terrorist activities or military actions. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and should not be relied upon as representing management's views as of any subsequent date. We do not assume any obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
          CLEVELAND, April 17, 2008  KeyCorp (NYSE: KEY) today announced first quarter income from continuing operations of $218 million, or $0.54 per diluted common share. This compares to income from continuing operations of $358 million, or $0.89 per share, for the first quarter of 2007, and $22 million, or $0.06 per share, for the fourth quarter of 2007.
          Net income totaled $218 million, or $0.54 per diluted common share, for the first quarter of 2008, compared to net income of $350 million, or $0.87 per share, for the first quarter of 2007 and $25 million, or $0.06 per share, for the fourth quarter of 2007.
          The table below shows Key's continuing and discontinued operating results for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2008, December 31, 2007, and March 31, 2007.
 
          "While Key's first quarter earnings reflect the market volatility and rising credit costs facing the financial services industry as a whole, overall we are pleased that we achieved these financial results at the same time that we have taken steps to significantly reduce the company's exposure to future market volatility and have continued to bolster our loan loss reserves," said Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Henry L. Meyer III.
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2008 Earnings April 17, 2008 Page 2
          "During the first quarter, we continued to take actions to mitigate the effects of future market volatility on our held-for-sale and trading portfolios. These actions include the placement of hedges on our remaining previously unhedged commercial real estate mortgage loans held for sale to protect against declines in market values that may result from changes in credit spreads and other market-driven factors, and the transfer of $3.3 billion of education loans held for sale to the held-to-maturity loan portfolio in response to the continued disruption in the student loan securitization market.
          "With nonperforming assets continuing to rise in this challenging credit environment, we continue to add to our loan loss reserve, which represented 1.70% of total loans and 123% of Key's nonperforming loans at quarter end. The current quarter's increase to the reserve, along with the actions we took in the fourth quarter of 2007 to bolster our reserves, reduce expenses and curtail certain higher risk or nonrelationship businesses, should help us better weather the current softness in the economy.
          "While current market conditions remain challenging, we believe by continuing to focus on our relationship business model, managing our expenses and upgrading our delivery platforms, we will keep Key positioned to respond to business opportunities as they emerge."
     As shown in the following table, the comparability of Key's earnings for the current, prior and year-ago quarters is affected by several significant items.
 
          Key's provision for loan losses was $187 million for the first quarter of 2008, up from $44 million for the same period one year ago. The increase was due primarily to continued weakness in the housing market and an additional provision recorded in connection with the March 2008 transfer of $3.3 billion of education loans from held-for-sale status to the loan portfolio. Also, during the first quarter of 2008, credit spreads continued to widen, causing the market values of Key's loan and securities portfolios held for sale or trading to decrease. During the first quarter, Key recorded net losses of $101 million from loan sales and write-downs, $21 million from dealer trading and derivatives, and $6 million from certain real estate-related investments, for a total of $128 million in net losses. This compares to net gains of $22 million from these activities for the first quarter of 2007 and net losses of $30 million for the fourth quarter of 2007.
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2008 Earnings April 17, 2008 Page 3
SUMMARY OF CONTINUING OPERATIONS
          Taxable-equivalent net interest income was $704 million for the first quarter of 2008, compared to $700 million for the year-ago quarter. Average earning assets rose by $9.7 billion, or 12%, due primarily to strong growth in commercial lending and the January 1 acquisition of U.S.B. Holding Co., Inc., which added approximately $1.5 billion to Key's loan portfolio. The net interest margin for the current quarter declined to 3.14% from 3.50% for the first quarter of 2007. The reduction was attributable largely to tighter loan and deposit spreads, reflecting the effects of competitive pricing, and a lease accounting adjustment related to certain leveraged lease transactions.
          During the first quarter of 2008, Key increased its tax reserves for certain lease in, lease out ("LILO") transactions, the deductions for which have been disallowed by the Internal Revenue Service. The change in the level of LILO reserves also necessitated a recalculation of lease income under FASB Staff Position No. 13-2, "Accounting for a Change or Projected Change in the Timing of Cash Flows Relating to Income Taxes Generated by a Leveraged Lease Transaction." These actions reduced Key's taxable-equivalent net interest income and net interest margin for the first quarter of 2008 by $34 million and 15 basis points, respectively, and reduced Key's earnings by $38 million, or $0.10 per diluted common share. As previously reported, the LILO transactions represent a portion of Key's overall leveraged lease financing portfolio, the tax deductions for which are under challenge by the Internal Revenue Service.
          Compared to the fourth quarter of 2007, taxable-equivalent net interest income decreased by $46 million, and the net interest margin declined by 34 basis points. These reductions were due primarily to the charges recorded during the current period in connection with the additional reserves recorded for the above-mentioned LILO transactions, and a favorable lease accounting adjustment of $18 million recorded during the fourth quarter of 2007 that contributed approximately 9 basis points to Key's taxable-equivalent net interest margin for that period. Average earning assets grew by $3.7 billion from the fourth quarter as a result of strong demand for commercial loans in Key's National Banking group and the January 1, 2008, acquisition of U.S.B. Holding Co., Inc., which added approximately $1.7 billion to Key's average earning assets in the first quarter.
          Key's noninterest income was $528 million for the first quarter of 2008, compared to $654 million for the year-ago quarter. Included in current year results is a $165 million gain from the partial redemption of Visa Inc. shares, and both realized and unrealized losses associated with several of Key's capital markets-driven businesses. Noninterest income for the first quarter of 2007 included a $171 million gain associated with the sale of the McDonald Investments branch network, a $26 million gain from the settlement of the automobile residual value insurance litigation and a $49 million loss recorded in connection with the repositioning of the securities portfolio.
          During the first quarter of 2008, Key recorded $101 million in net losses from loan sales and write-downs, related primarily to commercial real estate loans held for sale. This compares to net gains of $9 million for the same period last year. Additionally, income from investment banking and capital markets activities decreased by $36 million, due primarily to a $29 million reduction from dealer trading and derivatives, and net gains from principal investing were down $20 million from the year-ago quarter.
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2008 Earnings April 17, 2008 Page 4
          Trust and investment services income increased by $4 million from the same period one year ago. Last year's first quarter results included $16 million from the McDonald Investments operation. Adjusting for this revenue, trust and investment services income rose by $20 million, or 18%, driven by growth in institutional asset management income. The company also experienced a $13 million increase in income from deposit service charges.
          Compared to the fourth quarter of 2007, noninterest income grew by $40 million. The gain from the redemption of Visa shares more than offset a $95 million increase in net losses from loan sales and write-downs, and a $21 million reduction in letter of credit and loan fees.
          Key's noninterest expense was $732 million for the first quarter of 2008, compared to $784 million for the same period last year. Personnel expense decreased by $19 million, due to lower stock-based compensation and decreases in costs associated with salaries and employee benefits. Approximately $13 million of the reduction in total personnel expense was attributable to the sale of the McDonald Investments branch network. Nonpersonnel expense decreased by $33 million from the year-ago quarter, reflecting a $27 million reduction to the liability for credit losses on lending-related commitments in the current quarter, compared to a reduction of $8 million recorded in the first quarter of 2007. Also contributing to the decrease were declines in marketing and computer processing expense of $5 million and $4 million, respectively. The McDonald Investments sale reduced Key's total nonpersonnel expense by approximately $14 million.
          Compared to the fourth quarter of 2007, noninterest expense decreased by $164 million. Personnel expense rose by $10 million as a result of higher incentive compensation accruals and increases in costs associated with employee benefits (employment taxes) and stock-based compensation. These increases were offset in part by lower costs related to salaries and severance. Nonpersonnel expense decreased by $174 million, reflecting the $27 million reduction to the liability for credit losses on lending-related commitments, compared to a $25 million increase recorded in the prior quarter; a $15 million decrease in professional fees and a $5 million decline in computer processing expense. Additionally, noninterest expense for the fourth quarter of 2007 included a $64 million charge, representing the estimated fair value of Key's liability to Visa Inc. This liability was satisfied in the first quarter of 2008 with proceeds resulting from Visa's initial public offering.
ASSET QUALITY
          Key's provision for loan losses from continuing operations was $187 million for the first quarter of 2008, compared to $44 million for the year-ago quarter and $363 million for the fourth quarter of 2007. During the first quarter of 2008, Key's provision exceeded its net loan charge-offs by $66 million. The additional provision was a result of continued weakness in the housing market, which adversely affected Key's commercial real estate portfolio, and an additional provision recorded in connection with the March 2008 transfer of $3.3 billion of education loans from held-for-sale status to the held-to-maturity loan portfolio. The secondary markets for these loans have been adversely affected by market liquidity issues, prompting the company's decision to move them to a held-to-maturity classification.
          Net loan charge-offs for the quarter totaled $121 million, or 0.67% of average loans from continuing operations, compared to $44 million, or 0.27%, for the same period last year and $119 million, or 0.67%, for the previous quarter.
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2008 Earnings April 17, 2008 Page 5
          At March 31, 2008, Key's nonperforming loans totaled $1.054 billion and represented 1.38% of period-end portfolio loans, compared to 0.97% at December 31, 2007, and 0.39% at March 31, 2007. At March 31, 2008, nonperforming assets totaled $1.115 billion and represented 1.46% of portfolio loans, other real estate owned and other nonperforming assets, compared to 1.08% at December 31, 2007, and 0.54% at March 31, 2007. The increase in nonperforming assets during the first quarter of 2008 was attributable primarily to the continued deterioration of market conditions in the residential properties segment of Key's commercial real estate construction portfolio, principally in Florida and southern California.
          Key's allowance for loan losses was $1.298 billion, or 1.70% of loans outstanding, at March 31, 2008, compared to $1.200 billion, or 1.69%, at December 31, 2007, and $944 million, or 1.44%, at March 31, 2007. The January 1, 2008, acquisition of U.S.B. Holding Co., Inc. added approximately $32 million to Key's allowance for loan losses.
CAPITAL
          Key's capital ratios, as presented in the following table, continued to exceed all "well-capitalized" regulatory benchmarks at March 31, 2008.
Capital Ratios
 
          During the first quarter of 2008, Key issued 9.9 million of its common shares in connection with the acquisition of U.S.B. Holding Co., Inc. and reissued 1.4 million shares under employee benefit plans. There was no repurchase activity by Key during the first quarter and the company currently does not anticipate any share repurchase activity in the second quarter of 2008. At March 31, 2008, Key had 14.0 million common shares remaining for repurchase under the current authorization.
          Share repurchases and other activities that caused the change in Key's outstanding common shares over the past five quarters are summarized in the table below.
Summary of Changes in Common Shares Outstanding
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2008 Earnings
April 17, 2008
Page 6
LINE OF BUSINESS RESULTS
     The following table shows the contribution made by each major business group to Key's taxable-equivalent revenue and income from continuing operations for the periods presented. The specific lines of business that comprise each of the major business groups are described under the heading "Line of Business Descriptions." For more detailed financial information pertaining to each business group and its respective lines of business, see the tables at the end of this release. Key's line of business results for all periods presented reflect a new organizational structure that took effect January 1, 2008.
Major Business Groups
Community Banking
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2008 Earnings
April 17, 2008
Page 7
Community Banking Summary of Operations
          Community Banking recorded net income of $113 million for the first quarter of 2008, compared to $203 million for the year-ago quarter. Excluding the impact of the sale of the McDonald Investments branch network during the first quarter of 2007, net income for Community Banking was up $9 million, or 9%, from the comparable quarter last year. Increases in both net interest income and noninterest income, and a reduction in noninterest expense drove the improvement and more than offset a higher provision for loan losses.
          Taxable-equivalent net interest income rose by $5 million, or 1%, from the first quarter of 2007. The increase was attributable to a $2.0 billion, or 7%, rise in average earning assets, due largely to growth in the commercial loan portfolio, and a $3.6 billion, or 8%, increase in average deposits. Both loan and deposit growth benefited from the January 1 acquisition of U.S.B. Holding Co., Inc. described below. The positive effect of this growth was offset in part by the impact of tighter loan and deposit spreads.
          Excluding the impact of the McDonald Investments sale, noninterest income rose by $9 million, or 5%, from the same period one year ago, due to growth in deposit service charge income, higher income from derivatives and growth in bank channel investment product sales commission income.
          The provision for loan losses increased by $4 million, or 29%, compared to the first quarter of 2007.
          Excluding the impact of the McDonald Investments sale, noninterest expense declined by $9 million, or 2%, from the year-ago quarter, reflecting a decrease in personnel expense, due primarily to reduced headcount. Additionally, Community Banking results for the current quarter benefited from a reduction to the liability for credit losses on lending-related commitments.
          On January 1, 2008, Key acquired U.S.B. Holding Co., Inc., the holding company for Union State Bank, a 31-branch state-chartered commercial bank headquartered in Orangeburg, New York. The acquisition doubles Key's branch penetration in the attractive Lower Hudson Valley area. Assets and deposits acquired in this transaction were assigned to both the Community Banking and National Banking groups.
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2008 Earnings
April 17, 2008
Page 8
National Banking
TE = Taxable Equivalent, N/M = Not Meaningful, N/A = Not Applicable
National Banking Summary of Continuing Operations
          National Banking recorded a net loss of $23 million from continuing operations for the first quarter of 2008, compared to net income of $157 million from continuing operations for the same period last year. Lower noninterest income and an increase in the provision for loan losses accounted for the reduction and more than offset a decrease in noninterest expense. Net interest income was essentially unchanged from the year-ago quarter.
          During the first quarter of 2008, National Banking increased its tax reserves for certain lease in, lease out transactions and, as a result, recalculated its lease income in accordance with FASB Staff Position No. 13-2, "Accounting for a Change or Projected Change in the Timing of Cash Flows Relating to Income Taxes Generated by a Leveraged Lease Transaction." Excluding the additional charges associated with these actions, taxable-equivalent net interest income grew by $34 million, or 10%, from the first quarter of 2007 as a result of increases in average earning assets and deposits, offset in part by tighter interest rate spreads. Average loans and leases grew by $5.2 billion, or 13%, while average deposits rose by $558 million, or 5%, from the year-ago quarter.
          Noninterest income declined by $158 million, or 61%, as several capital markets-driven businesses were adversely affected by continued volatility in the financial markets. Results for the current quarter include $105 million in net losses from loan sales and write-downs, related primarily to commercial real estate loans held for sale. This compares to net gains of $5 million for the same period last year. Income from investment banking and capital markets activities decreased by $47 million, due primarily to a $38 million reduction from dealer trading and derivatives. These decreases were offset in part by a $19 million increase in trust and investment services income. Additionally, results for the first quarter of 2007 included a $26 million gain from the settlement of the automobile residual value insurance litigation.
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2008 Earnings
April 17, 2008
Page 9
          The provision for loan losses rose by $139 million, reflecting continued deterioration of market conditions in the residential properties segment of Key's commercial real estate construction portfolio, principally in Florida and southern California, and an additional provision recorded in the Consumer Finance line of business in connection with the March 2008 transfer of $3.3 billion of education loans from held-for-sale status to the loan portfolio.
          Noninterest expense decreased by $8 million, or 3%, from the year-ago quarter. Contributing to the improvement was a $22 million reduction to the liability for credit losses on lending-related commitments in the current quarter, compared to a reduction of $7 million recorded in the first quarter of 2007. This positive effect of this change was offset in part by a $6 million increase in costs associated with operating leases.
Other Segments
          Other segments consist of Corporate Treasury and Key's Principal Investing unit. These segments generated net income of $22 million for the first quarter of 2008, compared to a net loss of $8 million for the same period last year. The improvement was due primarily to a $49 million loss recorded in the first quarter of 2007 in connection with the repositioning of the securities portfolio, offset in part by a decrease in net gains from principal investing.
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2008 Earnings
April 17, 2008
Page 10
Line of Business Descriptions
Community Banking
provides individuals with branch-based deposit and investment products, personal finance services and loans, including residential mortgages, home equity and various types of installment loans. This line of business also provides small businesses with deposit, investment and credit products, and business advisory services.
Regional Banking
Regional Banking also offers financial, estate and retirement planning, and asset management services to assist high-net-worth clients with their banking, trust, portfolio management, insurance, charitable giving and related needs.
provides midsize businesses with products and services that include commercial lending, cash management, equipment leasing, investment and employee benefit programs, succession planning, access to capital markets, derivatives and foreign exchange.
Commercial Banking
National Banking
consists of two business units. Real Estate Capital is a national business that provides construction and interim lending, permanent debt placements and servicing, equity and investment banking, and other commercial banking products and services to developers, brokers and owner-investors. This unit deals primarily with nonowner-occupied properties (i.e., generally properties in which at least 50% of the debt service is provided by rental income from nonaffiliated third parties). Particular emphasis has been placed on providing clients with finance solutions through access to the capital markets.
Real Estate Capital and Corporate Banking Services
Corporate Banking Services provides cash management, interest rate derivatives, and foreign exchange products and services to clients throughout the Community Banking and National Banking groups. Through its Public Sector and Financial Institutions businesses, Corporate Banking Services provides a full array of commercial banking products and services to government and not-for-profit entities, and to community banks.
meets the equipment leasing needs of companies worldwide and provides equipment manufacturers, distributors and resellers with financing options for their clients. Lease financing receivables and related revenues are assigned to other lines of business (primarily Institutional and Capital Markets, and Commercial Banking) if those businesses are principally responsible for maintaining the relationship with the client.
Equipment Finance
provides commercial lending, treasury management, investment banking, derivatives and foreign exchange, equity and debt underwriting and trading, and syndicated finance products and services to large corporations and middle-market companies through the KeyBanc Capital Markets subsidiary.
Institutional and Capital Markets
Through its Victory Capital Management unit, Institutional and Capital Markets also manages or gives advice regarding investment portfolios for a national client base, including corporations, labor unions, not-for-profit organizations, governments and individuals. These portfolios may be managed in separate accounts, common funds or the Victory family of mutual funds.
includes Indirect Lending and Commercial Floor Plan Lending.
Consumer Finance
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2008 Earnings
April 17, 2008
Page 11
Indirect Lending offers loans to consumers through dealers. This business unit also provides federal and private education loans to students and their parents, and processes tuition payments for private schools.
Commercial Floor Plan Lending finances inventory for automobile, recreation and marine dealers.
          Cleveland-based KeyCorp is one of the nation's largest bank-based financial services companies, with assets of approximately $101 billion. Key companies provide investment management, retail and commercial banking, consumer finance, and investment banking products and services to individuals and companies throughout the United States and, for certain businesses, internationally. The company's businesses deliver their products and services through 985 branches and additional offices; a network of 1,479 ATMs; telephone banking centers (1.800.KEY2YOU); and a Web site, , that provides account access and financial products 24 hours a day.
https://www.key.com/
Notes to Editors:
A live Internet broadcast of KeyCorp's conference call to discuss quarterly earnings and currently anticipated earnings trends and to answer analysts' questions can be accessed through the Investor Relations section at
https://www.key.com/ir
at 9:00 a.m. ET, on Thursday, April 17, 2008. An audio replay of the call will be available through April 24.
.
For up-to-date company information, media contacts and facts and figures about Key's lines of business visit our Media Newsroom at
https://www
.
key.com/newsroom
This news release contains forward-looking statements, including statements about our financial condition, results of operations, earnings outlook, asset quality trends and profitability. Forward-looking statements express management's current expectations or forecasts of future events and, by their nature, are subject to assumptions, risks and uncertainties. Although management believes that the expectations and forecasts reflected in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, actual results could differ materially due to a variety of factors including: (1) changes in interest rates; (2) changes in trade, monetary or fiscal policy; (3) continued disruption in the fixed income markets; (4) adverse capital markets conditions; (5) changes in general economic conditions, or in the condition of the local economies or industries in which we have significant operations or assets, which could, among other things, materially impact credit quality trends and our ability to generate loans; (6) increased competitive pressure among financial services companies; (7) the inability to successfully execute strategic initiatives designed to grow revenues and/or manage expenses; (8) consummation of significant business combinations or divestitures; (9) operational or risk management failures due to technological or other factors; (10) changes in accounting or tax practices or requirements; (11) new legal obligations or liabilities or unfavorable resolution of litigation; (12) heightened regulatory practices, requirements or expectations; and (13) disruption in the economy and general business climate as a result of terrorist activities or military actions. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and should not be relied upon as representing management's views as of any subsequent date. We do not assume any obligation to update these forward-looking statements. For further information regarding KeyCorp, please read KeyCorp's reports that are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and are available at www.sec.gov.
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2008 Earnings April 17, 2008 Page 12
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2008 Earnings April 17, 2008 Page 13
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2008 Earnings April 17, 2008 Page 14
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2008 Earnings April 17, 2008 Page 15
 
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2008 Earnings April 17, 2008 Page 16
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2008 Earnings April 17, 2008 Page 17
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2008 Earnings April 17, 2008 Page 18
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2008 Earnings April 17, 2008 Page 19
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2008 Earnings April 17, 2008 Page 20
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2008 Earnings April 17, 2008 Page 21
Community Banking
 
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2008 Earnings April 17, 2008 Page 22
National Banking
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.3(1 of 2)
KeyCorp
April 17, 2008
 
Exhibit 99.3(2 of 2)
KeyCorp
April 17, 2008


