FILE:KEY/KEY-8K-20080612071557.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
 
Recent Actions
On May 29, 2008, KeyCorp disclosed that an adverse decision had been rendered in the previously disclosed AWG Leasing Litigation, and that management was reviewing its options for appeal as well as other possible implications of the case. Previously, on May 27, 2008, KeyCorp updated its outlook for net loan charge-offs for 2008, to a range of 1.00% to 1.30% of average loans.
The Board of Directors of KeyCorp has reviewed management's assessment of the AWG Leasing Litigation and its implications for KeyCorp and, in conjunction with that assessment and the Company's previous announcement of higher expected net charge-offs for 2008, the Board has approved a number of actions aimed at strengthening KeyCorp's financial structure and preparing it for the future. First, KeyCorp will record an after-tax accounting charge to earnings and capital in the second quarter of approximately $1.1 billion to $1.2 billion for the AWG Leasing Litigation and certain of KeyCorp's other leveraged lease transactions. Consistent with taking a charge of this size, the Board also approved a series of transactions in which KeyCorp intends to raise approximately $1.5 billion of additional capital through a combination of common shares and non-cumulative perpetual convertible preferred stock. Finally, the Board has expressed its current intention to reduce the dividend on KeyCorp's common shares by 50%, commencing with the third quarter 2008 dividend, to an annualized dividend of $0.75 per common share. This action is intended to preserve approximately $200 million of capital annually (on a pro forma basis, after giving effect to the anticipated capital raise described above), and to normalize KeyCorp's current payout ratio while maintaining an attractive dividend yield.
Further detail on certain of these actions is provided below.
Lease Transactions
On May 28, 2008, a decision was rendered in the AWG Leasing Litigation, the status of which KeyCorp has previously disclosed and regularly updated in its periodic reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 since the inception of the case. As KeyCorp disclosed in its Current Report on Form 8-K, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on May 29, 2008, the decision by Judge James Gwin of the United States District Court for the Northern District of Ohio (captioned ) was adverse to KeyCorp. In that report, KeyCorp indicated that management was reviewing the Court's decision and would be evaluating the implications of that decision. Since that time, management has been working with KeyCorp's litigation counsel to evaluate the prospects for seeking reconsideration and/or appeal of the decision and has been consulting with its audit firm in connection with the accounting implications of the decision.
AWG Leasing Trust, KSP Investments, Inc, as Tax Matters Partner v. United States of America
The transaction at issue in the AWG Leasing Litigation involved a cross-border leveraged lease transaction entered into by AWG Leasing Trust ("AWG Leasing") in which KSP Investments, Inc. ("KSP"), an affiliate of KeyCorp (that is consolidated with KeyCorp for tax purposes), was a partner. KeyCorp characterized the
 
transaction as the acquisition, through a long-term head lease, of an industrial energy facility that was then leased back to the former owner. As is typical with so-called sale/leaseback transactions, KeyCorp claimed depreciation deductions on its tax returns as the tax owner of the plant (through its interest in KSP) and also deductions on loans KSP used to finance the transaction. In its ruling, the Court held, among other things, that KSP did not acquire tax ownership of the facility and therefore KeyCorp was not entitled to the depreciation deductions or deduction of transaction costs, and that interest on the debt was not deductible because the debt was not "genuine indebtedness."
KeyCorp disagrees with the Court's recharacterization of the transaction and will continue to evaluate whether it will appeal the decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. Notwithstanding its ultimate decision on whether to appeal, management believes that, as a result of the Court decision, KeyCorp is required to recalculate its accounting recognition of lease income from the inception of the AWG Transaction and recognize a reduction in its net investment on its financial statements.
In addition, although Judge Gwin's opinion applies directly only to the AWG Leasing Litigation, the decision may have implications for KeyCorp's accounting treatment of certain other leveraged lease transactions within KeyBank's portfolio of Lease in, lease out ("LILO") Leases, Qualified Technological Equipment Leases ("QTE") and Service Contract Leases. Therefore, in accordance with the accounting guidance of FASB Staff Position 13-2, "Accounting for a Change or a Projected Change in the Timing of Cash Flows Relating to Income Taxes Generated by a Leveraged Lease Transaction," management has recalculated KeyCorp's recognition of lease income from inception for all of the leases in the affected categories and recognized a reduction in its net investment and a corresponding charge to capital and income for the remaining LILO, QTE and Service Contract Leases in its portfolio. When aggregated with the AWG Leasing Litigation matter, the total reduction in its net investment and the corresponding non-cash after-tax charge to income and capital that KeyCorp expects to record in the second quarter of 2008 for these leveraged lease transactions is approximately $625 million to $725 million. Management expects future earnings to increase over the remaining terms of the affected leases by approximately two-thirds of this amount. In addition, KeyCorp is recording a charge to income and capital for the after-tax interest cost equal to approximately $475 million
1
on the contested tax liabilities. KeyCorp will also record a higher tax provision in future periods for the on-going accrual of interest on the disputed tax balance, until the dispute is finally resolved.
Finally, management notes that, while it has recognized the effects of the adverse Court decision for financial statement purposes, it continues to believe that the tax treatment it applied to its leveraged lease transactions complied with all applicable tax laws, regulations and judicial authorities in effect at the time, and management intends to continue to defend this position.
Credit-Related Matters
As previously disclosed in its Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on May 27, 2008, KeyCorp anticipates net loan charge-offs for 2008 to be in the range of 1.00% to 1.30% of average loans. This would amount to net loan charge-offs for 2008 in the range of
 
 
 
approximately $750 million to $1 billion. KeyCorp expects to record approximately $500 million of this total in net loan charge-offs, and to increase its provision expense to continue to build its loan loss reserves by approximately $600 million, in the second quarter of 2008 as it deals aggressively with reducing exposures in the residential homebuilder portfolio through the sale of assets. Management believes that this action should result in a net reduction in nonperforming assets and an improved coverage ratio of loan loss reserve to nonperforming loans at June 30, 2008, compared to balances at March 31, 2008.
Other areas of the Commercial and Commercial Real Estate portfolios continue to perform as expected with normal downward migration that is generally consistent with the credit cycle for well diversified portfolios. Second quarter 2008 loss expectations for these portfolios are anticipated to be similar to first quarter 2008 results.
Included in net loan charge-off totals for the second quarter of 2008 and the full year anticipated range are higher levels of net loan charge-offs from educational loans. The primary source of these charge-offs derives from an Educational Lending portfolio of approximately $800 million of loans primarily associated with non-Title IV schools, which the Company stopped underwriting in mid 2006. Losses from both the Educational Lending portfolio and the Commercial Real Estate portfolio are expected to peak during the second quarter and are anticipated to decline in the second half of 2008.
Capital Transactions
KeyCorp announced today that it is in the process of raising approximately $1.5 billion of additional equity capital in concurrent offerings of common shares and non-cumulative perpetual convertible preferred stock, Series A, with a liquidation preference of $100 per share. The offerings of common shares and non-cumulative perpetual convertible preferred stock are being conducted as separate registered public offerings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and are not contingent upon each other. KeyCorp also expects to grant the underwriters for these offerings an option to purchase additional common shares and/or non-cumulative perpetual convertible preferred stock in order to cover any over-allotments.
The common share price and the non-cumulative dividend rate, conversion rate and other terms of the non-cumulative perpetual convertible preferred stock will be determined by negotiations between KeyCorp and the underwriters upon pricing the offerings. KeyCorp intends to apply to list the non-cumulative perpetual convertible preferred stock on the New York Stock Exchange.
The net proceeds from the two offerings are intended to restore capital to strengthen KeyCorp's balance sheet following the accounting charges described above, and will be used for general corporate purposes.
Citigroup Global Markets Inc. is serving as the sole bookrunning manager for the offerings. KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., UBS Securities LLC, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated are serving as joint lead managers.
 
The information set forth in this Item 2.02 is filed for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and shall be incorporated by reference in KeyCorp's filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as noted for the Exhibits shown below.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements. This filing contains forward-looking statements, including statements about our financial condition, results of operations, earnings outlook, asset quality trends and profitability. Forward-looking statements express management's current expectations or forecasts of future events and, by their nature, are subject to assumptions, risks and uncertainties. Although management believes that the expectations and forecasts reflected in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, actual results could differ materially due to a variety of factors including: (1) changes in interest rates; (2) changes in trade, monetary or fiscal policy; (3) continued disruption in the fixed income markets; (4) adverse capital markets conditions; (5) changes in general economic conditions, or in the condition of the local economies or industries in which we have significant operations or assets, which could, among other things, materially impact credit quality trends and our ability to generate loans; (6) increased competitive pressure among financial services companies; (7) the inability to successfully execute strategic initiatives designed to grow revenues and/or manage expenses; (8) consummation of significant business combinations or divestitures; (9) operational or risk management failures due to technological or other factors; (10) changes in accounting or tax practices or requirements; (11) new legal obligations or liabilities or unfavorable resolution of litigation; (12) heightened regulatory practices, requirements or expectations; and (13) disruption in the economy and general business climate as a result of terrorist activities or military actions. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and should not be relied upon as representing management's views as of any subsequent date. We do not assume any obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 


Exhibit 99.2
 
CLEVELAND, June 12, 2008  KeyCorp (NYSE: KEY) today announced a series of steps to preserve and enhance its capital strength in response to a previously announced ruling by a federal court in a dispute over tax treatment of a segment of its leveraged lease portfolio. Although the announced steps are being taken primarily to offset the accounting effects of the adverse court ruling, they will also help maintain the Company's strong capital ratios and position it to better address both current economic conditions and future growth opportunities.
In the 2008 second quarter, KeyCorp will take an after-tax accounting charge to earnings and capital in the range of $1.1 billion to $1.2 billion for the leveraged lease tax litigation and all of KeyCorp's other contested leveraged lease transactions.
To accommodate an accounting charge of this extent, the Board approved transactions that will allow KeyCorp to raise approximately $1.5 billion of additional equity capital, consisting of newly-issued KeyCorp common shares and non-cumulative perpetual convertible preferred stock. The net proceeds from the two offerings are intended to restore capital to strengthen KeyCorp's balance sheet following the accounting charges, and will be used for general corporate purposes.
Finally, it is the Board's current intention to reduce the dividend on KeyCorp's common shares by 50 percent commencing with the third quarter 2008 dividend, to an annualized dividend of $0.75 per common share. The dividend reduction will result in Key retaining approximately $200 million of capital annually (pro forma, after giving effect to the anticipated capital raise).
"We are taking these actions to preserve and enhance our balance sheet strength," said KeyCorp CEO Henry Meyer.
"If it had not been for the adverse court ruling on our tax treatment of a leveraged lease transaction, we probably would not have considered the capital raising actions," Meyer continued. "But the ruling forced our hand and prompted the decision to build on our strength with a capital raise, one that we think not only is prudent in light of the economic climate, but also is an appropriate move as we look to the future of the enterprise."
KeyCorp and its counsel are evaluating the prospects for appealing the court decision rendered on the leveraged lease transaction. KeyCorp continues to believe that the tax treatment it applied to its leveraged lease transactions complied with all applicable tax laws, regulations and judicial authorities in effect at the time and was consistent with industry practice.
Regardless of whether KeyCorp decides to appeal the trial court tax decision, management believes that the applicable accounting guidance requires KeyCorp to recalculate lease income recognized on its entire portfolio of contested leveraged leases  not just the single leveraged lease subject to the court decision. The related second quarter charge to earnings and capital in the range of $1.1 billion to $1.2 billion consists of two primary components: approximately $475 million is the after-tax interest cost on the taxes claimed on the contested leveraged leases and approximately $625 million to $725 million represents a non-cash accounting adjustment based on the revised cash flows of the leases. Management expects future earnings to increase over the remaining terms of the affected leases by approximately two-thirds of the non-cash accounting adjustment.
"The decision to reduce our dividend after 43 consecutive years of annual increases was made after great deliberation," Meyer commented. "It was a record we were extremely proud of, but we must recognize the current economic realities as we manage our business for the future. We will continue to review our dividend policy each quarter and we look forward to a time when conditions may warrant a return to the precedents we set in past periods."
With respect to the capital raise, KeyCorp announced that it has commenced concurrent offerings of common shares and non-cumulative perpetual convertible preferred stock, for an aggregate of $1.5 billion. The common share and non-cumulative perpetual convertible preferred stock offerings are being conducted as separate public offerings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and are not contingent upon each other. KeyCorp also expects to grant the underwriters for these offerings an option to purchase additional common shares and/or non-cumulative perpetual convertible preferred stock in order to cover any over-allotments.
Citi is serving as the sole book-running manager for the offerings. KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., UBS Securities LLC, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated are serving as joint lead managers.
KeyCorp has filed a registration statement (including prospectus) with the SEC for the offerings to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the
 
prospectus in that registration statement, the preliminary prospectus supplement and other documents the issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the issuer and these offerings. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at www.sec.gov. Alternatively, the issuer, any underwriter or any dealer participating in the offerings will arrange to send you the relevant prospectus if you request it by contacting Citigroup Global Markets Inc., : Prospectus Department, Brooklyn Army Terminal 140, 58
Attn
th
Street, 8
th
Floor, Brooklyn, New York 11220 or by calling toll-free (877) 858-5407 or by facsimile at (718) 765-6734.
About KeyCorp
Cleveland-based KeyCorp is one of the nation's largest bank-based financial services companies, with assets of approximately $101 billion. Key companies provide investment management, retail and commercial banking, consumer finance, and investment banking products and services to individuals and companies throughout the United States and, for certain businesses, internationally. For more information, visit .
https://www.key.com/
This news release contains forward-looking statements, including statements about our financial condition, results of operations, earnings outlook, asset quality trends and profitability. Forward-looking statements express management's current expectations or forecasts of future events and, by their nature, are subject to assumptions, risks and uncertainties. Although management believes that the expectations and forecasts reflected in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, actual results could differ materially due to a variety of factors including: (1) changes in interest rates; (2) changes in trade, monetary or fiscal policy; (3) continued disruption in the fixed income markets; (4) adverse capital markets conditions; (5) changes in general economic conditions, or in the condition of the local economies or industries in which we have significant operations or assets, which could, among other things, materially impact credit quality trends and our ability to generate loans; (6) increased competitive pressure among financial services companies; (7) the inability to successfully execute strategic initiatives designed to grow revenues and/or manage expenses; (8) consummation of significant business combinations or divestitures; (9) operational or risk management failures due to technological or other factors; (10) changes in accounting or tax practices or requirements; (11) new legal obligations or liabilities or unfavorable resolution of litigation; (12) heightened regulatory practices, requirements or expectations; and (13) disruption in the economy and general business climate as a result of terrorist activities or military actions. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and should not be relied upon as representing management's views as of any subsequent date. We do not assume any obligation to update these forward-looking statements. For further information regarding KeyCorp, please read KeyCorp's reports that are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and are available at www.sec.gov.
 


