FILE:KEY/KEY-8K-20081202154219.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Section 8  Other Events
Item 8.01 Other Events
     On December 2, 2008, KeyCorp announced that Peter Hancock has joined KeyCorp as Vice Chair of the Corporation. Mr. Hancock will lead the Key National Banking organization. He replaces Thomas W. Bunn, who retired from KeyCorp in November 2008 and who will remain in an advisory capacity until February 2009.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CLEVELAND, Dec. 2, 2008  KeyCorp (NYSE: KEY) announced today that Peter Hancock has joined the company as a vice chair of the corporation to lead the Key National Banking (KNB) organization, reporting to CEO Henry L. Meyer III.
     With nearly 30 years in the financial services business, Hancock's experience includes a broad range of business building and team management, risk management, capital markets, and finance positions. He began his career at J.P. Morgan in 1980, and over twenty years, rose through positions of increasing responsibility in fixed income, credit and risk management, eventually being appointed Chief Financial Officer.
     In 2002, Hancock co-founded Integrated Finance Limited (IFL), a strategic risk management, advisory and asset management firm. Most recently, he has been Managing Director at Trinsum, an international strategic and financial advisory firm where he has been providing strategic advice to senior management in the banking, insurance and pharmaceutical industries. Trinsum was formed in 2007 when IFL combined with Marakon Associates.
     "With his breadth of experience in management, risk management, and capital markets, Peter will bring a unique and very important and timely dimension to KeyCorp's senior management team and to leading KNB," said Meyer. "He has built and led high-performing teams and organizations, and also has a keen understanding of strategic risk management, the credit and capital markets, and effective capital deployment."
     Meyer continued: "KNB business units are headed by a strong, experienced team of line-of-business executives. We believe Peter's deep market and risk management expertise will provide a strategic dimension and perspective that will be particularly valuable in managing through the challenging credit and capital markets in the short and longer term."
 
ADD ONE  KEY NAMES VICE CHAIR
     Business groups that comprise KNB provide corporate finance, capital markets, asset management, investment banking, commercial real estate, cash and risk management services, lease finance and consumer finance products, to businesses and individuals from over 200 offices in the U.S. and overseas.
     Hancock holds an M.A. in Politics, Philosophy and Economics from Oxford University.
     Additional direct reports to Meyer on KeyCorp's Management Team include Chuck Hyle, chief risk officer; Beth Mooney, who heads the Community Banking organization; Tom Stevens, chief administrative officer; and Jeff Weeden, chief financial officer.
About KeyCorp
          Cleveland-based KeyCorp is one of the nation's largest bank-based financial services companies, with assets of approximately $101 billion. Key companies provide investment management, retail and commercial banking, consumer finance, and investment banking products and services to individuals and companies throughout the United States and, for certain businesses, internationally. For more information, visit .
https://www.key.com/
Note to Editors: For up-to-date company information, media contacts and facts and figures about Key lines of business, visit
http://key.com/newsroom
to view our Media Newsroom.


