FILE:KEY/KEY-8K-20080722090648.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Table of Contents
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
.
     On July 22, 2008, KeyCorp issued a press release announcing its earnings results for the three- and six-month periods ended June 30, 2008 (the "Press Release"). This Press Release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated by reference herein. KeyCorp also held a conference call/webcast on July 22, 2008, to discuss its results. The slide presentation reviewed by KeyCorp in the conference call/webcast (the "Conference Call/Webcast Slide Presentation") is attached as Exhibit 99.2 to this report and incorporated by reference herein.
     The information in the preceding paragraph, including Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), nor shall it be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act").
     KeyCorp's Consolidated Balance Sheets and Consolidated Statements of Income (the "Financial Statements") included as part of the Press Release, are attached as Exhibit 99.3 to this report and are incorporated by reference herein. Exhibit 99.3 is "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act and, therefore, may be incorporated by reference in filings under the Securities Act.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
     
Forward-Looking Statements
. This filing contains forward-looking statements, including statements about our financial condition, results of operations, earnings outlook, asset quality trends and profitability. Forward-looking statements express management's current expectations or forecasts of future events and, by their nature, are subject to assumptions, risks and uncertainties. Although management believes that the expectations and forecasts reflected in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, actual results could differ materially due to a variety of factors including: (1) changes in interest rates; (2) changes in trade, monetary or fiscal policy; (3) continued disruption in the fixed income markets; (4) adverse capital markets conditions; (5) changes in general economic conditions, or in the condition of the local economies or industries in which we have significant operations or assets, which could, among other things, materially impact credit quality trends and our ability to generate loans; (6) increased competitive pressure among financial services companies; (7) the inability to successfully execute strategic initiatives designed to grow revenues and/or manage expenses; (8) consummation of significant business combinations or divestitures; (9) operational or risk management failures due to technological or other factors; (10) changes in accounting or tax practices or requirements; (11) new legal obligations or liabilities or unfavorable resolution of litigation; (12) heightened regulatory practices, requirements or expectations; and (13) disruption in the economy and general business climate as a result of terrorist activities or military actions. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and should not be relied upon as representing management's views as of any subsequent date. We do not assume any obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
     CLEVELAND, July 22, 2008  KeyCorp (NYSE: KEY) today announced a second quarter loss from continuing operations of $1.126 billion, or $2.70 per common share. This compares to income from continuing operations of $337 million, or $0.85 per diluted common share, for the second quarter of 2007, and $218 million, or $0.54 per diluted common share, for the first quarter of 2008.
     Key's results for the second quarter include after-tax charges of $1.011 billion, or $2.43 per common share, resulting from a previously announced adverse federal tax court ruling on a service contract lease transaction  a ruling that the company intends to appeal based on its position that the tax treatment it applied to its leveraged lease transactions complied with all applicable tax laws and regulations in effect at the time and was consistent with industry practice. Results also reflect an increase in loan loss reserves to 1.87% of loans to address current economic conditions.
     "The federal tax court ruling notwithstanding, Key's performance this quarter reflects an ongoing effort to fortify the company against a difficult economic environment for lenders," said Chief Executive Officer Henry L. Meyer III. "For our part, Key has been aggressive about reducing exposure in the residential properties segment of the construction loan portfolio through the planned sale of certain loans. Additionally, we have taken action to bolster Key's loan loss reserve.
     "All the while," he continued, "our earning capacity has remained strong as evidenced by the performance of a number of our fee-based businesses, including trust and investment services and investment banking. These outcomes, along with a capital base that is essentially unchanged thanks to the capital raise we initiated last month, affirm our relationship banking approach and should put us in a good position in the periods ahead."
 
KeyCorp Reports Second Quarter 2008 Results July 22, 2008 Page 2
     During the first quarter of 2008, Key increased its tax reserves for certain lease in, lease out transactions and recalculated its lease income in accordance with prescribed accounting standards, resulting in after-tax charges of $38 million, or $0.10 per common share. Excluding the lease financing charges recorded in the first and second quarters, Key had a loss from continuing operations of $115 million, or $0.28 per common share, for the second quarter of 2008, compared to income from continuing operations of $337 million, or $0.85 per diluted common share, for the second quarter of 2007, and $256 million, or $0.64 per diluted common share, for the first quarter of 2008.
     For the first six months of 2008, Key reported a loss from continuing operations of $908 million, or $2.23 per common share. Adjusting for the lease financing charges, Key had income from continuing operations of $141 million, or $0.34 per diluted common share, compared to $695 million, or $1.74 per diluted common share, for the first half of 2007.
     Key reported a net loss of $1.126 billion, or $2.70 per common share, for the second quarter of 2008, compared to net income of $334 million, or $0.84 per diluted common share, for the second quarter of 2007, and $218 million, or $0.54 per diluted common share, for the first quarter of 2008. For the first half of 2008, Key reported a net loss of $908 million, or $2.23 per common share, compared to net income of $684 million, or $1.71 per diluted common share, for the same period last year.
     In addition to the lease financing charges, Key's results for the second quarter of 2008 were adversely affected by a higher provision for loan losses recorded in connection with the company's previously reported efforts to aggressively reduce its exposure to the residential properties segment of its commercial real estate construction loan portfolio. Key's provision for loan losses for the second quarter of 2008 was $647 million, compared to $53 million for the same period one year ago and $187 million for the first quarter of 2008. The current quarter's provision exceeded net loan charge-offs by $123 million and increased Key's reserve for loan losses to $1.421 billion, or 1.87% of period-loans.
     The following table shows Key's continuing and discontinued operating results for comparative quarters and for the six-month periods ended June 30, 2008 and 2007.
     "We took aggressive steps in the second quarter to fortify our already-strong capital position in light of the adverse court ruling on the tax treatment of a service contract lease transaction," said Meyer. "The successful $1.65 billion capital raise, plus a reduction of our dividend effective in the third quarter, will position the company to respond to future business opportunities and are prudent steps in light of the challenging industry environment.
 
KeyCorp Reports Second Quarter 2008 Results July 22, 2008 Page 3
     "In a process that is well underway, we have also moved to reduce our exposure in the residential homebuilder portfolio through the planned sale of certain assets. We have been pleased with the level of bidding interest. Although our actions in this regard resulted in additional net charge-offs and provisioning for the quarter, the sale of these loans, once closed, will reduce the level of Key's total nonperforming assets. With the number of assets and bidders involved in the process, it will take additional time to consummate the transactions, but we anticipate that the majority of the loan sales will close in the third quarter.
     "During the second quarter, we experienced positive trends in several fee-based businesses, notably trust and investment services, and our investment banking, syndications and capital markets businesses. Expenses continued to be well controlled, we benefited from the actions taken in the first quarter to significantly reduce the company's exposure to future market volatility and we continue to gain traction in our Community Banking model. While we work through this difficult credit cycle, we continue to focus on our relationship business model," Meyer concluded.
     As shown in the following table, the comparability of Key's earnings for the current, prior and year-ago quarters is affected by several significant items.
EPS = Earnings per diluted common share
SUMMARY OF CONTINUING OPERATIONS
     Key's taxable-equivalent net interest income for the second quarter of 2008 was reduced significantly as a result of an adverse federal court ruling on the company's tax treatment of a service contract lease transaction entered into by AWG Leasing Trust, in which Key is a partner. The court's decision applies only to the single AWG Leasing transaction and Key has determined to appeal the trial court decision. Notwithstanding the appeal, management believes that the applicable accounting guidance requires Key to recalculate lease income recognized on its entire portfolio of contested leveraged leases, not just the single leveraged lease subject to the court's decision. Under FASB Staff Position No. 13-2, "Accounting for a Change or Projected Change in the Timing of Cash Flows Relating to Income Taxes Generated by a Leveraged Lease Transaction," Key has recalculated the lease income recognized from inception for all of the contested leases. Key's second quarter results also reflect a $475 million charge to income taxes for the interest cost associated with the contested tax liabilities. Key estimates that the interest accrual associated with the contested liabilities will approximate $32 million to $34 million (after tax) per quarter for the third and fourth quarters of 2008. The level of future interest accruals will depend on the applicable interest rate at the time. This amount will be included in income tax expense in future quarters. These actions reduced Key's taxable-equivalent net interest income and net interest margin for the second quarter of 2008 by $838 million and 376 basis points, respectively, and reduced Key's earnings by $1.011 billion, or $2.43 per common share.
 
KeyCorp Reports Second Quarter 2008 Results July 22, 2008 Page 4
     The impacts of the leveraged lease accounting charges on the components of Key's interest income and related yields for the second quarter of 2008 are shown in the following table.
TE = Taxable Equivalent
     Excluding the charges associated with the leveraged lease tax litigation, Key's taxable-equivalent net interest income was $738 million for the second quarter of 2008, compared to $706 million for the year-ago quarter. Average earning assets rose by $8.2 billion, or 10%, due primarily to growth in commercial lending and the January 1 acquisition of U.S.B. Holding Co., Inc., which added approximately $1.5 billion to Key's loan portfolio. The adjusted net interest margin for the current quarter declined to 3.32% from 3.46% for the second quarter of 2007. The reduction was attributable largely to tighter loan and deposit spreads caused by competitive pricing, and a higher level of nonperforming assets.
     Compared to the first quarter of 2008, Key's taxable-equivalent net interest income and net interest margin were essentially unchanged, after excluding the effects of charges recorded in connection with leveraged lease transactions in both periods. During the first quarter of 2008, Key increased its tax reserves for certain lease in, lease out transactions and recalculated its income under FASB Staff Position No. 13-2. These actions reduced Key's taxable-equivalent net interest income and net interest margin for the first quarter of 2008 by $34 million and 15 basis points, respectively, and reduced Key's earnings by $38 million, or $0.10 per diluted common share. On an adjusted basis, Key had taxable-equivalent net interest income of $738 million and a net interest margin of 3.29% for the first quarter of 2008.
     Key's noninterest income was $555 million for the second quarter of 2008, compared to $649 million for the year-ago quarter. The decrease was attributable largely to net losses of $14 million from principal investing in the second quarter of 2008, compared to net gains of $90 million for the same period last year. Additionally, results for the second quarter of 2007 benefited from a $40 million gain related to the sale of MasterCard Incorporated shares. These factors were offset in part by higher income from several fee-based businesses. Income from investment banking and capital markets activities rose by $28 million, trust and investment services income was up $23 million, and income from deposit service charges grew by $9 million.
     The major components of Key's fee-based income for the past five quarters are shown in the following table.
 
KeyCorp Reports Second Quarter 2008 Results July 22, 2008 Page 5
     Compared to the first quarter of 2008, noninterest income increased by $27 million. Excluding the $165 million gain from the partial redemption of Visa Inc. shares recorded in the first quarter, noninterest income was up $192 million, reflecting improvements in both capital markets-driven businesses and other fee-based businesses. The improvement in Key's capital markets-driven businesses was attributable to improved execution, market conditions and the previously announced actions taken by management during the first quarter of 2008 to mitigate the effects of future market volatility on Key's held-for-sale and trading portfolios.
     During the second quarter of 2008, Key recorded $33 million in net gains from loan sales and mark-to-market adjustments, compared to $101 million in net losses from loan sales and write-downs (primarily commercial real estate loans held for sale) for the first quarter. Additionally, income from investment banking and capital markets activities increased by $72 million, due primarily to a $49 million contribution from dealer trading and derivatives, and a $14 million increase in investment banking income. Net losses from principal investing totaled $14 million for the second quarter of 2008, compared to net gains of $9 million for the prior quarter.
     Trust and investment services income grew by $9 million from the first quarter of 2008, driven by growth in income from brokerage commissions and fees. The company also experienced increases of $14 million in syndication and other loan-related fees, and $5 million in income from deposit service charges.
     Key's noninterest expense was $781 million for the second quarter of 2008, compared to $815 million for the same period last year. Personnel expense decreased by $7 million, due primarily to a reduction in costs associated with employee benefits. Nonpersonnel expense decreased by $27 million from the year-ago quarter, due to a $42 million litigation charge recorded during the second quarter of 2007, offset in part by a $7 million increase in professional fees.
     Compared to the first quarter of 2008, noninterest expense rose by $49 million. Personnel expense decreased by $5 million, while nonpersonnel expense was up $54 million, due primarily to a $2 million credit for losses on lending-related commitments in the current quarter, compared to a $27 million credit in the prior quarter. Also contributing to the growth were increases in professional fees and marketing expense of $10 million and $7 million, respectively.
ASSET QUALITY
     Key's provision for loan losses from continuing operations was $647 million for the second quarter of 2008, compared to $53 million for the year-ago quarter and $187 million for the first quarter of 2008. The increase in the provision was due primarily to a higher level of net loan charge-offs recorded in the commercial real estate portfolio. As previously reported, Key had undertaken a process to aggressively reduce its exposure in the residential properties segment of its construction loan portfolio through the planned sale of certain loans. In conjunction with these efforts, Key transferred $384 million of commercial real estate loans ($719 million, net of $335 million in net charge-offs) from the held-to-maturity loan portfolio to held-for-sale status in June. In excess of 100 bids were received in this process. As of June 30, 2008, sales had already closed on $44 million of these loans. With respect to the balance, Key is working with numerous bidders to finalize sales terms and documentation, and management anticipates that sales of the majority of the remaining $340 million of loans, which are on nonperforming status, will close during the third quarter. Key's provision for loan losses for the second quarter of 2008 exceeded its net loan charge-offs by $123 million, as the company continued to build reserves.
 
KeyCorp Reports Second Quarter 2008 Results July 22, 2008 Page 6
     Selected asset quality statistics for Key for each of the past five quarters are presented in the following table.
     Net loan charge-offs for the quarter totaled $524 million, or 2.75% of average loans from continuing operations, compared to $53 million, or 0.32%, for the same period last year and $121 million, or 0.67%, for the previous quarter. Net loan charge-offs from the commercial real estate and educational loan portfolios totaled $354 million and $54 million, respectively, in the current quarter. The net charge-offs in the commercial real estate portfolio reflect the actions previously mentioned, while the educational loan charge-offs derived from approximately $780 million of noncore loans, predominately loans associated with non-Title IV schools, which the company stopped underwriting in mid-2006.
     Key's net loan charge-offs by loan type for each of the past five quarters are shown in the table below.
     The company expects net loan charge-offs to be below the second quarter level during the remainder of 2008; however, net loan charge-offs are expected to remain at elevated levels. Additionally, the company expects net loan charge-offs to be in the range of 1.20% to 1.60% of average loans for the third and fourth quarters of 2008.
     At June 30, 2008, Key's nonperforming loans totaled $814 million and represented 1.07% of period-end portfolio loans, compared to 1.38% at March 31, 2008, and 0.41% at June 30, 2007. At the same time, nonperforming assets totaled $1.210 billion and represented 1.59% of portfolio loans, other real estate owned and other nonperforming assets, compared to 1.46% at March 31, 2008, and 0.57% at June 30, 2007. The decrease in nonperforming loans and the increase in nonperforming assets during the second quarter were largely attributable to the transfer of commercial real estate construction loans (principally those in Florida and southern California) to held-for-sale status. Also contributing to the rise in nonperforming assets was an increase in the level of commercial loans (principally to businesses tied to residential construction properties) on nonaccrual status.
 
KeyCorp Reports Second Quarter 2008 Results July 22, 2008 Page 7
     The following table illustrates the trend in Key's nonperforming assets by loan type over the past five quarters.
     Key's allowance for loan losses was $1.421 billion, or 1.87% of loans outstanding, at June 30, 2008, compared to $1.298 billion, or 1.70%, at March 31, 2008, and $945 million, or 1.42%, at June 30, 2007.
CAPITAL
     Key's capital ratios, as presented in the following table, continued to exceed all "well-capitalized" regulatory benchmarks at June 30, 2008.
Capital Ratios
     As previously announced, during the second quarter of 2008, Key took several actions to preserve its capital strength in light of the charges recorded in response to the federal court ruling on the tax treatment of a service contract lease transaction. Key issued $650 million, or 6.5 million shares, of noncumulative perpetual convertible preferred stock with a liquidation value of $100 per share, and $1.0 billion, or 85.1 million additional common shares. Further Key's Board of Directors announced its intention to reduce the dividend on Key's common shares by 50% to an annualized dividend of $0.75 per share commencing with the dividend declared on July 18, 2008.
     As part of the over allotment granted by Key to the underwriters on June 12, 2008, Key issued 7 million additional common shares and 75,000 additional shares of noncumulative perpetual convertible preferred stock on July 11, 2008. The proceeds received as a result of these issuances totaled approximately $90 million, and represented approximately 9 basis points of additional Tier 1 and total capital.
     During the second quarter, Key reissued .5 million of its common shares under employee benefit plans. There was no repurchase activity by Key during the second quarter, and the company currently does not anticipate any share repurchase activity during the remainder of 2008.
 
KeyCorp Reports Second Quarter 2008 Results July 22, 2008 Page 8
     Share issuances and repurchases that caused the change in Key's outstanding common shares over the past five quarters are summarized in the following table.
Summary of Changes in Common Shares Outstanding
LINE OF BUSINESS RESULTS
     The following table shows the contribution made by each major business group to Key's taxable-equivalent revenue and (loss) income from continuing operations for the periods presented. The specific lines of business that comprise each of the major business groups are described under the heading "Line of Business Descriptions." For more detailed financial information pertaining to each business group and its respective lines of business, see the tables at the end of this release. Key's line of business results for all periods presented reflect a new organizational structure that took effect January 1, 2008.
Major Business Groups
 
KeyCorp Reports Second Quarter 2008 Results July 22, 2008 Page 9
Community Banking
TE = Taxable Equivalent, N/M = Not Meaningful, N/A = Not Applicable
Additional Community Banking Data
Community Banking Summary of Operations
     Community Banking recorded net income of $104 million for the second quarter of 2008, compared to $102 million for the year-ago quarter. Increases in both net interest income and noninterest income accounted for the improvement, but were substantially offset by a higher provision for loan losses.
 
KeyCorp Reports Second Quarter 2008 Results July 22, 2008 Page 10
     Taxable-equivalent net interest income rose by $20 million, or 5%, from the second quarter of 2007. The increase was attributable to a $1.9 billion, or 7%, rise in average earning assets, due largely to growth in the commercial loan portfolio, and a $3.8 billion, or 8%, increase in average deposits. Both loans and deposits experienced organic growth and benefited from the January 1 acquisition of U.S.B. Holding Co., Inc. described below. The positive effect of this growth was offset in part by the impact of tighter loan and deposit spreads.
     Noninterest income increased by $8 million, or 4%, from the same period one year ago, reflecting strong growth in bank channel investment product sales income and deposit service charge income.
     The provision for loan losses rose by $23 million, or 110%, compared to the second quarter of 2007, reflecting a $12 million increase in net loan charge-offs and the remainder a provision for general weakness in the economy.
     On January 1, 2008, Key acquired U.S.B. Holding Co., Inc., the holding company for Union State Bank, a 31-branch state-chartered commercial bank headquartered in Orangeburg, New York. The acquisition doubles Key's branch penetration in the attractive Lower Hudson Valley area. Assets and deposits acquired in this transaction were assigned to both the Community Banking and National Banking groups.
National Banking
 
KeyCorp Reports Second Quarter 2008 Results July 22, 2008 Page 11
National Banking Summary of Continuing Operations
     National Banking recorded a loss of $670 million from continuing operations for the second quarter of 2008, compared to income of $157 million from continuing operations for the same period last year. During the second quarter of 2008, National Banking's net interest income was adversely affected by a federal court ruling on the tax treatment of a segment of Key's leveraged lease financing portfolio as further described below. Also contributing to the less favorable results compared to the year-ago quarter were a substantially higher provision for loan losses and an increase in noninterest expense, offset in part by significant growth in noninterest income.
     National Banking's taxable-equivalent net interest income for the second quarter of 2008 was reduced significantly as a result of an adverse federal court ruling on the company's tax treatment of a service contract lease transaction entered into by AWG Leasing Trust, in which Key is a partner. As a result of this ruling, under FASB Staff Position No. 13-2, "Accounting for a Change or Projected Change in the Timing of Cash Flows Relating to Income Taxes Generated by a Leveraged Lease Transaction," National Banking recalculated its lease income from inception for this particular transaction, as well as any other lease financing transactions being contested by the Internal Revenue Service. Excluding the additional charges associated with these actions, taxable-equivalent net interest income grew by $27 million, or 8%, from the second quarter of 2007 as a result of increases in average earning assets and deposits, offset in part by tighter loan and deposit spreads and a higher level of nonperforming assets. Average loans and leases grew by $8.6 billion, or 22%, while average deposits rose by $207 million, or 2%, from the year-ago quarter.
     Noninterest income increased by $73 million, or 27%, reflecting higher income from several fee-based businesses. Income from investment banking and capital markets activities rose by $35 million, while trust and investment services income was up $23 million. Increases in income from tuition payment plan processing, as well as syndication and other loan-related fees also contributed to the improvement.
     The provision for loan losses rose by $577 million, due primarily to a higher level of net loan charge-offs recorded in the commercial real estate portfolio. National Banking's provision for loan losses for the second quarter of 2008 exceeded its net loan charge-offs by $123 million, as the company continued to build reserves.
Other Segments
     Other segments consist of Corporate Treasury and Key's Principal Investing unit. These segments generated a net loss of $13 million for the second quarter of 2008, compared to net income of $55 million for the same period last year. These results reflect net losses of $14 million from principal investing in the second quarter of 2008, compared to net gains of $90 million for the year-ago quarter.
 
KeyCorp Reports Second Quarter 2008 Results July 22, 2008 Page 12
Line of Business Descriptions
Community Banking
provides individuals with branch-based deposit and investment products, personal finance services and loans, including residential mortgages, home equity and various types of installment loans. This line of business also provides small businesses with deposit, investment and credit products, and business advisory services.
Regional Banking
Regional Banking also offers financial, estate and retirement planning, and asset management services to assist high-net-worth clients with their banking, trust, portfolio management, insurance, charitable giving and related needs.
provides midsize businesses with products and services that include commercial lending, cash management, equipment leasing, investment and employee benefit programs, succession planning, access to capital markets, derivatives and foreign exchange.
Commercial Banking
National Banking
consists of two business units. Real Estate Capital is a national business that provides construction and interim lending, permanent debt placements and servicing, equity and investment banking, and other commercial banking products and services to developers, brokers and owner-investors. This unit deals primarily with nonowner-occupied properties (i.e., generally properties in which at least 50% of the debt service is provided by rental income from nonaffiliated third parties). Particular emphasis has been placed on providing clients with finance solutions through access to the capital markets.
Real Estate Capital and Corporate Banking Services
Corporate Banking Services provides cash management, interest rate derivatives, and foreign exchange products and services to clients throughout the Community Banking and National Banking groups. Through its Public Sector and Financial Institutions businesses, Corporate Banking Services provides a full array of commercial banking products and services to government and not-for-profit entities, and to community banks.
meets the equipment leasing needs of companies worldwide and provides equipment manufacturers, distributors and resellers with financing options for their clients. Lease financing receivables and related revenues are assigned to other lines of business (primarily Institutional and Capital Markets, and Commercial Banking) if those businesses are principally responsible for maintaining the relationship with the client.
Equipment Finance
through its KeyBanc Capital Markets unit, provides commercial lending, treasury management, investment banking, derivatives and foreign exchange, equity and debt underwriting and trading, and syndicated finance products and services to large corporations and middle-market companies.
Institutional and Capital Markets
Through its Victory Capital Management unit, Institutional and Capital Markets also manages or offers advice regarding investment portfolios for a national client base, including corporations, labor unions, not-for-profit organizations, governments and individuals. These portfolios may be managed in separate accounts, common funds or the Victory family of mutual funds.
offers loans to consumers on a direct basis and an indirect basis through dealers. It also provides federal and private education loans to students and their parents, and processes tuition payments for private schools. Through its Commercial Floor Plan Lending unit, Consumer Finance finances inventory for automobile, recreation and marine dealers.
Consumer Finance
 
KeyCorp Reports Second Quarter 2008 Results July 22, 2008 Page 13
     Cleveland-based KeyCorp is one of the nation's largest bank-based financial services companies, with assets of $102 billion. Key companies provide investment management, retail and commercial banking, consumer finance, and investment banking products and services to individuals and companies throughout the United States and, for certain businesses, internationally. The company's businesses deliver their products and services through 985 branches and additional offices; a network of 1,479 ATMs; telephone banking centers (1.800.KEY2YOU); and a Web site, ,that provides account access and financial products 24 hours a day.
https://www.key.com/
Notes to Editors:
A live Internet broadcast of KeyCorp's conference call to discuss quarterly results and currently anticipated earnings trends and to answer analysts' questions can be accessed through the Investor Relations section at
https://www.key.com/ir
at 9:00 a.m. ET, on Tuesday, July 22, 2008. An audio replay of the call will be available through July 29.
.
For up-to-date company information, media contacts and facts and figures about Key's lines of business visit our Media Newsroom at
https://www
.
key.com/newsroom
This news release contains forward-looking statements, including statements about our financial condition, results of operations, earnings outlook, asset quality trends and profitability. Forward-looking statements express management's current expectations or forecasts of future events and, by their nature, are subject to assumptions, risks and uncertainties. Although management believes that the expectations and forecasts reflected in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, actual results could differ materially due to a variety of factors including: (1) changes in interest rates; (2) changes in trade, monetary or fiscal policy; (3) continued disruption in the fixed income markets; (4) adverse capital markets conditions; (5) changes in general economic conditions, or in the condition of the local economies or industries in which we have significant operations or assets, which could, among other things, materially impact credit quality trends and our ability to generate loans; (6) increased competitive pressure among financial services companies; (7) the inability to successfully execute strategic initiatives designed to grow revenues and/or manage expenses; (8) consummation of significant business combinations or divestitures; (9) operational or risk management failures due to technological or other factors; (10) changes in accounting or tax practices or requirements; (11) new legal obligations or liabilities or unfavorable resolution of litigation; (12) heightened regulatory practices, requirements or expectations; and (13) disruption in the economy and general business climate as a result of terrorist activities or military actions. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and should not be relied upon as representing management's views as of any subsequent date. We do not assume any obligation to update these forward-looking statements. For further information regarding KeyCorp, please read KeyCorp's reports that are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and are available at www.sec.gov.
 
KeyCorp Reports Second Quarter 2008 Results July 22, 2008 Page 14
 
KeyCorp Reports Second Quarter 2008 Results July 22, 2008 Page 15
 
KeyCorp Reports Second Quarter 2008 Results July 22, 2008 Page 16
As a result of an adverse federal court ruling on Key's tax treatment of a service contract lease transaction entered into by AWG Leasing Trust, in which Key is a partner, Key recorded after-tax charges of $1.011 billion, or $2.43 per common share, during the second quarter of 2008. Additionally, during the first quarter of 2008, Key increased its tax reserves for certain lease in, lease out transactions and recalculated its lease income in accordance with prescribed accounting standards, resulting in after-tax charges of $38 million, or $0.10 per common share. The table below presents computations of certain earnings data and performance ratios, excluding these charges (non-GAAP), reconciles the related GAAP measures to these non-GAAP measures and provides a basis for period-to-period comparisons. Non-GAAP financial measures have inherent limitations, are not required to be uniformly applied and are not audited. Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation, or as a substitute for analyses of results as reported under GAAP.
 
KeyCorp Reports Second Quarter 2008 Results July 22, 2008 Page 17
 
KeyCorp Reports Second Quarter 2008 Results July 22, 2008 Page 18
 
KeyCorp Reports Second Quarter 2008 Results July 22, 2008 Page 19
Average balances have not been restated to reflect Key's January 1, 2008, adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Interpretation No. 39, "Offsetting of Amounts Related to Certain Contracts," and FASB Staff Position FIN 39-1, "Amendment of FASB Interpretation 39."
 
KeyCorp Reports Second Quarter 2008 Results July 22, 2008 Page 20
Average balances have not been restated to reflect Key's January 1, 2008, adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Interpretation No. 39, "Offsetting of Amounts Related to Certain Contracts," and FASB Staff Position FIN 39-1, "Amendment of FASB Interpretation 39."
 
KeyCorp Reports Second Quarter 2008 Results July 22, 2008 Page 21
 
KeyCorp Reports Second Quarter 2008 Results July 22, 2008 Page 22
 
KeyCorp Reports Second Quarter 2008 Results July 22, 2008 Page 23
N/M = Not Meaningful
 
KeyCorp Reports Second Quarter 2008 Results July 22, 2008 Page 24
 
KeyCorp Reports Second Quarter 2008 Results July 22, 2008 Page 25
 
KeyCorp Reports Second Quarter 2008 Results July 22, 2008 Page 26
Community Banking
 
KeyCorp Reports Second Quarter 2008 Results July 22, 2008 Page 27
National Banking
(a) From continuing operations.
TE = Taxable Equivalent N/A = Not Applicable N/M = Not Meaningful

EXHIBIT 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.3 (1 of 2)
 
Exhibit 99.3 (2 of 2)


