FILE:KEY/KEY-8K-20080303172544.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As previously reported, on February 27, 2008, KeyCorp, an Ohio corporation (the "Company"), and KeyCorp Capital X, a statutory trust formed under the laws of the State of Delaware (the "Trust"), completed the public offering of $700,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Trust's 8.000% Enhanced Trust Preferred Securities (the "Capital Securities"), representing preferred beneficial interests in the Trust, pursuant to an Underwriting Agreement, dated February 20, 2008, among the Company, the Trust, and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC and KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., as representatives (the "Representatives") of the several underwriters (collectively, the "Underwriters") named in Schedule I to the Pricing Agreement, dated February 20, 2008, among the Company, the Trust and the Representatives (the "Pricing Agreement"). The proceeds from the sale of the Capital Securities, together with the proceeds from the sale by the Trust of its common securities, were invested by the Trust in 8.000% Junior Subordinated Debentures, due 2068 (the "Junior Subordinated Debentures"), issued pursuant to a Junior Subordinated Indenture dated December 4, 1996, as amended and supplemented from time to time.
The Pricing Agreement provided the Underwriters with an option, exercisable within 10 days from the date of the Pricing Agreement, to buy an additional $105,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Capital Securities (the "Purchase Option"). On February 28, 2008, the Underwriters partially exercised the Purchase Option to buy an additional $40,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Capital Securities. On March 3, 2008, the Company and the Trust completed the sale of the additional $40,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Capital Securities, the proceeds of which were also invested by the Trust in the Junior Subordinated Debentures. By virtue of the March 3, 2008 closing, the Trust's assets increased to $740,010,000 in aggregate principal amount of the Junior Subordinated Debentures.
Also as previously reported, on February 27, 2008, in connection with the closing of the Capital Securities offering, the Company entered into a Replacement Capital Covenant (the "RCC"), whereby the Company agreed for the benefit of certain of its debtholders named therein that neither the Company nor any subsidiary of the Company (including the Trust) will redeem or purchase any of the Capital Securities or the Junior Subordinated Debentures unless such redemptions or purchases are made from the proceeds of the issuance of certain qualified securities and pursuant to the other terms and conditions set forth in the RCC. In connection with the exercise of the Purchase Option, the Company entered into a Supplement to the RCC, whereby the Company extended the covenants and obligations of the RCC to include the additional Capital Securities purchased pursuant to the Purchase Option. A copy of the Supplement to the RCC is attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
In connection with the issuance of the additional Junior Subordinated Debentures, Squire, Sanders & Dempsey L.L.P., special tax counsel to the Company, rendered an opinion regarding certain tax matters. A copy of the tax opinion is attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 8.1 and is hereby incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement on Form S-3 filed by the Company and the Trust (File Nos. 333-134937, 333-134937-01, 333-134937-02, 333-134937-03 and 333-134937-04).
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: March 3, 2008
 
 

Exhibit 8.1
KeyCorp
127 Public Square
Cleveland, OH 44114
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We have acted as special tax counsel to KeyCorp, an Ohio corporation (the "Company"), and KeyCorp Capital Trust X, a statutory trust created under the laws of the State of Delaware (the "Trust"), in connection with the preparation and filing of a Registration Statement on Form S-3 and each post-effective amendment thereto (as amended, the "Registration Statement"), including the prospectus, dated February 19, 2008 (the "Prospectus"), as supplemented by the Prospectus Supplement, dated February 20, 2008 (the "Prospectus Supplement"), filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, relating to (A) $40,000,000 of 8.000% enhanced trust preferred securities (the "Trust Preferred Securities") to be issued from time to time by the Trust, (B) $40,000,000 principal amount of junior subordinated debentures, and (C) a guarantee of payment on the Capital Securities to be issued by the Company.
We have examined such documents and have reviewed such questions of law, as we have considered necessary and appropriate for the purposes of our opinion set forth below. In rendering our opinions set forth below, we have assumed the authenticity of all documents submitted to us as originals, the genuineness of all signatures and the conformity to authentic originals of all documents submitted to us as copies. We have also assumed the legal capacity for all purposes relevant hereto of all natural persons and, with respect to all parties to agreements or instruments relevant hereto other than the Company and the Trust, that such parties had the requisite power and authority (corporate or otherwise) to execute, deliver and perform such agreements or instruments, that such agreements or instruments have been duly authorized by all requisite action (corporate or otherwise), executed and delivered by such parties and that such agreements or instruments are the valid, binding and enforceable obligations of such parties. As to questions of fact material to our opinion, we have relied upon factual statements and factual representations of officers, trustees and other representatives of the Company and the Trust, and others.
Based upon and subject to the limitations, qualifications, exceptions and assumptions set forth herein, we are of the opinion that:
KeyCorp
March 3, 2008
Page 2
 
The statements made in the Prospectus Supplement, under the caption "Certain United States Federal Income Tax Consequences," to the extent such statements summarize material federal tax consequences of the purchase, beneficial ownership and disposition of the Trust Preferred Securities to the holders thereof described therein, set forth the opinion of Squire, Sanders & Dempsey L.L.P. as to such United States federal income tax consequences. All such statements are based upon current law, which is subject to change, possibly with retroactive effect. Further, there can be no assurance that the Internal Revenue Service or a court will not take a contrary position. Our opinions expressed above are limited to the federal tax laws of the United States of America.
We hereby consent to your filing this opinion as an exhibit to the Registration Statement and to the reference to our firm under the caption "Validity of the Securities" contained in the Prospectus Supplement included therein.
 

Exhibit 99.1
dated as of March 3, 2008 (this ""), to the Replacement Capital Covenant, dated as of February 27, 2008 (the ""), by KeyCorp, an Ohio corporation (together with its successors and assigns, the ""), in favor of and for the benefit of each Covered Debtholder (as defined in the Replacement Capital Covenant).
Supplement,
Supplement
Replacement Capital Covenant
Corporation
On February 27, 2008, the Corporation issued $700,010,000 aggregate principal amount of its 8.000% junior subordinated debentures due 2068 to KeyCorp Capital X, a Delaware statutory trust (the "'), and the Trust issued $700,000,000 aggregate liquidation amount of its 8.000% Enhanced Trust Preferred Securities.
A.
Trust
Pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement, dated February 20, 2008 (the ""), among the Corporation, the Trust and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC and KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., as representatives (the "Representatives") of the several Underwriters (the "Underwriters") named therein, on the date hereof the Underwriters have purchased 1,600,000 additional 8.000% Enhanced Trust Preferred Securities of the Trust (the "") and the proceeds of the issuance of the Optional Trust Preferred Securities were invested in $40,000,000 principal amount of 8.000% junior subordinated debentures due 2068 of the Corporation (the "").
B.
Underwriting Agreement
Optional Trust Preferred Securities
Optional Notes
The Corporation wishes to clarify that its covenants and obligations under the Replacement Capital Covenant include the Optional Trust Preferred Securities and Optional Notes.
C.
Pursuant to Section 4(b) of the Replacement Capital Covenant, the Corporation may amend or supplement the Replacement Capital Covenant by an instrument signed only by the Corporation (and without the consent of the Holders of the then-effective series of Covered Debt) if such amendment or supplement is not adverse to the Holders of the then-effective series of Covered Debt and an officer of the Corporation has delivered to the Holders of the then-effective series of Covered Debt in the manner provided for in the indenture with respect to such Covered Debt a written certificate stating that, in his determination, such amendment or supplement is not adverse to the Holders of the then-effective series of Covered Debt. The Corporation has, as of the date hereof, caused such certificate to be provided to the holders of the Covered Debt as provided in the applicable indenture.
D.
Capitalized terms used in this Supplement (including the recitals) not defined herein have the meanings set forth in the Replacement Capital Covenant.
E.
the Corporation hereby covenants and agrees as follows in favor of and for the benefit of each Covered Debtholder.
N, T,
OW
HEREFORE
(a) Each reference in the Replacement Capital Covenant to " shall be deemed to include the Optional Trust Preferred Securities.
"Enhanced Trust Preferred Securities
(b) Each reference in the Replacement Capital Covenant to "Notes" shall be deemed to include the Optional Notes.
(c) Each reference in the Replacement Capital Covenant to "" shall be deemed to include the Optional Trust Preferred Securities and the Optional Notes.
Securities
(d) Each reference in the Replacement Capital Covenant to shall be deemed to refer to the Replacement Capital Covenant as supplemented hereby.
"Replacement Capital Covenant"
, the Corporation has caused this Supplement to be executed by its duly authorized officer, as of the day and year first above written.
I W W
N
ITNESS
HEREOF
 


